What does Einstein's theory of relativity teach us?Short words to explain Please!
Originally Answered: What is the theory of relativity?I can, scale down the whole idea in few points. Here they go: 1. Light travels at a constant speed. Suppose you are driving at the speed of 40kmph (with respect to the road) and I overtake you. Obviously, my speed would be more, say 50kmph (again with respect to the road). But you'd see me overtaking you only at the relative speed of 10kmph (50-40kmph). Hence my speed relative to you is 10kmph. Fine. But this doesn't hold true for light. Say, you embark a journey in a spacecraft specially designed to travel at half the speed of light, i.e. you travel at the speed c/2 (again with respect to the ground). Then when you light a torch and keep it in front of the way you're traversing, the light emanating from it would travel, obviously, at the speed 'c' (with respect to the ground, again). But hey! aren't you already travelling at speed c/2? Then shouldn't the light travel at the speed c/2 relative to you? (as I was travelling at the speed 10kmph relative to you?). Nope; the light would still leave your torch at the speed it is designated, i.e. c. Bottom line: Light travels at speed c only, irrespective to the frame of reference.    2. When you move at higher speeds, time slows down for you. The conclusion of the first point is difficult to digest. But, it is the fact; there are several circumstantial evidences to prove this.   It took the genius of Albert Einstein to understand this. He moulded our current understanding about the time to fit in this fact. Remember when you travelled at the speed c/2? Well, the time runs slower for you now.   So, if speed is distance/time; and your speed is increased and simultaneously the time is running slow (time slowed for you, so for your frame of reference others will 'live' faster than you), you'll measure the speed of light to be the same only. Physicists call this as 'Time Dilation'.   Bottom line:  No matter how fast you're moving, the time slows down for you such that you measure the speed of light to be exactly the same, i.e. c.   3. Speeding things get shorter in length. Weirder, isn't it? Imagine that you're travelling in a train. You are holding a lamp exactly at the fore end (the end nearer to the engine) of one of the cabs. Train moves in a straight line, say at 60kmph. Now you light up the lamp. In your frame of reference, light will take some time to travel from the lamp to the rear end. (Lamp is exactly at the fore end of the cab). Let's say, it took 1 second. Assume light's speed to be 10m/s (just assume, we both know it is 300 million meter per second, but you don't want to read gargantuan numbers here, do you?); and hence, since light took 1 second to travel from one end to the other, the cab is 10 meter long.   Okay. But I'm standing outside the train, seeing you in the cab. My frame of reference is the ground. According to me, the lamp, the train, the cab and both of its ends are moving; let's say towards my right hand side. I see that the train (and hence the rear end of the cab) is advancing towards my right, and the light from the lamp rushes to its left to meet the rear end, so according to me the light should take lesser time to reach the rear end (since that end is moving more towards the emanating light); compared to the time you measured! Now we both will take speed of light as same, because as stated in point 1, be it any frame of reference, we are supposed to take the speed of light 10m/s only (here). But we saw that the light took different times to reach the same point; and so when I'll calculate the length of the cab, it'll turn out to be a bit shorter! We both are right though. You won't be seeing the cab compressing, but it will appear to me that the length is decreased.   Bottom line: So as to maintain the fact that light travels at the same speed irrespective to the frame of reference, we've to mould our perception about the length too; so speeding objects appear shorter.            4. The speed of light cannot be surpassed ever.  Heard about E equals m times c squared? This famous equation suggests that mass and energy are the same. You can convert either in to the other. Any particle which has some mass, say an electron, needs energy to accelerate. This energy is later manifested into its mass, i.e. faster the electron travels, heavier it gets, and so more the energy it requires to accelerate further. This is a vicious cycle, and as it comes out, you'll need infinite amount of energy to accelerate an electron up to the speed of light. There isn't enough energy in the entire universe to propel an electron up to the speed of light! And hence the universe itself poses this speed limit for us. Bottom line: Nothing can travel at speed faster than c. In layman's terms, these points represent the magnificent theories (general and special) of relativity. There might be more. I hope you got the crux; Thanks for asking! Updated 3 Apr • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Nehal Chaliawala