What is the interest graph, and what sites have done the best job of mapping it?
Interest Graph and it's uses are explained properly by others, i won't echo. What i'm trying to express is the relation between interest graph (+social graph) and working logic of human brain in real/offline world when it compared to machines. Our brains (also most animals) categorize and filter the information to survive and to work smoothly. Categorizing the information is not the best solution but it's pragmatic and quick. Everyday we categorize all the information and our brains callback these "tags" and "relations". For example, if you go out when it rains, you choose your clothes and shoes accordingly. You look your wardrobe and your brain quickly recollect the "tags"; suitable for rain(which is tagged with "wet"), good for summer(which is tagged "hot") etc. then filters clothes and shoes which is not suitable with rain and then rank the "water proof" things with a help of other "concepts" and "things". These concepts for ranking "water proof things" can be irrelevant to subject but relevant to you or to the context. If you are going to business meeting, you can eliminate boots and you can choose a shoe which is compatible with your clothes. (style, color etc.) This filtering, tagging and ranking process takes place in seconds, both concious and unconcious. There are some universal rules and personal demands, relevant and irrelevant variables that your brain has to count in. The rain-shoe example is a basic example how our brain creates and use it's own "interest graph". The data is collected from past experiences and some of them can be created instantly using these past experiences. Things get complex when our brain blends interest graph with social graph. To give an example, you hear a restaurant from your friends and your brain collects past experiences and data about your friends' taste and judgement. When proper conditions are formed (time, place, needs, wants...) you decide to go to the restaurant. From the moment you decide, your brain starts to tag and rank the things about this experience. Is the location accessible? Is the ambience is suitable for your taste? Are the others seems happy with their food? Is the staff friendly? Are the foods good, healthy, tasty? Without a concious judgements your brain sorts them out. The overall experience, tags and ranks will be collected for future processes also they will be tagged with social references like the friend who suggested, staff and others in the restaurant. There is one more thing i want to say about graph applications and advertising. If graph applications work justly advertising will change as we know it. It would be transformed into something useful, therefore responses to ads will increase. So economic system and society will transform too. If a product is not suitable for your needs, you won't see the irrelevant ads. Also if there is no ad about a particular product/service/content but it's what you need, you will be able to find it too. Why interest, social, professional... graphs are the next big thing? Because it's natural, that's how our brain works, that's how we behave. Graph is powerful yet it can be harmful to society if won't be applied cautiously. Updated 5 Apr • View Upvotes