What does Einstein's theory of relativity teach us?Short words to explain Please!
Originally Answered: What is the theory of relativity all about?Boy, can I answer that question. That’s half of what my book is about. First, to keep it simple, I will assume we’re talking about the SPECIAL theory of relativity. (The general theory is about gravity, and is basically a set of equations that describe the gravitational field.) The special theory of relativity is simply the discovery, made by Einstein in 1905, that things behave the same, no matter how fast you’re moving, that the laws of physics (including the speed of light) are the same whether you’re on the planet earth or on a rocketship traveling at 185,000 miles per second relative to earth.  Einstein called this the Principle of Relativity. In his words “the phenomena of electrodynamics as well as mechanics possess no properties corresponding to the idea of absolute rest.” This may not seem surprising until you think about it. To quote from my book (see Understand Physics Through Quantum Field Theory): ---- That the speed of light should be inde­pendent of motion was most surprising… The reader should pause to appreciate how strange is this result.  It makes no sense for a light beam – or anything, for that matter – to travel at the same speed regardless of the motion of the observer. Suppose, for example, that you are observing a very fast train from another train. The apparent speed of the fast train would clearly depend on its direction relative to yours.  If the other train is moving in the opposite direction, it would go whooshing by, but if it is moving in the same direction as you, it would pass very slowly. Yet Michelson, a passenger on a train called earth, found that another train called light always moves at the same speed no matter which way it is moving relative to the earth. From this simple principle there follow some amazing results, such as: ·  Objects contract when they're moving. ·  Time slows down when you’re moving. ·  Mass increases when in motion. ·  Nothing can go faster than light. But let's face it, to most people these statements don't make sense.  However once you understand that the world is made of fields, not particles, you will see that they are a natural consequence of the way fields behave. You will see that they are not only understandable, but inevitable. --- Explaining these effects as a natural consequence of the way fields behave is what I call the “bottom-up” approach to Relativity, as opposed to Einstein’s “top-down” approach. The bottom-up approach was also taken by a number of Einstein’s contemporaries, such as George FitzGerald, Hendrik Lorentz, and Henri Poincare. To quote again from my book:    -- The fact is, either approach is correct and one does not preclude the other. Yes, the Principle of Relativity is elegant and the top-down approach is easier to use; physicists love it for that reason. But the field equations are also elegant and they not only contain the Principle of Relativity within them, they also provide a physical explanation for effects that otherwise are paradoxical. We can never know if God started with the Principle of Relativity and derived the field equations or started with the field equations from which follows the Principle. If She started with the principle that the laws of nature should be the same in all moving systems, then She also provided mechanisms to make it happen. And if the mechanisms are there, why not use them? They are real and understandable, and they should not be ignored. As Lorentz said: "Einstein simply postulates what we have deduced, with some difficulty and not altogether satisfactorily, from the fundamental equations of the electromagnetic field… Yet, I think, something may also be claimed in favor of the form in which I have presented the theory." 