What are the major differences between grid cells and place cells?... and why do we need both?
Some recent findings on... Why do we need grid cells and place cells? Summary Grid cells and place cells are part of a space mapping circuitry that seems to be preserved across mammalian evolution. In rodents, grid cells form a location independent coordinate map of multiple length scales to uniquely identify any location the animal visits. By location independent, I mean it is not an absolute position coordinate map - the map is reused in all environments. However, the coordinate map is not just one grid with  fixed spacing between grid points. Instead, the coordinate map is composed of multiple grid layers, each with a different length scale between grid points - that is the distance between points on the grid is fixed in each grid layer, but different across layers. For example, one layer may have grid points spaced 30 cms apart and another layer may have grid points spaced 42 cms apart. This scheme enables the location independent coordinate map to generate a unique identification for a location by combining the grid layers - the coactivity of the grid points from the different layers creates a unique combination of coactivity for any location the animal visits - and that is encoded in place cells. Coactivity of grid cells does not imply "spatial intersection"(firing at the same place) of grid cells from different layers, but  "temporal intersection"(firing at the same time) of grid cells from the different layers. A paper published last week in Science   Neural Activity in Human Hippocampal Formation Reveals the Spatial Context of Retrieved Memories, November 29, 2013  adds further evidence to the theory that spatial coding of the "place cell system" is part of a more general mechanism of storage of events in temporal sequence, where items become associated with their spatiotemporal  context, and retrieval of items reinstates the context. This study was done in humans. The details While most studies of this space mapping circuitry started with rodents, they have been recently observed in bats (Space Bats: Multidimensional Spatial Representation in the Bat, Science November 2013). Grid cells have also been identified in monkeys ( A map of visual space in the primate entorhinal cortex Nature 2012) and in humans in a virtual reality task Direct recordings of grid-like neuronal activity in human spatial navigation Nature 2013. Place cells in humans were identified back in 2003 (Cellular networks underlying human spatial navigation Nature).Grid like cells have been observed near the avian hippocampus although their exact location remains unclear Neuronal implementation of hippocamp... [Behav Cogn Neurosci Rev. 2006] Where do grid and place cells lie in the hierarchy of information processing of visual input? In  Figure 1 below, place cells are right on top at the root node labeled HC (Hippocampus) and grid cells are in ER (Entorhinal cortex), child node of the root node HC. Figure 1. Connectivity of the visual cortex with visual input processing starting at the bottom and ending at the root node  on top, HC (Hippocampus).  Online location of this image  Grid Cells and Neural Coding in High-End Cortices The coordinate map Each grid cell will fire at fixed points creating a repeating triangular activity pattern (or coordinate map) tiling the entire environment covered by the animal (Figure 2) Grid Cells and Neural Coding in High-End Cortices, Neuron October 30, 2013 Figure 2. Recording from a single grid cell in Entorhinal Cortex (ER) of a rat brain. The gray trace is the trajectory of a rat that is foraging in a 2.2 m wide enclosure. Spike locations of the grid cell are superimposed on the track. Each black dot corresponds to one spike. Note the regular spacing between spike clusters. That is the length scale of this particular grid cell's coordinate map. The spiking pattern of this grid cell will be the same in a different environment - making the firing pattern of a grid cell location independent.  A topographically adjacent grid cell may have a different length scale than this grid cell. Online location of this image Grid Cells and Neural Coding in High-End Cortices Each grid cell creates a coordinate map of a fixed length scale such that each spike is at the center of a hexagon separated from neighboring spike vertices by the the same length. So when an animal runs in an environment even with lights turned off, the spike pattern spacing remained the same regardless of the speed and direction of the animal, indicating that grid cells had access to path integration (i.e. computing the negative value of a result vector that is the sum of individual vectors, where each vector captures the speed and direction of the rodent.Also called dead reckoning). Along with grid cells, are head direction cells that fire specifically when the animal faces a certain direction regardless of location. Many head direction cells were also grid cells, firing only when the animal passed through the grid vertices with its head in a certain direction. A third type of cell, border cell, fired only when the animal was near one of the borders of the local environment, such as a wall or an edge. Grid cells, head direction cells, and border cells, together form an overlay coordinate map over the space covered by an animal as it moves around in its environment. Now each grid cell is part of a module of cells where all members of the module share a fixed length scale - that is the distance between activity points of a cell is the same as the distance between the activity points of another cell in the same module. Within the entorhinal cortex 4 to 5 modules were identified with some modules having a 30 cm spacing between spikes to others being as large as 3 metres (Computational Models of Grid Cells). The fixed  length scale between modules seemed to be increasing by a factor of 1.4, like a geometric progression. Simultaneous recordings from multiple grid modules has shown when local environment is geometrically deformed, some modules rescale in accordance with the deformation while other modules do not. Figure 2a illustrates 4 sample grid cells from 4 different grid modules with different length scales. Figure 2a. For sample grid cells from 4 different grid modules. Online location of image From cortical modules to memories So what do grid cell modules with multiple length scales achieve? If individual grid modules respond independently to changes in environment, the coactivity pattern among grid cells may be changed at all locations in the environment, and a different subset of place cells is likely to be recruited at each place based on the unique coactivity pattern of grid modules. Independent module responses may thus give rise to a very large number of coactivity patterns just the same way as a combination lock with only five digits gives rise to 10,000 unique patterns, with only 10 response alternatives per module Figure 3.  From cortical modules to memories Current Opinion in Neurobiology Feb 2014   Figure 3. A combinatorial code for environmental identity in the entorhinal cortex. The cartoons show how two different environments might be represented. When the animal is placed in a new environment, the cells of one module shift and rotate together, but each module shifts and rotates independently. In this way, the environment can be encoded by the combination of shifts and rotations across grid modules. This scheme could minimize interference between environments compared to a single, unified map (drawing by H. Fyhn). Online location of image From cortical modules to memories Current Opinion in Neurobiology Feb 2014   Some miscellaneous details... Grid cells, however, are not the exclusive input to place cells. There are other cell types too that connect to place cells from ER(entorhinal cortex). So place cells receive both path integration and landmark-based information from ER cell types.  While in rodents, head direction has an influence on grid cells firing, in monkeys, the location where the animal is looking also seems to influence the firing of grid and place cells ( A map of visual space in the primate entorhinal cortex Nature 2012) . This seems to suggest in primates, grid and place cells are responsive not only to head direction and speed of locomotion, but also to saccadic eye movements (saccades  - our eyes have the highest acuity of vision in a small region of the visual field. Hence we constantly yoke our eyes in different directions, roughly twice a second, as we look around The Quest for Consciousness: A Neurobiological Approach: Christof Koch, Francis Crick: Amazon.com: Books) While this is the present broad understanding of space circuitry in mammals, a lot of questions remain unanswered. For instance, what is the mechanism for generation of the regular fixed length spiking or grid pattern by grid cells? Two classes of mechanisms have been proposed both of which assume grid cells perform path integration in response to incoming velocity signals. One category of models, oscillatory interference models, has suggested gird patterns emerge as a result of oscillators of different frequencies, where the frequency of one of the oscillators is determined by the animal's running speed in a particular direction. This model has been proved not to be true, in bats, where theta oscillations are only intermittent and not continuous - one of the key requirements of this model Representation of Three-Dimensional Space in the Hippocampus of Flying Bats,Science 2011). The other model suggests that the fixed length firing pattern emerges as an equilibrium state in competitor attractor networks with strong recurrent excitatory and inhibitor connections. Moser E.I, Moser M. B, and Roudi. Y, Network mechanisms of grid cells 2014 (Transact. R. Soc. London in press) Why such complex space mapping circuitry in mammals? Insects can navigate effectively with much simpler circuits and fewer neurons (.e.g Bees travel novel homeward routes by integrating ... [Anim Behav. 1998],      Path integration in desert ants PNAS,1988    ). So one may ask why such complex circuitry in mammals? One theory is ( Memory, navigation and theta rhythm in the hippocampal-entorhinal system Nature Feb 2013) the mammalian space navigation circuitry, in addition to enabling navigation of environment, facilitated the rich storage of environment details and experiences in the environment. The rich storage of environment details, the Nature article suggests, was made possible in part by the numerous unique coactivity patterns that can be generated from grid cell modules. Figure 4. a) Path integration (also known as dead reckoning) is based on self-referenced information by keeping track of travel distances (time elapsed multiplied by speed) and direction of turns. Calculating translocation relative to the start location allows the animal to return to the start along the shortest (homing) path. (b) Map-based navigation is supported by the relationships among visible or otherwise detectable landmarks. A map is constructed by exploration (path integration). (c) Episodic memory is 'mental travel' in time and space referenced to self. (d) Semantic memory is explicit representation of living things, objects, places and events without temporal or contextual references. Semantic knowledge can be acquired through multiple episodes with common elements. We hypothesize that the evolutionary roots of episodic and semantic memory systems are the dead reckoning and landmark-based forms of navigation, respectively.Online location of this image - Nature Neuroscience The article  ( Memory, navigation and theta rhythm in the hippocampal-entorhinal system Nature Feb 2013)  proposes the mechanisms of memory and planning have evolved from mechanisms of navigating the physical world and hypothesizes that the neuronal algorithms underlying navigation of real and mental space are fundamentally the same (Figure 4). Semantic memory or memory of concepts ( Concept cells: the building blocks of declarative memory functions Nature 2012   ) is similar, the article argues, to the landmark memory of place cells. Episodic memory, which enables one to learn and recall experiences in the context of space and time is similar, the article argues, to path integration (navigation without any landmarks even in dark using just velocity information). The clear parallels raises the possibility that the same networks and algorithms support both physical and mental forms of travel. Anatomically, the medial temporal lobe which consists(among other structures) of hippocampus, entorhinal cortex is the place of semantic memory storage (a sparse, selective, multimodal and feature invariant representation that perhaps serves as an index that is either permanent or decays after  memories have been consolidated in other cortical areas), and this is also the region associated with space navigation circuitry described earlier. Evidence in support of this hypothesis has been growing. Neurons in the medial temporal lobe that fire when a person watches a sequence of clips, one of which contains the Simpsons, also fire 1500 millesecond prior to the user's verbal articulation of the Simpsons by recalling it.  Internally Generated Reactivation of Single Neurons in Human Hippocampus During Free Recall, Science 2008.  Also, as mentioned in the beginning a  paper published last week in Science   Neural Activity in Human Hippocampal Formation Reveals the Spatial Context of Retrieved Memories, November 29, 2013  adds further evidence to the idea that spatial coding of the "place cell system" is part of a more general mechanism of storage of events in temporal sequence, where items become associated with their spatiotemporal  context, and retrieval of items reinstates the context. Updated 6 Dec 2013 • View Upvotes