I am the programming karate kid. You are the programming Mr. Miyagi. How do you train me?We have one year until the grand hackathon that will either bring glory to our names or shame to our families. I am a headstrong novice who is impatient and thinks he knows best when he does not. How can I be trained to perfection in the little time we have before the ultimate showdown? What are our daily practices and goals? How I wax on wax off?
First, grasshopper, you must learn to conquer your fear. Machines have no fear, and no emotions at all. They only tell you what they perceive after doing whatever you instructed them to do. You must learn to understand their perceptions instead of being afraid of their error messages, for these will be your teachers long after I am gone. Next you must learn that you are stupid, but you are not alone. When the perceptions of computers become indecipherable, consult oracles such as search engines, and learn from the stupidity of those that have gone before you. Next comes practice and pain. Struggle against your computer until you learn to work with its logic instead of against it. Read http://learnpythonthehardway.org/ Next a student learns to fall, and in standing up, learns the importance of revision control. http://book.git-scm.com/1_welcom... As you practice and stand and fall, you will gain confidence and skill. Now grasshopper has a few scars and thinks he is a warrior. His next lesson is in humility, because at his heart he is still completely clueless. He must go back to the beginning with other languages and tools start again. In his quest he will learn that there are many paths to enlightenment, and that if he insists his way is the only way then he will become a neckbeard and no one will like him. Next grasshopper will learn humility again as he will be forced to face his former self. He will look into his old code and despair, but he shall be forced to maintain it. He will learn that documentation and planning are not for the happiness of his stupid coworker, but for the happiness of the stupid self. Now he is ready to train with other students. Next the student shall be faced again with the consequences of his actions, but this time after they have grown. Though a drop of water is not significant, the ocean is powerful. Grasshopper will be faced with the consequences of his actions when scaled up far beyond what he anticipated. He will learn that he is still foolish, and to judge when being foolish is acceptable. Now the lessons have ended, but student will never be a master if he does not remember that all masters are students. The world does not stop changing, and so we are students forever. Updated 20 Aug • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Matt Privman