What is the one thing which fascinates you the most? Why?
Dreams have always fascinated me. They help us dive deeper into the abyss of our identities, find the treasures that lay hidden deep in the darkness of ourselves, live beautiful, sometimes nonsensical, fantasies, and sometimes they even give us a taste of the future. Dreams have taught me a lot of things, too many for me to list right now, and yes, sometimes I've had powerful dreams, of captivating and breathtaking beauties, and a couple unexplainable ones that told me things about the future (2 dreams to be exact, but they weren't about anything important, but they still surprised me when they came true). Here are a couple of things I got out of my dreams: No matter how bad your day, how rich or poor, who you are and who you're not, you always have a world waiting for you when you close your eyes. Nightmares have taught me how to deal with my fears, and that there really is nothing to fear other than fear itself. Beautiful dreams show me how the "real" world is only as far away as I make it to be. Some things that dreams have made me think about: The meaning of life. You live one life, just as you dream one of a thousand dreams, forgetting most of them when you wake up. What does that mean to you? Are we living a dream that we will forget once we wake up? What does coincidence really mean when you dig deeper? You can make it mean anything, but still it makes me wonder. What is time? Does it really exist? Awake, I feel it racing past me, yet it moves so slowly. But when I am asleep, it seems to move sluggishly, but it's when it's sluggish that it moves the fastest. What makes time tick other than the internal clock we all have? How would time be experienced if we were dead? Would the minute hand on a clock simply freeze, or would it be infinite, where the hand is everywhere at the same time? Do we really think in terms of words? Here's my take on the question: How would a person have spoken with him/herself inside his/her head before the advent of any language When I see anything in my dream, anything, like a tree for example, what I am seeing is not a tree. It is my interpretation of it. How rough the bark feels to touch, how green its leaves are, how big or small, are all tied in to my emotions, the universal language all of us speak, some more fluently than others (which ties in to the question above). We go to sleep with nothing but our mind, and we create worlds. Having said that, there are approximately 100,000,000,000 neurons in our brains (Google), more than there are stars in the Milky Way. When we go to sleep, we don't sleep under the stars, we fall asleep in them. The question my dreams have left me with: What is the difference between these two different worlds, the world I open my eyes to and the world that closes into the warm darkness of infinite interpretation? I wake up and forget my dreams, while when I fall asleep, I forget about the memories I spent awake. Does it really matter then, which world is which? What makes sense in one world may seem ludicrous to the other, as the other may seem to the other. So what's the difference? *Side note: If what makes sense in one world doesn't make sense in another, and vice versa, then what really makes sense? Nothing. But at least it makes sense that nothing makes sense... Well, that's the surface of what I have to say about dreams. I know that I can go on and on about them, so I'm stopping myself right here before someone calls the men in white coats after me. Hope you found this at least interesting. I have for a long time, and still do. Updated 24 May 2014 • View Upvotes