Why is America's Car Culture, which kills 40,000 people per year, okay, but its Gun Culture, which kills far fewer, of such great concern?
As a car enthusiast, I'll try to address this question by focusing on relative harm that vehicles represent in our lives. First, a key fact: - According to NHTSA data on injuries and fatalities, one person dies or gets severly injured for every 1.2 million miles traveled. If you ride in or drive a car 20k miles a year for 60 years, stats tell us you *WILL* die or get injured in an accident. Let that sink in for a minute. A lifetime of driving or riding in cars is all but guaranteed to harm you. Next, the "harm vs good" argument: Some answers here - from Edward Davies and Sandor Szabo - suggest that automotive deaths are more acceptable than gun deaths because they're an inevitable consequence of using cars. I disagree - most car deaths could be easily avoided. What's worse, some deaths caused by car owners are every bit as much murder as what some deranged gunman does. About one third of automotive deaths are related to drug and alcohol use. These deaths (10,000 or so in 2010) aren't just "accidents" - they're people acting carelessly without regard for others. These deaths are murders...every bit as deadly as pulling out a gun and shooting someone (felony murder by definition). A great many accidents (upwards of 60%) are caused by people being foolish or careless by falling asleep, not paying attention, not following rules and best practices (i.e. driving too fast, following too closely, failing to stop at a red light). These deaths are suicides and manslaughters...sort of like deaths that result from loaded guns being left out where little children are playing. They're "accidents", but they're deaths that could have been easily prevented. Our car culture (and I'm as guilty of this as anyone) glorifies reckless driving. From hero worship of race car drivers to Fast and Furious movies to a mountain of vehicle manufacturer advertising, there is an incredible amount of positive attention given to dangerous driving behavior...many people argue guns are glorified in video games in much the same manner Finally, guns aren't all bad (at least not from my perspective). Police use guns every day to do their job...even if they don't come out of their holsters, guns act as an implicit threat that benefits our collective safety. Arguing that guns aren't as useful as cars is overlooking the fact that police need guns to do their job. Arguing cars are more useful than guns - and that car deaths are therefore more acceptable - is flat-assed wrong. My answer? American car and gun culture are both very, very screwed up. We need tough regulations and stiff penalties for both gun owners AND car owners. 