What does Einstein's theory of relativity teach us?Short words to explain Please!
Originally Answered: What exactly does Einstein's theory of relativity try to prove?Scientists are not often driven by fame and glory, they are most often driven by curiosity, in the manner of an explorer. So they are more in the nature of Captain Cook, producing maps to serve king and country, than a Viking raiding party. So young Einstein did not set sail in his small boat to prove that the world was round. He set out to be a good sailor, and to explore. His talent was that he uncannily always knew the best directions for discovery, like a bloodhound, you might say. This requires a good sense for what is not known. Richard Feynman had a similar sense of proper understanding. When he produced a series of undergraduate lectures, it prompted him to examine closely what was thought to be known, but what was actually known. The most useful answer in science is simply "We dont know".  You can use the Feynman method to rapidly improve understanding of any subject: Ok, back to Albert. Albert simply chose problems carefully, where there was a real problem to be solved. The first real problem and breakthrough he made was follow up work on the ideas of Michael Faraday, and the conversion of Faraday's work into equations by Maxwell,  that culminated in a formula for electromagnetic radiation. We know that Einstein was deeply interested in this avenue, because he said as much himself, and he kept a picture of both Faraday and Maxwell on his wall. ​ ​http://www.rare-earth-magnets.co... James Clerk Maxwell took Faraday's lines of force ideas seriously, although badly misunderstood the meaning Faraday intended. (Or at least had no time for such abstraction). Maxwell succeeded by the use of mechanical models, to reduce all known principles to twenty equations, and from there showed that there was a moving wave equation involved. Radio waves were later discovered by Marconi. But even before that, Maxwell, when calculating the speed of the waves, discovered them to be at the same the speed as light, and thought it to be no coincidence. But was unable to show anything more, having more the mindset of an engineer than a scientist like Faraday. This also illustrates a similar point as above. Maxwell had no intention to link the ideas, but made it as a mathematical discovery. Faraday by contrast had developed encyclopaedic knowledge and for example had investigated the optical magneto rotation, the ability of a magnetic field to alter the polarisation of light. And Faraday had a superior philosophic understanding of the abstract role of language.  For example: We may think of heat as a property, or as matter:  it will still be of the utmost benefit and importance to us. We may differ with respect to the way in which it acts:  it will still act effectually, and for our good; and, after all, our differences are merely squabbles about words, since nature, our object, is one and the same The reference to heat is relevant because Faraday was friends with John Tyndall who had greatly investigated radiant heat. No doubt Faraday already suspected that radiant heat was also radiant energy in the nature of light.   Maxwell also gave thermodynamics the same kind of mathematical treatment as electromagnetic phenomena, by treating heat and other variables as fluids and applying the calculus.  In short, Maxwell did not understand energy as Faraday did, and as we do today. So sadly, ultimately Maxwell misunderstood Faraday's conceptual genius and the problem to be solved. http://hermital.org/book/holoprt... So this is what set the stage for Einstein. The nature of light as waves, its ability to move through a vacuum, where there was no obvious pre-existing electrical or magnetic field already in place. And the nature of light as energy that moved without requiring material bodies or charges to be involved in that motion. Faraday had already found some evidence that his lines of force carried energy through empty space devoid of matter, as he conceived these fields to be a thing unto themselves, and the basis of a unifying concept for all energy. http://www.rigb.org/our-history/... Armed with a Faraday-like ability to think in the abstract, although nothing like Faraday's breadth of knowledge, Einstein tackled Maxwell's equations to look for explanations. (It is a sign of genius that many related problems are juggled in the mind and subjected to many ideas that are tested against each other within that hypothetical theatre of the imagination. Indeed Einstein was to become famous for his ability to perform the "gedankenexperiment". An experiment designed and conducted entirely in the mind, in order to illustrate a principle.) The clue to progress came from the fact that Maxwell's equations, although elegant, were not beautiful.  Faraday had always maintained that there was a deep and unifying relationship between electromagnetic force and motion. Faraday also maintained the value of energy conservation as a means of relating motion and fields. Einstein found that Maxwell's equations contained an asymmetry, and most importantly, an energy asymmetry. This was the key. You can read this story for yourself from Einstein's own paper. "On the electrodynamics of moving bodies." https://www.fourmilab.ch/etexts/... By the use of thought experinents, Einstein began to visualise what happens to forces, energy, and motion of electromagnetic phenomena when viewed by observers moving at different relative speeds to eachother. This is the only way to test how the equations relate. And to see what happens in extreme cases. The dramatic conclusion that Einstein was eventually forced to make by his own powers of reasoning, was that in order to cast Maxwell's equations into a form that respected conservation laws, and indeed that allowed the laws of physics to be the same in all reference frames, was that something had to give. Boldly, having played with all else, he playfully allowed space and time to give way. Suddenly, whilst riding a train, it became clear. Space and time must be relaxed. The very distances and times must be transformed depending on the motion of the observer. It was no longer a game, and this realisation,  and its import, profoundly shocked Albert. To the extent that he was forced to leave the train, and vomited. That such a radical interpretation should so simply account for the facts was not what he would have hoped for, but it required bravery based on conviction to publish. Eventually the establishment swung toward Einstein's appreciations. The goal of Einstein, Maxwell, and Faraday alike was simply that of unification. Each assisted in furthering that goal in their own way,  but could any have predicted the startling directions that this quest has taken, and still does? Updated 26 Aug • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Ethan Treigle