What is the interest graph, and what sites have done the best job of mapping it?
The interest graph is a digital representation of your interests, the same way your social graph is a digital representation of your social connections. An interest graph has two main types of nodes (people and interests) and two main types of links  between nodes (people-interest links, and interest-interest links). When a person (Fred) has an interest in a concept (say, The SF Giants), then there is a person-interest link between Fred and The Giants. This could be a weak link (Fred only sort of cares about The Giants) or a strong link (Fred is a huge fan). Also, if time is a factor, Fred's link to The Giants could be weakening or strengthening as his interest changes. An interest-interest link is a link between interests (ok, duh...), which indicates a connection between interests. For example, The Giants are a Major League Baseball (MLB) team, the MLB is the most prestigious professional baseball league in the US, and baseball is a sport. Accordingly, there are interest-interest links between The Giants and MLB, the MLB and baseball, and baseball and sports. Interest-interest links are important for giving context to an interest and for exposing higher level interest of a person. For example, if Fred also is into The Dodgers and The Mariners, then you could use interest-interest links to discovery that Fred is really into baseball.   A number of companies are starting to build and use interest graphs. Google, Facebook and Twitter have rich interest data sets. Google knows what search results you click and when you show up on a page that runs Google ads. Facebook knows when you like/share a webpage, site, page, etc. Twitter knows what you tweet about and links that you share in tweets. A number of startups are tapping into available data or creating their own data to build interest graphs. Hunch (hunch.com), for example, is building a "taste graph" based on how you answer questions of preference. Meanwhile, Gravity (gravity.com; disclosure, my company) is using natural language processing to mine public social data (i.e, what you publicly say, share, etc. on social networks). 