I am the programming karate kid. You are the programming Mr. Miyagi. How do you train me?We have one year until the grand hackathon that will either bring glory to our names or shame to our families. I am a headstrong novice who is impatient and thinks he knows best when he does not. How can I be trained to perfection in the little time we have before the ultimate showdown? What are our daily practices and goals? How I wax on wax off?
if you want a Chinese monk to teach you programming them read The Tao Of Programming I'm sure you want to learn the secret technique. there is no secret technique, actually there is no technique. Prince Wang's programmer was coding software. His fingers danced upon the keyboard. The program compiled without an error message, and the program ran like a gentle wind. ``Excellent!'' the Prince exclaimed, ``Your technique is faultless!'' ``Technique?'' said the programmer turning from his terminal, ``What I follow is Tao - beyond all techniques! When I first began to program I would see before me the whole problem in one mass. After three years I no longer saw this mass. Instead, I used subroutines. But now I see nothing. My whole being exists in a formless void. My senses are idle. My spirit, free to work without plan, follows its own instinct. In short, my program writes itself. True, sometimes there are difficult problems. I see them coming, I slow down, I watch silently. Then I change a single line of code and the difficulties vanish like puffs of idle smoke. I then compile the program. I sit still and let the joy of the work fill my being. I close my eyes for a moment and then log off.'' Prince Wang said, ``Would that all of my programmers were as wise!'' wisdom Thus spake the master programmer: ``Though a program be but three lines long, someday it will have to be maintained.'' A well-used door needs no oil on its hinges. A swift-flowing stream does not grow stagnant. Neither sound nor thoughts can travel through a vacuum. Software rots if not used. These are great mysteries. 