What are some of the best stories about life at IIM Ahmedabad?
A bit of background first- Gujarat is a dry state. This means that the sale of liquor is prohibited to the general public. However, one can easily buy fake/ adulterated/ generally shady looking liquor at heavily inflated prices from some rather friendly bootleggers who deliver to your doorstep. So, unlike a lot of other schools that have a booze culture, IIMA does not (officially, at least). One side effect of this is that the few times that people drink, they drink a LOT (sometimes a tad too much). So let's begin this story with the protagonist- we can call him Bob. Bob was very happy on that fateful day, for not only had he gotten a Pre- Placement job offer, but so had eight of his best friends from his Dorm. So much so, that nine people happily ordered fourteen large bottles of aforesaid adulterated alcohol. With much deliberation and occasional vomiting, our heroes gulped down the alcohol. Around this time, one of them decided to start dancing to the music playing. Seeing it as the thing to do, everybody else joined in, forming a bare chested, smelly nine man dance troupe splashing into vomit puddles every now and then. Next, our smelly, half naked, vomit covered protagonist arrived at the volleyball court with all of his friends, with the express intent of interrupting a late night team practice. He entered the court, declaring his superiority at volleyball over everyone else there. He then caught a ball in play and clumsily kicked it onto a nearby dorm roof. His many drunk friends cheered, calling him the greatest volleyball player of his generation- the Robinho of volleyball (good joke, yes?). The last bit of thee story is, of course, the best. Happily, I wasn't there to see it first hand, but I can believe since I heard it from someone I know too well. Bob walked back into his room, and now feeling quite sick, stripped naked. He then lay down on his bed and passed out. While still asleep, Bob defecated on the bed, stretched himself, and turned over, thereby covering himself in his own shit in his own bed. The only problem was, this wasn't his bed. Or even his room. The true occupant arrived a few minutes later, having brought along a lady friend with the hope of getting lucky. This is where different people's versions of the story begin to diverge a little- but I don't suppose you'd really need to be told how it ends. 