What is the one thing which fascinates you the most? Why?
Sharks do because of various reasons including them having very little known about them but my main interest in them on quora is spreading the word about how great they are not how bad they are and this is the issue that is hurting them the most right now.(Currently about 100 upvotes on all (re)postings of this same answer aka everthing after this so please read it and learn about sharks, one of the most misunderstood animals ever. Worldwide 3 sharks are killed every second meaning that we kill (depending on the estimate)73 million to 100 million sharks yearly.Why does this is matter you may ask here are some blog postings of mine that explain this better : 1. Up To 99% Of Some Shark Species Population Is Gone. by Joseph Dedrick on Quorans Against Shark Finning 2. The Loss Of Carnivores Effects Everything In The Ecosystem by Joseph Dedrick on Quorans Against Shark Finning 3. Sharks Are Friends, Not Man Eaters by Joseph Dedrick on Quorans Against Shark Finning 4. Sharkfinning Contributes To World Hunger by Joseph Dedrick on Quorans Against Shark Finning 5. Sharks Are Worth More Alive Than Dead by Joseph Dedrick on Quorans Against Shark Finning 6.  Shark finning by Joseph Dedrick on Quorans Against Shark Finning 7. Over Fishing of Sharks Threatens Coral Reefs by User on Quorans Against Shark Finning If you dont read these postings here are images that show why it is wrong Images above describing the decline and endangerment of shark and ray species.The rating system as you may have figured out goes from Data deficient or Least concern and on up to critically endangered in severity of extinction risk.The reason why this all is happening is because of mainly two things: Bycatch and Shark Finning. Bycatch is trying to catch one species and catching another.Shark finning is cutting off the fins of sharks(normally for sharkfin soup)and (normally) throwing the rest overboard.Here is an image that gives some good information on sharkfinning. Here is the process of sharkfinning in picture format. (hammerhead shark on long line and another shark,the normal way to catch sharks) (shark being caught,possibly as by catch because of non typical method usage) (shark being finned) (holding a shark fin) (Shark floating down after getting finned and thrown overboard,see the boat shadow in the top-background) (definned sharks) (definned shark) (fresh shark fins) (fins drying on ship) (shark fin soup) Here are some more images that show why sharks are being hunted and finned into extinction (A visual showing the tons of sharks caught(and killed)each year) So thanks for reading and please visit my blog Quorans Against Shark Finning and, SAVE THE SHARKS!!!! 