What does Einstein's theory of relativity teach us?Short words to explain Please!
Originally Answered: What is theory of relativity?Theory of relativity includes two theories : Special theory of relativity is the accepted physical theory regarding the relationship between space and time. It is based on two postulates:  (1)The laws of physics are invariant (i.e., identical) in all inertial systems (non-accelerating frames of reference); and  (2) The speed of light in  vacuum is the same for all observers, regardless of the motion of the light source.   It was originally proposed in 1905 by Albert Einstein in the paper "On the Electrodynamics of Moving Bodies". It implies a wide range of consequences, which have been experimentally verified, including length contraction, time dilation, relativistic mass, mass–energy equivalence, a universal speed limit, and relativity of simultaneity. It has replaced the conventional notion of an absolute universal time with the notion of a time that is dependent on reference frame and spatial position. General theory of relativity is the geometric theory of gravitation published by Albert Einstein in 1916 and the current description  of gravitation in modern physics. It generalizes special relativity and Newton's law of universal gravitation, providing a unified description of gravity as a geometric property of space and time, or  space-time.                   In particular, the curvature of space-time is directly related to the energy and momentum of whatever matter and radiation are present. The relation is given by the Einstein field equations. Some predictions of general relativity differ significantly from those of classical physics, especially concerning the passage of time, the geometry of space, the motion of bodies in free fall, and the propagation of light.                           Examples of such differences include gravitational time dilation, gravitational lensing , the gravitational redshift of light, and the gravitational time delay. The predictions of general relativity have been confirmed in all observations and experiments to date. Updated 6 Apr • View Upvotes