What is the one thing which fascinates you the most? Why?
Golden Ratio. From Wiki: In mathematics, two quantities are in the golden ratio if their ratio is the same as the ratio of their sum to the larger of the two quantities. The figure on the right illustrates the geometric relationship. Expressed algebraically, for quantities a and b with a > b > 0, where the Greek letter phi (φ) represents the golden ratio. Its value is: Now you might wonder what is so special about this number, but this number has always been around us. Let's see some examples:  Da Vinci used it! In 1509, Luca Pacioli wrote a book that refers to the number as the "Divine Proportion," which was illustrated by Leonardo da Vinci. Da Vinci later called this sectio aurea or the Golden section. The Golden ratio was used to achieve balance and beauty in many Renaissance paintings and sculptures. Da Vinci himself used the Golden ratio to define all of the proportions in his Last Supper, including the dimensions of the table and the proportions of the walls and backgrounds. The Golden ratio also appears in da Vinci's Vitruvian Man and the Mona Lisa. Other artists who employed the Golden ratio include Michelangelo, Raphael, Rembrandt, Seurat, and Salvador Dali. It's in your face! Faces, both human and nonhuman, abound with examples of the Golden Ratio. The mouth and nose are each positioned at golden sections of the distance between the eyes and the bottom of the chin. Similar proportions can been seen from the side, and even the eye and ear itself (which follows along a spiral). It's worth noting that every person's body is different, but that averages across populations tend towards phi. It has also been said that the more closely our proportions adhere to phi, the more "attractive" those traits are perceived. As an example, the most "beautiful" smiles are those in which central incisors are 1.618 wider than the lateral incisors, which are 1.618 wider than canines, and so on. It's quite possible that, from an evo-psych perspective, that we are primed to like physical forms that adhere to the golden ratio — a potential indicator of reproductive fitness and health. Aston Martin uses it to design cars! Check out this link where Aston Martin mentions 'Golden Ratio' which is used in setting proportions in the DB9 car! Aston Martin DB9 | Design There are a lot of examples in the nature where Golden ratio is conspicuous. Need to know more? Read : Golden Ratio, Phi, 1.618 and Fibonacci sequence articles; A whole website dedicated to the Golden Ratio! Other Sources: Golden ratio What is the Golden Ratio? 