Why is America's Car Culture, which kills 40,000 people per year, okay, but its Gun Culture, which kills far fewer, of such great concern?
The primary difference is that everyone is aware of the utility that cars have. Less are aware (or even care) about any supposed utility that guns have. And though I hate to say it, recreational use does qualify as legitimate utility. And in general, though I think guns are great fun, it's hard to argue that the utility is comparable. Of course, this balance can change greatly depending on the state of society, but few will argue that we would have to wait quite a while for that balance to (maybe) change. However, if you really want to drive the analogy home, I think alcohol is a great example. Here is something with absolutely NO utility, other than recreation. On the whole it causes a lot more suffering, death, and misery than guns do. It causes child abuse. And hey, it even causes gun violence. But nobody would ever think to ban alcohol. Here's a post from another website that I think makes the analogy quite well: I've actually used alcohol as an analogy to guns to defend gun rights with some success before. It's similar to what you're saying, but it goes further when using gun-banners' logic. It's not interlocks we need. That's the same as mag limits and other compromise measures. We should just ban alcohol. I've always gotten the impression that the vast majority of anti-gunners (and especially those who want to ban them or ban categories) are people whom the bans wouldn't affect. They don't own guns, or shoot them. Maybe they've never even seen one in real life. Why should they care if some redneck yokels can't have 20-round magazines or semi-auto pistols? So, I've developed an argument that brings it closer to home, because it's something just as needless, that annually causes much more death and detriment: alcohol. Nobody needs to have alcohol. It's at best a device of recreational indulgence, and at worst it leads to fatal alcohol-related diseases, DUI fatalities, and untold numbers of beaten spouses and children (and probably drunken crimes in general). The first two account for far more deaths in the country than guns do every year, so why wouldn't you support banning alcohol? Maybe enforcing maximum ounce purchases to ensure nobody gets drunk? Okay, we'll let you get a slight buzz, but nobody needs to down an entire six pack and crash their car into a van with a family in it. The difference is, alcohol is totally acceptable in society. The gun-banner himself probably drinks. "Alcohol isn't the problem! Heck, I enjoy drinking! It's just a few bad apples who drive home drunk! Drunk driving is already illegal!" It parallels gun ban rhetoric pretty well, I figure. They see guns/semi-autos/what-have-you as something nobody needs. 99.99% of the 300+ million guns in this country are used for recreation at the range or on the field hunting, just like most booze at parties and nightclubs. Mag restrictions, AWB, other miquetoast measures? No more liquor with over 7% and federal limits on ounces sold per person. The few crazed shooting sprees like this are just bad apples, just like some idiot DWIer. When alcohol was banned, violence surged and it didn't stop people from getting their booze. 