I am the programming karate kid. You are the programming Mr. Miyagi. How do you train me?We have one year until the grand hackathon that will either bring glory to our names or shame to our families. I am a headstrong novice who is impatient and thinks he knows best when he does not. How can I be trained to perfection in the little time we have before the ultimate showdown? What are our daily practices and goals? How I wax on wax off?
Not sure If i am Miyagi, but having spent a good 12 yrs writing code, I would recommend the following Get the concepts right, many programmers, have a tendency to focus on the bells and whistles, and not  what  actually makes it work. You are a Java programmer, I would recommend you to learn OOPS first, get the fundamentals of Objects, Classes, Inheritance.  Most of the OOPS languages work on the same  set of principles, only the interface varies. What is the end result? Put yourself in the shoes of  the ordinary user, who is not a techie. What exactly is the user looking at? More often than not programmers end up writing code, that does not usually give the user what they want. Test it, yes put the code you have written through the toughest grind, break it in all ways you can, see how it handles the errors. Many programmers make the cardinal mistake of  ignoring testing, with the end result being some embarassing moments before the user. Books only give a basic knowledge, but more often than not you have to troubleshoot issues which no book will have. Don't try to be a Superman, get help from wherever you can, team members, people who have worked for long, browse the net. Learn, Learn and Learn. There is no end to the learning process, treat every issue or problem you face as a learning opportunity, that is how you ensure you can be the best. Last but not the least, my boss gave me a sane advice "Work smart, not hard", no that is not corporate jargon it is true. When you have components available on the shelf that do everything from database connecting to creating excel, pdf files to creating widgets, makes no sense to reinvent the wheel. 