What is the interest graph, and what sites have done the best job of mapping it?
I spent the 1990's at Caltech doing research on Internet-scale publish-and-subscribe systems in which people and programs could follow topics of interest and get new, timely information about those interests. So it is with great pride that I see that the Internet-Scale Interest Graph (shortened in the press as just the "Interest Graph") has gone from theoretical "what if" to practical "confacimus" in the last decade. A lot has been written lately about the Interest Graph, but the term is still so new that there is not even a Wikipedia article about it yet, as of April 2011. If the Interest Graph interests you as much as me, join me after this lolcat. Let's start with a definition: The Interest Graph is a representation of the relationship between people and things. In general, the things are things of interest to the people. I believe this concept arose in contrast to the Social Graph, which is a representation of the relationship between people and other people, as popularized by Facebook starting in May 2007: en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Social_graph In practical terms, this means the following: The Interest Graph is WHAT people care about, not WHO people care about. A very important aspect of the Interest Graph is that unlike the Social Graph, which is for the most part static (except for an occasional friending or unfriending), the Interest Graph is elastic, dynamic, and rapidly changing for any individual consumer based on: What a consumer searches for (on Google, Bing, YouTube, Twitter, etc) What a consumer follows (on Facebook, Twitter, Google +1, Tumblr, Quora, etc) What a consumer expresses (as blog posts, tweets, pins, stashes, statuses, reviews, pictures, conversations, etc.) Note that searching is private but following and expressing are, for the most part, public. The Internet-Scale Interest Graph therefore aggregates implicit and explicit gestures from consumers, and is bigger than any single company's set of data about consumers. As Karl Rinderknecht's answer points out, the Interest Graph also captures the relationship between things and other things. And as Jeff Korhan points out in the comments, an alternative definition of social graph is the relationship between social objects, in which case an interest graph is the intersection of social graphs. I have not found the origin of the term Interest Graph, but the concepts have been around for a while. I know that the inventor of the Web has talked about "Semantic Web" (a Web of data and the relationships between them) since the 1990's: w3.org/2001/sw/SW-FAQ In the Semantic Web, the relationships between people and things are represented as triples: en.wikipedia.org/wiki/RDFa Conceptually, I think of triples as PERSON RELATIONSHIP THING -- such as Adam Rifkin LIKES San Jose Sharks. The technology is fascinating, and many great minds have developed parts of the vision: infomesh.net/2001/swintro/ As Andrew Weissman points out in the comments, the Interest Graph is dynamic: The Interest Graph is dynamic - and far from static. Adam Rifkin Likes San Jose Sharks may not be true tomorrow, or may even be true to a lesser degree of "like." Needless to say, much work remains to be done in creating, analyzing, and commercializing the Interest Graph. Exciting!! These concepts were first commercially used in 1999 by a company called Epinions, which implemented its Interest Graph as a Web of Trust: epinions.com/help/faq/?show=faq_wot Fast forward to the era of Blogs and Google and Facebook and Twitter, and the Interest Graph is something that we consumers create implicitly through our behaviors using those Web-based services. It is bigger than any one company, but they all have interest in creating, analyzing, and employing the Interest Graph to make their services better and create more opportunities for commerce. Regarding the origin of the term, I concur with Dmitry Rokityanskiy's answer that the earliest mention of the Interest Graph that I can find on the Internet is Santiago Sir's line in September 2008, “What we envision is that there is a new dimension of interests that emerges over the social graph, you can call it the interest graph.” TechCrunch.com/2008/09/09/popego-tailors-the-social-graph-to-your-interests/ Consequently, Facebook rolled out its own "Open Graph" in October 2009, which is Facebook's API's for its representation of the relationship between people and things: TechCrunch.com/2009/10/29/with-open-graph-facebook-sets-out-to-make-the-entire-web-its-tributary-system/ Meanwhile, Hunch is working on a "Taste Graph" and LinkedIn is working on the very useful interest graph of Skills and Expertise: LinkedIn.com/skills/ To me, this party is just getting started. Naval and I wrote an article in October 2010 talking about why the Interest Graph is the reason that Twitter is Massively Undervalued (see the first link below). For more information, I recommend: Adam Rifkin and Naval Ravikant, "Twitter and the Interest Graph" TechCrunch.com/2010/10/16/why-twitter-is-massively-undervalued-compared-to-facebook/ Semil Shah, "Quora is Identity plus Interest Graph" TechCrunch.com/2011/01/09/frequently-asked-questions-quora/ Max Levchin and Bill Gurley, "The Interest Graph Is The Next Big Thing" TechCrunch.com/2011/02/17/levchin-and-gurley-say-that-next-big-company-will-capture-the-interest-graph/ WebProNews, "Starbucks and the Interest Graph" WebProNews.com/the-era-of-the-interest-graph-2011-02 Assetmap, "Why the Interest Graph will Reshape the Social Network" blog.assetmap.com/2010/11/social-web/why-the-interest-graph-will-reshape-social-networks-and-the-next-generation-of-internet-business/ Mahendra Palsule, "The Age of Relevance" TechCrunch.com/2011/03/03/the-age-of-relevance/ As for mapping it, that is a work in progress, and much remains to be done. I do know Google, Facebook, LinkedIn, and Twitter take the Interest Graph and its vision-in-progress very seriously, as do startups such as Gravity, Namesake, Tumblr, Hunch, and Quora. Updated 10 Mar 2012 • View Upvotes