For a given polynomial, is it always possible to associate 'geometric properties' of the curve to its coefficients?For example, we all know that for the polynomial mx+c, m represents the slope and c the intercept. Are there similar interpretations for higher polynomials? I am particularly interested in the 5th order polynomial.
As Alon Amit noted, the standard representation of a polynomial, i.e., as a combination ∑a k x k   of the basis functions x k   , doesn't have many geometric visible properties. However, there are other bases to represent polynomials, which have a more geometric flavor. In particular using the Bernstein basis (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Be...), which is used in the representation of Bézier curves gives several nice geometric properties from the coefficients (and conversion from the standard basis representation to the Bernstein basis representation amounts to simply multiplying the coefficient vector by a triangular matrix). Let us represent the polynomial as ∑b k B k (x)  , where B k (x)  are the Bernstein basis polynomials of degree n  ,k=0..n  . The following are some of the geometric properties of this polynomial representation are: The point at x=0 and at x=1 are given by the first and last coefficients (this is sometimes called endpoint interpolation). The derivative at x=0 is given by n(b 1 −b 0 )  and at x=1 it is n(b n −b n−1 )  . This is part of a more general representation of the derivative that is easily derived from the coefficients. Evaluation of the polynomial (and its derivative) at a given value can be performed by a sequence of linear combinations of the coefficients (the De Casteljau's algorithm), which can be viewed as a geometric corner cutting method. Adding an x-coordinate k/n  to the b k   coefficient, we get the set of points (k/n,b k )  (called the control points or the control polygon) that can be used for further geometric properties.  The convex hull property states that the curve (between x=0 and x=1) is totally contained within the convex hull of its control points. One result of this is, for example, that if all coefficients are positive (or all are negative) then there can be no real root in the interval [0,1]  . The variation diminishing property states that for any line L the number of intersections of L with the curve is not greater than the number of intersection of L with the control polygon. One result of this (in combination with endpoint interpolation) is that if there is a single sign change in the coefficient sequence there is a single root in the interval [0,1]  . A nice curvature formula at the endpoints can also be derived from the control points (see for example, 2.9.3 in http://cagd.cs.byu.edu/~557/text...).There are more geometric properties that can be derived from this polynomial representation as you can see in the references. This answer is already much longer than I intended but I expect you can see from what I wrote that this representation is a favorite of mine. 