What does Einstein's theory of relativity teach us?Short words to explain Please!
Originally Answered: I am a student of class 8. What is its special and general relativity? What are its applications and importance?This is a very deep question and the only way I know how to answer this without using a ton of jargon is to use a wall of text. With that being said, here is my wall of text: Special and General Relativity are mathematical theories about coordinate systems (many theories in physics are mathematical theories about coordinate systems.) All the extra stuff (time dilation, length contraction, redshift, gravity) are consequences of choosing a coordinate system. An example of a coordinate system is seen on a piece of graph paper. Each location where the lines intersect is a coordinate. A possible coordinate in this coordinate system is (10,13)  which means 10 intersections to the right of the origin and 13 intersections above the origin. The origin is the intersection on the graph paper that we choose to start with and it always has the coordinate (0,0)  . Edit: I've mixed the idea of vectors and coordinates in this paragraph. A more reasonable way to say it is that (10,13)  is a vector made of the two coordinates, 10  and 13  . But that puts me on a slippery slope of using linear algebra jargon so I'll just keep on calling the whole thing a coordinate. But physics is all about movement so we really want our coordinate system to represent motion. There are two methods to represent motion in a coordinate system: Change the values of the coordinates. If I draw an object at (10,13)  , wait 1 second and draw it at (11,13)  , wait 1 second and draw it at (12,13)  etc then that object is moving to the right across the graph paper at a speed of 1 intersection per second. The distance between the origin and the object changes at a rate of 1 intersection per second. Change which intersection counts as "the origin." I can claim that the intersection to the right of the origin is the new location of the origin. The new origin still has the coordinate (0,0)  but it is now shifted one intersection to the right. Likewise, an object that was at (10,13)  is still at the coordinate (10,13)  but has shifted one intersection to the right on the graph paper. This is the second way to represent motion in a coordinate system and in this case the distance between the origin and the object doesn't change.  The Principle of relativity essentially states that both of these methods are mathematically valid ways to represent motion. Note that everything I've said so far predates Einstein by a few hundred years. The special principle of relativity was first explicitly enunciated by Galileo Galilei in 1632 in his Dialogue Concerning the Two Chief World Systems, using the metaphor of Galileo's ship. Classical mechanics (Newton's laws) are written with the assumption that the two valid ways of describing motion will always give the same description. After all, if two different problem solving methods are both mathematically valid then they ought to give the same answer. For example, the speed of a baseball pitch can be measured with a radar gun. A person standing behind the catcher with a radar gun will measure a different ball speed than a person flying overhead in a plane with a radar gun. On the ground the ball might be clocked at 80mph but in the plane it could be clocked at e.g. 180mph due to the speed of the plane. However, both observers will see the same trajectory of the ball (from pitcher's hand to catcher's glove), the same distance that the ball travels, and the same time that it takes for the ball to get to the catcher. In method one (standing behind the catcher) the origin (pitcher) isn't moving and in method two (flying in a plane) the origin (pitcher) is moving. If the pilot also measures the pitcher's (origin) speed with the radar gun and subtracts that from the measured ball speed then she will get the same answer as the radar gun on the ground. As it turns out, the assumption that both methods give the same answer isn't always true. Maxwell's equations can be used to demonstrate examples where the two methods of describing motion do not give the same physical description: An electric charge produces an electric field (static electricity, batteries, etc.) But a magnetic field (compass, magnets, etc) isn't produced by a "magnetic charge." Instead, magnetic fields are produced by moving electric charges. If you run an electric current (moving charges) through a wire you will generate a magnetic field. All magnetic fields are produced by the motion of electric charges. But an electric field is not the same thing as a magnetic field. A magnet sticking to a refrigerator or a compass needle pointing north isn't the same kind of thing as a flashlight turning on when you put batteries in it. To really see the difference in the descriptions let's draw an electric charge on the graph paper at the origin. When the origin doesn't move (method one) then there is only an electric field. When the origin does move (method two) then there is also a magnetic field that wasn't there in method one. Clearly we can't keep holding on to the assumption that the two methods will always give the same physical description. One method says there is a magnetic field and so a compass needle would move, the other method says there isn't a magnetic field and so a compass needle wouldn't move. These are different physical descriptions so for this graph paper coordinate system, Galileo's principle of relativity doesn't hold. In 1905 Einstein published the paper On the Electrodynamics of Moving Bodies as an attempt to describe a situation like this with magnetic fields but without violating Galileo's principle of relativity -- the principle that both methods of describing motion should give the same physical description. He used a different kind of coordinate system to achieve this. The coordinate system that we were using on the graph paper is named Euclidean space, and the coordinate system that Einstein used in his 1905 paper is now known by the name Minkowski space. Special Relativity can be thought of as the set of consequences that arise from using Minkowski space instead of Euclidean space. This includes things like Time dilation, Length contraction, Relativistic Doppler effect, and changes in force that would cause, for example, an electric force to also look like a magnetic force. In Euclidean space we could describe events like the baseball pitch in terms of space intervals (the 60 feet from the mound to home plate),  time intervals (the time that the ball was in the air), or both (the actual curved path that the ball takes through the air.) But in Minkowski space we need to restrict ourselves to only talking about Spacetime intervals if we want to ensure that the description of motion is the same whether we use method one or method two. So Special Relativity responds to the cries of "but the descriptions are different!" by yelling back "then change the way you're describing it!" General Relativity (GR) is a theory that generates coordinate systems which adhere to Galileo's principle of relativity. The properties of these new coordinate systems (how the coordinates change under translations and rotations) are determined by how much energy is present. That's a very weird concept and to be honest I really need to practice using GR before I can come up with a sane way of saying that sentence. A special case in GR is when there is no energy present. In this case, a Minkowski space is generated -- the coordinate system that's used in Special Relativity. That's the connection between Special and General. So Special and General Relativity are important because they enable us to continue doing physics without any inconsistent descriptions. The same can be said of quantum mechanics (or really quantum field theory.) Without these theories we would still have basically the same technology as nearly 120 years ago. I'd almost say they're as important as our theory of genetics which is currently allowing us to support a human population that recently surpassed 7 billion. As for applications of the theory? For one, we now know that a magnetic field is just an electric field plus motion and we can think of the two fields as just one called the electromagnetic field. This is why light is called an electromagnetic wave -- it's a wave on the electromagnetic field. So anything that uses light, radios, microwaves, x-rays, or could be called an electronic device is taking advantage of Special Relativity. In fact, Special Relativity can be derived directly from Maxwell's equations -- although it's waaaaay harder to do it that way than to use Einstein's method of thought experiments. Here are some more applications and direct evidence of Special and General Relativity: [physics/0606188] Muon decays in the Earth's atmosphere, time dilatation and relativity of simultaneity GPS and Relativity Particle Accelerators (Page on stanford.edu) Gravitational lens The beam from a Pulsar Precession of the perihelion of Mercury The precise (within one millimeter!) distance from the Earth to the Moon (APOLLO)  many others I'm sure :) 