What does Einstein's theory of relativity teach us?Short words to explain Please!
Originally Answered: I am a student of class 8. What is its special and general relativity? What are its applications and importance?You changed the question and the description. Here is a short summary of the results that relativity gives us - Special Relativity - Fundamental quantities depend on the frame of reference from which you measure them. The faster you move, the slower time moves for you (you'll actually age slower). The length of a body (along it's direction of motion) becomes shorter when it moves. Two events that happen at the same time for you might not happen at the same time for someone who is moving with respect to you. General Relativity - The medium of propagation of gravity is space itself. Gravity is not a true force. It is actually caused due to the warping of space and time around an object. Time will be slow for you if you are in high gravitational field. MY PREVIOUS ANSWER - Howdy kiddo. It's a good think you specified your level. I'll explain only Special Relativity since I do not understand General Relativity properly. First, you should understand the concept of Relative velocity. Suppose you are standing still on a road. A car zooms past you at a speed of 100 km/h. The velocity of the car as measured by you will be 100 km/h. Now suppose you are moving with a velocity of 20 km/h in the North direction. Another car with a speed of 100 km/h zooms past you. If both you and the car is going in the same direction, the velocity of the car measured by you will be 80 km/h. This new velocity observed is called the relative velocity of the car with respect to you. Why does the velocity of the car change? The answer is - it does not change. What changes is the Frame of reference (your physical state as you observe an event, such as your velocity is called a frame). Earlier, you were standing, so the car was moving with a velocity of 100 km/h as observed by you. But when you move along the same direction as the car, you measure a different velocity. Notice that the velocity you measured is the difference of the velocities of the car and you. I am not a very good teacher. You can read more about relative motion at Wikipedia. Now, light does not obey this rule. No matter at whatever speed you are travelling, the speed of light will still be 300000000 m/s for you. So, let us perform an experiment. Let the speed of light be c Suppose you and I are standing on a 10000000000000000000000000 km straight road. Then, I get into a car. This car travels by a speed of c/2. Now, as soon as this car starts moving, a light wave is emitted. Both of us write the position of the light pulse after a specific amount of time. Here is what your diary will look like - T=1 sec.  Distance traveled= 3*10^8 m T=2 sec.  Distance traveled= 6*10^8 m T=3 sec.  Distance traveled= 9*10^8 m. Now, since I am travelling at half the speed of light, the relative velocity of light with respect to me should be c/2 (since c - c/2 = c/2). Since you do not know of special relativity, you expect my diary to have the following observations. T=1 sec.  Distance traveled= 1.5*10^8 m T=2 sec.  Distance traveled= 3*10^8 m T=3 sec.  Distance traveled= 4.5*10^8 m. But, the actual observations I write in my diary are - T=1 sec.  Distance traveled= 3*10^8 m T=2 sec.  Distance traveled= 6*10^8 m T=3 sec.  Distance traveled= 9*10^8 m. What does this mean? This means that light does not follow the concept of relative velocity. Thus, whatever speed you are traveling with, the speed of light will always appear the same to you. Why does this happen? See, when I was travelling by the half the speed of light, the rate flow of time for me was also halved. Thus while I was in the car, my 1 second was equal to your two seconds. And thus, there was a  similarity in our observations. If  t seconds is the time measured by someone who is not moving, this time t will be equal to x seconds for a person who is moving such that x=t/sqrt(1-u^2/c^2) What this means that the faster you go, the slower time goes for you. This fact contradicts common sense, but most of physics contradicts common sense. Anyway, the relation of time with velocity is the most important result in special relativity. There are other results too. I cannot explain each and everyone of them. I'll just tell you what these results are. 1. Relativity of Simultaneity - If two events occur at the same time for an observer who is not moving, the same two events might occur at different times for another observer who is moving. 2. Contraction of space/length - The length of the path on which you are moving depends on your velocity. The faster you go, the shorter the length. 3. Increase in mass - The faster you go, more is your mass. Thus, mass is related to your velocity. HERE IS WHAT I KNOW ABOUT GENERAL RELATIVITY - According to Einstein, gravity is not a true force, it is caused by the curvature of space-time fabric, and thus gravity can stretch or contract both space and time. Moral of both the theories - All the fundamental quantities like length, mass, etc are different for different observers. This is why it is called the theory of relativity. Also, space is not just nothingness. It has it's own properties and can be stretched or contracted. Time is not just a method to measure the rate of change of events. It also has it's own properties and is different for different observers. Cheers. :) Updated 17 Sep • View Upvotes