What is the one thing which fascinates you the most? Why?
I want to travel. I want to travel the whole damn world. Seriously, I used to dream about Lamborghini and Porsche when I was in class 12th. Gradually, I realized that my love for travelling has outgrown everything. Every need in my life now revolves around the idea to travel. I know life is too short and we all dream about something and my dream is to travel. Amidst this, if I end up having a small flat instead of a big mansion, a hatchback instead of a sedan and noodles to eat instead of a lavish three course meal, I’d be okay.  You are likely to learn more when you travel, if that's your purpose. You see, what is travelling? Travelling is to leave the office cubicle you spend your whole day into, travelling is not to sleep on your comfortable mattress, travelling is to eat food which is not cooked by your mom, travelling is to find yourself. You won’t feel it now by reading it, I think it is not compelling enough. To know what travelling is you will have to make your own plunge. I first traveled to Jim Corbett back in 2011. I went there with my best friends and that experience changes me every day. I learnt innumerable stuff. I learnt to take care of myself, my friends, my belongings. I learnt to survive on half cooked food and sleep wide awake in night because there’s an animal standing outside your window. You will never experience that thrill in your routine life. Never while comfortably sleeping on your bed. You can watch Into the wild for 100 times and not feel the vibe, but a trip to a remote town nearby your city will cast that spell on you. I literally beg people to travel. I want everyone to know how surreal it is to be out of your comfort zone.  There are so many movies, quotations, books, songs that demand you to travel, yet I wonder what keeps us away from it. We keep whining about how boring our life is, but only a few make the effort to change it. Be the change you want to see. I am fascinated by travelling. A lot. It is my muse. I can and will travel as much one could. There is no bar though. There are some crazy people out there who have traveled a lot and I am so sure that I will never be able to compete with them, but I am glad that I am trying to compete. Walking through these streets meeting crossroads of hope and some of loss will i take the right road will i venture into the curves and bumps carved into the foundation formed from years of repetitive travel I am not the only one who travels these roads passing by with tears in their eyes are ones who travel with hope in their hearts to find that glimpse of happiness and sanity in for which they look I must endure my sentence of weary travel my friend we shall not travel this road alone take my hand for we shall walk this road together till we reach the end. And this note from Ellie.  Up (2009)                                                                          Updated 17 Jun 2014 • View Upvotes