Why is America's Car Culture, which kills 40,000 people per year, okay, but its Gun Culture, which kills far fewer, of such great concern?
We, as a nation, became dependent on the luxury of cars.  Did you know current statistics show that there are actually more cars on the road than licensed drivers?  In the 1950's, for every licensed driver there was an average of 0.7 cars on the road in the US.  In 2012, for every licensed driver, there was 1.75 cars on the road.  This means cars are treated to excess...which means they are a luxury, not a necessity.  I walk to work daily, regardless of weather.  It is an option we all have.  Do I own a car? Yes.  Do I drive it daily?  No...there's no reason to.  There are alternate means to this. Now...to guns.  I grew up where guns were a part of the culture for several reasons, with providing for the family as well as home protection were held of equal importance.  Those who struggled economically to provide for their families could actually put meat on the table cheaper by hunting then they could by buying it.  I know...for I come from one of those families. I was taught from age 5 one very simple and stern lesson: guns are not toys or sports equipment.  Guns deserve respect, education and understanding of the impact they can cause.  One of the first lessons my father taught me was the destructive nature a gun can have if mishandled and misused.  He did this simply by buying a single gallon of milk, pouring red food coloring into it, then shooting it.  Every where there was red on the ground, he pointed out and said "This could be someone's blood on the ground if you misuse this, or act as if this is not something that cannot be destructive if used for the wrong purpose".   I was 5 years old..and the message sunk in loud and clear. Now, let's move forward to current days.  Considering now guns are viewed as sports equipment more so than anything, and with the present generations lack of education, there is a huge difference in the way they are viewed.  I hear so many of the 20's and 30's crowd openly talk about how they have this or that gun, and if someone were to invade their home, they'd pop a cap in them, or drop them in their tracks...when the reality is...they have no clue of what they really have, nor what impact it has, and it is more of a status symbol than a protection device.  Don't get me wrong, for I still believe in the firm rights to own a gun.  I believe that we, as citizens, should keep and bear arms, to protect ourselves from an invasive militia, foreign or domestic.  Bottom line, it is possibly the largest responsibility as citizens we have...and should be treated as such...a responsibility. Now with that said, the biggest issue I have is simple: the lack of education starting at younger ages in our country to fully realize how impacting the use of a gun is. There are more deaths from mishandling guns than there are from home protection.  Too many people buy guns with no experience on what they can do, or how to use them.  Suicides by gun far out-weigh both of these by a landslide. In my youth, gun education started at home, where you were taught from A to Z not only how to maintain them, but to understand where and why they are used.  Before you ask if home protection is necessary, why not ask my dad...for he had no choice in regards to a home invasion where someone entered his house, while 17 other family members were there, brandishing a weapon and refusing to relinquish it...and the only casualty was the invader, where it could have been 18 deaths instead.  There are 17 people that will tell you simply this: he saved their lives because he understood and acted as necessary...and did so by adhering to his 2nd amendment right.   You tell me gun control is necessary...I tell you that you are right, yet are wrong on how the control should be enacted.  Education, testing, teaching...that is how you regulate guns, not by limiting or removing the right to keep and bear arms.  I think it is the right and responsibility of the fathers and mothers to teach their children from the beginning, instead of trying to limit their exposure, which only increases their fascination as they become adults, and to think of them as a toy more so than a tool. Where I live, you can't just walk in and buy a gun.  You have to attend a safety course as mandated, then you have to pass both a demonstrative and written test as well.  During that, you also have to pass a back ground check in order to purchase one.  In essence, if you walk in, lay down your driver's license or ID to buy a gun, they will tell you there is a waiting period for the background check, and they need proof of passing both test for the safety course before they will even start the transaction.  This is how you effectively keep the uneducated and uninformed from owning guns, not by controlling them. I'm not a member of the NRA before you ask.  I've never felt a reason to join an association to protect my rights.  The Constitution does that for me already. 