What is the one thing which fascinates you the most? Why?
1. History Why? This will say it all... A patient's history is as important as their symptoms. It’s what helps us decide if heartburn is a heart attack, if a headache is a tumor. Sometimes patients try to rewrite their history. They’ll claim they don’t smoke or forget to mention certain drugs which in surgery can be the kiss of death. We can ignore it all we want but eventually our history comes back to haunt us. … Some people believe that without history our lives amount to nothing. At some point we all have to choose. Do we fall back on what we know or do we step forward to something new? It’s hard not to be haunted by our past. Our history is what shapes us, what guides us. Our history resurfaces time after time after time. So we have to remember, the most important history is the history we’re making today. - Meredith Grey (Season3, Ep.20-Time After Time) 2. Human behavior and psychology Why? We spend our whole lives worrying about the future, planning the future, trying to predict the future. As if figuring it out will somehow cushion the blow but the future is always changing. The future is the whole of our deepest fears and our wildest hopes but one thing is certain. When it finally reveals itself, the future is never the way we imagined it. - Meredith Grey (Season5, Ep.22-Here’s To The Future Days) We enter the world alone and we leave it alone and every thing that happens in between. We owe it to ourselves to find a little company. We need help; We need support. other wise, we’re in it by ourselves. Strangers, cut off from each other and we forget just how connect we all are. So instead we choose love. We choose life. And for a moment, we feel just a little bit less alone. - Meredith Grey (Season5, Ep.9-All By Myself) 3. Mythologies “I believe in everything until it's disproved. So I believe in fairies, the myths, dragons. It all exists, even if it's in your mind. Who's to say that dreams and nightmares aren't as real as the here and now?” ― John Lennon I liked myths. They weren't adult stories and they weren't children's stories. They were better than that. They just were.” ― Neil Gaiman, The Ocean at the End of the Lane “Odysseus inclines his head. "True. But fame is a strange thing. Some men gain glory after they die, while others fade. What is admired in one generation is abhorred in another." He spread his broad hands. "We cannot say who will survive the holocaust of memory. Who knows?" He smiles. "Perhaps one day even I will be famous. Perhaps more famous than you.” ― Madeline Miller, The Song of Achilles Mythologies are so fascinating. Each story has so many threads connecting them. And unraveling one will never satisfy your curiosity. They all have something to say. And the more you know, the more fascinated you become with them. The impersonal way in which both become personal is something that I really like discovering. 