What does Einstein's theory of relativity teach us?Short words to explain Please!
Originally Answered: What is the theory of relativity?I will try to explain this more intuitavily in short summary ..a passage of developemt in history of physics which led to this theory... Before Einstein, It was considered that Time & Space were Independent entities not having any correlation with each other... Absolute, true, and mathematical time . . . flows at a constant rate without relation to anything external. . . Absolute space. . . without relation to anything external, remains always similar and immovable. ~ Newton This was primarily Newton argument which nobody dared to Question before Einstein ;) The Story Starts parallelely , One thread started from Maxwell Field's Equation & Another Thread starts from very Famous failed experiment done by Michelson & Morley .. 1>Will Start from Maxwell Field Equations: Maxwell was trying to understand relation between electric & magnetic fields ie...he conclusively found Mathematical proof of existence of Electromagnetic waves using this he calculated its speed : https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ma... In a region with no charges (ρ = 0) and no currents (J = 0), such as in a vacuum, Maxwell's equations reduces & calculates speed of  EM waves which identify Which is speed of light. Here if you see speed of like only depends on permitivity & permebility of Medium & not on any other factors. Point to note is , it does not account for any frame of reference or co-ordinate system or relative speeds where EM wave is traveling. 2>Second one is Michelson & Morley Failed Experiment : Before Einstein , Understanding was light is a Wave disturbance traveling in space which is filled of mysterious Ether...as wave needs a medium it is traveling. To Prove this Michelson & Morley did an Ingenious setup - https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mi... There Premise what to Calculate Difference of speed of light traveling east to west & north to south..Morley set up a clever apparatus to measure any difference in the speed of light beams traveling east-west and north-south. The motion of the earth around the sun at 110,000 km/hour (about 0.01% of the speed of light) is to our west during the day. Michelson and Morley believed in the ether hypothesis, so they expected that the speed of light would be a fixed value relative to the ether. As the earth moved through the ether, they thought they would observe an effect on the velocity of light along an east-west line. For instance, if they released a beam of light in a westward direction during the day, they expected that it would move away from them at less than the normal speed because the earth was chasing it through the ether...ie..Speed should get Subtracted ..which we usually do in relative motions of object. But they did not found any change...speed of light was same in both cases? How does we account that? There was lot of wild speculation defending Newton Understanding of relative motions but as we know Einstein did not buy those Argument. So We add up both stories now...Maxwell field equations says Speed of light in vacuum does not depend on any inertial frame & is constant...Michelson Morley failed to establish ether theory ..further more they raised a bigger question ...Speed of light remains same irrespective of frames of references of observer.. One Question Einstein raised if he travles at speed of light , he would see maxwell EM waves as standing still in space..not moving which violates highly successful theory of Maxwell EM Waves. This anomaly can also be explained by a thought experiment...As we now know through Faraday Equation of Induction... a changing magnetic field creates an electric field, which is in addition to any electric field created by charges. (The reverse is also true: any electric field that changes over time creates a magnetic field.) Experiment is : Suppose there is Positive charges kept in Linaer fashion across sidewalk..with a Observer A sitting... Observer A would see an electric Field Going outwards..which is right.. Now Suppose another Observer B travels parallelely to sidewalks while sitting on some object...ie.. he is stationary to himself..., so he Observes three things.. 1> Observer A is traveling opposite to Him 2>A electric field  which was also Observed by Observer A..which is correct. 3>A Magnetic Field experienced by him , since for him Positive charges are moving opposite to him Ie.. Observer B is Experiencing an Magnetic field in his Inertial Frame which was not Experienced by Observer A.....So Physical law does not remain same here for different Inertial references...Which is Violating Newton Postulates.. So this breaks Newton understanding of laws for relative motion that..The laws of physics which apply when you are at rest on the  earth also apply when you are in any reference frame which is  moving at a constant velocity with respect to the earth. Matter obeys the same laws of physics in any inertial frame of reference, regardless of the frame's orientation, position, or constant-velocity motion ~ The principle of Galilean relativity: Before Einstein it was taught that relative nature of motion applied only to mechanics, not to electricity and magnetism....Einstein Changed it to add EM waves ie..Light also :) Einstein's principle of relativity: Both light and matter obey the same laws of physics in any inertial frame of reference, regardless of the frame's orientation, position, or constant-velocity motion. So Now we have ample evidence why Newtonian understanding of laws of motion & Absolute space time would not work forever... Einstein explained all this anomaly by rebuilding physics to add concept of Relativity of Space & time ...& get away from concept of Absolute Time.. Basically he explained : space and time must be stretched and compressed as seen by observers in different frames of references. Since velocity equals distance divided by time, an appropriate distortion of time and space could cause the speed of light to come out the same in a moving frame. He Questioned on basic foundation of how we measured time & how we calculated distances in space ... Since we observe anything using Light...& light has a speed limit of c...it cannot be possible than Event  E1 happening at Time T1 at one frame of reference which is distance D away from Observer O...will observer that Event  E1 at about : T1 + D/c...Ie.. Information that an event has occurred at a Distance D will come to observer eyes only at time addition of (D/C) ..is time took by Light to travel D Divided by Distance.. This Caused concept of Time Dialation & Totally removed Concept of Absolute time.. Exact Algebra Applied & mathematical Expression of Added Distortion(Lorentz_transformation) in given co-ordinate system is given here : https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lo... In Same Way for there is concept of Length Dialation.. An object in motion appears longest to someone who is at rest with respect to it, and is shortened along the direction of motion as seen by other observers. So we See from here after such path breaking Discovery...Newton Concept of Absolute time is dead & later on we see impact of this theory has caused that times must be taken as one dimension with existing three co-ordinate system (x,y,z) space to understand our universe better. I tried to explain this in most simple way without adding too much math or physics..just to explain the concept...you can find more details easily for Maxwell field Equation..faradays laws of Induction...Lorentz transformation...Galilean Co-ordinate system...to tie all knots together & complete this large picture.. My attempt was to show this grand picture & not much details ..hope it meant something.. PS: Sorry for any syntax, Symantec,Grammatical  error..you can always find details in given link provided..:) Updated 8 Aug • View Upvotes