What is the one thing which fascinates you the most? Why?
Cloud Spotting. They have been and will always be something that nudge my dormant creativity. And when you really want to catch a break from all the slogging on the week, try catching a break with a cup of hot tea and a cigarette on the balcony, trying to spot God saying 'Look! Look here!!!' I have spent most of my life along coastal areas. First it was Orissa on the east coast of India, and then it was Goa on the western coast. The coming of rains was much more than a relief for me. It was sheer and pure ecstasy. The advantages of living in a coastal area is the sheer display of cloud forms. Just to give you an idea..... A cloud monkeying around over Bangkok. Photo by Alex Cliff Cloud Alien ahead.....Eagle River Valley, Colorado. U.S. Photo by Terry Robinson. Aladdin's lamp, spotted over The Torres del Paine National Park, Chile. Photo by Andrea Andreoli. A baby floats over Zurich, Switzerland. Photo by Danièle Siebenhaar. The big chicken on the roof of Manor Market in Bishop California, is being mirrored in the clouds. Photo by Andrew Kirk. A dolphin leaping from an inky black sea over Sussex, UK. Photo by Beryl Pratt. Dolphins at play, Sausalito, California. U.S. Photo by David Holbrooke. A heart in the clouds over Norwich, UK. Photo by Doug Taylor A Dove over Kent, UK. Photo by Pauline Reay-Earnshaw Eagle soars over Cambridge. U.K. Photo by Christie Nel. Elephant in a storm cloud, taken on holiday at Patong Beach, Phuket, Thailand. Photo by Graham Blackett. A feather over Brockenhurst in the New Forest, Hants., UK. Photo by Chris Gleed-Owen A heart over SuperDevoluy, Saint Etienne en Devoluy, France. Photo by Emily Morus-Jones A hummingbird over Berryton, Kansas, US. Photo by Shannon Franks A jellyfish over Berry, New South Wales, Australia. Photo by Mark Muirhead. A cumulus called Kitty, Western New York. U.S. Photo by Diane Mariotti. A man running with a bouquet of flowers. Spotted over France. Photo by Rudolf Wehrung. Explosion in the sky over North Jutland, Denmark. Photo by Jan Hertoghs Poodle spotted over Sanderstead, Surrey. U.K. Photo by Alex Brooker. A poodle with shades enjoys a day by the sea over Blackpool, Lancashire, UK. Photo by Bill Williamson. A rabbit hopping over Nottinghamshire, UK. Photo by Andy Jamieson. Shhhhhh dont tell anyone. There's a monster rat over Tortona, Alessandria, Italy. Photo by Pietro Cordelli. A sunset smile over West Hollywood, California, US. Photo by Christine Murphy. Little Cumulus cloud from East Texas, US, smoking. Photo by Jan Morris Marek. A snail, spotted just before sunrise over Anglesey, UK. Photo by John Rowlands A turtle travelling on the back of a crocodile over the border between France and Spain. Photo by Jean-Francois Guillot A witch or the grumpy old man in the muppets over Bangkok. Photo by Alex Cliff. Even the Lord shits. Potty Spot spotted over Bangalore, India by myself And finallly.......the iconic scene from TV programme The Apprentice, when Lord Sugar says "you're fired", acted out over Bangkok. Photo by Alex Cliff 