What does Einstein's theory of relativity teach us?Short words to explain Please!
Here are things we get to know from theory of relativity: 1) Empty space (Vacuum) is not actually empty, it is active. Space is 3 dimensional Fabric, which can bend, vibrate, interact. 2) When you keep some heavy object (Sun) on that fabric, you bend this fabric and this causes gravity. Just as a marble starts revolving when thrown in to a bowl, planets revolve around the Sun. 3) Theory of relativity combines space and time into a single entity. "Space and time should be considered together and in relation to each other". 4) Any object's speed is relative to the observer.   Eg : If am walking on road at the speed of 5 km/hr relative to my friend, I will appear to be moving at a speed of "5 km/hr + speed of earth" to someone above our planet. Similarly to someone outside our Solar system it will be "5 km/hr + speed of earth + speed of solar system (orbiting the center of the galaxy)" 5) Light speed will remain constant relative to EVERYTHING, no matter who is observing. 6) Space and Time will distort themselves so that Light speed is always constant. For example, let's say I am on a train which is moving nearly at the speed of light. I take out a mirror and look at my face. For an observer who is outside the train the speed of light is not "Speed of train" + "speed of light going from Face to Mirror" = 2 times of speed light. The speed of light will remain constant for everyone. So in this case, time will drastically slow down inside the train, such that speed of light will be same for observer. And the passenger inside the train will not know any difference. For him everything is normal and light is moving from his face to mirror at the normal speed. When Both the passenger and Observer meet. Passenger would have aged only 2 hour whereas observer would have aged 20 years. 7) When any object approaches speed of light, the length of the object shrinks and time slows down. 8) Photons don't have any time because they are moving at the speed of light. Time stops for them. 9) Gravity bends the space and cause time dilation. 10) "Theory of relativity" predicts, black holes (high density objects which bend the space so much that even light gets trapped and won't be able to escape), wormholes, Dark Energy (vacuum or space is very active, it can create itself from no where), Dark Matter (galaxies are so huge, there must be more mass other than what we see, so that objects are not thrown outside). It explains Magnetism, Creation of Planets, Stars, Expanding Universe etc. 11) From Special theory of relativity Einstein also formulated E=mc2, which is basis for many other theories.  An Awesome video below. Hope this helps. Updated 20 Jul • View Upvotes