Why is America's Car Culture, which kills 40,000 people per year, okay, but its Gun Culture, which kills far fewer, of such great concern?
A short answer to why the Car Culture is viewed more negatively than the Gun Culture is that firearm fatalities are primarily murders and suicides which are viewed as being much more tragic or heinous than accidents or negligence, even though drunk driving does show a definite disregard for human life.  Also, it is not all firearm fatalities that atract a lot of attention.  It is primarily the mass murders by a single perpetrator that occur in an otherwise safe place that shocks people. There are vastly more murders in the centers of certain large cities, and if there was a mass shooting there, it would not have garnered as much attention. Although I believe that more could be done to reduce the deaths by cars and firearms, the way that people view guns and cars means the proposed solutions are vastly different. The National Highway Traffic Safety Administration knows that everyone wants to keep their cars and that there is a huge negative effect on the economy if transportation becomes too expensive or slow. The public and the government are primarily just concerned about how and what you drive on public roads. If you have your own racetrack, you can do almost any dangerous thing you want, although you could be prosecuted if you endanger the life of minor or do not discose the dangers involved. On the other hand, guns are seen by some as being extremely dangerous by their very existence. However, in 2010 there were only 606 deaths from accidental firings of a gun. The fact that a person can choose to murder or commit suicide rather quickly with a gun is what people fear about it. Even though we may revoke drivers licenses, this is a very small portion of the population, and they are still allowed to buy one and they could even drive it on their property.  Gun control laws are often structured to make buying a gun a slow process, to restrict the number of guns that can be bought, and to restrict where a gun can be taken based on a person's demonstrated need for personal protection. Even though the people at the DMV may not be extremely helpful, they are less likely to hold a view that a large percentage of the population should be denied a car because they are untrustworthy. Even though gun rights are stronger in the US than any place else, there is fear of gun confiscation as has happend in other countries. Gun registration is often a precursor to gun confiscation.  Registration does not guarantee confiscation, but it is obvious that confiscation is incredibly difficult if you don't know how many guns each person owns. Very few people would like to eliminate all cars, therefore, car owners aren't worried about safety regulations turning into confiscations. Car owners are also not as worried about restrictions being made that eliminate cars or car accessories they want to buy. Since most people drive, we are mostly on the same side, and we will be very critical of lawmakers who cause us problems without actually improving safety. On the other hand, less than 1% of homicide incidents have more than two victims, but gun control advocates still want to limit the size of magazine to ten round or in some states to seven. This means that there are less than 160 (1% of 16,259 homicide victims in 2010) deaths per year, and a smaller magazine could only reduce the total number of victims by a small amount. There were 9,878 drunk driving fatalities in 2011, but no one is suggesting that every bar in the country can no longer server more than two drinks to a person.  (BTW, 16,259 is the total homicide victims in 2010. There were only 11,078 firearm homicide victims, but I don't know what percentage of murder incidents with more two victims involved firearms.) Gun Culture and gun owners are villified as being indifferent to murders and suicides when they object to gun control, whereas the efforts to reduce drunk driving and other car fatalities are seen as being sufficient. Therefore, the lack of outrage over the number of drunk driving deaths is because everybody is a proponent of similar methods to reduce these deaths, and everybody is opposed to extremly costly solutions. If almost everybody owned guns and had similar views about who should be allowed to own a gun, then a government agency could safely be given the power to enact good gun control regulations.  Since there are huge disagreements, the battle is political, and the politicians need the support of public opinion. Unfortunately, politicians can win a lot more support by outlining "common-sense" restrictions, even if the restrictions don't actually work in the real world. The gun show loophole is often touted as a problem because it sounds really bad, but how effective would it be to change it when most gun sales are made by dealers who are required to do a background check, and all a person needs to thwart the check is a friend or relative that is willing to buy for them. If a murderer has a sibling, what are the odds that his sibling is such an upstanding citizen that they are willing to get on his bad side. References:     Drunk Driving Fatalities Fall Below 10,000     FASTSTATS - Homicide     FASTSTATS - Injuries     http://www.cdc.gov/nchs/data/dvs... 