★What influences adoption and utilization of knowledge management tools?I'm sure the actual rates vary based on the organization and other factors. Insight into what those factors are is appreciated.
I'm one of the founders at http://dapulse.com - that creates a simple communication tool & knowledge base everyone in the organisation use. I see two areas that needs addressing - much like Greg DeVore mentioned 1. Reading content Challenges: fast, accessible, accurate 2. Writing content Challenges: What to write, Quality, Having meta data. While our platform was designed for fast real time company communication we found many companies used it for creating a knowledge-base out of their communications. Writing Content We found that a great motivator for people to write useful knowledge-base data for their company is if it's part of day to day communication - if other people read it instantly it gives users tangible motivation. Greg also mentioned the quality of the content - again I agree. We improved quality dramatically as well by leveraging the fact that other coworkers read the content (wont go into UX details here but it made a huge huge difference on content quality) Reading Content Making the content accessible is indeed key, Google showed us the way - Killer Search - that is, accessible and immediate. Creating a killer search is not easy, We utilised the content structure (we happen to have from the usage of the system) and people relationship to content and to each other - in other words - having a lot of good meta-data is a must for creating a good search - without cross site linking google would also be in the dark as to the quality of websites. Conclusion - adoption of a knowledge management system has to give a real tangible motivation for the writers - that motivation need to feedback quality to writes (showing  that low quality doesn't work - like Quora vote up or down removes less quality content). Reading content is a lot about accessibility, we utilised both push and search.    Embed Quote