★What influences adoption and utilization of knowledge management tools?I'm sure the actual rates vary based on the organization and other factors. Insight into what those factors are is appreciated.
The most obvious answer to this in the context of adopting KM tools in the workplace is the design of the tool is the most important. While it clearly matters, in my experience I've found that is often less important than some other factors including: 1. Level of management support for the tool - including whether or not they encourage and cajole staff to use it, and whether or not they use it themselves to set an example. 2. Network effects - the more people are using the tool the more attractive it is to use for others, or at least the more important/influential/knowledgeable people there are on the system the more attractive it is to use. 3. Integration into everyday work - is the tool well integrated into other processes that people are already following and does it support them in completing them. If it is a standalone system however good it will still be an extra step to use which is an important barrier to adoption. 4. Organizational culture itself - this is a hard thing to change but it does matter whether or not there is a culture of sharing and reading in the organization already. 5. Incentives - people respond to incentives on the sharing and use of knowledge, although not necessarily financial ones. The best "reward" for contributing to a system is probably visibility and enhanced reputation and so you should use this to recognize your early adopters and frequent flyers. Making sharing and learning part of existing processes and performance reviews can be helpful too. 6. communication - you need to communicate well and often about your tool and explain to people how it will benefit them. You need to do this in mass communications, but also spend time in one on one communication helping people understand the benefits of your tool and how they can use it to help them in their work. Once you have some successes you also need to communicate them to keep the momentum - in particular stories of successful use. (Not just sharing big numbers on the number of page views or people joining).    Embed Quote