★What are some recommended knowledge management tools for an enterprise?
(Disclaimer: I am a founder of a startup that plays in this space, and while I try to avoid being totally self-serving here, my answers will probably reflect some bias on my part) I generally agree with the answers given by Sergiy and Cappy, but since you asked for recommendations, well, what the heck... A wiki is a good foundation for knowledge sharing and collaboration.  Mediawiki is a decent choice, since it's proven to work well under very demanding conditions, has a syntax that a lot of people know (due to editing Wikipedia) and generally has a large community associated with it.   In an organizational setting, you may optionally want something that's tuned more to use cases that involve workflow integration and application integration.  One option there is XWiki.  A blog server is also a valuable tool in many organization.  For this, I recommend Apache Roller.  We anticipate rolling out a commercially supported version of this in the near future, which may be important for firms who prefer their OSS solutions to have commercial backing. An Enterprise Social Network can provide a great "fabric" for tying things together, and I can't not recommend our offering - Quoddy.  Quoddy is an open source Enterprise Social Network, with deep hooks into enterprise backend systems and designed for workflow/BPM integration and SOA/ESB integration, in order to support fostering the connection between knowledge and actual value creating actions.  An Information Discovery Platform that can suck in large quantities of news, articles, documents, blog posts, etc., and support ranking, tagging, discussion, sharing, etc., is another valuable tool.  We offer a tool like this, modeled heavily after consumer facing websites like Reddit or Digg.  Our open source offering, Neddick, is similar to those consumer facing sites but is designed with capabilities to foster and promote organizational knowledge transfer and collaboration. There are plenty of other good choices out there as well, mind you.  Check out the offerings from many of the firms listed in the Quora question about Who are the competitors to Microsoft's Yammer?    Embed Quote