★What influences adoption and utilization of knowledge management tools?I'm sure the actual rates vary based on the organization and other factors. Insight into what those factors are is appreciated.
Disclaimer: I work on http://www.screenstepslive.com There are really two areas to look at in regards to adoption: People reading the knowledge content (consumption) People authoring knowledge content (creation) Consumption You can look at three criteria to get a good idea as to whether or not a knowledge base will see good usage and make an impact in an organization: How clear is the content? Is the content easy to access? Is the content where I need it? People are going to travel the path of least resistance to get answers to their questions. So, if the content isn't clear and simple to understand they will gravitate to a different resources. Also, if the content is hard to access people won't use it. It sounds obvious, but we see a lot of companies store their knowledge base in Word or PDF files, or behind security systems that are difficult to access. You need to really look at how easy it is to access your content. Finally, don't expect that people are going to magically show up at your knowledge base site. You need to push the content out to where they need it. This might be in the context of a question sent via email or as contextual help inside an application. You need to deliver the knowledge content where the user it stuck so that they can get unstuck. Creation The other half of the equation is content creation. With no content, there isn't any adoption. We see two big obstacles to content creation with customers who come to us: Not knowing what to write Not wanting to take the time to write it The first one seems simple but it is actually the biggest obstacle to content creation. People don't know where to start. If you give your team a framework for creating knowledge base articles that they can rely on then will create more content. We provide a framework for creating documentation here: http://docs.bluemangolearning.com The second issues, time, is more problematic. Ideally you want to create a process where knowledge creation becomes part of their workflow. Several knowledge base applications do this: http://helpjuice.com lets you cc email responses to support emails to them and then build a knowledge base out of those responses. http://zendesk.com and http://assistly.com let you turn tickets responses into knowledge base articles. In our product (http://screenstepslive.com) we provide our customers with a desktop tool for capturing multiple screenshots and quickly creating a visual knowledge base article that is then posted to the kb and sent the customer.In each example above you are going to get more and better content because the content creation process becomes part of the standard workflow of responding to questions.    Embed Quote