★What are the "must read" books or articles about Knowledge Management?Working on revising an existing course in KM. What do you want potential employees to have read?
Wellsprings of Knowledge: Building and Sustaining the Sources of Innovation by Dorothy-Leonard-Barton -- this is one of the seminal texts in the KM world, and may be the seminal book on Knowledge Management.  Definitely a "must read" Working Knowledge by Thomas Davenport and Laurence Prusak -- another of the foundational works in this field, should definitely be on the reading list for anybody learning KM. Common Knowledge: How Companies Thrive by Sharing What They Know by Nancy M. Dixon -- Clear, full of interesting examples and stories, and establishes some terminology that is widely used to this day. If Only We Knew What We Know: The Transfer of Internal Knowledge and Best Practice by Carla O'Dell and C. Jackson Grayson -- another must-read.  If you stopped with these four, you'd have a pretty solid grasp of the basics.  But there are a few other titles that you should consider as well. Winning the Knowledge Transfer Race by Michael J. English and William Baker.  This one is of slightly more recent vintage, and is chock full of useful information, with a heavy focus on the importance of benchmarking and importing useful best practices from outside. Outside Innovation: How Your Customers Will Co-Design Your Company's Future by Patricia Seybold -- not a "KM" title per-se, but her idea of "outside innovation" very much dovetails with similar ideas on importing outside knowledge, and is a good complement to the English & Baker book listed above. Enterprise 2.0: New Collaborative Tools for Your Organization's Toughest Challenges by Andrew McAfee - solid overview of the uses of newer "web 2.0" style technologies for knowledge management and collaboration. Outside of that, there are plenty of other books that could be useful, particularly the ones that get more into the technological aspects of implementing technological capabilities as part of a KM initiative.  But those books will help anybody achieve a baseline of solid knowledge to build on and start branching out into other areas. A few other sort of miscellaneous suggestions I'd throw in include: Ambient Findability: What We Find Changes Who We Become by Peter Morville Everything Is Miscellaneous: The Power of the New Digital Disorder by David Weinberger Glut: Mastering Information through the Ages by Alex Wright Drinking from the Fire Hose: Making Smarter Decisions Without Drowning in Information by Christopher J. Frank, Paul F. Magnone Also, you can't really ignore the connection between the "Learning Organization" work of Peter Senge, and Knowledge Management, so I'll throw in a recommendation for: The Fifth Discipline: The Art & Practice of The Learning Organization by Peter M. Senge And you can't go wrong with the other titles by Thomas Davenport either, even where they veer off into analytics and other topics that aren't "pure" KM, but are certainly connected, at least tangentially. If you want to take a holistic view of the whole thing (and I think you should) I recommend his works highly. Amazon.com: Thomas H. Davenport    Embed Quote