★How does collaboration, communication and content fit into the larger picture of knowledge management?
This is a very question which (sorry for the critique) is more like a blog post asking for validation.  The question is about defining terms that have (for well over 20 years) been poorly defined and misused. Although there good concepts contained in the question, I'm not sure of the following: For whom is this question relevant? So what if this is the right answer? Why ask this now? I mean these three as probing questions, if the OP expresses the answer, there will be more clarity on an answer approach.  e.g. Is this for a book? a college course? a consulting gig? a blog post?  Who is your intended audience?  You'll want to use terms that relate to things they care about. For more than 20 years, KM has survived with many many inconsistent, biased, and conflicting definitions.  And yet, there are people who have the job responsibility and they get the job done.  It's almost like we don't need a definition, since the definitions don't help and the lack of one has not really hurt. Conversations about KM have seems to fade over the past few years and have been replaced with conversations about social collaboration technologies.  What's new now that causes this to be asked? The graphics above are just fine, but they still leave me unsatisfied.  KM was an idea that human knowledge -- especially tacit knowledge and subject matter expertise could be captured, indexed, and retrieved using information management (and document management) systems.  The underlying promise was that somehow (machine learning, ontological engineering, or social filtering) information can be turned into insight computationally, and can be accessed on a need-to-know basis. This was in part motivated by the belief that once the baby-boomers retire, the work-force will be devoid of old-world expertise. This was also fueled by sci-fi speculations of AI computers that could read information and become wise.  Since then, the tonality of the conversation has shifted from act of "managing" knowledge (e.g. like you manage shift workers into a behavioral pattern) into "facilitating information exchange" -- which is not really KM (a management discipline), but cross-functional collaboration (a mashup of organizational behavioral modeling and supporting technologies).  So I'd drop the "KM" term, unless you are really referring to the vision of KM. Many collaboration conversations begin with the thought that if you put the infrastructure in place to collaborate, people, being naturally social, will collaborate. And if storage systems are there to record everything, then you can discover and retrieve every valuable conversation that took place in your workplace and make it useful in the future.  I think this a approach has far fewer real-word examples than the consultants wish (I know, I used to consult in this space).  KM was a fascinating idea that had some amazing successes when done right (See: http://amzn.com/0470876816 for some examples) and far more examples of it falling short of expectations.  The shift to "Enterprise 2.0" social collaboration has far more examples of success (see http://amzn.com/0071782303) and yet also many examples of it falling short.  What's missing to make it more successful? Surely not another definition and some more generic slides.  Now, you can re-brand KM to be the use of synchronous and asynchronous communications tools, but you'd be bleaching all the color out of the conversation.  After decades of research in this field, I'd spend the energy finding an expert or reading existing research on this topic (e.g. the two books mentioned above are reasonable places to start, other here: Gil Yehuda's answer to What are the "must read" books or articles about Knowledge Management?)  The needs is there, but putting words on slides is not going to change your organization's behaviors.  Analyzing how knowledge flows and where it breaks down -- specifically in your organization -- is going to help you more than a generic slide with good words on them.    Embed Quote