★Knowledge Management: How does Stephen Wolfram track conversations?
This is a fascinating question!  And gets possibly to the question of "narrative" or "story" which are reasonably synonymous with "conversation".  To track his conversations, perhaps Dr. Wolfram is using "URNs" or "universal resource names".  I asked about URNs specifically in a reply to my own question on a related topic.  My URN question comments can be found here, on Quora: Question Comments - Quora "URN" is part of the "URI" idea, or Universal Resource Identifier.  Here is what Wikipedia has to say: Uniform resource name Uniform resource identifier http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nam... (The page on namesspaces is included because of the importance of the concept for URN implemenation -- in a way very similar to the DNS system for matching  webpage URLs to IP addresses.) As a sales person, I have a similar need to keep track of conversation threads.  I've noted some resources on this topic on several blog items: Good Software For Human Beings -- The Secret Is Narrative Boffins Discover Recipe For Sales Software Of The Future "Narrative", which is one way of describing conversation tracking, is a hot field, but practical, popular applications aren't quite there.  The whole "social" software phenomenon, typically a "layer" on top of existing software, is part of this trend, but mostly not anchored in a strong theory.  In the same way that databases became more powerful by an order of magnitude when built on a foundation of relational technology, narrative tracking, including the specific case of "social", will become dramatically more useful and powerful when built on a strong theory.  I suspect that URNs will be part of useful narrative software products; a strong model of narrative is also required.  And then lastly we can place narrative and story in an overall context of "getting things done", a subject of interest to millions, including the PIM and personal productivity crowd. -------------- Bonus Answer: If Dr. Wolfram was responding via Wolfram Research company software, then it is quite possible the tracking number was associated with the use of common customer support email software.  This is a primitive but effective way of tracking conversation threads, used also in email clients.    Embed Quote