★What is knowledge management?
In any organization, whether a small business, a one man shop, or at an enterprise level, information is created, captured, shared, and modified ... and eventually this information is used as a commodity. Each time an idea exchange happens, there is an increase in the intellectual capital of the members involved in the interaction. These members could be individuals or groups of employees and/or customers associated with the organization. Enterprises know very well that this pseudo-auto-generated intellectual capital must be recorded or stored by the company. It is only then that this information will be available for usage by the next task/process/project/product manager. A set of processes that govern the creation, distribution, and utilization of human intellect is known as Knowledge Management. In any given organization structure, knowledge flows in existing paths, and in order to understand these knowledge flows, a Knowledge Manager is required to trace these paths. While following these pathways, a Knowledge Manager identifies information source points, critical functions that lead to knowledge creation, and risky bottle-necks that may impeding the information flow to the point of usage. By tapping into these pathways of social interaction, an enterprise can focus on creating, storing, updating, and distributing knowledge or intellectual capital, not only at work, but also in the marketplace. The Knowledge Management System that a company uses must provide its users with simple tools that enable them to deposit, edit, and re-use information -- at the click of a mouse. Two separate organizations, even though operating in the same domain, may need differently carved out Knowledge Management Systems (KMS). This happens by virtue of enterprise environmental factors that lead to unique nodes of information sources, unique modes of capturing that information, and difference in preference of methods of distributing that information. With that in mind, the ideal Knowledge Management System will be one that provides an array of tools to choose from. Furthermore, the KMS application architecture should allow easy customization to suit an organizations specific process needs.  An added 'must' for such a system are simple but effective content moderation and permissioning modules. Even though Knowledge Management has been a recognized field for a long time, there is a sudden increase in value that enterprises are giving to knowledge management activities. This holds even stronger for organizations with teams working-in and collaborating from multiple geographical locations. Even PMI, the world’s leading professional association for project management, http://www.pmi.org, is considering including Knowledge Management as the tenth knowledge area to it’s existing body of project management practices. Within a company or organization, the evolution of processes, projects, and products to those of a higher quality is un-stoppable.  The "best solution" doesn't remain so forever -- a newer "best solution" pushes the former to a second place ... this is a repetitive phenomenon. What remains, provides a benchmark for the next-in-line to surpass. Knowledge Management is the only way of saving information and using it to feed into this evolution.    Embed Quote