★How does knowledge management influence innovation and competitiveness?
Knowledge management is the practice of acquiring knowledge, keeping track of it, and organizing it so that it can be propagated, found, and used as necessary. It really helps to have some sort of a system to do this inside a company, because when you have thousands of employees and no system it's tough to figure out who knows what. Google, Wikipedia, YouTube, and Quora are great examples of knowledge management tools. Some companies even use the same or similar technologies internally. Other companies have knowledge management tools such as a listing of technical reports that were written up by their engineers after major projects. Of course some tools are better than others. Without question these tools influence innovation and competitiveness. One way is through the spread of random ideas. If you can just look at some of the projects that people in other departments are doing you might have an idea that helps them out, or it may spark your interest and help you find a solution to something. The tools can also help you find the right people to talk to about a particular subject. The ability to find information within the company could also enhance the rate of innovation not only by helping people connect with other people, but also by helping people see if parts of the problems they need to solve to deliver a complete solution have been worked on elsewhere. Companies could also keep track of what works and what doesn't in development. They could, for example, specify that certain materials must or must not be used when designing a component and why certain decisions were made to prevent the same mistakes from being made in the future. Often this detail is lost when people retire or transfer to other companies. Another way these tools could help the company would be by helping to standardize processes and eliminate duplicated effort. If a company has several plants, chances are the plants have some of the same issues. If a problem is solved once, that solution (and its results) could be made available to the other plants through knowledge management tools as a best practice. These tools can also be beneficial for troubleshooting and diagnosis. If the company has a bunch of engineers in the field, data can be collected on repair efforts to determine the most cost-effective manner to troubleshoot certain problems. There is a lot of effort wasted in companies duplicating effort that has already been done elsewhere or trying to hunt for information that is difficult to find because it's not readily accessible. Having the appropriate knowledge management tools will make it much easier for people to do their jobs.    Embed Quote