★Would Quora be useful for internal knowledge management for companies? Why or why not?Instead of providing a simple wiki or blog for internal knowledge management, a type of Quora application could leverage knowledge based on simple, direct questions. Wikis and blogs rely on pretty much posting random knowledge and guessing that it would be useful to co-workers. This would turn the push communication of classical knowledge management tools into a type of pull communication.
There are many valid points in the other answers. Especially about starting discussion internally about information that is outside of the company. There are a few things one should be consider whether or not a q&a system is relevant in an organization. In my mind it makes most sense when: the organization is large and there is a strong bureaucracy in processes employees are distributed accross many locations or even if there is co-location tiere is a silo element that prevents cross-team information sharing potential of making new connections with employees outside of my own network My organization is a large financial institution operating in the Nordics mainly and we've recently (6 monts ago) started to use a Quora-like q&a system on top of our wiki. It has many of the same features including: Allowing asking and answering questions Voting on both questions and answers Replies on answers Topics to organize the different questions Follow topics and get e-mail notificatons Sending/sharing a question straight from the webpage Before we brought this in, we knew that this was going to be an uphill adoption. The organization is old fashioned in terms of using social media features internally. Not long ago we got access to Facebook and Twitter (as an example).   The response to the idea of having something like this has been very positive from all areas, especially people working closely with IT. Since the organization is very large many new connections are made around different topics.   We are averaging 0.9 questions per day.   So my answer to your question is yes. This can be and we hope that usage will increase in our own case, so that it really revolutionizes the way knowledge sharing is done in our organization.    Embed Quote