★What are the best ways to incentivize people to use "Enterprise 2.0" knowledge management / collaboration tools in an organizaton?Some of the newer "Enterprise 2.0" tools can be very powerful ways to help people share, locate and collaborate around, knowledge in an organization.  But not everyone is interested in using such tools, and some people may even be actively hostile to them.  What are the best ways to encourage their broad utilization?
I think "incentivize" is the wrong mindset. That implies that there's something inherently wrong with knowledge management, and you have to provide a carrot before people participate. That's not healthy. And even if you do come up with good "incentives" -- how can you be sure that they're sustainable in the long run? For a team to really adopt any tools, it has to tie into their work habits. This is something we're seeing with our most active users on Pie (Pie - Better chat for work). Build the habit with your team by first understanding the Habit Loop: A habit consists of three parts: Cue: a trigger that prompts a behavior Routine: a behavior that occurs automatically / subsconsciously Reward: positive feedback that reinforces the habit If you want your team to use knowledge management & collaboration tools, your team's habit loop needs to look like some variation of this: Cue: I find something I want to share Routine: I use a tool to share it with my team Reward: I see that my team has benefited from what I shared In most teams, the Cue is rarely the problem. We're online all day. Most of our work is digital. We have tons of stuff to share. Most knowledge-sharing problems are in the Routine -- if the tool is a pain to use, is clunky or ugly, then it builds friction in this stage of the habit and the loop will fail. With most tools, the Reward is inconsistent -- sometimes people will reply, but most of the time they won't. So the habit does not get reinforced. From my experience, the biggest reason why people are hostile to enterprise tools is because they offer a shitty user experience. They were designed by committee and built by a tech consulting firm, or you're stuck on legacy software because of a CIO's decision. So, in addition to showing the benefits like Ben Lopatin has wisely said, pick a tool that you yourself would want to use. Some great tools to try: Pie (http://piethis.com) *I work here Evernote Business (http://evernote.com/business) Yammer (http://yammer.com) HipChat (http://hipchat.com) Trello (http://trello.com)    Embed Quote