★What are the best ways to incentivize people to use "Enterprise 2.0" knowledge management / collaboration tools in an organizaton?Some of the newer "Enterprise 2.0" tools can be very powerful ways to help people share, locate and collaborate around, knowledge in an organization.  But not everyone is interested in using such tools, and some people may even be actively hostile to them.  What are the best ways to encourage their broad utilization?
Both 'incentivize' and 'encouraged' have been used here, which would mean slightly diffrerent things in this context. This answer is more about 'encouraging'. Senior management sponsorship and participation - the big guys get on the collaboration tool and start posting. This is an opportunity for much smaller guy to be within the vicinity of the heavy weights, who until then could only be seen from a distance at town hall meetings. When the junior and mid-level guys hang out on the tool, they talk among themselves as well. The big guys can also help by simply applauding good contributions. Using the tool as a formal top-down distribution channel: HR, finance, PR, legal send their period announcement via the Enterprise 2.0 channel as well. The place looks less like a ghost town due to this free and easy promotion drive.  Seeding the tool with content: Files that used to lie somewhere on a shared network folder are distributed through the channel. More importantly middle management is asked to solicit feedback on new initiatives and templates through the Enterprise 2.0 channel. Middle managers are also asked to ask for help (Any Korean speakers around?) through the channel, switching from a series of email distribution lists. An easy way to reduce the ghost town feeling. Making collaboration tool contributions part of the review process: Prolific and well appreciated contributors receive mentions in the annual review process and the mentions actually matter. Contributions to the tool is a formalized part of the rating scheme. A few companies have pulled this off successfully and have sustained the momentum for years. One such company is the Indian IT services major Satyam. Some of these strategies worked (some of the time) in an age where Enterprise 2.0 was known as knowledge management. Such pre-Facebook stone age tools did not have UI elements that connect to some deep psychological need to exhibit, help, stalk, and simply meander. Features such as recommendation engines, which make all of the above easier, weren't around either. Yet, knowledge management worked at a few places. It should be easier this time.    Embed Quote