★What is your opinion on the new rule in Maharashtra that says "6 - 9 p.m. only for Marathi movies" in the multiplex?
Disclaimer :I am from Karnataka and not maharashtra, so I would generalise my answer. I am quite sure you would have heard of bangalore. A lovely place. It's filled with software giants. If u want to experience effect globalisation first hand please do visit my place. Throw a coin and it will fall on a software engineer.Sounds Great. Now, you will be tired of the traffic, pollution and dust,so it would be a good idea to go to the cafe day and have nice drink. Now you will start to bodice the effects. The lady at the counter speaks to you in English simply because they consider it a sign of class. Now you realise that no one speaks kannada anywhere. Those who do speak are looked down as if they are from deepest part of Amazon without the light of civilisation. Kannada has the highest number of jnanapeet awards. The quality of literature is amazing. It figures among the oldest languages of the world. The art industry is in shackles no one cares for those artists. Hell with it, let them not care about it, it's there choice, but we have shamelessly gone to the extent of criticising our language as less standard. Those Hollywood movies could be breath taking. But still I remember my mother crying while reading works of bendre (one of the greatest writer the world could ever see. Pls go through his biography if you want to understand the gravity of situation) , maasti, kuvempu etc. We have writers on par with Shakespeare and PB shelly. But our hands reach only those English novels. I remember the story of Gillu by mahadevi verma. It was at par with the rime of ancient mariner of Coleridge-Taylor. We seem to recognise only the English works. On the other hand our industry are in shambles without any support. The artists are literally beginning their livelihood. It's our fundamental duty to protect our heritage and giving support to these art works are one of the boldest move anyone could take. The quality has drastically come down because of our blind aping of Western culture but it's never too late to breathe some life into it. One could argue about the quality,but every language will have both crappy things and great things. I can't figure out why titanic is compared to some flop movies to justify the argument. We are here as a result of our tradition, values and ideals evolved over centuries. To disregard it just under the pretext of moving to higher standard by embracing English is simply preposterous. I wish the folklore, the plays and other local art works also get the same boost.    Embed Quote