★Gurgaon: Is there anything other than malls, multiplex and restaurants in Gurgoan?
Though the question sounds like a snide jibe at Gurgaon, those who are not acquainted with this city, would be surprised to know that these, infact the only are positives of Gurgaon. With Malls, restaurants, multiplexes and offices also comes what is the real Gurgaon. While DLF and the government have blithely constructed the millennium city, unfortunately no heed has been paid to any infrastructure: physical or moral. The city is a disaster when it comes to management. Spiraling, dizzying buildings have been built with no foresight. It’s as if someone thought that let’s build office space for a million people with no parking and see how the buggers get to office. Get to office they do, in cabs driven by maniacs, weaving their way about the toll booth, showing the proverbial middle finger to every idiot who thinks waiting patiently in a straight line is the way to go.  There is no public conveyance except for auto-wallahs who know they are in a monopolistic market and they shall rip you at the first opportunity they get. They city is ruled by uncouth ex-villagers, now ultra-wealthy real estate goons, who drive SUVs blaring “aja baith pajero me” and visually molest every passing girl. Let’s not even get to how safe the city is for women, for that would entitle a whole tirade on its own.  Residents of the city can vouch for the fact that behind the façade of the glossy BPTP towers is the misery of having no water to clean their backsides with. Toilet papers FTW. Or electricity at prices that suck them dry. Just beside what we think is Gurgaon, is what people now call the “Old Gurgaon”, which is still a village. And separating the two Gurgaons is not even a km long road. Strange how all the development is in and around something built by DLF and everything is quickly christened Old Gurgaon as if it were never meant to be developed... Suffice to say that the city epitomizes how something “should not” be built!!    Embed Quote