★Is there any mathematical model which determines how seats in a multiplex gets filled?
I love it that you said to create a model! The simplest such model is the one where she picks completely randomly through the 25 remaining seats and each seat has a 4% chance of being picked. We can choose to complicate a model in hopes of finding a more valid solution. Because of Occam's Razor, we must be more accurate with our answer, otherwise we will prefer the easier model. Let us first consider the first people to walk in the room. They will pick seats fairly randomly. However, they will tend to fill the front of the room before the back, in most cases. As for where in each row, that is filled mostly randomly. I would say the probability of choosing a seat in the r_n row can be modeled by (2(r+1)-2r_n) / r(r+1) (that is each row gets a weight of 2(r+1)-r_n, or the probability increases linearly). The probability he chooses a certain seat in that row we said was random, but the number of seats in that row may change, so the probability is 1/p_n where p_n is the number of seats in that row. That makes the probability he sits in a certain seat (2(r+1)-2r_n) / r(r+1)p_n. Now that we have created the function to make people sit down, we must analyze how she would choose a seat. Since she is late, she is more likely to pick a seat close to where she entered than on the other side of the room. This is heavily weighted to proximity to where she entered; I wouldn't say she is twice as likely to pick a seat at half the distance, I would say at least four times as likely. This would make the probability of her picking any seat (D-(d_n)^2)/D where d_n is her distance to seat n and D is the sum of the squares of the distances to all available seats. With these formulas, we can predict where she is going to sit given the locations of the available seats. Probability will make this problem slightly easier. On average, people will fill in the seats with highest probability first, those being the front seats. That means on average all the front seats will be filled and all the back seats will be empty. This never happens because these are only chances (and that there may be another variable, proximity to other people), but we see it more or less being true. We see the front seats tend to be more filled than the back seats. This leads to answering your question. She will take the available seat closest to where she enters. That means you should be in the next farthest seat (again, the proximity to other people might play a role).    Embed Quote