★What is the purpose of time-division multiplexing (TDM)?From my understanding, multiplexing is used to increase communication speed, but I don't see how TDM does this.
There are three types of multiplexing, frequency division, time division, and code division. For a given channel, for example a radio channel, one can either fix the bandwidth and then divide that bandwidth into "n" subchannels through multiplexing or one can take "n" subchannels and add them up to whatever bandwidth results. Most times, due to regulatory restrictions, the bandwidth is fixed and is subdivided by "n" subchannels. For example, in telephone systems, a voice channel is nominally 4kHz wide. In an FDM system, 12 voice channels are added together to make a group. Normally, one would do simple addition of 12x4 and think the bandwidth would be 48kHz. Unfortunately, since filtering is never perfect, there must be "guard bands" and each channel actually comes out to about 5kHz and the total group becomes 60kHz. Therefore 12kHz becomes "wasted bandwidth", but is necessary to avoid one voice channel bleeding over into the adjacent voice channel. Frequency modulate a carrier with this composite signal using a modulation index of 5 and the 60kHz channel becomes approximately 300kHz. Add additional voice channels in another group and additional guard bands must be employed to ensure the "groups" do not bleed into one another (so called "adjacent channel interference"). Time division multiple digitizes the voice channel into a bit stream. That bit stream might be anywhere from 16kbps to 64kbps with 64kbps being standard.   Take one bit from one digitized voice channel and it is 1/64kbps in duration or approximately 16µS long. If one of 12 voice channels was sampled and sent out, within the time constraint of 16µS, each bit would be about 1.3µS long. The bandwidth of this time division multiplexed channel would be 768kHz, or twice as wide for the same number of channels. To make an apples to apples comparison, one could either drop the sample rate of the voice channel to 32kbps or cut the number of channels from 12 to 6. Once the TDM channel is used to modulate a carrier and it is frequency translated to RF, it has the same problem of adjacent channel interference and will easily bleed over into adjacent channels if nothing is done. In fact, it is much worse than FDM because the digital nature of the signal gives it odd harmonics that drop at only a 1/n rate. Typically, aggressive filtering plus other techniques are used to mitigate this bleed over. The bleed over will result in "intersymbol interference" and other nasties. Before people go all nonlinear on this answer, there are so many variations and tricks used with these two techniques that it is hard to make an "apples to apples" comparison except at the very highest level, such as the Shannon Channel Capacity Limit. The modulation scheme used by many digitized phones is CVSD, where the difference in amplitude is sent versus as straight digitization. 16kbps voice sounds like crap. You can't even tell if the speaker is male or female. Statistical time division multiplexing changes the number of time slots per voice channel so that a priority or heavy user might get more capacity than a slow talker with lots of pauses between sentences. There are a lot of tricks used with both techniques. The third multiplexing technique is CDMA or code division multiplex. CDMA uses codes of digitized signals to "spread" the channel. In the literature this comes under the heading of spread spectrum.  Multiple codes "isolate" each channel and they actually lie one on top of another in the same frequency band. The codes used in telephone systems allow about 30dB of isolation between channels. This isn't enough to deal with what is known as the "near far" problem. To overcome that, they do very tight power control of the telephone. The base station changes the transmit power on your phone 800 times per second so that all telephones arrive at the base station with essentially the same power level. This enables the code to easily isolate each phone channel. Almost all modern communications system use a combination technique called OFDM or orthogonal frequency division multiplex. OFDM uses the spread spectrum coding technique to put several sub channels in a given bandwidth. These smaller bands are then stacked one adjacent to another in classic FDM fashion. the spreading technique has the advantage that it mitigates intersymbol interference, so there is no need for a guard band. More novel, a bit stream is spread out over multiple sub channels, so that if one sub channel encounters interference, it doesn't destroy the bitstream. So, the purpose of all multiplexing techniques is to provide multiple sub channels for a given "pipe". FDM stacks them in frequency (in the optical fiber domain this technique is called WDM or wavelength division multiplexing). TDM provides a time slot and CDMA isolates each sub channel by using a code. OFDM is a combination of code division multiplexing and FDM.    Embed Quote