★What is your opinion on the new rule in Maharashtra that says "6 - 9 p.m. only for Marathi movies" in the multiplex?
This is a classic example of misquoting by media (No wonder V.K. Singh called them presstitudes). No where, I repeat, no where did Vinod Tawade, the cultural minister of Maharashtra say that 6 - 9 pm should only be reserved for Marathi movies. The Government's stand was that all the multiplexes (which means theatres that have multiple screens which morons like Shobhaa De couldn't fathom) should reserve one screen from 6 - 9 pm exclusively for Marathi cinemas. I don't get what logic is there in opposition to this new rule ; which was revoked btw and where is the dictatorship here. If you are not interested to watch Marathi movies you have different screens go watch there ; just don't be an a-hole. I would dare Shobhaa De to say a similar thing in any of the South Indian states. Marathi Film industry has started producing movies of high commercial impact since 2009 viz. post Mi Shivajiraje Bhosale Boltoy but there is always hesistancy on the part of multiplexes in Maharashtra while screening them alongside the supposedly "Blockbuster" Bollywood movies. In 2013, when Duniyadaari was released it received an exceptional response from crowds in Maharashtra. On release of Chennai Express most of multiplexes tried diverting the slots assigned from Duniyadaari to Chennai Express pissing off people thanks to lobbying by Rohit Shetty and SRK. http://www.dnaindia.com/pune/rep... No matter how much SRK fans may boast of Chennai Express box office collections, within two weeks, all the screens that were assigned to Chennai Express again reverted back to Duniyadaari based on public demand. The bottomline is Marathi people want to want quality movies which Marathi film industry can deliver. Most of the urban and town population has  9 - 6 working office that wants to watch Marathi movies at the primetime. Don't force Hindi on us just coz we are nice (yeah, Maharashtra has the largest population of non-native Hindi speakers even higher than Punjab that is much more into the cowbelt even though we don't necessarily need it). Why can't you for once respect the diversity when it comes to Maharashtra ? Don't force us to watch mindless shit. As or Shobhaa De , awar swatala (get a grip)    Embed Quote