★Should Kannada films be made compulsory in one of multiplex screens on lines what has been done to Marathi in Mumbai?
Like many of them have mentioned already, it is against the spirit of business if one is told to compulsorily sell (or in this case, play) only one type of product (or in this case, language movie), even though there are chances of incurring losses. While it should not be made compulsory, I believe that there is nothing wrong in sending a directive to the multiplexes that deliberate sidelining of regional movies which are getting good response from the movie-goers, will not be tolerated. This is why there was discontent among the people even in Mumbai, that even though there are some good Marathi movies, they are never given prime time slots in multiplexes and Bollywood movies are always given the preference.  I am against this deliberate sidelining by the multiplexes and I appreciate the Maharashtra Government for stepping in and warning the multiplexes against the deliberate sidelining of Marathi movies. I am not sure whether this is the case with Bengaluru multiplexes, but there is no harm in giving a directive that it should not happen in the future. Giving Kannada movies prime time slots should not be made compulsory, but there should not be any bias against Kannada films and they should be given prime time slots if they are doing well enough at the box office. The movies should earn the prime time slots and not just depend on the regional-movie only rule to attract more viewers. At the end of the day, there should be a level playing field for the people who are in this business, and so, if they want to continue to enjoy that level playing field, they should also provide a level playing field to movies of the regional language, and not sideline it even if it is doing well and has the potential to do better, if given prime time slots. Since they are multiplexes, they can play multiple films in prime time slots and this can help them in simultaneously running good films cutting across languages in prime time slots. So I don't think that'll be a problem at all.    Embed Quote