★What is the difference between multiplexer forward / front end processor?
Almost nothing but it wasn't always that way.  We have to take the way  back machine to the early to mid 1970s (who's showing their age now?) A front end processor was a computer that set in front of a group of peripherals and had a connection to each one. It was also connected to a mainframe system. The main frame system would send a bus request signal to the front end processor (FEP), then a device number, followed by data. The FEP would send a bus ready signal when it cold receive data and read the device number coming on the wire. It would then route the following stream of bytes to the given peripheral as specified by the device number. In this way the mainframe could have many devices attached to it single peripheral data out connection. Generally this was stream of data to a single peripheral that ended with the mainframe sending a data clear signal to signify the end of the data stream. Keep in mind the communication was two way and the FEP had to talk in the other direction as well. Problem was it was a single peripheral at a time because it was  a stream. Out came a new device that did exactly the same thing but broken the communications up in smaller sized chunks, such as 256-bytes. The mainframe could send a bus request, then a device number, the length of data, then that many bytes of data, then another device number, another length of data, and then that length of data, and so no to communicate with multiple devices at a time. This was all the data streamed muxed together in packets on a single line. The multiplexer forward demuxed this stream sending the data to each device as necessary and allowed the mainframe to use more than one device at a time. Of course, the FEP guys started using the same idea for their communications stream and the two devices simple became known as a communications controller. All of them handle the necessary bus signals, error signals, etc. for the peripherals even decoding and changing the data if necessary so they weren't just simple data routers. Now days computers come with maybe 20 peripheral connections so we have no need for an FEP anymore, except in a few rare cases of military hardware. Thanks for the A2A. Glad I'm old enough to answer.    Embed Quote