What factors facilitate collective intelligence?
We have many different types of intelligence.  We have the “elite” of intelligent people – our highest-level thinkers.  We have others who can contribute intelligence though not of the same type.  Should we have a meritocracy, wherein the highest-level thinkers set the rules for everybody?  Or is there a greater value in collective intelligence? Since it is impossible to educate everybody to be a high level thinker on every topic, we need the collective intelligence of many.  Learning this way increases our efficiency toward adaptation to changing environmental challenges. When an individual shares their intuition with others and thus feeds a collective learning cycle, they exercise their holonic capacity – their ability to function as a responsible and aware contributor to the development of the greater whole that they are a part of. Sharing what one has learned also means exercising holonic capacity because an individual, when sharing intuition, is prepared to change and develop along with the whole system or “mankind.” With new technological capabilities, we can rely on collective intelligence not only within the local communities we are a part of, but also in peer-to-peer networks around the world.  More and more people with specialized talents can participate in peer-to-peer collaboration.  Learning from participants with both a common purpose and a variety of intellectual viewpoints and talents is very powerful. The more people we have participating in technology, particularly in media, the more people we have creating it and the better it is.  Not because bigger is implicitly better than the alternative, but because abundance changes the value of media and cognitive surplus as a resource (Shirky, 2010.)  Clay Shirky claims that our default state as a species is to create, share and collaborate, and now we are aided by the vast increase in content creation and sharing mechanisms.  Technology enablers have made collaboration more convenient and as more people contribute society will be changed as a whole.  Quora is a great example of collective intelligence :)    Embed Quote 