What factors facilitate collective intelligence?
I recommend you checkout Pierre Levy's 'networks of collective intelligence' approach, which integrates 6 main components of collective intelligence. See http://pierrelevy.posterous.com/... I have collated various materials on the topic at http://p2pfoundation.net/Categor... and http://delicious.com/mbauwens/Co... Here are three more interpretative schemes: Dave Snowden has proposed the Cynefin framework for identifying the best match between knowledge styles and reality: "It has five domains, characterised by the relationship between cause and effect. The first four domains are: Simple, in which the relationship between cause and effect is obvious to all, the approach is to Sense - Categorise -  Respond and we can apply best practice. Complicated, in which the relationship between cause and effect requires analysis or some other form of investigation and/or the application of expert knowledge, the approach is to Sense -  Analyze - Respond and we can apply good practice. Complex, in which the relationship between cause and effect can only be perceived in retrospect, but not in advance, the approach is to Probe - Sense - Respond and we can sense emergent practice. Chaotic, in which there is no relationship between cause and effect at systems level, the approach is to Act - Sense  - Respond and we can discover novel practice. The fifth domain is Disorder, which is the state of not knowing what type of causality exists, in which state people will revert to the comfort zone in making a decision." (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cyn...) See the video: Shawn Callahan on the Cynefin Framework 2. Framework from George Dyson in Darwin  Among The Machines, summarized by Kevin Kelly [4]: One species, many minds: The official future. We interbreed among our genetic improvements and keep our individuality distinct, and our species identity intact. One species, one mind: Through electronic mediation, we join together to create a superorganism. A suprahuman. Many species, many minds: Ultimate diversity. Humans fork in their evolution to create new breeds. Some may even join machines in cyborgian partnerships. Many species, one mind: We fork in biology but unite in the noosphere.  Millions of species share the same mind. 3. Henry Jenkins: "We can argue that there are a range of different models of collective intelligence shaping the digital realm at the present time. We might distinguish broadly between three different models: 1) An aggregative model which assumes that we can collect data  based on the autonomous and anonymous decisions of “the crowd” and use it to gain insights into their collective behavior. This is the model which shapes Digg and to some degree, YouTube. 2) a curatorial model where grassroots intermediaries seek to represent their various constituencies and bring together information that they think is valuable. This is the model which shapes the blogosphere. 3) a deliberative model where many different voices come together, define problems, vet information, and find solutions which would be impossible for any individual to achieve. This is the model  shaping Wikipedia or even more powerfully alternate universe games. Of the three, the deliberative model offers the most democratic potentials,  especially when it is tempered by ethical and political commitments to diversity. This is the model which Pierre Levy describes in his book, Collective Intelligence. Levy’s account stresses the affirmative value placed on diversity in such a culture. The more diverse the community, the broader range of possible information and insights can inform the deliberative process." (http://henryjenkins.org/2009/11/...)    Embed Quote 