What factors inhibit collective intelligence?
As a sociologist I would like to point out that collective intelligence is something of a false concept to start with.  Intelligence as it is measure in cognitive science is a trait of individuals only.  Collective intelligence can be viewed as a average, but it is hard to measure the intelligence of  group. Groups do capture knowledge, encode knowledge, distribute knowledge, and share knowledge to empower their members and help members learn faster or make more effective decisions or goal based actions.  This is essentially what Culture is and perhaps a term like 'Knowledge sharing culture' As for an answer I have seen the following trends prevent a knowledge sharing and collaboration culture: Lack of shared common identity between members, members don't see themselves as part of a team or group and don't care about shared goals Lack of contact opportunities between knowledge experts, the people who want to know simply have no way of finding what is known. Lack of incentives to share knowledge, there is no gain for users to share what they know. Real disincentives to share knowledge, members actually can lose out on promotions, wages, or even their role if they share what they know. A culture that punishes failure. Collecting lessons from failure is so critical to learning.  Most good learning experiences come from failures.  If an organisation punishes failure to such a degree that people are constantly hiding their own failures this means it is unlikely that lessons learned will be gained or shared. No shared process for collecting, encoding and sharing knowledge, no process for assessing outcomes, capturing lessons learned, and distributing lessons learned exists. Management employee hostility, if an organisation power situation between the employees and their managers is so negative that the organisation may see sharing knowledge as a kind of collective action like a Union, and may work to avoid it thinking that a 'dumb' work force is less of a threat Solutions to share knowledge that simply don't make sense to users, often like new high technology projects that lead to confusion and cynicism.    Embed Quote 