Why did "collective intelligence" sites like Digg fail while Twitter succeeded?
A lot of good points made here. I'd add only that in any social tool, bias baked into the design of core social features can produce effects at scale that are both hard to roll back and may even be toxic to culture and adoption. This was the case, to some degree, with Digg. When it had one, its leaderboard served as a magnet for a certain kind of user and activity -- namely, promotion. Reciprocity (which is key to Twitter's follow/follow back ethic) became a norm among promotional types on Digg. They "gamed" the system -- but only because Digg enabled the game in the first place. Culturally, the folks at the back of the room whose hands are constantly popping up in agitated grabs for attention ruin it for everyone. Digg should have reigned in these users sooner -- but you can't fault Digg for having supported their most vocal and active users. It did net them growth (if in the wrong crowd). In terms of collective wisdom or intelligence, I'd use that term carefully. Collective intelligence is, IMHO, the byproduct of social interaction *if* the social actions, gestures, and system feedback loops connect to content through intelligent choices. In other words, if a system is built to capture user tastes, it will get social flavored as popularity. Not intelligence, just preference. If a system is built to capture distinctions (hunch.com), it gets something more intelligent. But whether this kind of outcome is "collective" is not just a matter of how many people use it. In design terms, you get "collective intelligence" only if you bracket social interaction to the side, so that the "intelligence" is a product of aggregated social activity -- not the activity of consensual or collaborative communication. Hunch works by isolating users from the social bias inherent in tastes, opinions, ratings, popularity and so on. There was no such thing on Digg but a bipolar voting model -- yes/no. That kind of social action reinforces the Yes vote with "I agree" votes. Yes votes accrete and gain momentum. Bias is strong and on Digg was reinforced by a leaderboard that rewarded Yes vote activity. Digg was not so much about collective intelligence as collective stupidity. That's harsh, but a vote reduces rational expression to its simplest gesture -- and as a form of communication, to its lowest common denominator. Collective intelligence is an interesting idea -- but really may have to use non-social interaction models to succeed. Social intelligence may be an interesting alternative, if systems could be designed that had built in protections against the trending feedback loops that tend to bring them down.    Embed Quote Updated 7 Apr, 2011. 1,011 views.