Stupidity: Who do you think should be in a "really smart person but did a really dumb thing" list at the collective intelligence blog?
A2A Dwight.D.Eisenhower For ordering the CIA to organise and carry out Operation Ajax, the coup d'État that ousted the democratically elected Prime Minister of Iran in 1953,, Mohammad Mosaddegh. The consequences of that decision have effected the world to this day. What would Iran be like today had that decision not been made by President Dwight.D.Eisenhower? Would the Vitnam war have occurred? Would many countries be in their current state? Would Islamic terrorism be at the scale we see it today? Etc. -------------------------   After considering military action, Britain opted for a coup d’état. President Harry Truman rejected the idea, but when Dwight Eisenhower took over the White House, he ordered the CIA to embark on one of its first covert operations against a foreign government. The coup was led by an agent named Kermit Roosevelt, the grandson of President Theodore Roosevelt. TheCIA leaned on a young, insecure Shah to issue a decree dismissing Mossadegh as prime minister. Kermit Roosevelt had help from Norman Schwarzkopf’s father: Norman Schwarzkopf. The CIA and the British helped to undermine Mossadegh’s government through bribery, libel, and orchestrated riots. Agents posing as communists threatened religious leaders, while the US ambassador lied to the prime minister about alleged attacks on American nationals. Some 300 people died in firefights in the streets of Tehran. Mossadegh was overthrown, sentenced to three years in prison followed by house arrest for life. VIDEO - 4:38 minutes VIDEO - 7:28 minutes   All the Shah's Men: An American Coup and the Roots of Middle East Terror 50 Years After the CIA’s First Overthrow of a Democratically Elected Foreign Government We Take a Look at the 1953 US Backed Coup in Iran http://www.lewrockwell.com/latul... Mohammad Mossadegh .com CIA Director Michael Hayden Evades Question on '53 Coup in Iran A short account of 1953 Coup SECRETS OF HISTORY: The C.I.A. in Iran -- A special report.; How a Plot Convulsed Iran in '53 (and in '79) Operation Ajax    Embed Quote 