What's the most challenging physics or math problem you've attempted to solve?
Few years ago, I worked on an Euclidian geometry problem : the Moser's worm problem. Of course it's not a Millenium Prize Problem, but it's an open question which, like the four-color theorem cited above, is easy to understand with a very simple statement.   This problem consists in "finding the region of smallest area that can accommodate every plane curve of length 1". The term "accommodate" means here that the curve may be rotated and translated to fit inside the region.   But I met this problem in a simpler and funnier form. It was the Mother worm problem : "Imagine that you are a mother worm and you want to make a blanket for your baby worm. Your goal is to make the smallest blanket (you need to save your wool !), which can cover your sleeping baby whatever his position. What is the form of this blanket ?"   An example may help you to understand the problem : A circular disk of radio 1/2 can easily accommodate any plane curve of length 1, by placing the midpoint of the curve at the center of the disk. The area of the disk is approximately 0.785. But it's not the optimal solution, other shapes solve the problem with smaller areas. The solution discribed here (The Worm Problem of Leo Moser) has an area less than 0.275. During the last few years, the minimum shape's area has decreased, but computer searches have also calculated a lower bound of 0.232239 for the optimal area.   Even if the existence of such a lower bound (non equal to zero) seems obvious, it is not ! In fact, I have read that we could find a shape of measure zero (a blanket with "holes"), that can accommodate every plane polynomial curve of length 1.   There are also some derivative problems, like the "Bag of the Moser's snake" (the 3D-Moser's worm problem, you can find some publications about it), the Moving sofa problem or The Kakeya set problem.   I thought about adding contraints on the curve and watch how we could reduce the the area. Some contraints may be on the regularity or the radius of curvature (it seems difficult for a worm to have a very small radius of curvature, but also very unlikely for a worm to sleep straight on !).   As you can see, this problem (with a quite simple statement) can lead to very interesting questions and is, in my opinion, a very nice open problem. 