How was the Four Colour Theorem proved?
The four color conjecture was around for a hundred years before it became the four color theorem, so there was a lot of theory around by the time it was proved. A general method that worked pretty well was to show if the planar graph contained some particular configuration, then if some smaller planar graph could be 4-colored, then so could the original graph. Call such configurations reducible. If enough of these configurations could be found, then every planar graphs would be reducible, and therefore all could be 4-colored. A very early result was that if a planar graph had a vertex whose degree (number of neighbors) was less than 5, it's reducible. Another piece of theory said the Euler number of a planar graph is 2.  That puts a restriction on the degrees of the vertices in a planar graph. For instance, if all the degrees are 5 or 6, then there have to be exactly 12 vertices of degree 5 and all the rest of degree 6.  It was shown that planar graphs with only degree 5 or 6 vertices are reducible. For each vertex of degree 7, there have to be two more of degree 5, for each of degree 8, there have to be three more of degree 5, etc. That allows you to think of the vertices of having "charges". Degree 6 are neutral; degree 5 negative; degree 7 positive; degree 8 positive charge 2; etc. If you could find a way to cancel out the charges, you would have another way to reduce the graphs. That is, if you could take a degree-5 vertex next to a degree-7 vertex and change them both to degree-6 vertices, you'd reduce the problem. This was the idea of discharging that eventually worked. The problem with this idea was that a proof to carry it out was beyond human ability. So a complicated computer program was written to carry out the details. You can find the 1977 article that Appel and Haken announced their proof in the Illinois Journal of Mathematics.   The first part is on line at Every planar map is four colorable. Part I: Discharging. Here's one of the pages in the article which shows some reducible configurations 