★What is the best way to respond when someone tells you his/her IQ?I put this in humor because I'd like to see some funny/witty answers :)
I would personally play stupid. Ask innocuous, seemingly sincere questions about the nature of the test and intelligence in general until he either admits or comes to the realization that it is, in fact, arbitrary, and trivial information. At the least you'll annoy him to the point where he won't bother bringing up his IQ in front of you ever again. Them: "My IQ is 160." Me: "What's IQ?" Them: "It's a measure of how intelligent you are" Me: "What do they mean by intelligent?" Them: "A measurement of one's mental capability." Me: "Oh. So it measures things like  creativity, emotional sensitivity, social competence, sensory processing, or kinesthetic control and coordination?" Them: "Well, no. It measures things like Vocabulary and Pattern recognition, and Spacial Reasoning." Me: "Oh so it doesn't measure your full aptitude, just a small piece of your brain's full capabilities. Yeah...I think my 10 year old niece took one of those. I think she made a 160 too! So if you factor in how young she is, she's even smarter than you!" Them: "Well, no. The scores vary in different age groups. A 160 for a kid is different than a 160 for an adult." Me: "Oh, so the number by itself is really meaningless since it's relative?" Them: "It's not meaningless. It means I'm smart. Einstein had an IQ of 160." Me: "Oh! I see! Wow! So you can, like, solve high level theoretical physics problems? That's impressive." Them: "Well, no. I can't do those because I haven't studied theoretical Physics." Me: "Oh...But you probably could, like if you trained for decades like Einstein did, right? Because your IQ is the same?" Them: "Well, maybe. Not exactly. So...The average person scores 100, and I scored a 160, so I'm above average." Me: "So you are 60% smarter than the average person?" Them: "Well, no. It depends on a number of factors. Which test they took, the maximum score on that test, how long they took to complete the test, how many samples they have..." Me: "So just saying that you have a 160 IQ doesn't really mean much without any context?" Them: "Yeah...You know what? Never mind. I don't want to talk about it anymore."    Embed Quote