★What is the publishing industry standard acceptable error rate in proofreading/copy editing?How many typos, etc. per word?
There really is no "publishing industry standard acceptable error rate." As others have pointed out, errors are unacceptable but the reality is they seem to put on disguises and sneak past us, anyway.   Books and articles that are self-published may never see editors or proofreaders. I am addressing the traditional publishing processes that I have seen at work. Usually at least three sets of eyes see a manuscript in the traditional process and they still don't catch everything.   There are different standards in the different fields of publishing. If what you're going to publish might kill someone, you need to build several layers of review into your publishing process. In academic, medical, and scientific publishing, by the time the manuscript reaches a copy editor, that person is mainly concentrating on the spelling, grammar, and punctuation. When it reaches a proofreader, the manuscript should have very few errors and these may be primarily introduced by the compositor entering author changes into the copy-edited manuscript. The proofreader is there to make sure the changes were integrated properly and that everything is spelled and formatted correctly.   All the publishing contracts I have seen have a clause that says if the author finds enough changes to constitute 10% of the compositor's bill, it's on the author to pay for these -- if they are author-generated changes. If an author finds tons of errors in his or her manuscript, the production editor must discover where the errors originated, and who did the work; whoever caused the errors to happen will face the consequences. Any time a copy editor or proofreader causes a production editor at a publishing house to work harder, they jeopardize their future assignments.   Bizarre and unfortunate things happen, however, such as someone handing off the wrong file to be printed, i.e. an older version that doesn't have the last round of corrections. So if there are enough errors that someone is complaining, the research has to be done, and if it is discovered there is 10% of the compositor's original bill in corrections to be made that the copy editor and/or proofreader could have caught, it's given that proofreader and/or copy editor are not going to get another job.   Errors have to be tracked and followed up on reprint. They can become very expensive. Books printed with serious errors that could cause injury sometimes have to be pulped and reprinted, or ripped from the spine, re-glued, re-covered, and re-trimmed. Some publishers send out "errata sheets" tucked into books or directly to buyers of a book.   Usually before a proofreader or editor is hired, the company tests them to see if they meet the company's standard. The larger the publisher, the more defined the roles of copy editor and proofreader. With smaller publishers, a copy editor may be expected to do more work on a manuscript and thus miss more mistakes. If the publisher and author are not highly accountable for errors, more errors will get published.    Embed Quote