★Can a biologist fix a radio?This is based on the classic article Can a biologist fix a radio?--Or, what I learned while studying apo... Link to the article: Page on sciencedirect.com
The contribution of reductionism -- breaking a whole into parts, to study each in isolation -- to molecular biology would be impossible to overstate. As a rigorous, intellectual, and challenging scientific method it is the rival of any other. But as the proverb of the blind men and the elephant reminds us, an understanding of the parts is not equivalent to an understanding of the whole. This article resonates by demonstrating how reductionism would fail to help us understand how a radio works. Single researchers would focus on single parts, removing and replacing them, categorizing their localization and variation between radios. Experiments relating the parts to each other would be limited to double- or triple-"mutant" epistasis analyses and co-localization to demonstrate interactions. Dozens of such papers would be published before review articles would attempt to knit the findings into a cohesive model for the purpose of summarizing results (rather than to generate testable hypotheses). This is a fair and lucid description of how reductionism is used in molecular biology. The method works: it reveals what each part does, and it finds the interactions between parts. However, there is very little emphasis on generating models with predictive power, which is why biologists "can't fix the radio" i.e. can't rationally design treatments for a given disease. (Granted, not many academics are motivated by industry or healthcare concerns, but the comparison does highlight how shallow our understanding remains.) We have grown so accustomed to the reductionist approach that when we fail to understand fully, we assume that the answer is just buried somewhere deeper. We blame missing information and unpredictable effects at lower levels ("well, we don't know the probabilities of all possible conformation states of all molecules in the cell...") for our failure to create predictive models, yet we would not know what to do with such information if we had it, and furthermore there is no evidence that our existing course-grained knowledge is insufficient if only wielded properly. Formal frameworks can deliver profound insight even when we have only an abstract understanding of a system's parts. For example, Alan Turing described how Turing patterns work decades before their existence was confirmed (the latter undoubtably aided by knowing what to look for!). Why do we not see many results in that vein? It's possible, I guess, that most biological systems can never be understood so clearly...but that is a moot point, because most biology graduates lack the requisite skills and motivation to try (cf. this depressing question and Turing's paper). I agree with the author that the problem lies more in the mentality/training than in the difficulty of the problem at hand -- which is fortunate, since it gives some hope for eventual improvement.    Embed Quote