★Why is Conservative talk radio so much more successful than its Liberal counterpart?Based on Arbitron data, eight of the top ten commercial programs are Conservative talk radio.  No Liberal talk radio programs are in the top ten.  Air America was the last Liberal attempt to gain a stronger market share and it was a dismal failure.  Why?  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lis...
As a former Republican and a money conservative (spend less and have the money before you spend it), I know that there are a lot of people way far more right than I am. (They send me really weird e-mails.) They are reactionaries. And while I'm opposed to using dictionary definitions as evidence or proof, I am willing to use them occasionally as a topic sentence. So . .. Reactionary: An opponent of progress or liberalism; an extreme conservative.   -- American Heritage Dictionary Reactionaries are people who are always pissed off about something. And as American Heritage suggests, it's probably something progressive or liberal. They enjoy being pissed off. It gives them a sense of purpose. And as the letters from political fund-raisers I get would seem to indicate, they'll even spend money to show how pissed off they are. Reading between the lines, the fund-raising letters say, "If you're as pissed off about this (insert latest liberal outrage) you can do something about it by sending $500, $300, $200, $100, $50, or even $25 to (insert name of conservative politician or organization)." And what does conservative talk radio do? It keeps them pissed off. It tosses them red meat, and confirms that they are right to be pissed off. Why doesn't this work for liberals?  Most liberals I know like to think of themselves as "reasonable." They can be irate but not outraged. As Adam Mordecai showed in his graphic, liberals prefer complexity. And they love novelty, especially novel ideas. Reactionary conservatives hate novelty, especially in ideas. They don't want Rush and the others to tell them how to fix things (other than to drive the rascals out). They want to be told that they have every right to be pissed off, and to stay pissed off about these same things until they get fixed (by driving the rascals out) Liberal talk radio that was built on the conservative model didn't work because it filled no need. As Bill McDonald says in his answer, liberals already get all the latest in novel, complex, progressive ideas, reasonably presented by NPR. It's no accident that all the passion has been squeezed out of the voices of NPR hosts, commentators, and guests. (Reactionary conservatives hate NPR.) So, different kinds of people, different needs, different messages, and different ways of meeting those needs with appropriate messages.    Embed Quote