★What is the future of radio?Should it move toward noncommercial community content? Should it race to the lowest common denominator (as much of it has)? Will the great content that is left move somewhere else?
This answer is based heavily off the UK market. Other countries will, of course, differ as the way that radio is regulated and consumed can differ hugely from country to country. Broadcast radio won't die for a while, but it will see challenges as the industry changes. In the UK, about 91% of the population listens to the radio at least once a week. 52.1% of the population listen to digital radio at least once a week, with 36.1% of all radio listening happening on digital. So, at the moment, 63.9% of all radio listening is still analogue. This is largely, I think, because there aren't too many cars with DAB radios yet (although it's quickly on the rise), and because there is limited ownership of DAB radios; less than half the population owns a DAB radio at home. With the statistics out of the way, back to the question at hand. We're starting to see cars which are internet-enabled, which means that as the price of mobile internet goes down and the availability of networks on smaller roads goes up, we'll see in-car listening of internet radio begin to appear. However, I don't think that this will kill broadcast radio. Broadcast will always serve as a way of getting local content where you are -- for example, news and traffic information. It also serves as a sort of quality control mechanism; any 13-year-old can start an internet radio station, but it takes infrastructure, money and a licence to start a broadcast station. I think that this is the thing which will keep broadcast radio alive for home listening -- you have a radio, and you dial through all the stations in the knowledge that they will all sound fairly good and won't play anything horribly inappropriate for kids in the day (although this is of course an issue that people will argue over!) You also know they'll deliver regular news bulletins -- most stations are required to as part of their licence. In terms of content, people can now listen to the music they want at home and in the car with ease. Bizarrely, a lot of people still listen to the radio just for music -- Magic 105.4 is the second most listened to commercial radio station in London (4.8% share, behind Capital London's 5%) and their strapline is "More Music, Less Talk". In any case, for CHR stations, the key thing to keep listeners is going to be content. Good, unique, funny content is what people will want listening to a breakfast or drivetime show, and this is something that Spotify can't deliver. Undoubtedly the future of radio is going to be DAB. Analogue radio will still be around for a while in the form of FM, but broadcast radio isn't going to vanish altogether. As internet radios become popular they will change the game, but I think there will always be a place for broadcast.    Embed Quote