★Can a biologist fix a radio?This is based on the classic article Can a biologist fix a radio?--Or, what I learned while studying apo... Link to the article: Page on sciencedirect.com
It would be an absolute dream if biologists could model and approach their living systems with even a fraction of the mathematical rigor available to physics and engineering. This would make biology research way more straightforward, allow for lots of results to synthesized into greater stories much faster, and simplify the pipeline of drug discovery and other therapeutics to the point where the slow step would be the chemistry behind synthesizing the drug at scale, rather than dealing with all of the squishy bits. Being able to think about living organisms like this would be one of the biggest blessings I can possibly imagine, and I really doubt that I'm the only biologist who thinks that way -- so, if this would be such a boon and it's relatively easy to articulate, why isn't it already happening? Biological systems are comprised of many different parts across many different types of parts and the aggregate behavior of this ensemble is what drives biological phenomena. Even though it pains me to make this (very, very gross) oversimplification, it'll be instructive for a bit. A cell is effectively a very small bag filled with water, salts, and nearly 100,000 different varieties of biological macromolecules (like protein and RNA). Within limits (remember, gross oversimplification!), all of this is free to diffuse and make contact with other macromolecules in the cell -- which means that all of the phenomena that happen inside of a cell are driven by statistical ensembles, rather than directed, deterministic behavior. This makes the math associated with models not just difficult, but exceptionally sensitive to measurement errors and other deviations. Each of the different flavors of macromolecule present within a cell is at copy numbers ranging from tens to billions, and each individual molecule is capable of behaving differently (and, in some cases, just one molecule in a suitable state is enough to trigger a response that radiates out through the whole cell!). It's the aggregate behavior of the whole population that drives the function of a type of macromolecule. The "behaviors" that biological macromolecules have can be reduced to two broad categories: catalyzing chemical reactions and touching each other. Catalysis is relatively easy to understand and study because it tends to be an intrinsic property of a single molecule or small ensemble, but the vast networks of weak interactions between macromolecules (many of which modulate catalytic activity!) are not. Truly reductionist approaches that aim to isolate an individual type of molecule and figure out what it does outside of the cell tend to miss a lot of important information, as all of the interactions that that molecule has are effectively gone. Assigning a function to individual parts gives an incomplete picture of what the parts do (because the interactions are missing), takes an incredible amount of work (purifying and characterizing individual macromolecules is very slow), must be done separately for each part, and is a type of research that's falling out of favor (and thus quite difficult to get funded) fast. The other approach -- devising a physical framework that allows you to predict the function of proteins and RNAs given basic genomic data -- is very difficult because of the scale of the problem (as I detail here: Brian Farley's answer to What are the specific reasons why its hard to predict the tertiary structure of proteins?) Briefly, proteins and RNAs have thousands of atoms each, and the structure and function of an individual molecule is determined by interactions between them. That many interactions that tend to be that weak is a huge computational challenge, because you need to consider the effect that each atom has on each other atom. To get a feel for how difficult this is, go look at how difficult the n-body problem is to solve for ten or so objects! Because biology is an emergent property of the interactions of many, many parts, we're going to be stuck with the scattershot approaches of classic experimental biology for a long time. Moving towards a formal mathematic description is going to require a lot more experimental data as well as much more computational power, and I sincerely doubt that significant inroads will be made towards a truly formal system in my lifetime.    Embed Quote