★Why is Conservative talk radio so much more successful than its Liberal counterpart?Based on Arbitron data, eight of the top ten commercial programs are Conservative talk radio.  No Liberal talk radio programs are in the top ten.  Air America was the last Liberal attempt to gain a stronger market share and it was a dismal failure.  Why?  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lis...
This is hard to answer without sounding shrill and partisan, but these are the factors in my mind. My apologies in advance. I used to help build the internets for AAR. Liberal talk does work. Poor management, not so much... Talk Radio was a money loser for a long time. Rush and his ilk had large open pocketed investors, willing to lose money hand over fist to gain market share. They spent decades building it. http://www.alternet.org/media/14... They have massive numbers of stations. Air America was supposed to start with $30,000,000 in the bank, to help support that, but in reality was only given $6,000,000. They started with a very small number of stations (6), and then were leasing out segments piecemeal.  This didn't lend itself to long term growth. They weren't given enough time to grow organically. Air America was poorly managed.  A GOP founder embezzled money from a charity at its inception and then ran away to Guam http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Eva... That's how AAR was started. Then the company focused on all the wrong priorities in order to gain larger stations and market share. Then they got rid of all the good hosts, (Maron, Garafolo, Seder) in exchange for more moderate boring ones. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Air... When they were going under, their idea of a good host was Montel Williams. Feel the partisanship! At the end, they were really really boring. The good hosts all left. At least all the ones that weren't fired. Franken left to go help run the country. Randi Rhodes left after using some inappropriate words when discussing some important people. Rachel Maddow left to go being a network news host. This left the most boring and/or crazy hosts to hold the mantle of liberal justice. That didn't work out so well. Station Saturation protects conservative talk. Alan Colmes rightfully pointed out: "Because conservatives were so entrenched on heritage stations, the progressives on Air America were relegated to smaller, less powerful, under-performing signals that could not compete with their more established counterparts; certainly not without lots of promotion and time to develop, both of which were denied in most cases." Most stations are owned by conservatives in the US, not helping get progressive messages on the air. Rush is played on all the rural stations, giving him a leg up in national ratings. If you look at major city ratings, I'd hazard to guess you'd find liberals at the top of the charts, or at least beating Rush. The progressive movement is on the interwebs, conservatives skew older. Phil DiNuzzo's answer makes this very valid point. The older crowds uses radio and definitely lean conservative. The younger crowd is ipodding, and radio is definitely an older skewing technology. Their streaming numbers where amazing, when the stream worked :D. Talk Radio is best when its simple. Talk radio doesn't challenge people to question their ideas, it reinforces existing narratives. Rush doesn't have guests or debates for a reason....  http://blog.okcupid.com/index.ph... Liberals get tired of hearing the same narratives over and over, we want to know how to change things. Randi Rhodes just makes us angrier, without helping us figure out the nuanced ways to fix it. Air America's ratings were actually quite promising in many major cities, sometimes beating big dogs, like Hannity and O'Reilly in the core ad demos. But the growth died as they got rid of the interesting talent and rotated through CEO after CEO who would change things without thinking strategically. It's hard to overcome really poor management. While they were winning in some ratings categories, they were also blowing money on things that didn't help them remain solvent, like boring hosts with name recognition, and buying stations rather than leasing time. I met more CEO's than I had college girlfriends. So liberal talk radio does work, they just don't have near the market saturation as their conservative counterparts, and they won't get it until Soros starts buying up rural radio stations. Flanders, Shultz, Rhodes, et all, get great ratings and are growing in market share. Hopefully they'll end up working at a station that supports their endeavors over the long haul.    Embed Quote