★Why don't radio stations play better songs?I can find such great songs through the internet but not on the radio.
Well it is a matter of taste, but to dumb it down radio stations play what is new and popular (hence pop music), from the current commercial charts of that country. BUT...there is much more behind this, which I'll explain in brief now. Most commercial stations, and there are other types stations out there such as community radio, tend to adopt the Top 40 radio format. Top 40 is another term for the Contemporary Hit Radio format, where a station will focus its music output on current and recurrent music from the Top 40 Charts of that country. In the UK the charts are produced by the Official Charts Company, and in the U.S I believe it is the Billboard charts. Station music selection is often done by an appointed Playlist Manager also known as a Music or Radio Programmer, who handles all incoming promos from record labels and promo distributors. Long before the station launches it decides its core artists and target market, as well as a fictional listener. This fictional listener represents who the station is targeting not only for music output, but also for advertising, and forms the basis of the music policy for the station. To add to this most stations will formulate two music playlists, the A and B list. New and popular music selected by the playlist manager will hit the A list maybe for a few weeks, before being filtered to the B playlist and finally, if it isn't that popular, being taken out of daily rotation. In addition to the above, music programmers for big brand commercial stations often use software such as RCS Selector. These software packages use complex algorithms and rotation rules to generate playlists for station output, and these playlists are defined by the audio in the stations database. So any station from commercial Pop, to Dance, to Alternative Rock can utilise software like RCS Selector. I hope that give you a broader idea of what goes into music selection for radio, and why they tend not to play "better songs" :)    Embed Quote