★Why is Conservative talk radio so much more successful than its Liberal counterpart?Based on Arbitron data, eight of the top ten commercial programs are Conservative talk radio.  No Liberal talk radio programs are in the top ten.  Air America was the last Liberal attempt to gain a stronger market share and it was a dismal failure.  Why?  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lis...
“There is no expedient to which a man will not go to avoid the labor of thinking.” - Thomas A. Edison "A great many people think they are thinking when they are merely rearranging their prejudices.” - William James “Remember, when the judgment is weak, the prejudice is strong.” - Kane O'Hara "Irrationally held truths may be more harmful than reasoned errors.” - Thomas H. Huxley “The great enemy of the truth is very often not the lie -- deliberate, contrived and dishonest -- but the myth -- persistent, persuasive and unrealistic.” -John F. Kennedy “When dealing with people, remember you are not dealing with creatures of logic, but with creatures of emotion, creatures bristling with prejudice, and motivated by pride and vanity.”  -  Dale Carnegie Half the population is below average intelligence and average intelligence is intellectually challenged. I'm not suggesting that all listeners to conservative talk radio are intellectually challenged, just that the enormous numbers of non-thinkers, who tend to be conservative and who want to be told what to think (and have their prejudices reaffirmed), dramatically skew the numbers. I don't know where Chris Keath gets his information from but I don't know a single progressive/liberal who admits to listening to conservative radio. When I occasionally tune into O'Reilly, Hannity, or Limbaugh I never get riled up or self righteous. (And I don't disagree with everything they say.) Instead, I get a little depressed at the reminder of how many ignoramuses there are who aren't interested in honesty, capable of questioning obvious deceptions, or upset by talk show hosts who constantly insult their intelligence.    Embed Quote