★Why is Conservative talk radio so much more successful than its Liberal counterpart?Based on Arbitron data, eight of the top ten commercial programs are Conservative talk radio.  No Liberal talk radio programs are in the top ten.  Air America was the last Liberal attempt to gain a stronger market share and it was a dismal failure.  Why?  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lis...
For the same reason that the people who watched the Kennedy-Nixon debates thought that Kennedy won the debates and the people who listened on the radio thought Nixon won. Though I do not have research to back up this claim (and if you know of any, I would be interested in hearing about it - verb choice "pun" intended) I strongly suspect that those who identify themselves as liberal and conservative eventually do so because of how they process information.  While this is not absolute, as there are conservative television commentators, and some liberal radio commentators, I believe there is a gradual process of differentiation that sets in, and people begin to hear the information that they are best able to process. It would be just as easy and as accurate to frame the question as "Why is liberal television so much more successful than its conservative counterpart"  I believe if one honestly examined the data, "conservative" television is more reactionary and less "conservative," while talk radio is more conservative than reactionary. I tend to believe that Adolf Hitler and the Nazis are the "exception that proves" this rule.  There was tremendous dissonance between Hitler's radio addresses and the actual program carried out by the Nazis.  Hitler's radio addresses were to assuage the masses, while the actual program he carried out was quite reactionary. To further illustrate the point, one could frame the question as "Why are libertarian-leaning discussion sites so much  more successful than their liberal or conservative counterparts?" I recognize now that I was always surprised by the willingness of so many to subjugate their fellows, when nearly everyone I knew online was much more restrained in this regard.  This question caused me to reflect on that, and the answer I have come to  is that those who consistently derive their information from written sources tend to be far more libertarian than those who derive their information from broadcast media. Though I cannot prove it, I have a strong suspicion that if we did a comprehensive survey of all long-term Quorans, as a group we would be far more libertarian than our mainstream counterparts.  And in this context, I mean we would be far more resistant to authoritarianism, regardless of what our personal political, economic and theological predilections would suggest.  As a group I suspect we are more likely to consider multiple sources rather than relying upon a single, authoritative source.  We are more likely to trust our own judgment, and we place a higher value on our answers "making sense" to us than whether others agree with us. That also explains why libertarianism of any stripe will never catch on.  Most people don't value the process of obtaining knowledge the same way we do.  Thus, they will never be interested in understanding the nuance and complexity we take for granted and indeed enjoy. I hope that helps, meaning that I hope this gives you some new nugget you can play with.    Embed Quote