★Why is Conservative talk radio so much more successful than its Liberal counterpart?Based on Arbitron data, eight of the top ten commercial programs are Conservative talk radio.  No Liberal talk radio programs are in the top ten.  Air America was the last Liberal attempt to gain a stronger market share and it was a dismal failure.  Why?  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lis...
The simple answer to why liberal talk is less successful than conservative talk can be summed up with two specific points. Progressive Left Talk Show Hosts Don't Know What They Do Is A Business. Progressive Left Talk Shows Don't Seem To Know How To Debate With Callers or Entertain Listeners. POINT #1. Progressive Left Talk Show Hosts Don't Know What They Do Is A Business.The mismanagement and other problems with Air America, as well as Current TV for that matter, directly stemmed, not from lack of money, they could have had all of the money they needed, and they still would have failed for the same reason(it just would have taken longer), from the fact no one there knew what they were doing was a business and is subject to market forces. According a numerous articles on the subject of Air America, the radio industry insiders have argued that Air America was doomed to fail from the get go because they never had a business model that made any type of business sense. It was as if Air America was the progressive left equivalent of a Mickey Rooney/Judy Garland film where all of the liberals got together and said, "Hey kids, lets start a progressive left radio syndicate/network and save liberal talk radio." The problem is, unlike the Mickey Rooney/Judy Garland films, where the kids actually had the necessary skill sets to pull off a show.  No One at Air America was a radio industry person, no one knew how to run and operate a radio syndication operation or radio stations. Worse yet, they just assumed the progressive left would just follow them and the money would start rolling in. In comparison conservative talk show hosts know that what they do is a business; and to be a successful business, you not only have to have a message, but you have to have people behind you that know what they are doing to get that message out. I know that lot of people blame Clear Channel, and the rest that have a majority of conservative talk show and they are not letting the progressive left in, but in my opinion the reality is most progressive left talk show think their message is more important than how they get it out there. Which brings me to point #2. POINT #2. Progressive Left Talk Shows Don't Seem To Know How To Debate With Callers or Entertain Listeners. It goes without saying radio/television are entertainment mediums, if people are not being entertained, they are not going to listen/watch. End of discussion. From my point of view, progressive left talk radio hosts suffer from a number of issues: They don't seem to be really interested in engaging those who ideologically opposed to them. They either talk at or talk down to their audience, not with their audience. They don't seem to do any research on the subject. Can't seem to accept any criticism of their ideological sacred cows. Think they are funny when they are not. 1. They don't seem to be really interested in engaging those who ideologically opposed to them. I remember listening to Alan Berg before his murder by white supremacists 1984. Berg, who held liberal social and political views became notorious for occasionally getting some callers so upset the caller would start sputtering. He had a large following because people from both sides would listen just to see who he would tick off next, because while he went off on conservatives it was nothing compared to what he would do to those who held his views but couldn't tell him why they held it. Berg was a former attorney, he knew how to argue, part of the reason he could make people sputter in rage was he knew his subject forwards and backward before he would speak about it on air. While no where near as vitriolic Berg, conservatives hosts also challenge their callers/listeners with opposite ideology with questions. And like Berg, they research their subjects to the best of their ability and even rehearse answers to questions they know are going to be inveritably asked.   2. They either talk at or talk down to their audience, not with their audience. I always get the impression when I listen to many of the progressive left talk show hosts is they are either talking down to me like a two year old, or handing me my marching orders. Neither of which are going to hold anyones attention for any length of time. 3. They don't seem to do any research on the subject. I honestly don't know if they do research or how much they actually do on the subjects they talk about, but based on the way they react to questions that knock logic holes in their statements/arguments you could park the entire Pacific Fleet in and have room left over makes one wonder why they bother, as the most common reaction by them is to tell the caller is wrong and hang up. 4. Can't seem accept any criticism of their ideological sacred cows. All too often when I listen to progressive left talk show hosts, the second you question one of their sacred cows, hell is out for noon. It is like the notion of anyone daring to question a progressive talk show host beliefs is some kind of heretic to be burned at the stake. 5.  Think they are funny when they are not. Most liberal talk show hosts forays into comedy would fall under the heading 'Don't quit your day job to be a comedian.' What a progressive left talk show host thinks is funny, is going to seriously offend someone down the line, and unlike conservative hosts who have made gaff and been bloody near burned at the stake for it. Progressive left hosts get a pass and yes it ticks people off. ConclusionTake the two points that I have discussed and stated my opinions on, and combine them with the fact what keeps any talk show host on the air is advertising dollars. Advertisers want the best bang for the buck. Just because a given shows rates are cheaper per spot doesn't mean they are a better deal. Example if a progressive left host has only 1.2 million weekly listeners and it will cost me $100 per spot to advertise with them, but a conservative show costs $150 per spot but reaches 3.5 million weekly, the question becomes who has the better deal. Those are the types of questions sponsors think about, and that combined with points discussed and opined about is why I believe liberal talk radio consistently loses ground.    Embed Quote