★Why is Conservative talk radio so much more successful than its Liberal counterpart?Based on Arbitron data, eight of the top ten commercial programs are Conservative talk radio.  No Liberal talk radio programs are in the top ten.  Air America was the last Liberal attempt to gain a stronger market share and it was a dismal failure.  Why?  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lis...
Since Rush Limbaugh is the 900 lb gorilla in talk radio, let me use him as an example of how to succeed: 1.) Have fun.  When Rush started, he had some of the most hilarious political humor gags on his radio show.  Some of them his staff wrote, some came in over the transom.  But it was all really funny.  At the time, conservatives were used to getting hammered all the time in the main-stream media outlets, so Rush's show was a place where conservatives could come and listen and have a good time. 2.)  Rush didn't want to be perceived as a Keeper Of Odd Knowledge (KOOK).  Therefore, he didn't spend lots of time (or in some cases ANY time) talking about UFOs, abortion, the Council on Foreign Relations and conspiracy theories in general. 3.) Once he built up a loyal following, he began to bring out profit making products: neckties and scarfs, a money-making website,  Club Gitmo hats and shirts and, most recently, ice tea.  Rush is all about "the benjamins" with a conservative bent.  But make no mistake, the radio show and the website are about profit making.  To many liberals, the word "profit" is a dirty word.  But profit is what keeps Rush (and Neal Boortz, Shawn Hannity, etc.) on the air year after year.  4.) Conservative talk radio offers an alternative to the main steam media's liberal point of view.  Air America was just more of the same, maybe more to the extreme left.  But liberals, by and large, don't feel downtrodden by the major media outlets like conservatives did (and maybe still do).  So the reason that liberals would listen to Air America had to be nuanced to be perceived as an improvement over other media outlets and it wasn't. For liberal talk radio to succeed, it will have to be really funny in the beginning, have a solid business plan to tap the wallets of the people listening and find a spot just to the left of center instead of living out on the leftmost fringe of the political world.  IMHO.    Embed Quote