★What is the history of radio in the Russian Empire?The only two key years I can find are 1895 (the independent Russian invention of radio) and 1917 (the first broadcast made by the Soviet Union.) I want to know all about what happened in between, however.
The Russian Army and the Russian Navy were the primary users of radio at the Russian Empire. Unlike at the West, radio never gained widespread commercial application. There are three reasons for this: First, Russia was a reactionary, backward place that was a late adopter of the most modern technologies. Second, there were no market for radio as the general population lacked buying power. Third, this technology was deemed dangerous as it could be used by revolutionaries for communication. The question of who invented radio is a heated one and, personally, I would put my money on Tesla.   1895 -  Popov presented the appliance for registering electric oscillations that could be used to build radio receiver. There are no doubts about that he fully realized the potential of his invention, but at the same time he did not consider himself an inventor of radio: "I can express my hope that my apparatus will be applied for signaling at great distances by electric vibrations of high frequency, as soon as there will be invented a more powerful generator of such vibrations."   1896 - Popov built the first version of a radio transmitter. There are mixed accounts of when Popov actually made his own radio. Popov claimed that his first successful experiment conducted on March 24 (two months before Marconi patented radio transmitter), but the problem is that there are no independent accounts of him doing it. There is a huge possibility that he have quickly built his own version of a radio transmitter after he heard that Marconi managed to do it.   1897 - continued experiments on radio transmission between two ships. In November 1897, French industrialist Eugene Ducretet under the instructions of Popov built the first commercial prototype of a radio.   1898 - wireless transmission of signal at 10 km distance. Beginning of commercial manufacturing of radio   1899 - wireless transmission of signal at 50 km distance.   1900 - First ship rescue operation was conducted using wireless radio transmission. Radio transmitter of Popov received a golden medal in the World Expo in Paris.   December 31, 1905 - Popov died at the age of 45   1905-1907 Usage of radio during the Russo-Japanese War   1914-1917 Usage of radio during the WW1    Embed Quote