★Can a biologist fix a radio?This is based on the classic article Can a biologist fix a radio?--Or, what I learned while studying apo... Link to the article: Page on sciencedirect.com
I didn't read the article in full, but it seems to me the author wants to wish that there was similar 'formality' and 'order' when dissecting a cell that is analogous to breaking apart a radio. The flaw in his argument about the 'language' of biology comes from the fact that the parts of the radio was human-designed in the first place - I think it's fairly obvious that if someone built the playground they are working in and claim that they understand a lot about it, it would be a pretty damn obvious thing to say. Biologists on the other hand have to deal with a shifting landscape that has been put together through a inefficient (but only) process which, whilst simple in statement (for example any statement of natural selection) can have unknown variables and consequences, and this is what leads to the huge complexity of the system. Yes, diagrams are not quantitative and probably of limited use. Physical tools and notations fail pretty badly when applied to biological systems, which break many assumptions used in physical systems such as: - Known external system parameters which remain more or less steady state most of the time. - 'Hard' matter (soft matter can act in incredibly unpredictable and complex ways, and make up all of biology) - An order of magnitude higher number of variables that affect any constant approximations made to analyse the system in the first place. This means that the only real way of analysing such a system is through a brutal trial and error. This is not a failing of a biologist not being rigorous or being wishy-washy; indeed, the use of statistically rigorous (if such a statement really works, but let's not get wound up with definitions) methods in science are being used a huge amount to great effect in biology, and *still* there is a mammoth of a problem to tackle. This would indicate that whilst at times biology may look a qualitative science, that is only because the problem is a order of magnitude harder. In the immortal Paul Dirac's words (ironically), regarding the article:   "That was not a question, it was a comment."    Embed Quote