★What is the future of radio?Should it move toward noncommercial community content? Should it race to the lowest common denominator (as much of it has)? Will the great content that is left move somewhere else?
Radio has a rich and wonderful history in the United States. It is one of our most forgotten past times, and it breaks my heart. The fact that families would gather around the radio to LISTEN. It seems boring, but what people were able to put on the air back then was actually quite entertaining! Today radio serves a much different purpose. Radio is not dying, as some people might think, but it is only evolving. Now most people listen to music on the radio, or listen to talk radio on the drive to and from work. Even those mediums of radio are dying out to ipods that plug in to the stereo system. Which makes sense! Who wants to listen to music with commercials when one can simply plug in their iPod and hear the same music, with better sound quality! This brings me to a bit of a side note, but I think it is relevant. Because fewer people are listening to music on the radio, music isn't being equalized for radio! This is in fact a GREAT thing for the music industry, and people who enjoy song dynamics. See, over the past few decades music producers have learned that people respond to whatever is the loudest. It is easier for people to notice a song when it is louder. So what producers started doing was pushing up all the dynamics on a song so when it was played on the radio, it would be louder and stand out. As time went on, more and more producers would do this, and now, in order for a song to even be audible on the radio all the dynamics must be turned way up. It has been a detriment to the production of pop music. But thankfully, as people invest more in mp3 players, and expensive headphones, producers are focusing more one a song dynamic... Which is awesome. I believe this is the beginning of the pop music renaissance! Anyway! As far as the future of radio goes I can tell you this: Large radio corporations are investing in different mediums for listening to music. I know of one example. Clear Channel, one of the largest radio corporations in the country has invested a substantial amount of money in a site called iheart.com. This is a site where you can stream any of your favorite radio stations and create your own music stations with the new song recognition technology. I believe this is the true future of radio. Online streaming and music discovery with song finders like IHeartRadio and Pandora. People don't want to pay for radio from space (or not for long anyway) and people are getting bored with old fashioned radio. there's my two cents.    Embed Quote