★Why is Conservative talk radio so much more successful than its Liberal counterpart?Based on Arbitron data, eight of the top ten commercial programs are Conservative talk radio.  No Liberal talk radio programs are in the top ten.  Air America was the last Liberal attempt to gain a stronger market share and it was a dismal failure.  Why?  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lis...
A leather lunged evolution. I am a quintagenarian, and recall the old AM talks shows that played late night on the evenings I was traveling by truck, usually taking cattle to stockyards, with my father. Back in those halcyon days when the airwaves mainly carried Pop Music talks shows were populated by bombastic hosts, mostly male, who hosted crackpots and cranks while selling home remedies and washing machines. The hosts greatest commonality at the time was their wonderful voices, most of them wanted to emulate Paul Harvey. And there was always a patriotic bent to them as befits men who remembered WWII. In Central Texas one of the voices that could regularly be heard on high powered stations that seemed to pump up the power with sundown was a man named Allan Dale. He had a lovely baritone instrument of a voice that earned him the sobriquet "Old Leather Lungs", though my suspicion is that he originally applied the title himself. He always leaned conservative and became more so over time. His big moment in the electro-magnetic spectrum came when he interviewed Ronald Reagan as Air Force One was approaching a San Antonio landing. It was, in fact, the heady nectar of the Reagan years that has brought us to the Conservatism we have today. In that scant decade the combative rhetoric against Liberalism turned into the dogma of the Conservative Faith. The very word 'liberal' was popularly ridiculed and pronounced with an elongated sneer. I do not understand precisely why AM began to shed it's music formats, perhaps it was the better quality to be had on FM radio (no static at all). Continental Conservative Talk radio developed on AM. Continental Liberal Talk radio developed on FM, with Morning Edition on National Public Radio beginning in 1879 a logical progression from the Public Broadcasting Act of 1967 And so there you have it. The free market of both profit and ideas resulted in commercial radio, more popular with Capitalists in general, on AM and public radio, more popular with Leftists, investing FM radio. The final layer of development came with the Election of Bill Clinton in 1992 which, fortuitously, occurred with the development of the World Wide Web. FM radio continued as it had, primarily information and philosophy, while AM radio became passionate, even strident, and attracted a good deal more attention. Amplitude Modulation is appropriate for the generally more emotional and ideologically dedicated talk radio, as the amount of shouting and provocation is what lends it its attraction. You see, when the noise spikes when elections are won or drops quiet when elections are lost, the amplitude, the height or the depth of the signal, modulates.    Embed Quote