★Why don't radio stations play better songs?I can find such great songs through the internet but not on the radio.
Radio stations do not play better songs because: 1. Tastes vary . A large segment of the population that listens to the radio is unaware or not interested in listening to "better" music. 2. In India, where music is primarily played from movies- a lot of songs are played primarily for promotion purposes. Radio channels fight it out to get an exclusive for a new song - even if it's a bad song. 3. People listen to the radio while jogging/driving. It's not a visit to a concert where the primary focus is listening to good music. It's just a background activity that should complement the task. My mom would get very upset whenever a slow song played on the radio while she was doing household chores. Hence, radio stations play  peppy music throughout the day or soulful music at night when people are listening to music before hitting the sack. 4. Radio stations are businesses. They need to make money to survive. How do they get money? Advertising revenue. How do you get more ads? Become more popular. How do you become more popular? By playing popular music even if it's crap. 5. Quality monitoring on radio is very low. It's presumed to be for the masses not the classes. Hence, radio stations are full of tacky sound effects, gags, jokes and whatever's on top 30. Few people listen to the radio with the TV, iPods, the internet and MP3 players out there. 6. There's regional discrepancy. I cannot stand listening to radio stations in Kolkata because it's full of regional music. I hate it. But the quality of the music might be great. It's something I don't like. Hence, radio stations go by the numbers. What gets  most requests, goes up on air. 7. There's no incentive to play better music. Radio is a very static industry. N one is going to appreciate you for daring to do something different. People will be annoyed if the latest chart buster or some corny song's not playing. Sigh. Source: I have hosted a radio show on 104.8 FM which started off as India's first just for women radio channel that played great music. However, it later turned to a bollywood blockbuster channel OYE!104.8 FM.    Embed Quote