How can I data scrape every single data on Facebook by topic (i.e. all likes, interests, books, etc), organize the data visually, and add it to my personal site?
Hi, the difficulty in this project is not so much in getting data from facebook or using d3 but rather in figuring out what you want to show and possibly in cleaning/augmenting facebook data. for instance, if you want to plot places you've been at on a map, you are going to need x-y coordinates, or at least lon-lat coordinates of such places. Facebook will give you a list of the events you've attended (or maybe'd) but you'll have to figure out the coordinates yourself. once you have a list of coordinates it's relatively straightforward to position symbols on a map (see example http://mbostock.github.com/d3/ta...) or, you'll only get a txt list of your friend names. not very visual. to display an interesting graph of your friends, you'd want information like the relationships across them. There are several ways to get it, here is one: GetNet. again you may want to "qualify" your list of nodes, for instance, manually describe where you know your fb friends from, and that information can then be expressed visually. You may want to play with your nodes and edges in a graph analysis tool like gephi before feeding a dataset to d3. once you have a list of nodes and edges the d3 part is not that difficult. here is an example: http://bl.ocks.org/4062045 other things you get from d/ling your archive pertain to your history on facebook; things like frequency of your connexions etc. that, you can turn into a time series and there are many ways to visualize it in d3. bear in mind that they are not very significant, though, because typically you won't choose to start or end a facebook session, unless you only use facebook from a public computer. you'll have plenty of examples of time series at d3 under basic charts. in case you want to leave facebook out of privacy concerns, you need to be aware that if you are visualizing your personal data on your site you are essentially taking your data from a very secure place and put it in the open.    Embed Quote 