What is the best way to scrape data from a website?
Build scrapers using a good framework ( like Python Scrapy -  An open source web scraping framework for Python. It has a big community and several companies support it. So if you run in to any trouble you can find someone to help ). The scrapers can save the data to a database, from which your web server can pick up and display it in the website.  If you are programmer you can do this yourself, if not hire a developer to do it. Webscraping using Python without using large frameworks like Scrapy - will be a straight forward tutorial if you know the basics of python. If you need the data to be refreshed periodically, you'll either have to run it manually or automate it using some tool or process. If you are using Scrapy, scrapyd + cron can schedule the spiders for you, and it will update the data the way you need it. Make sure you run the scrapers in a separate server other than the one which hosts your website, as the scrapers consume a lot of memory and the website'd be very slow for visitors. If some of these websites you want to be scraped has some kind of IP based blocking involved, you'll have to get some Proxies or Rotating IP solutions and instruct the web scrapers to use these for making requests ( Download pages ) to the website you scrape. If you are not using proxies or disposable rotating IPs, your server will be blocked and you'll either have to change the IP address of your server or get a new server.  Every website will change their designs now and then, and so should your scrapers. Scrapers usually need adjustments every few weeks, as a minor change in the target website affecting the fields you scrape, might either give you incomplete data or crash the scraper, depending on the logic of the scraper. It would be good to have Quality Analysis for the data before displaying them, and to make sure all scrapers are running well. Data As A Service is the best option if you plan to make some real money from this website and if the data is critical for it.  You can find some good providers here What are the best web crawling services? Full disclosure : I co-founded ScrapeHero - Website Scraper Hero - Web Scraping made easy - Fixed pricing    Embed Quote Updated 29 Dec. 499 views.