How does Jazz work?
I would like to say something about what it is like to play with the same musicians for years. There comes a time, if your group has stability, when you can hear someone's solo before they play it; when you can know exactly how they will lay down the rhythm or the bass progression or the ornamentation they will put on the piano chords. You know them as well as if you were inside their heads and they inside yours. Actually, with good players, it may not take that long to achieve this kind of state. But part of what makes a group hang together is this sense of knowledge of each other, and it comes from playing the same tunes together over and over and over, messing around with many different solos, working out the intros and finales and bridges and changes. Fighting with each other. Sniping at each other. Walking out on each other and coming back. Philosophizing. Sometimes sleeping with each others' girlfriends. Yes. It is mostly a guy's world. But what happens is that when you get an audience, you know each other so well, that you can click in almost instantly. You can know what kind of night it is going to be with the first few notes. You can tell when the energy is going to get incredibly high and when it will stay pretty mellow, despite all the changes of the music. For me, it's kind of a Matrix-like experience. It comes in 3-d and color. I can see inside the heads of the other guys and I see the notes flowing inside them and out into space. If I'm dancing, I can feel their bodies, as well. My band leader will let his jaw go slack when he's totally in the groove. Sometimes I'm not there with him, but then, my role is  a little different from his. I feel like I'm holding it all together. It's odd because I'm not leading anything, but I still feel as if I'm holding it all together. When things need to change, I come up with a riff or a tone or something that allows things to change, or opens a space that allows the leader to make a change. I'm holding it together by opening doors for others. But we're all holding it together. All listening. We never know what will come next, and yet we all have to jump on it when it does come. We all know, through years of experience, what kinds of things the others will do, and what it means when they do them. I think this is what makes it possible for us to do entirely free improvisation the way we do -- with no charts and no tunes. Our tunes come from the moment and are related to the local environment and our visceral sense of each other. All bands do this to one degree or another. The better you know each other, the tighter you are. But you can also come to a group brand new and still make that kind of connection, if people are giving and generous; and if they listen well, without ego. To be inside of it is an incredible experience. Almost as good as sex. Better, perhaps, for some people. 