How does one get accepted to Caltech as an undergraduate?
Luckily for you, you have found someone who is serving on the Caltech admissions committee. You probably already know that getting in is extremely challenging. We typically get several thousand applications to fill a class of 200, and each of those several thousand is or nearly is a straight-A student at the top of his or her class. At Caltech, we pretty much assume before we even open your folder that if you are applying, you've done extremely well in school, and you kind of like science. What you should NOT do is try to demonstrate to us that you are "well-rounded." We are not looking for well rounded people. Well rounded people can go to Harvard. Techers have spikes. We are looking for people who have demonstrated a drive to be a scientist, for people who have gone well above and beyond their schoolwork and have engaged in a program of teaching themselves, because by they have always known more than their teachers. We look for people who have created something: maybe you program computer games, you build physics experiments in your garage, you discovered a comet, you derived calculus on your own, you have a bacteria collection, or you've read Galileo in the original Italian. Whatever you've done to make yourself stick out as an amazing potential scientist and philosopher, we want to hear about it. We want to hear the story of you, why you need to excel, and why you have to sponge up every concept that comes your way. If we eliminate all the folders of the applicants who are merely good students and had some extracurricular activities, and keep only the ones I've talked about, the exciting ones, we still are left with about 750 folders for 200 spots. So we have our pick of who we want to join our community. Of those applicants, we select the ones we think will fit that community best. Read the Caltech web pages--- both the official ones and the ones the students put up. Explain how you would fit in with that community. What does the Caltech Honor System mean to you? What would you contribute to the Interhouse party? What Hovse would you live in? Why? We want people who will interact with each other and explore the world together. You've told us why you're a special student and scientist, now tell us why you're a special person too. Again, well-rounded individuals need not apply. We're looking for special people, spiky people. 