If I got lost on an African safari and came face-to-face with a growling lion, what should I do to garner the best chance of survival?
Fortunately the internet has over a million sites for just such an occasion, so whip that iPad Mini out of your safari shorts and let's get started. Most experts assert that lions are shy and would like to avoid you.  This helpful optimism was of little use to the dozens of workers killed and eaten by the man-eating lions of Tsavo.    Presumably the lion you meet when you tumble off the Land Rover has not been eating every human it can for an entire season and instead is startled and intimidated by your stylish safari shorts and Angry Birds skills. The experts agree - do not run.  One site has even worked out a little poem for you to repeat:  "I will not run, I will not bolt, for if I do, the lion will too."   I was unable to find any doggerel for not soiling yourself. [edit: thanks to quora this deficit has been corrected.  See Mark Harrison's comment] Ever helpful, the experts reveal that lions are hunters. Running will awaken their hunting instincts and make killing you more fun.  Instead of running, sites advise speaking to the big cat.  According to experts, few lions speak English so feel free to explain your position on atheism or gun control or the merits of apple vs PC - but be certain to speak in a calm but firm voice as if the lion had included an ill-conceived pie chart in their Quora answer. To recap up to this point.  You are facing a 8 foot, 500 lb animal that can kill a buffalo and comes half way up your chest standing on all fours. If you are able to stand still and calmly deliver a lecture to a wild lion, you are so badass you won't need any more advice.  On the other hand, if you have already taken off running and screaming like a dying antelope, you won't need any more advice either. For the sake of completeness, let's carry on. At this point experts diverge.  Some advise continuing calmness - do not startle or provoke the lion - they say.  Others advise trying to look big - they suggest lifting your arms over your head and, if possible, lifting your shirt between your upraised hands like a sail.  Don't - Run.  Running with your shirt over your head is just silly and will only slow you down. Do - Try not to look tasty. Do - Try to be larger than a lion's regular prey - see the image below for your target size: When you are done with this, if you are still alive, back away while clapping and shouting.  You may want to let go of your shirt first.  The next bit of advice is to prepare for an attack.  The experts helpfully warn that you'll know an attack is coming when you hear a deep growl coming from the lion.  Helpful.   Remember, the lion is just trying to upset you and get you to run. Don't fall for it, it's not your job to make killing you more fun.  Finally the experts who were all about not startling or provoking change their tune.  Now they encourage clapping and yelling.  I think at this point it's really about how you want to go down.  I suggest replacing the clapping with the zombie dance from Thriller.  For maximum effect follow these directions precisely: Once the attack has started try to remain standing, the experts bravely suggest, peeking from behind their desk in Chicago.  Fight back with whatever you have at hand.  Go ahead, slap that lion as hard as you can with your iPad Mini.  Go ahead. Advice about how to walk alone through the game park and find the remainder of your group is egregiously absent.  I guess they assume that if you have fought off a lion bare handed you can figure out how to use Google Maps all by yourself. [EDIT] In researching User's comment some new developments have come to light.  Perhaps, like me, the 1,000,040 experts who repost each other's answers on the internet were expecting that you wouldn't ask this question if you had a big-ass lion gun in your hands, but there is still no excuse for us not suggesting it might behoove you to pick up a stick.  Animal Planet points this out but neglects to actually give specific advice on how to use the stick - I suppose you could use it to whack the lion on the nose or make it part of your yelling-shouting-waving display and brandish it like a adrenalized sign twirler.  Instead of focusing on the stick, Animal Planet suggests you spray the charging lion with pepper spray right in the face.  Get this part right and the part where you are screaming like a girl with a urine stain on the front of your shorts can be edited out in post-production.  You did pack pepper spray, right?  oh.   Ohandonemorething.  Hyenas.  Yup, lions aren't your biggest concern. Random African Bush Stories Images: Lion comparison chart: Lion (Panthera leo) Lion attacking elephant:  Giant killers: macropredation in lions The Lion Survival Quiz : Quiz : Animal Planet Updated 146w ago • View Upvotes