In what ways does the Indian Quora differ from the American Quora?
If I honestly say then there is a big difference between the usage of Quora by Indian Users and American Users. Here is a sample of questions asked by American Users: In what ways does the Boshin War in Japan differ from the American Civil War? Why do so many women who claim to support equality for women reject the label of feminism? What websites are recommended to find an architectural history of Bucharest? Can a socialist President Sanders exist in a free market capitalist economy like the U.S.? And, Here is a sample of questions asked by Indian Users: I have a crush on Aishwarya Nair. What should I do? ? I have a huge crush on @Anjali Kriplani. How can I go about this situation? Please help I like Malvika Shanker. How should I confess to her? What is the process have a girlfriend? Is it okay for young boys to listen to only soft melodies? Some girls I met were making fun of the fact that I listen exclusively to melodies! What the craziest thing you've done till 25? These are just randomly picked questions from my feed. So, if you see then you'll find that where Indian Users stressed on general life experiences and crush related queries, while American Users asked some questions which probably be the mind-bender for the writer. I'm not saying that Indian Users don't ask good questions but majority of the questions asked by Indian Users are more related to the topics- Dating, Relationship, Love, Life and so on. And, this probably could be the reason that even after having a large share of visitors  from India (about 40%), then also percent of Indian Top Writers are less. According to the Laura Hale's Analysis, "India ranks third among TW country representation, with 26 TWs identified and representing 5.0%% of all TWs in 2016. The United Kingdom is second at 5.4% with 28. The United States is first at 72.7% and 376 total writers." So, we can make a conclusion that relatively American Users contribute more valuable contents compared to Indian User's contribution. And, it differentiates the usage by the users of two nations. Isn't it? Hope this helps. Thank you! 