If I got lost on an African safari and came face-to-face with a growling lion, what should I do to garner the best chance of survival?
1) Are you alone? If yes, proceed to step 2. If not, immediately kill your companion and leave his body between you and the lion as you back away. 2) A lion is bigger, stronger, has better natural weapons than you and is an experienced natural killing machine. You are not going to defeat it in any form of combat. 3) A lion is faster than you, is a better climber, is superbly adapted to its home terrain and can go anywhere you can go. So, you aren't going to get away from it. 4) You, however, are smarter than the lion. Much smarter. Now, You have already given up a huge part of that natural advantage by being a dumb ass and getting lost in lion country without the proper weapons and training to defend yourself. 5) Lions are cats. They aren't that different than your friendly little domestic house cat you know so well. Cats are naturally curious creatures. They are also very cautious when given time to think. If you just run or scream hysterically like a panicky mouse, the lion won't have any time to think and will attack and kill you immediately. 6) If you happen to have gotten lost with a giant cardboard box, place it on the ground between you and the lion. The lion will find the inner space of the box irresistible and will jump into the box and lose interest in you. If there are other lions around, they too will be drawn to the giant box and take turns sitting in the box. 7) If you happen to have a laser pointer, go ahead and get it out. Point it at the tree or rock nearest the lion such that he can see the laser point. Move it in tiny circles up the tree or rock. The lion will chase the laser point up the tree ignoring you. If you are confronted by multiple lions, shine the laser point on one of the lions enticing the other lions to attack him thus starting a fight. Escape. 8) If you happen to have a long rope, back away slowly trailing the rope behind you. The lion will attack the rope. Whatever you do, don't let the lion have the rope. When he grabs it, stop moving. The lion will forget what he was doing and let go of the rope. Repeat this step until you reach civilization. 9) If you have tried everything listed here and the lion is still following you, take your shirt off and throw it at the lion. Then continue to back away. He will stop to smell the shirt. He has to. He is compelled to. Maybe you will get lucky and he will attempt to eat the shirt. If he does, he will discover that it tastes horrible and has little to no nutritional value. Since you smell like your shirt, hopefully he will assume the same about you. Repeat this with your pants, underwear, shoes and socks as necessary. 10) Now you are ready for a truly desperate act. Attempt to make friends with the lion. Calmly walk towards the lion saying "here kitty kitty. Nice kitty" while making a scratching motion with your hand. Scratch his head. Check to see if he has a thorn in any of his feet. If so, remove it. 