I am passionate about almost nothing. I don't have an aim in life. I am from one of the IITs. Is it okay?
It's a question from myself - literally.  I have also read some of the answers posted so far - and many are thoughtful - some preachy... Here's my take:  Concepts like "aim in life",  "passion" etc are basically about relating yourself to other human beings in the world.   This is what I call the "achievement syndrome" - a need to "stand out" from the crowds.   This in most cases comes from long years of schooling, always being pushed to achieve something etc.   That joke about the shepard and the rich man is the perfect answer to such "passion" thrusters... I know that passion is supposed to be about doing what one feels strongly.   But in today's world, in most cases, people only have the achievement syndrome - ie. if they don't advertise that they have passion, they feel they are accepted as a best person.  Whether you have passion for anything or not - is YOUR own thing - it shouldn't be the issue of anyone else.   In today's moneyed world, one MUST have some means of getting regular money.  This is what the entire education system is geared to - just to develop some market-needed skills so you dont go hungry.  That sums up ALL the education system (and the professors, lecturers too). Passion however is not necessarily related to money - sometimes it is.  If you are one of the fortunate who has a passion that pays in money - great!   Early on in life, I started loving the ideas of science, research etc - and very much wanted to be a scientist.   But I couldn't understand why anyone would pay me if I didn't invent anything useful!  :-)   It's another matter that I later discovered that the world had moved way beyond my simple notions of what it takes to be a scientist...  So, I can honestly say I have not lived my passion!    The PC crowd would say my life has been wasted.   Maybe - but maybe I have stopped a bigger waste by not inventing something stupid! :-)   Jokes aside, I have now lived / living a "normal" life - in the sense I got married, have a great daughter - and have learned things about this, that and the other which I never even knew existed.   I used to be so fearful of relationships and now at this advanced age (past 50),  I am finding that most people are just like me - its just that their UI is different!    Nowadays I also keep up with the latest news on nano,biotech,robotics etc - maybe because I still have passion in science?  I don't know - but I do know that I am interested in those things. I am also interested in lot of crafts - like woodworking, woodburning, some machine stiching, cooking (for sure - my Mom is a great cook!) etc etc - that I love to do - Are these my passion?   I don't know - and quite frankly I don't care. What I have learned thru all this is: Life is NOT a goal.  The only goal of life is to live it.  The best way YOU think it should be - within your own value systems of helping / hurting other people.   Everything else is simply other people's opinions.  Sure we can and should  listen-to / see others views (including this one)  and take what vibrates to us - and ignore the rest.  If you take this view of life, it has room for both passion and staying w/o "passion" as others see it.    You could also say "My passion in life is to not have blind passions"  and watch the politically correct squirm! :-) If you had asked artists and musicians of old  this question, their answer would be - I just like doing this - so I am doing... If you watch the film "Gods must be crazy",  you will see that the lives of the African tribals (Father, 2 sons) were as sweet, as emotional, as fulfilling as the lives of others.   Did it matter who had a "life ambition"?   Yes - for the person who has it.  For others - it just does not matter. My sincere request - nay, urging - would be to simply discover the myriad thoughts, sensations, feelings, attitudes, notions etc etc about life - yours and others.  If eventually something strikes you as you simply MUST do - why then, go do it!   It may also be that you can fall "out of passion" in something because you have grown in a certain way - and there's nothing wrong with that too. A book suggestion: There is one book that I would urge people (everyone) to read - a simple unassuming "Childrens" book - which is actually meant for adults - and this is "Hope for the Flowers".   Here's the review page from an online review site: http://www.goodreads.com/book/sh... Do take what vibes with you and throw out the rest - we are all similar but never the same... Thanks & Best Regards, -feltra 