How can one keep oneself updated about all the things happening around?
Disclaimer: This answer deals with changes in intellectual thinking for updating oneself with knowledge. Most of us when we think of updating ourselves with things that happen around us, the first direction our thought goes is, I should read a newspaper, or surf the net, or get information from any other source. Turn around a corner and you find a net center, if we do take it that your mobile isn't of a version that allows internet browsing. Peep around, you can get your hand on newspapers. Want to read some book? There are second hand ones, and even piracy copies for people who want cheaper ways! Every means is scattered around you, all you have to do is grab it with your hand. But, what we all fail to realize is everyone has that opportunity (considering you come from an average house set-up ) and yet, not all are knowledgeable. Why is that? 6 Gods - The 5W's and 1HThere has be something more than those 'information banks' that pull the strings, and that something more lies within us, curiosity. Having the source of information with you won't make you an expert in that topic. You should have that 'curiosity' to learn about it. Many a times, we confuse curiosity to be a person who knows everything with curiosity to know everything. They are both different expressions. Curiosity to be a person who knows everything: A person who is curious to become a 'know-it-all' may or may not have the drive to attain knowledge (1) Curiosity to know everything: But, a person who is curious for information has that drive for knowledge and he doesn't care if he is a 'know-it-all' or not (2) You should develop curiosity for information ( curiosity to know everything), and that is attained by the 6 ultimate Gods: HOW WHY WHO WHAT WHERE WHENUnless and until you learn to question everything you know, and have an answer for these questions, you won't be able to have a command on a particular topic. CASE 1 Lets say, I said: Mount Everest is the highest mountain in the world. If you can take in what I said without any questions, your awareness will be confined to what I told you and not beyond that. Now, question it. Why is Mount Everest called the highest mountain in that world? Who discovered or came up with that fact? What is the name of the mountain that falls second in place? Where is this Mount Everest situated? How can we get there? Do you have more information now, or earlier? CASE 2 Well, lets test this again. I say, "In normal vision, image is formed on Retina of Eye." How will you proceed with this information? It is a fact, but nevertheless there will be an explanation and more information linked with it, and it is up to you on how you dissect it carefully and squeeze more out of that single line. Why should the image form on Retina? What is normal vision?/ What is retina? / What is the normal structure of eye? How does eye form the image on retina? It isn't compulsory to put forward all the 6 Gods ( apply what suits the situation ) but never forget to question. After answering those question, will you have more information than earlier or less? CASE 3 Take this, easiest one! I say, "Sun rises in the east." What now? Why does sun rise in the east? When was this theory put forward? What made people to believe this blindly? How does the real mechanics work? Are you more knowledgeable now or earlier?  Think for a moment, are the sources of information before the usage of these 5W's and 1H questions the same? If so, what changed now? Your way of dealing with the information. That is what changed, and that is what is important if you want to have a grip over a wide number of things. Instead of taking the information for granted, you should explore it further, to the maximum of its limits and see where it takes you. You will be surprised with the amount of information you gain PROCESSINGYou ask a question; your work is done. Wrong. You have to work with that information and fit it into what all you already know. Incorporate the new information with the old information and make it into a strong link, like a spun web. It is not necessary that you know everything, the 5W's and 1H demands, but it is necessary that you know what relates and suits your purpose of knowledge. You set a goal of what you want to know, and you should keep on questioning till you achieve that purpose. And, every time your purpose reaches its target, you should come up with a new purpose. Meaningless, and plan-less information doesn't stick for long. You should be aware of how much information you will be able to analyze and store in your memory chips. You can always pick up from the left over pieces that next day. That is what clever people do. They don't try to gain all the value in an hour or a day, they work towards it slowly. Knowledge in built step by step, each step varying. Pick a topic you want to know about, or already have slight information. Make it your leading Guru. All other sources should only be indirect catalysts under the guidance of 6 Gods and should work towards reaching the final product as soon as possible, till your saturation point. After a certain attainment of knowledge, your interest levels drops. You should be in a position to replenish that back, and give it an energy boost. Once again, you will find yourself seeking help from your 5W's and 1H. Why do I want to learn that? What will I gain out of it? Will it solve any purpose? How can it be useful? What to do to keep myself in the race? Whom should I go for more help? This is a continuous process, and the change has to come within you. Not from outside, or by others. OBSERVATION You may be astonished if I said, most of my knowledge is from observation and listening, rather than doing the active work as most call it. Learn to observe what people are doing or other related things. Pick a person you are very close to. For a week observe his sleep habits. When does he sleep? If he slept early, at what time does he wake up? If he slept late, at what time does he wake up? If there is an important event the next day, how is his sleep cycle? If he has an exam to give, how does that effect his sleep cycle? Does he sleep more after lunch or dinner or is there is other factor that effects his sleep? By the time you are done with that, you will be fascinated with how the sleep cycle works? And, from there your journey to knowledge starts. This 'observation' forms your 'substrate' : innate information, and gives you a kick start, an enzymatic boost, for the process to complete. You get your basic information from the surrounding, remember that always. You get your basics from what you daily see and do, and that information is later on strengthened by your additional plunge. There is a lot that you can know from merely observing. Every fact that is now published in books, was in the past based on an observation made by a person. This should help you. Good luck :) Can anyone give the answers for the questions mentioned? :P Thanks for the A2A. 