How does Jazz work?
Jazz "works" like most other forms of music, in the sense that it features: - Melody (The part of the song you can hum along with) - Rhythm (The part of the song that you can dance to, or that makes you clap your hands) - Harmony (The part of the song you may not "hear" in the strict sense, but that creates an emotional reaction through tension-and-release) Jazz is so far evolved that it is broken into all sorts of sub-genres like Smooth Jazz, Bop, Free, Soul, etc. It is played by all sorts of instruments, up to and including electronic instruments. The most special thing about jazz is that it has retained improvisation as a core value. When you listen to jazz music, you're generally hearing something that was 20% prepared and 80% made up on the spot. The "made up on the spot" bits are still the product of lots of practicing and tradition, but unlike most music, you'll rarely hear the same jazz song done exactly the same way twice. This can make jazz hard for non-jazz musicians to appreciate, since they are used to something more predictable and repeatable. Jazz musicians run the gamut from trained to untrained, just like in any other musical format. They have a long tradition of song material to pull from, and it is common in jazz to do variations on classic songs. In rock you would call these "covers," a bit derisively. In jazz there's no negative connotation, and most musicians start playing jazz by performing "Standards," which are traditional songs that have been played various ways by various musicians for the last 100 years. This can make jazz hard for non-jazz musicians to appreciate, since they may not appreciate the cultural or historical relevance of certain songs. Going back to those sub-genres, some jazz musicians define "real" jazz as music that builds on these Standards, which is rarely the case with genres like Smooth Jazz or Free Jazz. These latter forms draw inspiration from other musical genres like rock, or even progressive Western Classical music of the 20th Century. Jazz "works" differently for different people, depending on the style of jazz you encounter and your musical bias. If you grew up listening to Soul and R&B, musicians like Kirk Whalum will sound great to you. If you are old enough to remember show tunes and big band jazz, musicians like Wynton Marsalis will sound great to you. If you grew up listening to punk or rock, musicians like John Zorn and John Scofield will sound great to you. 