What software exists for visualizing and analyzing large networks?
There have been a lot of terrific answers to this question! I wanted to point out though that the best software to use for network analysis in a particular circumstance will really depend on a number of factors, including: What skills you have, especially do you have development skills and if so what languages? How large the network in question is? Are you more focussed on visualization or the computation of metrics such as centrality, betweenness, etc.? What is your budget, if any?It's a bit of a generalization and the below is not an exhaustive list, but in my mind the available tools can be divided into four categories: Focused Desktop Tools Gephi: Probably the most popular network visualization package out there. Gephi doesn't require any programming knowledge. It's strength is that it is able to produce very high quality visualizations. It can also handle relatively large graphs - the actual size will depend on your infrastructure (particularly RAM) but you should be able to go up to 100,000 nodes without a problem. It does have the ability to calculate a few of the more common metrics such as degree, centrality, etc. but it's a stronger tool for visualization than analysis. [Open Source] NodeXL: NodeXL is an Excel add-in so you will need Excel to use it which is a bit of a limitation for Mac users for example. It doesn't have all of the flexibility of Gephi in terms of visualization but can produce some quality visualizations. It also interfaces directly with the SNAP library for analysis which gives it access to a nice set of efficient algorithms for metric calculations. The main advantage of NodeXL though is neither in its visualization or analysis functionality but rather in it's data collection - it interfaces with the Twitter API nicely for example and many of the use cases for NodeXL involve the visualization and analysis of social media data in my experience [Open Source but as I write this they have announced the Open Source functionality will be limited and that a Commercial option will be introduced]  Cytoscape: There is actually both a desktop version as well as a javascript version for developers (see cytoscape.js). In my experience it's primarily used in the biology domain but can certainly be used outside of it and is capable of producing high quality visualizations. [Open Source] Ucinet: In my experience Ucinet is most widely used in academic circles. It's very strong on analytics with a large number of metrics. However, it is quite weak on visualization in my view (really thinking about its cousin Netdraw here), i.e. it can calculate both the common metrics as well as some quite arcane metrics but it's not great at turning those results into a well presented visualization. It also requires Windows for installation so Mac users have to be creative by using an emulator for example. [Commercial] Pajek: At a high-level, not too dissimilar to Ucinet in that it is quite strong on analytics but relatively weak on visualization. There is also a version called Pajek-XXL which is specifically designed for very large graphs - if you have a network with millions of nodes and no programming skills and would like to analyse it then this wouldn't be a bad starting place. [Commercial]General Desktop / On-Premise Solutions Palantir: Very expensive on-premise solution. Not specifically designed for traditional network analysis but rather making sense of network data in a much more general way. Used by intelligence agencies and the like. [Commercial] IBM i2 Analyst's Workstation: Similar to Palantir. There is a whole history here - i2 used to be a standalone company that was acquired by IBM and there was some interesting litigation between Palantir and i2 prior to this. [Commercial]Cloud Based Tools Polinode: Polinode is software-as-a-service for network analysis, i.e. you can upload networks to the cloud and then visualize them there like you do with Gephi but with the key advantage that you can share them with other people without having them download software. It also includes analysis capabilities including 20 of the most common metrics for network analysis - it doesn't have all the metrics of say a Ucinet but for most use cases should have enough. Since it runs in your browser, if your network is very large (e.g. >50,000 nodes) then you are probably better off using one of the developer tools or a desktop tool designed for very large networks. Since it's cloud-based, Polinode is also able to integrate relationship-based surveys for the collection of network data. [Commercial - full disclosure: I'm the founder] Developer Tools NetworkX : An active community and terrific if you have some Python knowledge. If you have a large dataset (>100,000 nodes say) then this is a great place to start as many of the computationally intensive metrics now make use of sparse matrices. [Open Source] iGraph: Also good for large graphs and if you prefer R over Python for your data analysis and have a solid knowledge of R then you may want to use iGraph. [Open Source] SNAP: 