How did you prepare for IIT-JEE?
Thanks for A2A. My story is relatively more like an adventure. Tl;Dr version : class 11th - All fun and no studies. class 12th - 15-18hrs of study each day and proved everyone wrong that one year is not enough to get into IIT. (certainly I am not endorsing this 1 year funda to anyone. It was my mistake) PART I After class 10th I took admission in FIITJEE pinnacle course just because few of my studious friends also did. I left my school to join another creepy one. Now his turned out to be my biggest mistake. The pattern was pretty bad at FIITJEE.  There were teachers who on the very first class started to throw difficult (only lengthy if your concepts are clear) questions and when everyone used to give up , they solved it on board and thats the way things started progressing. I used to study like 3 hrs of day.   I used to grab some part of it and did not understand most, but still was convinced as it was the most expensive institute and I followed blindly. Even in the tests , they used to throw the same questions they taught and the we used to score well and thought we are on road to success. Almost after an year , my father asked me to give a NARAYANA institute test series exam just to check things out. When I gave the exam , my rank was beyond 1 Lakh. Now that was a scary thing , only 10 months left and I was nowhere near any NITs. Dreams seemed shattered. Got good scolding by my parents for such ignored method of studies. PART II Class 12th somewhere around May. Losing hopes was not the thing my father taught me. I played the biggest gamble of my life. I left FIITJEE. Yes I left it. I joined other local institutes, that too for both classes 11th and 12th at same time. I used to like study 14-17 hrs a day for next 3-4 months. I did not lose hope. Things started to click me and I grabbed the concept. Slowly things started to look in control. I left all coachings at once. During last 4 months I completed class 11th pretty well. When other good students started revising , I started to study my class 12th portion without any coaching. I finished that too within 3-4 months. So the last 8 months with 15-18 hrs per day pulled me in line with others. From Feb to April , yes even during boards , I revised hard. Studied little for boards. Then came the D-Day when I needed to perform. The last day before JEE my parents said something which motivated me till infinity - Son , we have seen you working hard since last 8 months. Even we feel that you have touched the height of working hard. Even you don't succeed in getting into IIT , we would still be happy because both of us did not expect such an effort and commitment from you. You may fail at getting into IIT but certainly you would never fail in your life. and BAAAAANG !!!. I did it. I cracked JEE. I couldn't perform to the level I wanted but still did manage to somehow creep into IIT Roorkee. Boards results - 87% , not good but atleast not bad. I expected around 75%. So what I say is , study with full spirit. Do not lose hope. I would repeat again , do not lose hope. Remember when you feel frustrated after trying hard , its just God's method of testing things. If you succumb , you accept defeat. You just need 10% more effort to put in to reach success. I had little guidance from others, rest was my own. PS : My parents were pretty supportive too. I used to behave weird due to excessive studies and frustration but not once they complained. Updated 132w ago • View Upvotes