How does Jazz work?
Well, it obviously depends on what you mean when you are asking how it works, what aspects you are looking to get covered. In contrast to other answers I'll try to outline the very basics that all Jazz standards, the most prominent Jazz pieces that every Jazz musician would know, have in common. There are some newer more advanced styles of Jazz, such as Free, Fusion etc. but I think it's save to say that everything up to, let's say 1950 followed these rules: A Jazz musician will play a song according to: The Theme, a specific melody that is unique to a song The Chords, a particular sequence of harmonies that are underlying to the melody Here's how a typical, so called "real book" score of a Jazz standard would look like, in this example for the famous tune "Autumn Leaves" Notice that the Theme is written in common musical notation, such would not be different form classical music or any other music score. The chords are not written in musical notation but instead above a bar in an abbreviation specific to Jazz (classical musicians cannot read these and therefore terribly suck at playing Jazz). I risk my life of being sentenced to death by the Jazz police, but here are the meanings of some common abbreviations, C-7 is a C minor chord with a minor seventh added to it, C7 is a C major chord with a minor seventh added to it, Cmaj7 is a C major chord with a major seventh added to it, there are many more chords and alternations of chords which means that the fifth, sixth and ninth could be diminished in some cases (more on this later on). In addition to the Theme of a song, Jazz musicians would typically play a song like this: Intro (this would just be made up usually just before the musicians start to play) Theme (there are also repetition with certain parts replaced by alternate versions in the first, second, third... run, see the above sheet, there is a certain part labeled with 1. and 2.) Improvisation (according to the chords the tune would go on and musicians can improvise after each other, while the others keep on playing the chords) Theme Autro The most interesting and expressive part of a Jazz song is the improvisation. One musician at a time would usually improvise over the song, while the others would accompany him with the chords. The soloist who is improvising would make use of certain scales that work with each chord, a set of tones that are in harmony with the chord currently played (I am not covering which scales work for which chords here, but ask me in the comments if you want to know). During improvisations the alternation of chords (diminishing fifth, sixth or ninth, adding 4th) would also play an important role for accompanying the soloist and very good Jazz musicians would hear the subtleties of the soloist currently improvising and alternate the chords accordingly to make it fit even better (most chords can be alternated variously, but for some chords a specific alternation can be explicit due to certain harmonic constraints). There are also instrument specific "best practices" for how to make use of chords, that would differ depending on the instrument. Obviously playing chords on the piano is different than playing them on the base, the guitar etc. Usually everyone in the Jazz band gets a turn on improvising for at least one complete run through the entire piece. For the drum solo the band usually stops playing and let's the drummer improvise with being accompanied for a complete run through the piece. Another popular way for drum improvisation is to switch between drum impro (without the band playing) and instrumental impro evry 2 or 4 bars, this creates a sort of ping-pong like effect with the drum impro and instrumental impro taking quick alternating turns. Often times the audience also claps right after a soloist has finished improvising, even though the piece itself has not yet ended and another soloist might improvise next. When all impros are done, the band plays the Theme once again and ends the song with an autro. The really interesting thing about Jazz is that it is a logical harmonic system that each of the musicians (except for the drummers maybe, sorry if I had to insult you guys for the 10'000th in my life), knows not only theoretically but even at subconscious level so that fast playing and impro over the chords becomes intuitive. The chords can further be put in relation to each other. Usually this is done by defining the key of the entire piece (or part of it if it switches in the middle of a piece) and then putting the chords in intervall-like relation to the key. In the above example of "Autumn Leaves" the key is E minor. So then all the other chords can put in to perspective like this A-7=IV, D7=VII, Gmaj=III, Cmaj=VI, F(sharp)-7b5=II, B7=V, E-=I. Good Jazz musicians would also be able to translate a song into another key dynamically in real time and would therefore use such logic. Translating of the key of song can be required if a certain singer's range is not optimal for certain keys, so then this would be a case where the Diva tells the band: "Play the song in G minor instead of E minor, please guys". 