How does Jazz work?
There are multiple types of Jazz. As someone else already mentioned, the original (aka Traditional) Jazz started around 1900, and some time after 1930, the new versions of Jazz like Swing and Bebop arrived which are far from the original, and to me personally, modern Jazz has nothing to do with music anymore (sorry, but being a musician myself, I can't see any structure or harmony in what some people are playing - it feels more like showing off how many notes you can squeeze out of your instrument in the shortest amount of time to me...). So when talking about Traditional Jazz, here's a few notes: - Syncopation - one of the elements that created Jazz was Ragtime where often notes were not on the beat, but between beats. - Fairly simple harmonies - often, you'd have Blues harmonies (another element that created Jazz), i.e. the 3 chords I, IV, and V, and most chords don't get more complicated than a 7 chord. Add a few special features like diminished chords Io or going from I to III7 to VI7 to II7 to V7 and back to I (basically, each chord is the V of the next chord), and that's about the most complicated harmonies you'll find in Traditional Jazz. - A lot of improvisation, sometimes only slight variations of the original melody, but generally following the harmonies fairly closely. - Cooperative improvisation - this is huge in Traditional Jazz and requires a good ear. After the melody has been played at least once (typically by the trumpet with the other instruments playing harmony or improvisations underneath), every musician (especially the people in front) plays their own improvisation, but generally in the "style" of their instrument, e.g. the clarinet tends to be a "filler" instrument that plays especially to counter the melody of the trumpet. - Blue notes - in short, you play something similar to an Eb in a C chord instead of the E, but it has to be done with feeling. Often, the note is not quite that low, but somewhere in between, and the note can also be "pulled", i.e. start lower and then rise back to the E. - Emotions - to me, Traditional Jazz is a very emotional type of music, and you can put a lot into it. - Drive - Jazz tends to get your feet tapping. There's probably tons more I could say, but let's leave it at this for now. If you're interested in playing Traditional Jazz (you first have to know how to play an instrument), I recommend finding a few choice videos on Youtube, studying them and starting to play along with them to get a feel for the music and to simply start experimenting with it. 