How can one keep oneself updated about all the things happening around?
A2A. Yeah, I'll bite. These seem a lot more sensible than those crush, love, relationship, depression A2A requests, and I am so flattered you mentioned me on that list along with those names. I don't know if really know that much about my surrounding, nonetheless, I'll try to surmise my methods. News. Well, this is kinda obvious, isn't it? I understand that you might be a student, living in hostels, not having regular access to television or newspapers. Try installing The Times of India (TOI) Android, iPhone and Blackberry News App, or any other news application you are comfortable with. Now you can have access to news and current events on the go. During your daily bus commute, or a boring lecture. These apps have a lot of features and you can segregate, bookmark and save articles for later. Social Media. This might not seem useful, but, trust me, social media put to just the right use can be one of the most powerful tools available to us. Facebook, can be really useful at times. Follow this simple rule. Unsubscribe or Unfollow all friends and pages whose contents makes you nauseated. These include random cat pics, duck faces, SMDA (social media display of affection), and the photography pages. Follow Facebook pages of news channels, awareness campaigns, pages like Buzzfeed, LifeHacker, Wired, The Other 98%, Grammar blogs, Washington-Post and the like. You could customize your feed based on the news and activity you want to know about and the ones you don't. Keep an eye out for your "Trending Topics" section. Believe it or not, not everyone out there on Facebook is stupid. This section actually carries sensible news. You could also keep a check on this section on Twitter. Talk. Yes, talk to people. Being an introvert is great, but, sometimes, it's really beneficial to open up to people. Try to strike up conversations with people whom you think would have a better update on their surroundings than you. Or, if you're that shy, you could listen to talk shows on the internet. Not all the Comedy Central ones, although even these can contain enough thought provoking material. Try shows like The Daily Show with Jon Stewart, Last Week Tonight with John Oliver, and the likes, and how can you forget TED? While you're at it, get the App too. Graph Search. Quora has that, YouTube has that, Facebook has that. When you come across some piece of new information or fact, search it up on the internet, and read thoroughly about it. Look for links, or facts, within that piece that you were not familiar with. Finish the current article and then move over to the link which you weren't familiar with. Keep going till you that you can practically answer every question on that topic. Deep Web. Not many people know about this. You could try it out. It's like getting an inner sneak peak view of the world wide web. This page (Deep Web Search - A How-To Site) lists some amazing deep web techniques and pages. Now you are really getting at being a pro and not just any Google search user. You could also have a look at the Internet Archive: Wayback Machine pages of news sites for historical news and checkpoints. Crawl the Web. You could also crawl the web yourself with any standard Web crawler, and create a personalized search engine. I have that on my system. What I do, is I index a few pages off the internet on the topic I am currently interested in, and crawl it. Suppose I want to know more about the recent CIA torture report, I pick up this page and index and crawl it. My crawler finds out links from this page and goes in further to a depth specified by me. It goes on like an n-ary tree data structure. The root node is our specified page. Its links are its children and so on, till a depth of three. Actually the structure is a graph, but, I have eliminated the cycles for simplicity. You could look into tutorials on how to set up a web crawler. The advantage of this is, you won't be overwhelmed with a lot of information at once. Burst fire modes are always effective. That's about it. Above all, you need a bubbling interest for this kind of thing. A thirst, an attitude that, "I need to know more about this", and not, "Meh, why do I need to know more about something that doesn't concern me". I have a wish, a vision - to know a bit something about everything. From fine dining to Somali pirates, from start-ups to the Berlin Wall, so that what ever be the conversation, I don't have to sit hand in hand and contribute nothing. I like to be a part of every conversation. Best of luck. Updated 58w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Anonymous