Lists of Top Quora Content: What are some of the best answers on Quora?
One of the most complete, accurate, yet excruciatingly witty answers I have ever seen—and I have read A LOT around here— is this bit of genius: Sander Daniels' answer to What is it like to work at a startup that's on fire? Is it entertaining, you ask? Whoo, yes. Sander Daniels is spot-on, and yet Shakespearean-ly sneaky.   :) I'd like to say "I'll come back and add more links when other brilliant answers need to get more attention," but I might not. I'm not sure I want to dilute the power of this brilliant roman-à-clef of SV startup life. ————— EDIT 15 Oct 2011: Well, it took months, but I do have to add one. Lex Cooke's answer to How do men feel about women who don't expend much effort on appearances (e.g., clothes, makeup)? No better set-up has ever been used on Quora: an exquisite extended metaphor that will have you smiling, scratching your head, and then burning bright in your aha! moment— and then Lex Cooke answers the question. Funny, touching, and actually uplifting/empowering in a funny way—if you know a young woman who worries about such things, let her read this and worry no more. ————— EDIT 18 Dec 2012: Sugandha Banga's answer to Will I ever be happy again after the loss of my only child? The honesty, wisdom, and compassion Sugandha Banga exhibits in this answer is ART. If you read no other "bests," please don't miss this answer. ————— EDIT 7 Jan 2013: (How did more utter brilliance occur again so soon?) Anonymous' answer to What is it like to talk to a serial killer? Never in the history of Quora has the power of being Anon been so wisely deployed. I dare you not to get chills as you read this answer. I dare you not to want to thank Anon for going through this, instead of you. ————— EDIT 1 Jul 2013: Dan Holliday's answer to International Development: How do we challenge traditional practices such as female genital mutilation, without forcing our views on other cultures? Rage, barely contained, in the service of asking us all to see the world in fewer shades of grey. Sometimes there is a right and a wrong, and not just a "how I see it" and "how you see it." Thank you, Dan Holliday. ————— EDIT 23 Aug 2013: Marcus Geduld's answer to Do women, deep down inside, like being stalked? This is not an easy question to answer with objectivity... or even to read with objectivity. Yet Marcus Geduld manages to do that, and to explore this question with incredible depth, nuance, and understanding—not just of a woman's perspective, but I believe also of where a man who asked this question might have been coming from. As he often does, Marcus takes a question where a knee-jerk answer would have been easy—and then walks down the more difficult path, making it look easy. ————— EDIT 22 Dec 2013: Christopher Reiss' answer to I am drinking and driving a lot. What are some things I can do to stop myself? I'm still reeling from the brilliance of this answer. Heartbreaking, brutal, with the ghost of Rod Serling helping Christopher Reiss to make his point. May this cruel beauty of an answer help a great many people. ————— EDIT 3 Apr 2014: Suzanne Sadedin's answer to What is the evolutionary benefit or purpose of having periods? "Wow, just wow," doesn't quite do it for Suzanne Sadedin's extraordinary answer. It's both scientifically well-presented, and accessible—even entertaining (!!)—for us mere mortals. Fascinating read, and just the sort of thing I keep coming back to Quora for, year after year. ————— EDIT 18 Nov 2014: Chloe Shani Malveaux's answer to Kim Kardashian Featured in Paper Magazine (November 2014): Why do some people think Kim's cover photo on Paper was racist? Some folks might think this question didn't need more than a couple of sentence answer. Not Chloe Shani Malveaux. She dove in and gave one of the most comprehensive, intelligent, and irrefutable answers on this whole darned site—it must have taken a long time to write this magnificent mini-essay, but boy, was it worth it. DO click through to read, and to be forced to think harder than you will anyplace else, all week long. Maybe all month long. ————— EDIT 18 Sep 2015: Adam Rauscher's answer to What are some of the greatest acting performances to not win an Oscar? Why? At last count there are forty-three answers on this question. Lots of very good nominees for greatest performance not to win an Oscar. But nobody fully took on the single word "Why?" in a truly masterful way until Adam Rauscher. His answer is packed with thoughtful observations on the film industry and bunches more nominations for "greatest." It will leave you wanting to put every single film on your to-do list, to examine the performances again from Adam's thought-provoking perspective. I refuse to say "I'll never come back here and add more," because eventually, someone else is going to blow me away. Again. Updated 19w ago • View Upvotes • Not for Reproduction