Who is your favorite Fields Medal winner?
Terence Tao. Because I have met him. (Well, actually I've met 3 other Fields medallist, but he impressed me the most with his presentation.) I was 15 years old at that time, and I've been selected as a participant in the 50th International Mathematical Olympiad, which was held in Bremen, Germany, in 2009. And, being the 50th anniversary of the IMO, aside from hard problems involving silly grasshopper and excursions to a museum about weather, the organizer prepared an extra day for participants, team leaders and observers to celebrate the 50th anniversary, by lectures given by 6 previously successful IMO participants who has gone to become professional, award-winning mathematician. These 6 are: Béla Bollobás, a participant in the first 3 IMOs (1959, 1960, 1961), winning 2 gold medals in the last two IMOs he's participated. He was once supervised by Paul Erdős, and has several notable students, some of which is also giving a talk in this event. His topic was "The Lion and the Christian, and Other Pursuit and Evasion Games". Timothy Gowers, winning his gold medal in IMO 1981, with a perfect score of 42. He is one of Bollobás's student. He has also won Fields medal in 1998, by the age of 35. His research are about functional analysis and combinatorics, two seemingly unrelated topics, until he established the link himself. His topic was "How do IMO Problems Compare with Research Problems?", mainly focusing on Ramsey Theory. László Lovász, winning three gold medals in IMO 1964-1966, including two special prizes, usually reserved for elegant, amazing, and unexpected solution. By the way, so did his son in IMO 2008. He was the president of the IMU, in 2007 - 2010, and his research is about combinatorics. His topic was "Graph Theory Over 45 Years". Stanislav Smirnov. He participated in 2 IMOs, 1986 and 1987, winning two gold medals, both with a perfect score of 42. His research topic was about complex and geometric analysis, dynamical systems, and probability theory, and he's mostly well-known for his work on perculation theory.  He won a Fields medal in 2010. There's a story behind his topic for his talk: He was the last person to submit his topic, and after seeing 5 other topics, he decided to swap Gowers's topic and making it his own, which is: "How do Research Problems Compare with IMO Problems?", mainly talking about the comparison itself. Terence Tao, the youngest ever participant and bronze-medallist in the IMO (IMO 1986), by the age of 10, and also the youngest gold-medallist in the IMO (until now!), winning his medal at IMO 1988 in Australia by the age of 13. Since then, he's the youngest person ever to be appointed as a full professor in UCLA by the age of 24, and winning Fields medal in 2006 by the age of 31. His topic for the talk was, "Structure and Randomness in the Prime Numbers" Jean-Christophe Yoccoz was a participant in IMO 1973 and 1974, winning the first gold medal for France in IMO 1974, tied on the girst place. His research topic is about dynamical systems, which interplays with complex analysis, number theory, and other areas of mathematics. He won a Fields medal in 1994 for his work. His topic was "Small Divisors: Number Theory in Dynamical Systems" Now, we were sitting in a really comfy chair, really tired from excursions and glad that the problems are out of the way, and now listening to the talks given by 6 mathematicians. I am still awake when Tao and Bollobás's talk, but by the time I got into the third talk (which was I-had-forgotton-who-gave-it, I think it was Timothy Gowers), I am in a state of half-asleep and half-awake. Half-asleep because the chair was really comfortable, and half-awake because the talk is still interesting. But the time I got to the fifth talk, which was given by Yoccoz, I have absolutely no idea what he was talking about, and so I am on my way to the dream world. By the time I woke up, it was Lovász's talk, which suddenly got really interesting and so I listened. As for why Terence Tao, I think because his topic was so exciting for me (it was number theory, and being an IMO participant you are expected to know about number theory, algebra (algebra meaning high-school algebra), combinatorics and Euclidean geometry), and the number theory presented there was elementary, in some sense that I don't have to think to understand the presentation. For others' talk, it was also interesting, but I still had to think to understood it, and after a lengthy rumble with 6 problems in 9 hours, my brain needs some rest. Here (http://terrytao.files.wordpress....) is Terence Tao's slides for the talk, and for other speaker's topic, you can find a book titled "50th IMO - 50 Years of International Mathematical Olympiads", which also contains a lot of informations of the 50th IMO and the past 50 years of the IMO. After the talk, there is a reception outside the hall, where you could meet and talk with the speaker, possibly about anything. And so, I decided to find Terence Tao, and... 