How can one keep oneself updated about all the things happening around?
First of all, thanks for the A2A Samruddhi Deshmukh. I am flattered that you think I am someone who can answer this question. I went through the answers first before answering this one, and while there are many great answers with informative visuals, I feel that everything that's been stated involves adding something to what you do daily. While all that is great, before you add stuff to your life, I suggest you eliminate all the needless stuff first. See how much you can cut away from your life. Via negativa. (Apophatic theology) Perfection is achieved, not when there is nothing more to add, but when there is nothing left to take away. - Antoine de Saint-Exupery, French writer (1900 - 1944) To answer the question succinctly, I feel that all of us have 24 hours in a day. All of us have the same time. So the only thing that separates those who are up to date, with those who are not, is their efficiency of how they utilize these limited hours. Our willpower is limited. The number of 'context switches' that we can make in a day, highly affects our decision making abilities and our focus. Do read this article, a great one - Steve Jobs Always Dressed Exactly the Same. Here's Who Else Does Christopher Nolan (director) does not have a cell phone, or an email address! ('Dark Knight Rises' Director Christopher Nolan's Shocking Admission: No Cell Phone, Email Address) Imagine that. Get rid of unnecessary stuff from your room, Unfriend/unfollow/unsubscribe from people or pages or channels that you no longer have any interests in. Remove rarely used apps from your phone, turn off individual pop up notifications for apps. At times when we can do simple mundane jobs instead of slacking off, it helps if there are no distractions. The amount of time that we spend in useless crap, if noted statistically, it will shock you how we literally waste hours in a week, doing stuff that we wouldn't even dream of wasting our time in, otherwise. Cut away anything that isn't relevant to what you want to achieve in life. Do it now, while you can, and you'll thank yourself for it later when you'd have been otherwise distracted. Of course, you never want to get too extreme with this, because there is always value outside of what you've set up for yourself. Trust your own judgement and get rid of what you know, with reasonable certainty, to be a waste of your time. That leaves you with only what matters. Now that's productive. And then start doing all the great things that the other answers have already mostly covered. :) It's okay to not achieve 1000% productivity in a week. Give yourself some time. The power of compounding is greatly underestimated in this world. Always keep this image in your mind. Just doing 1% better each day, compared to just doing 1% worse: [One of the most powerful images that I have ever seen in my life. Speaks volumes.] TL;DR - Try to empty your glass of the worthless things, before you fill it with useful stuff. And choose the stuff you fill it with carefully, glasses have a limited retention capacity. Don't be too tough on yourself if you cannot be up-to-date in all the fields that you're interested in. Trust me, even the best of us are not perfect, and that's what makes us human. At least we don't lack in trying to attain excellence, that's what sets some people apart from others. :) 