How does one get accepted to Caltech as an undergraduate?
Daniel Lo is very correct about demonstrating an actual passion for science and STEM in general. This admission policy seems to have an actual impact on the campus, because something I noted when visiting Caltech and MIT was that the Caltech students seemed (in general) much much more passionate about their studies and education in general, while the MIT students I encountered seemed more focused on doing things to maximize their future incomes. This trend is also reflecting by the large (49% immediately go to grad school [1]) proportion of Caltech undergrad's that go on to earn Master's and PhD's. As for actually getting admitted, my biggest advice is: Apply Early Admission. When I visited and talked to the admissions officers, we talked about how Early and Regular Admission works. Caltech accepts about 600 each year, and about 225 choose to come. There is no fixed number that they take from Early Admission. She said something along the lines of "we take those who are extremeley qualified from early admission, and reject those who clearly aren't qualified. The rest get deferred and then looked at again with regular admission. Going into regular admission, we have already admitted X number of students, so we can only admit the top 600-X students from regular decision." Of course, they also don't know how many regular decision applications they are going to get, so it makes it even more confusing. I think she told me something like they admittted about 18 or 19% from early, and then would have to admit single digits from regular admission. Get good test scores! This of course won't do it alone, but I think its pretty much a prerequisite. 800 math on the SAT isn't required, but isn't too difficult if you take the SAT a couple of times and looks great. I personally sent in ACT and SAT scores, as well as SAT II's from Math II and Chemistry. I don't know if/how much they look at AP exams, but take them and do well on them! I've taken 8, including Calculus AB, Computer Science, Chemistry, Statistics, and received 5's on all of them. AP exams don't get you any credit at Caltech, but they can't look bad on your application. I wouldn't worry if you can't take them (school doesn't offer them), because most schools look at how well you've done in the context that you are from. One other Caltech class of 2015 student I've talked to over Facebook is from rural Oklahoma, has taken 0 AP exams (because none were offered at his school), and talked about how pathetic the physics education is at his school (most advanced topic: kinematics with variable velocity). However, he has taught himself a lot, and published some research on graph theory. Have a good class rank! I think Caltech actually looks at this less than other elite institutions like MIT, Princeton, Harvard, etc. I was ranked 25th (which was 4 point something  percentile) at my extremely competitive high school (but I think unknown to many college admissions people) and an MIT athletics coach told me that top 5% is essentially a requirement to get in, even if you are a recruited athlete. Do extracurriculars! I was less involved than many of my high achieving peers, but I was vice president of my school's Model United Nations club, a 4 year track and field athlete, 2 year member of successful BEST robotics team (couldn't do FIRST because of track), and worked as a counselor at a summer camp for 3 years. I was also maybe shockingly honest about my experience with BEST, saying that I wasn't very involved, not interested in the actual construction of the robot, but mostly active coming up with team strategy and deciding what the robot should and should not be able to do and observing group dynamics. I mentioned that my experience with BEST showed me that I don't have the patience to wait for things to be implemented or interest in minutiae such as which type of bolt to use and that I probably want to work in a more theoretical field rather than something like mechanical engineering. Write a badass essay! My supplementary essay for Caltech about interest in science is the single best thing I have ever written. Do an internship with something sciency. I interned at a petroleum engineering company for a summer. Note: This might not help with getting into Caltech, but is good general life advice. I did nothing at my internship, but I got paid $10/hour to do nothing (and learn a lot of programming on my own) rather than making $7.50/hour bagging groceries, my actual other job. Also, looks good on resume, and good for letter of recommendation or reference. Be interesting and human! My essay might not make the reader laugh out loud, but they would definitely at least smile at some points. Also, I biked across Iowa one summer (and put it on my application for summer events), and I would think random junk like that made my application stand out. Be internally driven! My essay was about how I taught myself AP Human Geography because a friend told me it was interesting and easy, and then how that got me interested in sociology, and then used and enhanced my technical skills to build a Facebook application used among my friends to introspect our social graph, and how this taught me a fair amount about graph mathematics and its algorithms, which I implemented myself. I didn't do any of this to help myself get into college; I did it because it was interesting, fun, and I had the time. I don't have any published papers or formal research experiences, but I think something like this helps an application as much, if not more, than research experience. Good letters of recommendation from STEM teachers are probably helpful. I sent one from my computer science teacher, one from my calc and stats teacher, and one from my spanish teacher. I only saw the letter from my spanish teacher (well after it was sent), and it was horrible. However, I knew my other two teachers very well, and they both liked me, and probably/hopefully have very positive things to say about me. Worth noting: only 2 letters were required (one from STEM, one from humanities), but I sent an extra. Get lucky. Admissions are a crapshoot. Something I didn't do that could have helped: Ask someone quite knowledgeable about the school's admissions to review your application. Namely, a current or past Caltech student. They have already been accepted, so they have a good idea of what it takes to be accepted and can help you. I would think more recent student's could be more helpfully since they know about the admission's office more recent decisions. [1] http://www.admissions.caltech.ed... 