I am passionate about almost nothing. I don't have an aim in life. I am from one of the IITs. Is it okay?
I'm glad that the top rated answer on this question quotes Paul Graham and Calvin Newport of Study Strategies, and another by someone who's put the rubber on the road and seen others do the same. I can reinforce those hypothesis here with actual examples from around you at IIT. Here's the point: it's not about finding an ephemeral quality lying deep within you, but being curious and involved with something that you have taken up. Case 1: Civil Engineering student, gets tired of Shaastra/Saarang hype (TechFest/CulFest) and decides to dive into finance and math modelling. No passion involved, just a possibility of getting good at something. Three years later, this summer, he's presenting at the MIT Sloan School of Management's Sports Analytics Conference ( Page on Sloansportsconference ). What is he presenting on? Player valuations at IPL Auctions. Started with: Intention to get good at something. Here is the interesting part: According to him, he is probably the only student who'll be presenting at the conference and suspects that it might be because Cricket is underrepresented. Remember this movie? Sports Analytics suddenly became a lot cooler now, didn't it? Here is Calvin Newport's (from Anubhav Agrawal's answer) hypothesis being justified: Don't search for passion, but acquire rare and valuable skills. To put it in more emotionally resonating terms, "Cultivate the craftsman mindset: How can I get even better at my own craft?". Case 2: Another guy, two years into his program at IIT, realizes that he is no longer an exceptional student. He finds no reason to think he is amongst the nation's best. Wants to do something awesome. Gets into a ton of activities only to be told by his father to pick just one. Around the same time, summer internship applications start. This guy gets the balls to apply to Dr. Robert Weinberg's (Dr. Weinberg's wiki page - Robert Weinberg) Cancer Research lab at MIT (he was a seven pointer.). He lands it, riding on the back of the work he'd been doing during the second year. One Renegade Cell is on my To Read List. Comes back with enlightenment, and spends his time at IIT as if he was a doctoral candidate, acquiring lots of laboratory skills and experience. Result? He has the luxury of applying to top European programs with a sub-8 CGPA. The interviews are on location and paid for by the University. Then there's the call he received from Sea6 Energy (Sea6 Energy | Seaweed Biotechnology) - a high tech startup with investors who have been Biocon's upper management and has collaboration with Denmark's Pharma giant Novozymes. Sea6 Energy is a startup that started in IIT Madras, in the same department that the person in question studies. As Navin Kabra said, keep in touch with the misfits/unusual/outliers. The startup doesn't make apps built on top of Facebook. It grows its own see weed and converts it to Biodiesel. A bunch of 24 year olds. What got this person an offer when the startup needed people? Rare valuable skills and a reputation amongst his peers. Case 3: A metallurgy student finds himself uninterested in his branch. Yet, he wants to do something technical. Well, at IIT Madras, you have CFI - Centre For Innovation. You could call it an open workshop/lab for students, operated by students. He heads out over there, but finds that there are just too many "Stud" people in the Robocon team and rethinks about where this might put him. Goes back to the planning board and decides to work on Computer Vision. The CVG group starts in CFI.  A few months later, IIT Madras competes at the International Aerial Robotics Challenge in 2009, and is recognized as the best computer vision team. I needed to keep people interested now, didn't I? A random robot that has cameras which require supplementation with computer vision. The computer vision group goes on to become the first group from the student run CFI to get industrial consultancy projects. (Computer Vision Club - Centre For Innovation ) At the same time, he joins a robotics startup, and across a space of two years make revenues in excess of Rs. 20 Lacs. ( http://educationtimes.com/index.aspx?page=article&secid=69&conid=2011061320110610144940509b7deb065 ) After finishing his B. Tech., he's still on campus, runs the robotics start-up (the other co founders will join him later) and is actively engaged with the Computer Vision Group. Industrial Consultancy and Sponsored Research - IC&SR - at IIT Madras has acted as a sort of liaison between them (represented and guaranteed by a faculty member) and industry. Reinforcing our hypothesis: He chose to get good at something. Furthermore, because it was his instinct, he chose something that he'd be the best at in his peer group. Rare, Valuable. At the same time, he didn't think about passion, but more about the quality of work. Or perhaps the joy of work was passion. By now, it must have become absolutely clear that no one starts out by figuring out what they really want to do with their lives. They start with something that interests them and decide to get good at it. The craftsman mindset. Case 4: A few students get interested in Design while they work in student teams for the festivals. A year down the line, we have Desto. (How did Desto begin, and more importantly, what can students learn about student life and opportunities at IIT-M from their story?). Moral of the story: They stumbled into work they liked, and decided to get good at it. So good at it that they make their living from it. No one asked themselves what their passion was, they did a bunch of things and decided they had fun doing design. Case 5: A confused freshman has nothing to do during the summers. He contacts a faculty for a project, and works on networks in systems biology. He later gets to present his work at a nationwide conference. This, while he was in his third semester. Again, and again, search for good work comes up. No one started with passion. Case 6: A wing mate decides he likes Rock music a little too much. Picks up the Acoustic guitar in his third year. Now approaching his fifth year, he practices regularly on the electric guitar. Dim lights, old school music on and full concentration on the playing. Case 7: I decide to get work on an IRP (Industry Relevant Problem) statement during Shaastra. My work is miserable, but I start throwing around phrases like data mining and machine learning a lot too often after that. But hey, wait, I was interested in Education. I liked teaching. I would love to work on the IIT JEE problem. So? I get to mix data with education. Perhaps not so rare, but still valuable enough. I am just getting started on this though, so no success stories for you. The Knowledge graph has topics as nodes, and the data is the time spent, streaks of right and wrong and the path taken. From The Khan Academy. (But hey, we did make it to IIM-A's B-Plan competition's final 10. Does that count? Also, earned some money online, freelancing and invested it in webspace, domain name, and prototypes. It never really worked out, but that's the story for whatever it's worth.) So how did it start? An innocent decision to participate in a competition triggered this chain of events. No passion/wassion. Case 8: Me again. During the IIT JEE days, I loved to help around my friends. Sometimes that resulted into long sessions that were virtually lectures. I suck at Organic Chemistry, so I teach myself that rigorously and I find it interesting. Later on, I teach it to a friend or two in Kota, a dear friend the next year and then while at IIT, I was perhaps the only person who was available in the NSS program to teach Chemistry. Next year, I cash in on this after my summer intern and teach at a local tuition center. I have loads of fun during this entire time and further decide that teaching can be an option for me. (Some vids are on Youtube, search for TheSoleYankee if you want.) Yup, that's me. Hydration of alkynes. It was always an interesting read in Morrison Boyd. I would obviously not want to confine myself to the IIT JEE industry, but I'll keep the fun I had all this while in mind when the chance comes - maybe in a corporate setting, maybe in a startup as a workshop over something. Again, no passion. No figuring out. Simple flow of life that introduced the person in question to something interesting. Case 9: Calvin Newport wants to start a company, but doesn't know what kind of work he would do. After all, he was a teenager. Reluctantly, they "settle" for web designing. He and his partner end up making a few grands and get featured in the media and Cal Newport earns himself an interesting phase in life, along with a good college application that would pave the way for his M.I.T. doctorate and his career as a Computer Science professor. Prof. Calvin Newport of Georgetown University. Moral: Doing unglamorous things like web designing ended up making someone's life interesting. It also shook his belief in the "Passion Hypothesis" and later on he never used it to make a decision. Summing it all up: There's no "Passion" waiting for you. You do something that catches your attention and then decide to get better at it. (People in the workforce might want to add reality bites in the comments.) It's even better if what you do is rare and valuable. Read Calvin Newport's book So Good They Can't Ignore You. Amazon.com: So Good They Can't Ignore You: Why Skills Trump Passion in the Quest for Work You Love eBook: Cal Newport: Kindle Store The one reason I recommend it is that it is so very different from all the career/motivation books out there. This one doesn't make you feel that the world is full of possibilities. This one makes you feel that you have to get your ass off the chair. It features multiple case studies, including a multi-millionaire, a Rhodes Scholar who went on to be a MIT Researcher and an investment banker turned farmer. Plus Calvin Newport's style of writing in which he "makes claims" and "presents arguments" seems so tongue-in-cheek and fitting, coming in from an Academic. PS : Careless typos and omissions expected. Please suggest edits if any of them comes to your attention. PPS: I leave it on the more experienced to point out cases where the person has found "passion" later in life. Updated 85w ago • View Upvotes