How did you prepare for IIT-JEE?
Now that I think of it, I feel that I should have made a note of all the things that I did or did not do during those two years. Too bad Evernote didn't exist back then. Just to make things clear, I was at a residential school from standard 5 to 12, Ramakrishna Mission Vidyalaya, Narendrapur, which is one of the best in Kolkata. I spent the two very important years of my life at a residential school.  Staying and preparing from a hostel had its pros and cons. I was away from all the distractions at home and that definitely helped with the preparation. However, I could not take any private tuition classes because I wasn't allowed to leave the premises of my hostel for those. I took the FIITJEE correspondence material for my preparation. The following are some of the things that helped with my preparation: Study with someone: This was probably the most important factor for me. And I'm not talking about gossip friends. I studied with people who had the same degree of motivation for clearing the exams. Studying with a companion instills healthy competition. The two people I studied with, both cleared JEE. Study Times: I read it somewhere that our brains work best at specific times during the day and that it depends on how you train your mind. I had two years to get my brain to work best from 9am-12noon and 1pm-4pm, which were the times during the day when the JEE would take place. How did I do this? Well, I exercised my brain the most during those times of the day. Solving problem sets all night wouldn't help me achieve that. So, I used to solve the hardest problems during the day, and read up materials, do other school-related work, etc. during the night. All the practice tests that I took were during the time the final exam would be held, which brings us to the next point. Mock tests: I enrolled for FIITJEE's AITS, and a bunch of us got special permission from the hostel authorities to be allowed to leave the premises to take the test. The warden was in fact so  supportive that he arranged for our travel to and from the test centers. I have heard a lot of people saying that "these mock tests are of no use" and that "they are far more difficult that the actual thing", etc. But, for me they were the most important tool in getting my brain used to handling the kind of pressure that the JEE examination exerts. Sitting in an examination hall for 6 hours, frustrated from not being able to solve problems is not an easy thing. And you dont want the JEE to be the first time you experience such a thing. Giving a multitude of such mock tests got me used to those experiences. Playing: Engaging in some sort of physical activity is essential. By playing, I in no way mean video-games. They are a strict no-no. But, its good to take part in some sport, or simply running. This gives your body the much needed 'F5'[Refresh]. It is evident that you would get extremely bored from only working, and playing a sport would give you a deserved break. No Distractions: A lot of students say they work better with music. Bullshit! Unless its manual labour, music does not help with your work. Its just an excuse most kids nowadays come up with because they are too bored studying. Your brain needs to completely assimilate every thing that your studying, and music just serves as noise to that data. Its like trying to thread a needle while watching a movie. You need your eye to be completely focussed on the needle. Focus: Never for a single moment think that IITs are not the place for you, that its too effing difficult. NEVER! The moment that idea crosses your mind, you're doomed. You are better off not giving the test at all. For the entire length of two years, you have believe that you WILL clear the JEE. That has to be your sole purpose for these two years. People around you will say all sorts of things like 'Live your life', 'There's more to life than clearing the JEE', but you need to turn a deaf ear to all that talk. You have to work your ass off. You can 'live your life' later. And believe me, life will be much better later. Updated 86w ago • View Upvotes