I am passionate about almost nothing. I don't have an aim in life. I am from one of the IITs. Is it okay?
The bad news is that it is NOT OK (don't believe the feel good, but ultimately useless old parable in Anonymous' answer). The good news is that you don't have to worry about it right now. It is quite normal to not have a passion during the earlier parts of your life. Especially if you're a product of the Indian education system. And especially if you're "successful" enough to get into an IIT. The good news is that you've realized it early. Most people take 15 more years to get to that point. I am at the age (late 30s early 40s) where lots of my friends are now running into midlife crises - which pretty much means that they have just recently realized that they are not really passionate about anything and hence getting the feeling that their life is wasting away. And it takes about 2-3 years (at least, sometimes more) of introspection and inner turmoil for them to figure out that they are passionate about. I predict that the same will happen to you. But earlier than these guys, because you appear to have more self-awareness than most other people in your situation. So, what is the good news, and does the fact that you are an IITian have any relevance? Here is what I think. You're an IITian, so it proves two things: You have above-average conventional intelligence (the kind of intelligence that is measured by IQ tests, and sought after by many employers) You have above-average discipline. You don't pass the JEE without having done significant amounts of hard work some time in your life (either in 12th std, or earlier). The combination of intelligence and discipline is important. What this means is two things: In spite of the fact that you don't have a passion, you can coast through life without having to worry about your career or finances. You will get a good job, a good salary, and manage to make reasonable progress in most aspects of life without really having to put in too much effort. So, you don't need to start panicking about the lack of passion until it starts really bothering you. When the meaninglessness of life starts bothering you, and you start looking for a passion, assuming you find something to be passionate about, your intelligence, discipline, finances built up over the years of doing a conventional passionless job (assuming you did not squander it), and network of friends, coworkers and classmates (IITian or otherwise) give you a much higher-than-average chance of being successful. Once you realize that you want to be passionate about something, will you actually find something to be passionate about? There is no guarantee. However, my experience suggests that it takes about 6 months to 3 years of rootlessness to find something you're passionate about. In other words, here is what you need to do: Don't worry about this issue right now Make sure you are saving money away for the day in the future when you will suddenly want to discover and follow your passion. In an ideal world, you should have enough money saved to allow you about 3 years of goofing off. (1 year to discover your passion, and 2 years to build up your passion into something that gives you enough of an income to survive on.) Keep doing things that you find interesting. Keep meeting non-standard people (especially those who appear to be following their passion.) And, finally, to use an over-used cliche: Keep Calm and Carry On. 