How can one keep oneself updated about all the things happening around?
There are various ways you can stay updated. Here are some methods that I believe can help you start this journey: Harnessing the power of Google: There's so much you can do with Google that there are entire threads on Quora explaining the effectiveness of it and highlighting the best of the giant. But since you have a very specific query of "staying updated", here's how Google can help. Let's say you want to be in the know about some topics The best way to stay updated here is to create an alert about them. Go to Google Alerts and choose topics/websites/blogs you want to stay updated on. Once that's done, decide on the various filters like frequency, sources, language etc and you will be good to go. Alternatively, you can search within a specific site for a particular topic. To do this, precede your query with site: if you know you want your answer from within a specific site or type of site (.org, .edu). For example: site:edu or site:nytimes.com. Neat trick eh? Google News is another way you can stay updated. An advice: Don't let boring stuff crowd your news. Use filters. What can Google offer if you want to stay updated on phone via an app? Google Newsstand all the way. It's a great app and I recommend it to everyone for the reasons that a) It allows me to create a library of sources b) Bookmark stuff for later c) Share it right away with my circles d) Beautiful reading interface and e) Material design. Social Media: Google is a great way to stay updated with everything you want to know but social media has powers of its own. Facebook: It's a great source of information for everything you want to know given you use it wisely. Firstly, remove all the clutter you might have accumulated by hitting unlike on all the stupid pages. Once that's done, move on to discover pages that will help you know more about stuff you might be interested in. Some of my favorite ones are ScienceAlert, Fast Company, The Hindu, The New York Times, Business Insider, Youth Ki Awaaz, Firstpost, TED. There are tonnes that you can find. Follow them and slowly your newsfeed will become a customized information source. Another practice you can follow is to buddy up with some of your friends who are as hungry for knowledge as you are. Then make a Facebook group wherein everyone shares one piece of information they loved on the group everyday. After a while, you will have a great amount of friend- recommended knowledge that you can scroll through.  A year ago I started a similar Facebook group called "Find and Multiply" with a friend of mine and god it's full of stuff I go back to every month and wonder how beautiful knowledge is. On Twitter, follow influential people, news sources, blogs etc to stay updated. Download the twitter app on your phone and if you find time, scroll through the various tweets. The updated version of the twitter app now let's you read articles without having to open it in the browser - which saves a lot of time. Surely, you will find some excellent information everyday. I am not a heavy twitter user so my knowledge about the platform is limited to this. Though I enjoy tweets from Mashable, Uber Facts, Guy Kawasaki, The Next Web, History in Pictures and Thought Catalog. LinkedIn is another great source for news that you can use to stay updated on various topics such as technology, business, economics etc. Tools you can use: This is an important part of how you can stay updated. There are many apps out there that can help you but I would say stick to these two - Pocket and Evernote. Pocket: Pocket helps you save interesting articles that you can read later. Trust me on this, it will make your life easier and you will fall in love with this application. It also has a chrome extension that you can download for free from the chrome store. That extension is godly if you ask me. One click and you save the entire article from the web right to your phone. It is effortless and you will love it. Get it here - Pocket. Evernote: For the rest, use Evernote; it is the best out there and the recent development they have made in their web interface is only going to make you stick. With all the knowledge you will be accumulating in the times to come, Evernote will serve as a great source for writing down your ideas and opinions. You can use Evernote on your desktop, on your phone (available on Android and iOS) or on web. It syncs in seconds and you will love it for that. Books: Read at least one book every month on a topic of your choosing. Start with that and slowly you will start loving every bit of the reading experience. Also, try reading books other than your current interests. Explore and find books that others find interesting too. It's more like going on a blind date with a book with no purpose other than an intention to learn something new every time. Learn to speed read and make sure you make most of your time. A great website for amazing book recommendations and everything related to books is Goodreads. Websites, Blogs and Channels: There are so many that they won't fit in this answer. For a detailed list, check out my answer that provides links to some amazing sources that you can follow to stay updated on everything of your interest. Here: Prateek Keshari's answer to Personal Productivity: What are the most productive ways to spend time on the Internet? Talking to people: At college, we are a small group of friends who love to argue and discuss on various topics ranging from politics, technology, science, business, economics etc. I look up to every conversation with them because everyone has so much to share about what they know. Even at work, I have a small group that follows a ritual of sharing not only what we did the past week but also informative stuff every Wednesday over an email thread under a section called: shit you should check out.  I believe, nothing comes close to having conversations with people from various backgrounds if you want to stay updated. Lastly, my answer to this question and all other answers too will amount to nothing if you don't keep nurturing your inner curiosity. Keep it growing and the best way to do it is to keep looking, keep exploring and to always believe in the power of knowledge. Good luck and I hope this helps! :) P.S. Welcome to Quora! :) 