What are the most ingenious theorems/deductions in graph theory?
I'd like to add the Four Color problem to this list. The problem statement is deceptively simple - given a map, can you color regions on it with only four colors such that no two adjacent regions share the same color. It is fairly trivial to show an example where 4 colors are required. The question of whether four colors suffice for any map was open for over a hundred years since the origins of the conjecture. The proof that any map can be colored with 5 colors was around since 1890, and earlier, there had been two bad proofs for the four color conjecture, both of which stood unchallenged for 10 years each. While many won't consider this "ingenious" because the best known current proof uses a computer and we still do not have a pencil-and-paper proof, this problem created a huge debate over the use of computers in mathematical proofs and paved the way for other problems in which we now regularly and comfortably use computer assistance - applications to the Ramsey Numbers and the solution to the Kepler Conjecture are two common examples. It sparked a debate within the mathematical and philosophical communities as to what constitutes a proof and whether or not we can ever truly trust a proof that requires computation that is far too tedious for a human. The history of this problem is fairly well documented in the book Four Colors Suffice by Robin Wilson (http://www.amazon.com/Four-Color...). John Horgan's article - "The Death of Proof" in the Scientific American sparked the debate about the role of computers in proofs, and led to a fallout with people arguing both for and against computer-assisted proofs. Another important aspect of this problem is that is exhibits why mathematicians do what they do. This problem was a clear dead end - its variation on other topological spaces had been taken care of earlier, and even if the conjecture were proven true, it would not lead to any serious further implications, as opposed to say the P = NP problem, yet it was actively pursued by mathematicians for well over a hundred years and seen through to its conclusion by Wolfgang Haken and Kenneth Appel 1976, and has been further refined, most recently in 2005, while some mathematicians still seek a pencil-and-paper proof. 