Is there any "bad advice" in Edward Tufte's data visualization books?
I'm a big fan of Tufte, and own his first three books. I think he does everyone a service by stating an emphatic position. His intensity about pie charts is a little much: A table is nearly always better than a dumb pie chart; the only worse design than a pie chart is several of them...Given their low density and failure to order numbers along a visual dimension, pie charts should never be used. My impression is that his stance on pie charts is made possible by a career in academia, rather than one with customers. I don't mean that to sound scathing -- I have a couple reasons for believing this: Telling the truth with data means respecting the things your customers find intuitive. Only in academia is the data that you need to chart essentially restricted to what you want to chart. In other words, in a real business you run into all sorts of scenarios, and part-to-whole relationships are often a job for a pie chart. Only in academia can you fixate on the concept of "comparing data points" as if that's the only thing an information graphic is good for. Clocks. (aka nested pie charts) A JOB FOR A PIE CHART : Imagine you live in a tiny apartment across from your spouse's office. You've located the perfect four bedroom just outside the city, you just need sign off on a two hour commute. Naturally, you ask your spouse to voice any objections through a display of quantitative information, and this is the result: Observations: The audience intuitively knows they are looking at a breakdown of a total. For any chart of "amount complete", which is usually done in a thermometer style, a pie chart may be a better option, partly because we practice all the time with clocks. One constant gripe about pie charts is that it's hard to compare data points, but as you can see, any detailed comparison is utterly beside the point -- the point is that commute is a sizable chunk, waking activity #2 (and all the R rated stuff is on the old pie chart). 