What's it like to work at IDEO?
---------------------------- EDIT: View an updated response here What it’s like to work at IDEO ---------------------------- I've been at IDEO (Bay Area) as a mechatronic engineer and designer for over a year now, so I'll add to Ben's answer. Working at IDEO is a dream. IDEO is a company of creative people from all over the world. We're open-minded, optimistic, and genuinely friendly to each other. People On top of talent and potential, IDEO places a heavy weight on "cultural fit" when we hire people, across all departments. Even our receptionists, positions other companies might find anybody to fill, are creative individuals. One is a practicing artist that holds exhibitions. Another is an full-time improv actress. Everybody at IDEO is eccentric in their own way, uniquely multi-talented, and a highly collaborative team member. Even though we're 500+ strong (with our largest location being ~300), it still feels like a small company. I can recognize almost everybody by face, and probably 80% by name. And because we change teams every few months, I get to really know at least 10-20 people a year. IDEO is crazily diverse. In terms of talent, we have psychologists, anthropologists, engineers (of every type), architects, visual designers, interaction designers, writers, and business gurus. On top of that, we have a food scientist and a surgeon-in-residence. We're all united by creating positive impact in the world. In terms of cultural diversity, I receive more cultural diversity on a day-to-day basis at IDEO than I did at Stanford. Don't get me wrong, Stanford is diverse, but my American friends greatly outnumbered my foreign friends. At IDEO Bay Area, I estimate > 40% are foreign-born. On my current project team, we have natives from South Korea, Italy, New Zealand, and Denmark. That's 4 out of 8 people (and I'm not counting myself, a white-washed Asian-American). The diversity is one of the best parts of IDEO. Taken from inside a restroom. Different IDEOers write their salutations. Day to day, I regularly use profanity at work. Drinking during the workday is acceptable, especially in celebration, but never alone. Standard attire is anything fashionable (jeans, hoodie, shirt – whatever, as long as it's fashionable). People bring their dogs to work. One person brings in her snake sometimes. We have regular banter over email, including photos of fashion twins. These emails happen almost daily at this point. None of this is crazy for Silicon Valley, really. One thing I have noticed that is different (and you should count yourself lucky if you have this at your work as well), is that many of us become good, good friends, and regularly hang out with each other outside of work. (Obviously in different cliques and groups, but we're all friends outside of work.) I actually just came back from a BBQ with coworkers on Sunday. I have a cabin lease in Tahoe with a bunch of coworkers. In between the day I was hired and the day I started, I went to Burning Man with a predominantly IDEO camp. We go out dancing. We go grab casual dinners, and we invite pretty much all of IDEO to our house parties. When David Kelley started IDEO, he wanted to just work on cool projects with his friends. That ideal still permeates IDEO culture today. I eschew the sterilized word "coworker." IDEOers are my friends whom I work with. Physical environment Some companies have artists-in-residence. Others consult other companies (like IDEO!) to design their workspace. Luckily, it's something we can do in-house, and because we see a lot of our clients' offices, most employees end up taking personal interest. We see a large diversity of what's out there. Because most IDEOers know how to make things, and make things look good, small things around the office turn into pet projects. I'm not familiar with the story behind this, but I imagine there was an empty First Aid box that someone decided to make useful. The inside is a surprise. The back wall of these cereal dispensers got scratched up over time from the lid being replaced. Someone (I don't know who) took a post-it note and made the scratchings into a carrot top. We have a VW Van inside the Palo Alto office because some people played a prank and replaced their coworker's office with a VW van. It has since become a meeting room. Some IDEOers built a swing-set one weekend. The interns last summer built a treehouse. We're a culture of "Ask for forgiveness, not for permission." Every IDEO office is different. Not intentionally, but because we, the employees, build up its character through these small acts. Our desk layout is very similar to much of Silicon Valley at this point (but IDEO has been doing this since the 90s): open-plan, Aeron or Aeron-like chairs, Eames chairs, standing desks, lots of collaborative spaces. Apple products everywhere. From our site, this is the SF office. It's usually more crowded and a bit louder. Project teams are always sectioned into their own defined (but still open) space where they can immerse themselves in the user research, inspiration, and all their ideas all day. Work The work we do varies from pretty cool to really freaking cool. You can read about some of the stuff we've done on our website, but to be general, it feels like play a lot of the time. We work with companies, often Fortune 500, to help them grow and expand in novel ways. We get to play with their new technologies. We get to build out how things should be, sometimes without worrying about the nitty gritty of implementation. That means we get to play with whatever tech we need to get the prototype working. And for our side projects, I have access to almost all the tools I'd need. Every project is different. We have a process we talk about, but that acts as a guideline. Each project is dependent on the client, their problem, and their assets/advantages. As our founder David Kelley would argue, it's not that we as designers are inherently more creative. We've spent more time thinking of ourselves as creative individuals, and more importantly, being empathetic. As a result, we can confidently jump into new situations, learn quickly and think of novel solutions. In my first few months at IDEO I went from designing futuristic interactions inside a car to working at a handbag manufacturer in London to make a purse for London Fashion Week. We're all novelty junkies at IDEO. The different clients, the travel, and the constant learning keeps us on our toes. Perks IDEO doesn't have many of the lavish perks that many Silicon Valley start-ups like to tout. We do get breakfast + lunch (some days), generous 401K matching, profit-sharing, unlimited vacation, but really, most of us work at IDEO because we want to do work at IDEO, not because of any perks. Most of us could, without much friction, get jobs at other companies with higher pay and more perks. We don't though because we can create a lot of impact through our work here. Random A lot of random things happen at work. For Halloween this year, we made different skits/performances. I forgot why one group made a piñata, but they made a very large piñata for their performance. This photo is from our Thanksgiving dinner. (photo credit: Emily Eisenhart) Organization/Leadership One of the best parts (and sometimes the most criticized) is that we hardly have an org chart. We're a group of creative people. We usually don't take kindly to too much structure, but we also need to feel efficient, safe, and guided by a minimal amount of it. IDEO's value is built entirely by its employees. IDEO doesn't sell any products or generate any revenue other than through the talent of its employees. And as an IDEOer, that's an incredibly empowering feeling. -------------- I don't know where you got that it's not a pleasant place. I think the average stay at IDEO  is > 5 years, which says a lot about a company in SV that doesn't pay any equity. When people move on from IDEO, it's hardly ever to another design firm or consultancy. It's usually a start-up or their own start-up. You can learn more on our inter-net web-site: Life at IDEO | IDEO Updated 119w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Luke Bornheimer