I am passionate about almost nothing. I don't have an aim in life. I am from one of the IITs. Is it okay?
I want to tell you about something, written after considering the other answers. For that you need to come with me on a small journey along the known history of mankind. I, humbly, beg for your patience and please would like you to consider it seriously. A small journey of history 1. Do you recognize this photo? What's so special about it? Nothing much. Just a simple well in a simple park. This well provided water to people in and around the area. Amongst this insignificance, a significant event happened. One day some people decided to have a get together, with some government servants blocking the only entrance. They soon began to shoot at the one's in the park, only to have a certain portion of the people jumping into it in a failed attempt of saving their lives. This is the well situated in the Jallianwala Bagh of Amritsar, where thousands of people ended their life for a noble cause. Why? So that India gets independence from the British who mistreated and harassed us more than what Indians would have seen in the recorded history. So, what? Why am I supposed to be concerned about it? You wouldn't be what you are. Forget about being passionate. Forget about being an IITian. Forget about studying. I'm afraid of the status your parents and grand parents would have been. I didn't get it. This doesn't answer my question. It will if you start thinking what would you have done if a similar thing were to happen to you at this very moment. Yet, these people were completely prepared to face the consequences, including the above mentioned consequences. For what? So that their children get to live a happy life and a better one. So that the next generation of people wouldn't have to undergo the problems they faced in their lives. So that their children get to think on more important and better things of life. So that their children would go beyond 'fighting for freedom' and 'be free'. 2. Some more for your attention: Why should she leave her home in Europe to come to some dirty, poor and hopeless nation like ours? Because she was HOPE and hoped that things will become better. She took the initiative of making world a better place. By doing what? Sacrificing the material pleasures along which the rest of the world was running. Helping the poorest of the poor souls to restore HOPE and make them alive and strong. For what? So they can grow up to be just like you and me and enjoy the world just like you and me. 3. This guy remains closer to my heart than others. Hemant Karkare, was the chief of the Mumbai Anti-Terrorist Squad, sent to tackle the terrorist attacks on Mumbai of 26/11. This was the picture taken, when he prepared himself for the emergency, and aired on TV. Moments later, he was shot dead. Next day: Why? So that you and I can live in a peaceful world that is better than what it would be otherwise. I can go on telling about many more souls of the past, those you know about and those you don't. They were all PASSIONATE about a noble cause and sacrificed their lives. For what? YOU. You are not some random unknown guy, lost amongst billions of people. You are answerable to each and every human who has come and gone and hence shaped up what you are. YOU JUST CANNOT ESCAPE giving some lame excuse. Now I want to direct you to a statistic, that I believe you would be quite aware of, but obviously forgotten. Let me bring it forward. IIT-JEE IITs are the premier institutes in India of National Importance. Around 3-4 Lakh students give the IIT-JEE examination every year in the hope of getting admission into the IITs. Only around 10,000 students get admission into it. This gives an admission rate of 1:50. Every student who gets into IIT eats up into the dreams and ambitions of 2.9-3.9 Lakh other people. Yet, the others go home trying to be a sport, because they believe the system is wise enough to have selected the best lot. The "others" believe that YOU are a BETTER ENGINEER in all respects. The "others" believe that YOU will come tomorrow with an engineered product or an engineering solution, better than what they would have done, if they were selected for IITs. Every non-IITian you defeated, every past IITian who studied in your campus and every IIT aspirant who wants to study there, is eagerly watching you on how you will contribute to this world and make the world better. But, when the IITian thinks of sitting back and says "I don't have an aim in life. I am from one of the IITs.", he/she does not contribute a healthy environment amongst the engineering fraternity. If you weren't interested at all, you should have resigned long ago. Atleast, some other anxious person would have got into your IIT and did wonders. Besides, you unawaringly are contributing to the controversial political discussion on education, reservation, corruption, etc. And why am I telling you all this? You are not some random unknown guy, lost amongst billions of people. You are an ENGINEER and hence remain in spotlight forever. YOU JUST CANNOT ESCAPE giving some lame excuse. Now that I've talked about it let me introduce you to a topic I read about during my High School. Gaia Theory Gaia Theory proposes that the Earth along with the living and non-living things form a single complex system similar to the various biological parts of an organism. Everything you do has an impact on the world around you, either for good or for bad. And why am I telling you this? Because: You are not some random unknown guy, lost amongst billions of people. You are answerable to each and every human you have affected and hence are accountable for your actions. And to conclude, I want to include a picture that has won numerous awards. It might end up disturbing many people because of the truth the image communicates. Vulture stalking the child One of the most iconic photos ever taken, this photo taken by Kevin Carter in Sudan, talks about the painful reality some of our brothers are living in this same world of ours. The vulture is preying upon the kid who is attempting to move ahead. The kid is dying with hunger, when her parents were busy taking food from a nearby UN camp. Meanwhile, the vulture is busy waiting for the kid to die completely, in order to scavenge upon it. Kevin stood for 20 minutes waiting for the vulture to fly. When it didn't, he took this Pulitzer prize winning photo, and chased the vulture away. He came home, sold the photo to the NY Times, only to be criticized by some for not helping the girl (UNICEF had warned people from touching famine victims). The guilt of not helping her, had him kill himself three months later. And why am I telling this? You are not some random unknown guy, lost amongst billions of people. You are amongst the fewest and highly privileged people the world has today. You are needed to take up a huge responsibility of making this world better for our brothers and sisters, our children and grand-children. IF NOT YOU, THEN WHO? Its definitely not Okay, dude. You've got to get up and work for a positive purpose in life. Not for what your heart tells, but for what the world needs. The World needs YOU. 