What is the difference between contravariant and covariant tensors?
Robert J. Kolker's answer gives the gory detail, but here's a quick and dirty version. Let's work in the three dimensions of classical space (forget time, relativity, four-vectors etc). Then the prototypical example of a contravariant vector is a displacement vector. Suppose you have a vector (1, 2, 3) representing a displacement. Implicitly it has units of meters or the like for each of the three components. Now suppose you shrink the coordinate system in the x direction, so that you're now measuring x in millimeters. This isn't something you'd do for the fun of it, but it's representative of things you might be forced to do when trying to lay out a coordinate system in curved space. (Think of lines of latitude and longitude on the surface of the earth - they're not, and can't be, equally spaced.) To represent the same physical displacement, you have transform the vector to (1000, 2, 3). Implicitly that's (1000 mm, 2 m, 3 m). The vector component has gotten bigger as the coordinate system length unit has gotten smaller. That's contravariance. Now imagine that you have a potential in that 3D space, and a gradient vector that tells in which direction the potential is increasing most rapidly and what that rate of increase is. That's what electric field is telling you about voltage. Implicitly the gradient vector has units of something-or-other per meter or the like - volts per meter in the case of electric field. So if the electric field was (4, 5, 6) V/m in the original coordinate system, it has to be (0.004 V/mm, 5 V/m, 6 V/m) in the coordinate system with shrunken x. The vector component has varied in the same way as the coordinate system length unit - that's covariance. Now in classical physics you never have to think about this distinction because you're guaranteed to be able to use nice, simple, straight Euclidean coordinate systems with equal scales in all directions. You can get a taste by thinking about coordinate systems on the surface of a sphere, but there's not really a practical necessity. However in GR, you get your nose rubbed in it because spacetime itself is modelled as bent, so there are no totally straight coordinate systems. So while you can continue to think of contravariant vectors as spear-like objects as usual, a better metaphor for the covariant vectors is as a stack of equipotential surfaces of whatever the implied potential is, as in the pictures at Covariance and contravariance of vectors.    Embed Quote 