How much data is required to estimate a N by N covariance matrix?
Suppose the population covariance matrix is The others are correct that you have unknown parameters (off diagonals) to estimate. In classical statistics, one often assumes that you have a large number number of independent and identical observations of . Typically you have In the classical case, entries of the sample covariance converge to the population covariance. Applying a variance stabilizing transformation such as Fisher's Z gives you asymptotic normality of individual sample correlations. All other classical procedures work.  However, if is comparable to or much larger it is impossible to have enough observations to observe all the unknown entries. Even sample correlations that ought to be zero or near zero will be significantly bounded away from zero on the order of log(N)/M. Statisticians refer to this as the degeneracy of sample covariance in high dimensions. This was shown by Bickel and Levina in a very well known result in modern statistics. (See Covariance regularization by thresholding). On a related note, the sample eigenvectors of a degenerate sample covariance matrix do not converge to the true eigenvectors. Thus, PCA in high dimensions fails to provide meaningful principal components. (See On Consistency and Sparsity for Principal Components Analysis in High Dimensions to see why sample eigenvectors are inconsistent in high dimensions.) Bickel and Levina also showed that if the population covariance matrix is structured, such that effective number of unknown parameters is smaller than , then good estimation of the sample covariance is possible. In such cases ( see Regularized estimation of large covariance matrices) can obtain good estimates of the covariance matrix with measurements or observations. A simple procedure to do this is by hard thresholding the correlation matrix such that every sample correlation larger than the threshold is deemed as signal and retained and all values smaller than the threshold are deemed as noise. Such thresholds need to be estimated in a data-driven manner using methods such as cross-validation. The quantity is related to the effective number of unknowns in a structured population covariance matrix. In most cases you can assume that represents the maximum degree or non-zero values in any row or column of the population covariance matrix. Thus AR(p), banded, toeplitz or general sparse covariance structures can be estimated in high dimensions.    Embed Quote Updated 29 May, 2014. 570 views.