What are the best smart, fiction movies?
This is going to be highly subjective, but this is a list of my favorite movies that provoke thought and discussion, and don't have too many obvious cliches or hacks... * The Whole Nine Yards - A mob comedy, starring Bruce Willis, Matthew Perry, Rosanna Arquette, Michael Clarke Duncan, Natasha Henstridge, Amanda Peet, and Kevin Pollack. A bankrupt dentist, Nick "Oz" Ozeransky (Perry), who is married to Sophie (Arquette), the gold-digging daughter of his tax-evading pedophile ex-partner, is befriended by his new next-door neighbor, who turns out to be convicted mob hit man Jimmy "The Tulip" Tudeski (Willis). Jimmy got an early release in return for his testimony ratting out his boss, Chicago mob godfather Laslow Gogolak. Laslow's son Yanni (Pollack) has a hit out on Jimmy, both for revenge and as part of a plan to recover a $10 million "wedding gift" Laslow gave Jimmy and his now-estranged wife Cynthia (Henstridge). Sophie coerces Oz into going back to Chicago to contact the Gogolaks and negotiate a "finder's fee" to get them out of debt. However, things go comically awry when Oz falls head over heels for Cynthia, Sophie tries to double-cross Oz to Jimmy for the life insurance money, and Oz's assistant and hygienist, Jill (Peet) turns out to be an amateur hitwoman Sophie had previously hired, who's enamored with Jimmy and his work. Jimmy, along with his mole among the Gogolaks, Frankie "Figgs" Figueroa (Duncan), has his own plans for that $10 million, and for Yanni, Cynthia and now Oz, who has to think of a way to save not only his own skin, but Cynthia's as well. It's probably the most intelligent crime "dramedy" I've ever seen. * RED and RED 2 - Again starring Bruce Willis leading an all-star cast for both movies, these comedy spy thrillers feature retired C.I.A. black ops agent Frank Moses (Willis), who has a crush on his pension fund clerk, Sarah Ross (Mary-Louise Parker). In the first movie, their flirtations catch the eye of an assassin out to "retire" Moses permanently, and Moses reunites with an all-star cast of former operatives including fellow CIA agent Joe Matheson (Morgan Freeman), LSD-addled Marvin (John Malkovich), MI6 sniper Victoria (Helen Mirren), and former Soviet counter-agent Ivan (Brian Cox) to protect Sarah and uncover who's behind the hit squads, which ends up going all the way to the White House. On their tail is Moses's replacement in the CIA, William Cooper (Karl Urban), who finds himself questioning the story he's gotten about Moses and the orders his superiors are giving. In the second film, Moses and Marvin are "outed" as to their involvement in "Project Nightshade", a botched scheme to smuggle a weapon of mass destruction into the heart of Soviet Russia, and must uncover the truth before agents on both sides, including Spetnaz agent Katja (Catherine Zeta-Jones), black ops specialist Jack Horton (Neal McDonough) and North Korean assassin-for-hire Han (Byun-Hyung Lee) catch up to them. There's some hand-waving and a few "that couldn't happen" moments in both, but the multi-layered plot, witty, intelligent scriptwriting and action sequences rival the smartest Bond or Bourne movie. * Ender's Game - A movie adaptation of the very popular novel. Ender Wiggin (Asa Butterfield) is a student at the International Military Academy, 50 years after an alien invasion nearly wiped out the human race. He's a "third", discouraged by population-control laws, conceived specifically to give the Wiggin family one last chance to produce the military genius that his older sister and brother showed potential for, but ultimately failed to be. His natural combination of his entire family's high intelligence, his brother's tactical instinct and his sister's empathy catches the eye of Colonel Hiram Graff (Harrison Ford), who recruits him from the Academy to an accelerated training program at "Battle School", an orbital space station containing a massive three-dimensional arena where teams of kids compete against each other in a zero-gravity war game. Ender, under Graff's watch and guidance, quickly rises to command his own team, Dragon Squad. His successes lead to a promotion to the elite "Command School", in the heart of alien territory, in preparation to lead Earth's armada in the battle that will end the alien threat forever. As in any science fiction movie, there's a lot that's beyond modern science, and a couple things from the older book that we now know are impossible (like FTL communication based on quantum entanglement), but the basics of the tactics used, and the philosophies behind them, date all the way back to Sun Tzu. The book has even more, including a look from 1985 at what we now know as social media, taken to its logical extreme where the person with the most online "followers" gets elected leader, but the movie is a very smart condensation of the book's look at a future hegemonic society and the use of children, who don't know what can't be done, as military leaders. * Inception - Christopher Nolan's masterpiece, starring Leonardo DiCaprio, Ellen Page, Joseph Gordon-Levitt, and a bunch of Nolan's go-to actors from the Dark Knight Trilogy. Cobb (DiCaprio) is an "extractor"; he uses dream-sharing technology developed by the military to steal information right out of the minds of insanely rich and powerful people. After a seemingly failed job, his mark, Saito (Ken Watanabe), asks if they can perform the opposite; inception, the planting of an idea in the mind of the mark in such a way that the mark thinks it's his own. Cobb's partner, Arthur (Gordon-Levitt), is skeptical, but Cobb has a level of experience Arthur lacks, gained while researching the technology for the government with his deceased wife, Mal (Marion Cotillard). Saito offers a very tempting carrot; he can let Cobb go home, where he's currently wanted for Mal's death, scot-free. Along with Arthur, he assembles a team including young Paris University exchange student Ariadne (Page), veteran "forger" Eames (Tom Hardy), "chemist" Yusuf (Dileep Rao), and Saito himself, to lead their mark, Robert Fischer (Cillian Murphy), through multiple levels of dreams within dreams in an attempt to convince him to fracture his father's energy monopoly. But Cobb brings an enemy into the dream world with him, who upsets the team's carefully-laid plans and forces Ariadne to help them improvise. Requires a big hand-wave to allow for the idea of shared dreams, but the movie is considered by many critics to be among the most mentally-engaging and original films of the last decade. * The King's Speech - Not strictly fiction, but dramatized, this film focuses on Prince George (Colin Firth), who with his wife Elizabeth (Helena Bonham Carter) ascends to the throne of the British Empire as King George VI, just before the outbreak of WWII, and the thespian-turned-speech therapist Lionel Logue (Geoffrey Rush) who helps George overcome the stammering that has kept him in the shadows of the royal family his entire life. * American History X - A controversial, hard look at the philosophy and propaganda of white supremacy, starring Edward Norton, Edward Furlong, Beverly D'Angelo, Jennifer Lien, Ethan Suplee, and Avery Brooks. A leader of the D.O.C. neo-Nazi gang in Venice Beach, Derek Vinyard (Norton), is released from prison after serving 3 years for manslaughter for the killing of two black gang members who were breaking into his car. Derek's world view was warped by his father Dennis's (William Russ) death at the hands of a black drug dealer, and by the influence of his new white supremacist mentor, Cameron Alexander (Stacy Keach), leading to him forming the D.O.C. through his natural intelligence and charisma. His younger brother, Danny (Furlong) is similarly intelligent, but lacks Derek's eloquence, and is lured into the gang by Alexander during Derek's incerceration, ultimately writing a paper for his Jewish history teacher arguing for Adolph Hitler as a civil rights hero, which prompts the principal of the school and Derek's one-time English teacher, Dr. Bob Sweeney (Brooks), to give Danny one last chance to avoid expulsion by becoming his history tutor in a new one-on-one class, American History X. Now on parole thanks to Sweeney's good word, and determined to reform, Derek forcefully severs all his old ties, to Alexander, his friend Seth (Suplee) and his girlfriend Stacey (Fairuza Balk), in an attempt to regain the trust of his mother (D'Angelo) and sister (Lien), and to convince Danny through his own example that the path he's headed down can only lead to self-destruction. Controversial not only for its subject matter but for the drama behind the scenes in its post-production, it's a hard, smart look at the deceptive logic of racism and the hypocrisies it lends itself to. * Fight Club - One of David Fincher's best-known movies, starring Edward Norton, Brad Pitt and Helena Bonham Carter. Our nameless protagonist, who we'll call Jack (Norton), works a dishonest job for a dishonest car manufacturer, to earn the money to pay for a materialistic, hollow life, and resorts to visiting support groups as a way to feel something and treat his insomnia. He meets Marla Singer (HBC), a mysterious woman skating on society's ragged edge by bending and breaking the unwritten rules, who visits the same groups for entertainment. On one of his endless plane trips, he encounters Tyler Durden (Pitt), soap salesman, jack-of-all-trades, and entropy enthusiast, who believes modern consumerism has no purpose but to perpetuate itself at the expense of its participants. After a series of unfortunate events, Jack loses all his worldly possessions and, unable to confide in Marla, finds himself squatting with Tyler in a dilapidated house on the edge of town, getting hammered and taking out their frustrations on each other at nearby Lou's Tavern. Their regular fights attract attention from other patrons, and soon a clandestine group, "Fight Club", is born out of their common need to feel something more than the world can provide. Jack finds himself slowly drawn deeper into Tyler's plan to tear down modern society through a series of random acts of mayhem, at the same time finding himself more and more at odds with Tyler and his new sex toy, Marla, until he learns a life-changing secret about all three of them... Very smart, funny, and sometimes disturbing movie, some of its references are a little old (for instance, most first-run theaters nowadays use digital projection instead of the old celluloid reels), but definitely a movie worth watching if you haven't seen it at least twice already. * Se7en - Another Fincher-directed movie starring Brad Pitt, this time alongside Morgan Freeman and Gwyneth Paltrow. Disillusioned veteran Detective Somerset (Freeman), seven days from his retirement from the NYPD, is partnered with an upstate newcomer to the NYPD, Detective Mills (Pitt). Their investigative styles clash when they're called to a potential crime scene; a grossly obese man, hands bound, face-down in a plate of spaghetti. The apparent cause of death is a heart attack, until a fresh bruise exactly matching the imprint of a Colt 1911 is found on the man's head, and further autopsy indicates the actual cause of death was that the man ate until he physically burst. The crime seems isolated, until a prominent lawyer, Eli Gould (Gene Borkin, nonspeaking) is murdered in his law office, and the word "Greed" is written on the carpet in the man's blood, leading Somerset to re-enter the obese victim's home where he finds the word "Gluttony" written in the grime behind the man's refrigerator. Somerset makes the connection: Gluttony, Greed, Sloth, Wrath, Pride, Lust, and Envy; the "Seven Deadly Sins". Somerset gets back together with Mills, always one step behind the serial killer, as more and more theatrical crime scenes are found, each victim chosen for their embodiment of a sin, and killed in an often-disgusting, usually-well-planned, and always poetically appropriate way. You need a strong stomach, as for an R-rated movie they don't pull many punches when showing the killer's aftermath, but it's a very intelligently-written story with an ending that allows you to walk away thinking as deeply as you want to about it. * Contact - A near-future (at the time, now somewhat dated due to use of President Clinton's likeness) look at how humanity would search for, and respond to, the existence of extra-terrestrial intelligence, starring Jodie Foster, Matthew McConaughey, Tom Skerritt, James Woods, John Hurt and Jake Busey. Dr. Ellie Arroway (Foster) is a lead scientist on the SETI project, the Search for Extra-Terrestrial Intelligence, at Arecibo Radiological Observatory in Puerto Rico, where she has a chance encounter and one-night stand with Palmer Joss (McConaughey), a theology scholar writing a book on the darker influences of technological progress on human society and culture. After her boss, Dr. Drumlin (Skerritt) pulls the plug on her NSF funding at Arecibo, she turns to megacorp Hadden Industries for private funding to lease the Very Large Array in New Mexico. Just before Drumlin succeeds in getting that project cancelled as well, Ellie's team discovers a mysterious, pulsing signal from the relatively nearby star Vega, containing an amplified version of the first TV transmission to leave Earth's atmosphere, of Adolf Hitler opening the 1936 Olympic Games in Berlin. The form of the message, and its power, are unmistakable signs of intelligence, apparently from far beyond our own neighborhood. There's more to the message, as her team digs deeper: the pictures of the transmission conceal other images, those of a primer to an alien symbology and language, in turn containing designs for a massive Machine, meant to contain a single passenger, and send them... elsewhere. Ellie's journey puts her alternately on the side of and at odds with her old flame, Joss, now the senior spiritual advisor to the President; with Michael Kitz (Woods), the President's national security advisor, who sees the message and its potential with nothing but skepticism; with her old boss Drumlin, who hypocritically takes credit for Arroway's discovery and competes with her to lead the Machine's development and be its passenger; and with Joseph (Busey), a religious extremist who sees Arroway as a heretic and the Machine as a doomsday device. Against these opponents, she has the dubious assistance of the reclusive and terminally-ill technology mogul, S. R. Hadden (Hurt), head of Hadden Industries, whose motives are unclear and who seems to have just the right answers for Ellie at exactly the most convenient times... The ending is a little less ambiguous than the book, leading you to believe Ellie in the final revelations, but overall a smart, engaging movie. * Argo - Again, not strictly fiction but not a documentary either, this movie starring Ben Affleck, John Goodman, Bryan Cranston and Alan Arkin tells the story of 6 U.S. State Department employees who managed to escape the Embassy in Tehran during the Iranian hostage crisis of 1980. Holed up in the Canadian Ambassador's residence for 10 weeks since the crisis started, the Iranians are piecing together shredded documents and are close to finding out they're 6 cards short of a full deck, so it's time to go. CIA "ex-fil" specialist Tony Mendez (Affleck) is called in to consult for the State Department, and ends up proposing a daring plan; create a fake movie, with the help of Hollywood insiders John Chambers (Goodman) and Lester Siegel (Arkin), as a cover to go in on a location scout and fly back out with the 6 "houseguests" posing as a film crew. This movie gives a lot of simplified but good and unbiased information on the background behind Iran's revolution, for those younger Gen-Xers and Millenials too young to remember, and provides a look into how real spies do what they do. * 007: Skyfall - This sequel to the remake of Casino Royale and modern reboot of the James Bond franchise stars Daniel Craig, Dame Judy Dench, Ralph Fiennes, Javier Bardem, Naomi Harris, Ben Whishaw, and Albert Finney. A list of NATO clandestine intelligence agents is stolen from a safe house in Istanbul, and in trying to retrieve it and apprehend the thief, James Bond (Craig) is accidentally shot by his partner, Eve (Harris) and believed dead. M (Dench), head of MI6 and the 00 spy program since Goldeneye, is approached by Gareth Mallory (Fiennes), civilian intelligence advisor for the Prime Minister, and advised to retire, which she resists. On her return from that meeting, MI6 is hacked and subsequently badly damaged by an explosion, which gets the attention of a very much alive but alcoholic and substance-addicted Bond, enjoying his unplanned retirement in the Carribbean. He returns to London and with a few gadgets from Q (Whishaw), is put back on the trail of Silva (Bardem), the computer genius and former MI6 operative who stole the list and is posting their identities on YouTube. However, the game has changed; this is no longer the world of ultra-rich evil geniuses trying to conquer or destroy the world, and Soviet-era spy-on-spy action (in all possible senses of the phrase). This is an era of ones and zeroes, and Bond finds himself apparently obsolete in the face of this new threat, which has only one goal: M herself. Definitely less bombastic than previous Bond titles, this one ends up much smarter to appeal to modern computer-savvy audiences, yet gives die-hard Bond fans exactly what they want as well. 