Who is the greatest music legend alive today?
There is a huge chasm between saying someone is "great" and "the greatest." Many can agree on great. Few can agree on the greatest.   I could force myself to throw out a name, but I’d rather listen to what some "great" musicians have said. Who do great musicians consider to be a great living legend?   Eric Clapton, George Harrison, Keith Richards, Jimi Hendrix, Steven Ray Vaughan, and Jimmy Page all cited Blues guitarist Buddy Guy as a great influence. Nicknamed "The Bridge between the Blues and Rock and Roll," Buddy Guy was playing electric riffs in 1959 that later became staples for the rock guitarists of the late 60s and early 70s. His own career suffered setbacks because of attacks by rivals in the industry and a record company that tried to pigeonhole him into a style that wasn't his, but Buddy just kept on playing his unique brand of electric blues. He has been sought out to collaborate with many of the most famous Rock and Blues guitar legends, including B.B. King, Junior Wells, Buddy Miles, Eric Clapton, Keith Richards, and Ronnie Wood. The respect for Buddy Guy among Blues and Rock musicians is incredible because he never hesitates to help another musician and because he is a genuinely humble, kind person. Buddy loves to have fun while playing the Blues. A talented showman, his stage antics in the early 1960s inspired Hendrix, Page, and many others. He is a favorite of mine.   George Harrison dedicated two songs to Smokey Robinson, saying the Motown star was one of his favorite songwriters, and the Miracles were a big influence on The Beatles. Bob Dylan called Smokey Robinson a great poet because of his songwriting abilities and influence. He also wrote many songs that were successful hits for other artists. It is one thing to write successful songs for yourself, and another to write successful songs for others. Smokey Robinson was prolific at both. Artists still love to work with him today. His latest release features duets with Elton John, Linda Ronstadt, Mary J. Bilge, Sheryl Crow, and James Taylor.   Stevie Wonder was younger than Smokey Robinson but still worked as a contemporary because, as a prodigy, his musical career began at age 11. Ronnie White of the Miracles and Smokey Robinson recognized Wonder’s abilities and worked with him as a peer, even though he was so much younger. Like Robinson, he composed for both himself and others, and his influence and success make him one of the most successful musicians living today. His popularity remains strong among the musical community, and he collaborates with artists from Snoop Dog to Tony Bennett.   Always there, simmering right below the surface of popular music is jazz, exercising its subtle influence. In Rock and Roll it has been through such artists as Dave Mason and Steve Winwood (Traffic – as in The Low Spark of High Heeled Boys). In popular music it has surfaced through Harry Connick, Jr. and Wynton Marsalis. One of the few living great legends of Jazz is Sonny Rollins. Miles Davis put Rollins tenor saxophone playing right at the level of Charlie Parker (known as Yardbird). In his autobiography, Davis praised both Sonny’s talent and writing ability. His album Night At The Village Vanguard album is a masterpiece, as is much of his work in the late 50s. Still unsatisfied with his work, Sonny took a sabbatical and then came back in 1962 with The Bridge, which turned out to be his best selling album. He has since repeated the pattern of sabbaticals followed by new compositions.   Both John Lennon and Paul McCartney admired Fats Domino. They covered his songs and wrote songs trying to capture his style. Fats Domino contributed heavily to the sound of Rock n Roll in the late 50s and early 60s. Elton John cited him as an inspiration, saying Domino proved that the piano was a Rock n Roll instrument.   Speaking of Paul McCartney, I have heard his abilities as a songwriter and musician criticized by those who claim John Lennon was the real talent behind their songwriting. John Lennon did not agree. Even though their relationship was sometimes rocky, Lennon always cited that their work was a real collaboration, and that Paul’s talent was exceptional. Sure, there was rivalry, and later a silly argument over crediting (your bad, Paul), but that does not change what John Lennon knew about Paul McCartney’s talent: it was an integral part of what shaped the Beatles music, and pop and rock music, during the 1960s. It did not matter who was better, it was the impact they had, individually and as a team, that make them great. Great artists from every genre have covered Lennon-McCartney songs. People either love or hate Bruce Springsteen. I admire much of his work. Having grown up in PA, I always pictured Bruce as the Bob Dylan of New Jersey, more in touch with the working man. Eddie Vedder and John Mellencamp are Springsteen fans. He has collaborated with Roger McGuinn, Tom Morello (Morello and Rage fans, if you haven’t seen Tom do The Ghost of Tom Joad with Springsteen, do it! https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=...) Springsteen has collaborated with U2, Melissa Ethridge, Neil Young, and Elvis Costello. More than anything, I appreciate what he has done in the last ten years to revive interest in Folk and Americana. His We Shall Overcome: The Seeger Sessions in 2006 and Bruce Springsteen with The Sessions Band: Live in Dublin in 2007 brought great American music to a new audience, and tickled those who were familiar with it but appreciated the zeal with which he presented these classics. The array of talented musicians he brought together produced a sound that was truly original yet preserved the integrity of the music: Folk, Negro Spirituals, and Americana. If this music can’t inspire and move you, check your pulse.   And then there is Neil Young. From the Buffalo Springfield, to his solo career, CSNY, Crazy Horse, Stray Gators, collaboration with Pearl Jam, and back to Crazy Horse, Neil Young has always been the quirky artist, the protestor and business entrepreneur, the maker of hit albums and the maker of albums that seemed intentionally produced to flop, though for him it was just exploration and expression. He really did not seem to care what others thought. After his successful Harvest album, he said that when he found himself "in the middle of the road" he "headed for the ditch.” Why? "It was a bumpier ride, but I met more interesting people.” Perhaps Young intentionally added to his renegade public image at times, but his musical path definitely emerged from who he was as a person. Even the musicians with which he had strong disagreements, like Stephen Stills, praise his talent. Graham Nash praised Young’s outstanding guitar playing. He was country before country was cool among the boomers, "alternative country” before it existed, and dubbed “the Godfather of Grunge." His acoustic sets haunt his listeners and his electric sets blow their ears off (I’ve heard Young live several times, but I swear that on his 1996 tour he was louder than any band I’ve ever heard, including Led Zeppelin and Pearl Jam). Younger generations of musicians embraced him - Nirvana, Pearl Jam, Sonic Youth - and his 1991 album Ragged Glory inspired young Rock musicians to move beyond the 80s into a new era. Old band mate David Crosby was proud to announce Young’s newest album release, and he is continually sought after by artists to collaborate on albums. He is one of my favorites.   And of course, Bob Dylan. Hundreds and possibly thousands of artists from all different genres have honored him by doing covers of his songs, many of them great musicians in their own right: Jimi Hendrix, Pete Seeger, Odetta, Johnny Cash, The Byrds, Eric Clapton, Neil Young, Richie Havens, Rod Stewart, Eddie Vedder, The Turtles, Indigo Girls, Nina Simone, Cher, Etta James, Judy Collins, Simon and Garfunkel, The Four Seasons, Richie Havens, Elvis Presley, Earl Scruggs, Bob Marley, Gordon Lightfoot, The Kingston Trio, José Feliciano, Glen Campbell, Eddie Arnold, Ricky Nelson, The Hollies, The Black Crowes. Hell, even Duke Ellington did a cover of Blowin in the Wind on a 1965 album. Bob Dylan was unwilling to claim the title many wanted to bestow upon him - the prophetic poet of a new generation. In one of his hilarious interviews from the 1960s, given in San Francisco in December of 1965, Dylan was asked if he thought of himself as more of a singer or a poet. He replied, “I think of myself as more of a song and dance man….” - in other words an entertainer. Was he serious? It didn’t matter. What mattered more was how Dylan’s words and music were perceived by those living in America during the 1960s, and the meaning they attached to the words sung in that nasally voice. Many heard the message that it was not just the godless communists across the ocean who were committing injustices and treating people inhumanely, but that injustice and inhumane treatment was being perpetrated right here in America, by Americans against other Americans: other Americans who were entitled to the same freedom and equal treatment as everyone else. They heard the possibility that no one could actually win in a global nuclear war, and perhaps all the “duck and cover” drills and fallout shelters were just an illusion of safety and no substitute for peaceful negotiations and an easing of tensions. Whatever Dylan thought of himself, his music was received by many as motivation to bring about change, making both him and his music legendary.   But the greatest living legend? I wouldn’t presume to know. Updated 42w ago • View Upvotes