What are the best ideas for Data Structure project?
Although all the answers mentioned here are great ideas for a project based solely on "Data Structures" but trust me my friend, this is NOT what you want. I mean you could really try building some complex data structure (Like maybe Red Black trees) and that would be quite an achievement but where's the fun in that. I mean when you work for a company and work on a project there, it won't be just a complex data structure that you will be building there. It would be a complete application or a part of a larger application that you will be working on and then you might want to use some algorithm or in the rarest of rare cases, build your own data structure to solve some problem. Consider a very basic problem that employs the usage of a very well known algorithm to solve the problem. Say you want to build an application - it can be an android app or a web application - wherein the user provides you with the source and his/her travel destination and given the data stored in your DB, you find out the shortest distance from the source to the destination.The definition of shortest can be defined by the user. It can either be The cheapest route possible or The shortest route in terms of time. or any other custom requirements. Now here you can use the Dijkstra's algorithm and modify it according to the requirements and according to the data stored in our DB. Although people have been working on this problem but this can be a very good college project and you will have to build the entire application from scratch. It will contain all the components A Front end be it mobile based or web based. A back end for handling your queries. I am not saying that this is the only project out there. What I am saying is that you should be focussing on building some complete project from scratch that may or may not involve the usage of some complex data structure or algorithm. So start working on some such application and you will learn a lot. Happy Coding !!! 