Who is your favorite author(s) and why?
I have many favourite authors, but since this question asks for one favourite author, I'd go ahead and say, Khalil Gibran. His best known work is undoubtedly The Prophet which are beautiful philosophical essays written in romantic prose poetry. He is one of the best selling poets of all time. His work seems like the ramblings of a rustic nomad from another era and is intensely focused on life, love, work, society and what it means to live. There is a lot of spirituality, spiritual love and mysticism in his work. His work is entirely without guile, politics, agendas. Not only his writing style undeniably exquisite and charming but also uninfluenced by the trappings of any one religion. I feel re-energized, peaceful and powerful every time I read something he wrote. His writing is tranquil and rich with imagery at the same time. A lot of idiots think that Khalil Gibran's writing is simplistic or that he espouses any one kind of philosophy. He reminds me of the Indian mystic, Kabir whose writing was loved by the masses but also resonated with  deep and harsh truths. So, why do I love Gibran's writing? I love his "style", which is rich, ornate and poetic. I love his teachings which have no preaching but a celebration of life. I love his opinions that combine practicality with mysticism, respect for women with an ability to overstep religion, and yet understand it. His writing style is romantic, lyrical and all yet once minimalist and sharp. P.S. If you like Rumi, I recommend Gibran. Here are a few Quotations: “One day you will ask me which is more important? My life or yours? I will say mine and you will walk away not knowing that you are my life.” ― Khalil Gibran “And when you crush an apple with your teeth, say to it in your heart: Your seeds shall live in my body, And the buds of your tomorrow shall blossom in my heart, And your fragrance shall be my breath, And together we shall rejoice through all the seasons.” ― Khalil Gibran “I have learned silence from the talkative, toleration from the intolerant, and kindness from the unkind; yet strange, I am ungrateful to these teachers.” ― Khalil Gibran “And forget not that the earth delights to feel your bare feet and the winds long to play with your hair” ― Khalil Gibran, The Prophet Thank you for asking Ninad ! 