Who is the greatest music legend alive today?
A true legend is someone who is somewhat mysterious.  The facts surrounding them are not entirely well known.  My pick for greatest music legend alive today is a musician who played on literally dozens of classic recordings.  Among them- River Deep - Mountain High - Ike and Tina Turner Scarborough Fair - Simon and Garfunkel California Girls - The Beach Boys I'm a Believer - The Monkees These Boots Are Made for Walkin' - Nancy Sinatra Sixteen Tons - Tennessee Ernie Ford Feelin' Alright - Joe Cocker Wichita Lineman - Glen Campbell La Bamba - Ritchie Valens You've Lost That Lovin' Feelin' - The Righteous Brothers Mr. Tambourine Man - The Byrds That's a partial list of songs.  Here are a few of the albums this musician contributed to- Pet Sounds - The Beach Boys Neil Young (His first Album) Freakout & Absolutely Free - Frank Zappa and the Mothers of Invention Big Man - Cannonball Adderley The lists of studios and producers who worked with this individual would be exhausting to catalogue.  So, who is this mysterious impresario? Carol Kaye As a member of The Wrecking Crew (itself legendary) she was a bass player most of the time, but has a few impressive guitar credits as well.  Her approach to the bass was highly influential, noted for very melodic lines.  Paul McCartney himself was blown away by Carol's playing on 'Pet Sounds' and it changed the way he felt about the role of his instrument in music.  And she was tough, making her way in the man's world of studio musicianship without taking any crap from the guys.  There's some controversy today regarding her claims as to exactly what all her credits encompass.  Some say she's padding her resume somewhat.  But that only adds to the legend, creating a sort of did-she-or-didn't-she dynamic to it all.  Regardless of this dynamic, Carol Kaye has credits for days and days.  She is a true legend. Listen to 'I'm a Believer' and 'Sloop John B' here and pay particular attention to the bass. I'm a believer! 