Who is your favorite author(s) and why?
Allow me to say, reading is the one thing that provides sanctuary like no other on a dreary day. Writers are hence respected and admired for encrypting their battling thoughts out into the universe. Truth be told, I can't name one author that I claim to be my favourite. I could list a few whom I admire. Khaled Hosseini because he weaves a story from a deeper place. He leaves you engrossed to the plot with every re-read. If you're a book lover then please do reward yourself with his books. Nicholas Sparks because he's capable of creating a dreamland that a preteen girl needs! The unsettling feeling of being lost and stranded and lovelorn are deciphered in simple grace. Helen Fielding for incredibly convoluted Bridget Jones. What would the world be without her diary? Dan Brown because his plots leave you in awe, for its sheer magnanimity, he sets the pace for real life incidents. Brilliant, brilliant mind there. Stephen King because he's the father of descriptive writing.Completely. Weirdly enough, I can even use all imaginable non-existent words to tell how awesome he is. Neil Gaiman because he's the man whose stories can just make your day  multifold better. Audrey Niffenegger because she re-defined the true meaning of romance through "The Time Traveler's Wife" Haruki Murakami because his words speak the inner turmoil resting in you for reasons I can't pan out. Jeffrey Archer for showing life's no goody good yet you jive into it with hope with such vigour on world's stage. Anuja Chauhan would be branded insufferable by most raving about a little chick-lit that a girl drowns in. Such books will wind up on everyone’s summer reading list. Suzanne Collins for jolting down a more inspiring, deeply moving and affecting "The Hunger games" It's more than just a good book. Jodi Picoult because she masters the beauty where there is no well-defined beginning and ending! The art of storytelling at it's best.When a writer tells a story so beautifully, it almost makes your eyes moist. That. She's definitely one. J.K. Rowling because Harry Potter will be a part of our lives. ALWAYS. Yes, would like to revisit that world again. Never gets too old for me, to say the least. Sidney Sheldon because his books keep you glued to your seat! You can't fall asleep holding his book. Just no. Jhumpa Lahiri because she paints a picture with her words in a riveting account of a person who made the world laugh but lead a sad life. Writer captures that pathos with emotions. Enid Blyton for what is childhood without her? P.S. This list is endless. It's not conclusive. Hope I covered most of them. :-) 