What are the best smart, fiction movies?
I mean this is a very generic question, a lot of answers could be thrown in here.  Since we aren't really focusing on any 1 genre in general I'll throw out a few that I thought were extremely good, well thought out movies, in no particular order of course.   1. Good Will Hunting.  Fantastic movie, starring Ben Affleck, Matt Damon, and with a great supporting cast including Robin Williams.   2. Memento.  A movie shot in reverse time order, starting at the end, and finishing at the beginning.  Its about a man who can only remember 24 hours of time at a time because of an accident many years ago that also involved the murder of his wife.  He tattooes himself to remember information, and also writes things down to himself so that he can review that information and act upon it every day and add more leads and information to the search for his wife's murderer.   3. Seven.  Just, a fantastic thriller starring morgan freeman, gwyneth paltrow, brad pitt, and kevin spacey.  If you haven't, watch it.  very very good and smart.   4.  Tommy Boy.  I'm sure some would completely disagree with me, but I thought it was a very good well thought out movie.  There was a bit of drama, some touching moments tied in with some hilarious moments that will leave you breathless with laughter.  Love the ending to this movie as well.  The fact that its based in Ohio also doesn't hurt it either :P.   5.  Zombieland.  I mean the dude has a list of rules and regulations that he follows to survive a zombie apocalypse.  It was an awesome, hilarious shoot first ask questions later type of movie, but was extremely well written and acted.   6. The Shining.  Just a cerebral horror tale of a descent into madness and murder.  Fantastically written by Stephen King and Stanley Kubrick did a great job directing it, despite Stephen Kings dislike of Stanley's version.   Again this is just some of them that I can think of.  I like to think your not talking about "brainy" movies, but rather movies that are smart in the way they were written, scripted, directed, and shown.  I think all of these movies exemplify their genres and what you would want out of that genre. 