★How can I overcome information overload, shiny object syndrome and stop planning all the time and just execute and 'do'? 787888
I agree this is a common phenomenon in the digital age, but reading about other addictions for me personally, mine does not the same life disruptive side effects - - addiction to substance is dangerous because of the disruption it causes to healthy living patterns, so i feel the need to differentiate this problem from a substance addiction- the guy who wrote this question suffers from insomnia, which could lead to health problems. Other than that I don't hear that his compulsion to over inform and plan are a threat to his safety or livelihood or that of loved ones. Seems like ultimately it is an inconvenient use of energy and causing regret about priorities. I think treating it as a substance addiction would cause bigger problems. - the high - what are the benefits of the compulsive behavior. Typically with substance the body has a conscious shifting reaction to the substance that causes the threat. With information there is no such threat. The consequence of over digital addiction in this form ( not talking about buying porn - which could have the all of the substance addictive qualities, or ecommerce spending, rge subject here did not indicate the the money spent was causing financial strain) is a poor time use and unfulfilled achievement. I would even say that the behavior of Quora and reading have positives, unlike a couch potato phenomenon. This condition is different from substance abuse. I consider myself a victim of this phenomenon, but not to the degree on insomnia or poor regretted web purchasing. Its kinda like having Erectile disfunction of goal setting, it is not a life threatener like sex addiction, but definitely inconvenient. This problem is not an addiction, as I have found it, your problem is related to misdirected and stimuli, bad habits, procrastination, fear, and lack of experience.  I have found books that help clear up a strategy for overcoming and understanding, but I do not consider myself recovered. I would like to talk to you more "sufferer" to compare notes. I am building my understanding of the challenging behavior to make something to help others and I am so glad I foound your question and that others are detailing this struggle. Please message me if you would like to help.    Embed Quote