★How do you personally manage information overload?
Let's define "information overload."  It is too much un-categorized information, but that isn't what necessarily causes all our information anxiety. In some cases, it is more about managing our stress and time better -- skills and techniques we can learn and make them a habit. The first step is change your mindset -there are some psychological or ways that we think of web information that makes stresses us out. Understand Your Crap Tolerance There is a lot of crap out there ... and social networks and accompanying updates and sharing has definitely increased the crap.  Understand your capacity and interest in wading through the crap.   If might be of value to you .. and there are different levels of the amount of crap you can wade through.  You can look at everything - if you want to be an expert in that area or it is value.  Or you can follow the experts ... You'll never be "caught up" and that's okay Do not feel bad about not reading the digital avalanche of email, blog posts, or web content. Get what you can get in the amount of time you can spend, don't worry about the rest. The important bits will rise to the top. Don't feel guilty about mark all read or the delete button can be your best friend. You don't have read every word of every blog in the universe or every status update of all your friends or colleagues Scanning and pattern recognition is a really important skill to have been you need to look at a lot of information. Don't feel that you have to read every blog post of the blogs you're tracking. It helps if you identify what you need to know before drinking from the fire hydrant. Don't live at the post office, on Twitter, or your blog software Or in Twitter, your blog or RSS reader. Set a frequency for your work flow - answering comments via email, doing outreach, writing posts. Set the time of day to check-in and a time limit - this is called time boxing. Stick to it; ignore your blog, email, or twitter until those magic times. The only time you're offline should NOT be when your are sleeping or in the bathroom. Although some people admit to twittering from the bathroom  on their mobile phones and I'm sure there are others who have taken their laptops into the bathroom if the Internet reception is good. The idea is that you don't have to check your email or respond to Twitter or blog posts in real time. No one is going to die if you don't respond within 3 minutes. Remember what is urgent and what is not. Know when to turn the damn computer off and take a walk It is important to carve out patches of time to allow yourself for understanding and processing the information you have consumed. This might mean disconnecting electronically on purpose. A scary thought to some but yes, power down, log off and turn off the phone and go for a walk. Sometimes even a walk around your desk can help. If you feel you have lost your concentration and productivity, it may be  the stress that you give yourself by staring a monitor for too long. It is a good idea to stretch every 15-20 minutes. Even better to get up and take a walk. Drinking lots of water will not only help force you to get up from your desk, but also keep you hydrated It is first important to understand exactly how overloaded your brain is.  Here's a self assessment that helps you pinpoint the symptoms: http://informationcoping.wikispa...   Next, I reflect on my information consumption habits: How do I make value judgments on the information that comes to  via social networks, email, or RSS reader? Do I need to be an expert on this topic or provide an expert answer or can I find and cultivate an expert on this topic so ask them? How effective are my personal information filing and retrieving systems and sharing methods for electronic information? What works, what doesn't? Why? Could I simply reboot my brain by turning off the damn computer, mobile phone or ipad and take a walk?  Even if it is around my desk? Could any of the weaknesses in my filing and retrieving systems be solved through a technology product or software? Is so bad that I should just blow up my system and start fresh?    Embed Quote