★Information Overload: How do I get rid of my habit of saving anything & everything that I find useful, intersting on the internet?
Pain   Jack-of-all-trades, master of none.   Is that what you truly want? I mean, doesn’t this just boil down to being a know-it-all? How impressive is that to people compared to being intelligent and effective? Add a few points to a conversation and let those sink in. That is far more effective and trying to know about everything.   Or is this the problem? That you have a short attention span, delighted by everything?   This problem comes from too much stimulation. So cut it down. Where is your pain in your life? Bring back just a tad of that to keep things in perspective.   Or is this a problem of hoarding? Because hoarding bookmarks on the internet is incredibly doable with bookmark apps. Why stop? I don’t really see a problem here. In fact, if you keep your bookmarks public in your app then others can share and comment which build your own community that could, one day, even be turned into a profitable business endeavor or even another search engine.   Don’t stop. There is no problem here. Now go out and get really good at it, just keep it as a hobby, or whatever.   But if you are worried about how much unproductive time you are wasting . . . well, that is another problem. But if you are sharing and “talking” then that can be incredibly valuable. The internet has provided another means of staying in communication not just to those we love and care about (friends, family, coworkers, etc.) but also the masses at large. And people and capitalizing on it. So why shouldn’t you? Well, when any strength becomes over extended it may become a problem. Is this actually a problem or just being perceived as one?   You asked, “Is it just me or some of you also do similar things?”. I think any brief perusal on Pinterest, Facebook, Quora, or any other social media shows millions upon millions of others doing the same thing.   I would say you are not talking enough. The automatic correction to this comes in the form of, “Who is listening?”. Is anybody responding? Are you engaging with people?   Now, on another note, you did mention one thing that might be a concern. Actually storing the data. If this is being saved to your hard drive or even copies of the data being saved to the cloud then this could easily be classified as “hoarding”. Ever seen the TV show? Very little is ever erased from the internet these days. And stuff that is often gets reposted immediately in several places. If this is your concern then there is a problem. Hoarders talk about this. That they might not get it again. It is a scarcity mentality.   “If not, how do I get rid of my habit?” For that I recommend the below: Answering the single greatest question in psychology and personal development – exactly how to change. ... (more)Loading...