★How can I overcome information overload, shiny object syndrome and stop planning all the time and just execute and 'do'? 787888
You have been conditioning yourself to engage in certain behaviors. Now when you see a computer, your new-information addict personality activates. Ever hear about Pavlov's dogs who would drool after a bell rang? No? Look it up. I suggest you to try to recondition this conditioned response. When you first sit down with your computer or other device, watch yourself. Try to think about whether you really need the thing you're addicted to. Would you die if you didn't have it? What would happen? Now, you can do this part 2 ways. (1) Don't open any app. (2) Open an app for a preset time limit (no greater than 2 minutes). Now turn off the device, take a deep breath, and go for a walk outside. Think about the freedom that you just acquired by breaking the pattern of addictive behavior. Think about how you have a craving and a habit that is out of control. Think of the little things you can do (like going for a walk) to get back into control. Try to find ways like this to recondition your cognitive/behavioral responses. This process will take time, so you need to do these types of things for a while. The other recommendation I have is that you should stop making overly-ambitious plans until you fix some things. In fact, I believe you should try very hard to only make plans that you are very, very sure that you will be able to do. The goal here is to re-develop the ability to keep a promise to yourself. Your situation is like The Boy Who Cried Wolf except the townsfolk are ... you! Your subconscious mind no longer takes your decisions seriously. You need to re-establish your own integrity. This can be done by being very humble in your ambitions. Try to decide whether any sort of idea you have is a commitment or something you might do one day. Make a decision one way or the other. If it turns out to be a commitment, you should determine how you should fulfill it in the way that is most likely to result in you actually doing it. For example, "I want to learn to program." That is a great goal, but for now, until you re-establish your integrity, you need to modify that to "I want to complete 1 programming tutorial." Start small so that your achievements change you.    Embed Quote