★What are some good strategies for dealing with information overload?
There are a few things I do to ensure I'm not overwhelmed with information or spending too much time on knowledge acquisition. Use People as Filters Whether it's on Facebook, Twitter or FriendFeed (which is really where I get the most benefit) I use specific people to help me get to the right information. I look for those who are experts in their area and subscribe to them. Those people then bring me the best from their areas of expertise. Whether it's Louis Gray, Robert Diana, Atul Arora or Mahendra Palsule I learn from what they find and share. Hopefully I return the favor to someone. http://www.blindfiveyearold.com/... Lean on RSS I'm a big Google Reader fan and use RSS to scan and consume a variety of information. I find this a better way to digest information than something like Twitter. Why? It's like TiVo for the web. I consume it on my own schedule. The trick is not to feel guilty about not reading a feed or feeds. RSS Zero is not the goal. Tabs and Bookmarks I keep a lot of tabs open at once (and run a few browsers at the same time). At any given time I might have between 40-60 tabs open with current work or things I'm interested in reading. Every day or so I review these tabs and either close them or read and bookmark them. While I've tried numerous 'read later' techniques, they never seem to work. I rarely read them later after they've left my browser. Out of site, out of mind. Getting it Right, Not Fast I'm not obsessed with getting my information first or instantly. That doesn't mean I'm that far behind the curve actually. I'm usually clued in (via RSS or my people filters) within 2-4 hours of anything of real importance. Diversity I consume information on a variety of topics from marketing and seo to art and books to parenting and bicycling. The idea here is two fold, I don't get burnt out on any one topic and I often am able to connect ideas from different topics in interesting ways. Sort of a digital cut-up. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cut... Those five strategies ensure I don't get burnt out, at least so far.    Embed Quote