★As a programmer, how do you deal with information overload?
I've been in the exact same situation as yours a few weeks ago. I'm currently finishing up my last year as a computer science/engineering student and therefore was looking for an internship to complete it. I prepared well for eventual interviews and written tests by reading a lot (stackoverflow, quora, hackernews, random blogs...) and practicing (aside from school, I work as a web developer for a startup). Each day I was not reading/practicing/making myself aware of tech news, I was feeling bad at the end of it. I've been playing music for 12 years now and almost stopped because of it. Same thing with reading books (different from tech stuff). Same with doing sport. Hopefully, it only lasted a month or so. I just got an internship in a great startup and realized I was thinking/doing it wrong. YES, there are a ton of new stuff popping up every weeks in computer science and high tech. YES this field is fascinating (and a factor of this fascination is that it's moving at the speed of light!). YES employers ask for skills in stuff that didn't exist 12 months ago. I totally understand and agree your point about feeling that 24 hours in a day is not enough. But that's the point, don't waste these 24 hours. Will it be useful to become an expert on the last trendy javascript framework without knowing if anyone will use it in 6 months ? Do you really need to know the big-O cheat sheet by heart ? Learn stuff that you need. It could be anything. But learn it well. Next, learn stuff because you find it interesting, not because it's the hot trendy language/framework/lib/whatever at the moment. Employers want people that know stuff, indeed. But you're aware that in this field, the key is to be able to learn FAST. If you learn something you enjoy, you'll learn it way faster. And that way, you'll learn to learn more efficiently (it sounds a bit cheesy but, well, it's true!). At the end of the day, what matters is that you do something you like (though it will sometimes imply doing things you don't like). Practice your sports, music, art or whatever hobby you have and stay curious about your work/school field. Good luck and learn well.    Embed Quote