★How can I overcome information overload, shiny object syndrome and stop planning all the time and just execute and 'do'? 787888
Attach yourself then show up. Information is not attached to you, or much of anything. It's like water. It floats around and we consume it and spew it, but it doesn't really do anything. We do things, not information. And your frustration is from your inability to do things, and not with your relationship with information. For example, (a) I can think and read about apples, look up recipes, google them to my heart's content. I could even write papers and draw my own unique conclusions that may help the apple community. I could do this without getting near a single real apple. This is kind of how we study and talk about atoms and galaxies and space-time by the way... Or (b) I could just physically eat apples without giving a hoo about what they are or where they came from. They taste good, and that's that. So (a) is about information and knowledge. (b) is about doing, being, and living our lives. The latter has greater physical consequence. If you imagine information were food, too much consumption is turning you mentally obese. Your brain is getting fatter and fatter and you are becoming lazier and lazier. What you need is to learn to control your diet and to exercise. Cut down on those web pages with little nutritional value, and start going outside. The difference and key here is to recognize that there is a physical you that is capable of attaching both physically and emotionally to a subject, and even immersing yourself in physical circumstances that will begin to overpower you and your petty desires to refresh Facebook or Quora. A quick example would be school. By going to school we are physically immersed in a learning environment, faced with real deadlines, angry teachers, and real human interaction. Hiring a trainer is also a good way to exercise for some people. If your mind alone isn't motivated enough, hire someone to spank you. With regards to entrepreneurship, you need to go out there physically and start meeting the people you are reading about online. Join the offline communities. Then attach yourself to a group and to a goal you come up with, such as, "start a company that does X." Once you've physically attached yourself to a physical environment with physical consequences, all of a sudden everything becomes real, as opposed to merely informative. For example, if you launch your LLC, when the Tax Board says you have a deadline approaching, you cannot treat it like another Quora post! That deadline is not informative. It is real. And it will overpower anything less important, like everything else that's not real and merely informative. If you indeed decide to start a company, you will find the demand for your physical attention and physical attachment overwhelming in no time. You will find yourself working hard because you have to to survive and to meet your goals. At this point you should be able to see your abs again. Fine, so where do you start? "Eighty percent of success is showing up." - Woody Allen Just start showing up.    Embed Quote