★How can I overcome information overload, shiny object syndrome and stop planning all the time and just execute and 'do'? 787888
There is a huge irony that I was asked to answer this question, because one of the themes really resonated with me, not so much the information overload/addiction one but the theme of having goals and preparation but not execution.  After I wrote down a sequence of five steps I need to do tonight so that I will be ready to teach a psych class by Tuesday morning, I then put down the list, went to email and ended up here in Quora instead of working! We've already had some good comments about stopping the distractions and diversions and getting some sleep; I recommend peeking in the book "The Power of Habit" for ideas on how to alter your routines.  But I wonder if the issue is not so much the execution as the goals themselves. My comments may just be rationalizing my own path, but sometimes we, especially we curious/distractible people (ADHD, maybe) are most successful, motivated, focused, and happy when we direct our energies not to the large projects that would be great to do if we had lots of time, focus, resources, and support, but the goals that are most doable in the next couple of weeks, and the parts of those goals doable in the next couple of days.  You, like me, may have tension between the desire to pursue dreams and the curiosity/distractibility that drives linking and clicking online.  There is a way to have it both ways:  Instead of picking the large goal and fighting distractions until it's done in five years (whew!), pick one of your distractions and build on it, assemble a few of your side interests and assemble them into a project.  You'll be channeling your curiosity into motivation instead of suppressing your curiosity for the sake of obeying the "shoulds" you've compiled.  In your case, this means, instead of doing all the groundwork of establishing a blog, pick one of your lists of email subscriptions and scan through to see if you can find something that provokes you to write a blog entry you can save (then when you have enough of those, the process of starting the blog will be something you're excited to do instead of something you feel you "should" be getting to instead of following more diversions.  Compile some of your diversions INTO your big projects, and with that mission as your guide, only follow the diversions that feel like they're building something! Good luck; now we'll see if I can follow my own advice.. over the long run.  Writing this may not only have been a diversion for me, it may have been my own contribution to my long term goals (which may include a blog, and a book that has been semi-planned for 20 years). But next, before I sleep, I'll get to that list of five steps of powerpoint shuffling and editing that I wrote down before linking to Quora and writing this answer.  I hope some of my own ways of struggling with this tension have been helpful; I welcome your feedback about what strategies have sometimes worked and felt good for you.    Embed Quote