★Information overload: What to believe?With increasing number of books and data online, it is easy to get lost. Everybody is acting as if they know. In such a situation how can one segregate the wheat from the chaff?
This is a great question because of the rapid increase of information. Information overload is a problem that individuals, households and firms must solve. I recently met with a software developer who presented great solutions for our non profit to manage business information. You can review his tool here: The software solution created by Scott is definitively one that solves this problem for the entities that I represent. This system allows you to enter the correct data once and saves it for proposals, invoices, RFP etc... I propose another approach for individuals to manage information overload. Specifically, I believe that everyone should create a schedule to manage your information. One of my graduates called this time management technique his "rhythm table".(Thanks Oraine) This schedule contained many important elements: 1. Weekly goals 2. Priority events 3. Rest 4. Recreation 5. Followup This technique utilizes many tools to achieve targeted daily and weekly goals. Email, Communication technology, Mobile apps and the power of search are used to manage information overload. Email is used primarily for daily communication that is not time sensitive. This way you can send a message at your convenience. Communication technology such as cell phones can get too personal and text information is far too incomplete. Limiting use of this medium to your most important contacts can save a lot of time. Further, mobile applications help to central most tasks : Bill payment - All banks - Most provide tools to capture checks etc Primary information research - Sky Grid - A news app Entertainment - Filmon - Free TV on your mobile devices productivity - Dragon - Speech translation Finally, using search tools such as Google, Bing etc.. helps to simply life and solve life's daily problems. i.e.- Whats for dinner? What is the best way to apply for college? I need directions to an event? Using these tools can help manage information overload in a direct and comprehensive way. Beware of the use of technology only for entertainment, this is a real reason for overload. Improve your life with technology, you and your family will benefit from the extra hours available when you achieve this goal!    Embed Quote