★What is the impact of information overload?
To understand the impact of overload we should first split overload into different overload categories, for it is not only in data or information: Information Overload: Too much information with no clear relevance. Communication Overload: Too many communication channels and duplicates. Application Overload: Too many devices and applications. All these types of overload ultimately create chaos which costs us money and time, leading to further consequences (like the ones Robert Scoble has written in his answer) affecting us both personally and professionally. Another aspect of overload are the constant interruptions many people are exposed to: It takes an average of 64 seconds to recover your train of thought after  interruption by email. says Karen Renaud from  Glasgow University. The real-time feeds we're experiencing since the rise of social media - at least in that regard - therefore does not help our ability to focus and solve problems that require some deeper thinking. I'm going as far and would say that this kind of live-feed doesn't necessarily make us more intelligent or better informed, but the chances are rather likely that it could make us more dumb and shallow. I don't know, how to put a price on that or measure it in time, but it's definitely a possible impact of overload. There is a great study about the 'optimal connective flow' for productivity and focus available which describes the solution to the problem well, if anybody is interested, just contact me - happy to refer. A picture often says more than a thousand words - the cost of Chaos: With more information (that today usually reaches us in some form of data) at our fingertips we usually can make better decisions, thus our productivity, efficiency and ultimately performance increases. The problem comes when the amount of information we'd theoretically have to consume to make good decisions (and be competitive) is reaching a point of overload - for instance when we don't know any more the real value of the information, the reliability of its source or might just miss it if we're not being ubiquitously present on all platforms simultaneously. This chaos does not help. I think the first step towards a solution - not only to retain a status quo, but to actually being practically able to use the information and tools at our disposal - is to get back a complete overview of all our communication and collaboration in one place. This could control the cost of overload. Then what we can do from there on (i.e. sorting, prioritizing, semantics, integrating with other apps etc.) are steps that that would give us the value of clarity, something that many are aiming for, but few ever reach. Over the last years many new technologies, apps and services have been invented. I think it's time now to start organizing these into practical solutions that enable us to make more sense and use of the technology that is actually available to us, so I believe the challenges and impact of overload will eventually be solved. Disclosure: I'm working in a startup (Unified Inbox) focusing on a product layer to address this overload issue. I'm also a speaker and consultant for putting best practises in place to deal with overload, for further info, see http://www.slideshare.net/tobyru...    Embed Quote