★What are some good strategies for dealing with information overload?
Automatic categorization. I try and have information categorized as much as possible by the systems I use to consume that information. Examples of this include using filters to sort email into labels (as in Gmail) or folders (as in most other email clients and systems), creating Twitter lists (and for this to be effective- adding Twitter users to lists as soon as I follow them, or otherwise come across them), using Facebook friend lists, etc. All this allows me to prioritize the amount of time I'm devoting to a particular class of information. For instance- I'm always on top of email that is sent directly to me. Email from various mailing lists get pushed out of my inbox and into appropriate labels (I use Gmail) that I read when I have the time for them (some labels I read once a day, some I read once a week- depends on how important the information is). Email that is likely to be important and urgent- such as email from close family or my professors gets forwarded to my phone. I filter out most "robomail" from my inbox into labels- this includes notifications from various services such as Facebook, Twitter, Quora, etc- that I do not have to see as soon as I receive them. Similarly, on Facebook, I have a list that is a subset of my complete friends list- of people whose updates I actually want to follow. Once in a while- I check the regular news feed (Facebook has a great way of sorting stories by "top news" versus "most recent" which I prefer) to ensure I don't miss out on much from everybody else's life. These two methods on Facebook alone have drastically reduced the amount of time I spend on the site and improved the quality of information I see. On Twitter- I have a similar set of (mostly private) lists that I pay attention to. I tend to go to my main feed when there is an important event going on and I want to catch all important updates on that. My RSS subscriptions are organized into folders on Google Reader (technically labels- you can put one feed into more than one folder). I ensure I read all posts in folders that are more important. For folders that are not as important- I skim through post titles (note to authors: good titles are very useful) once in a while to see if anything catches my fancy- and read that. These aren't the only avenues from which I get my information- they are only examples. However, this approach is one that I try to follow as much as is possible with the tools at hand. An offshoot of the approach above is the distinction between polling and interrupt. Information that is probably important and probably urgent gets sent to me- to my email (which is open most of the day) or, depending on the importance and/or urgency, to my phone (as I've explained above). The rest I read at appropriate durations depending on how much time I have. It can be incredibly cathartic to know that most of your important information has been delivered (and dealt with). There's this great saying I heard a while ago: A ringing phone is an indication, not an obligation. Extrapolating the 'phone' to whatever system you're using to consume information, the statement is quite an instructive way of dealing with it. Just because you've received a message doesn't mean you need to read it. And if you do, it doesn't mean you have to read it right away. Covey's 4 quadrant approach to time management[1][2] can be a great way to appropriate time to deal with information. [1] http://www.google.com/search?&tb... [2] http://www.information-managemen...    Embed Quote