★I don't want to learn anything new. I simply want to understand what I've learned better. How is that ever possible in this age of information overload?
Excellent question! But I am assuming what you have learned doesn't involve too much technical science based stuff or something that depends on how someone's career is. I am just considering the information to be simple, useful for everyone and good to know. In other cases, you could join a science club or write research papers and submit them to universities (for expanding technical knowledge), finding a job that enables you to use what you are learning (for putting to use the skill sets that you have) etc. Well, coming back to the question let me tell you that I go through the same condition. There is a lot of information coming across our brains each day. And I don't even remember much of it so that I could use it as a brilliant point in an intellectual discussion and impress others. This is generally because there are very few chances that we may share this knowledge with someone else after we know of it. Hence it is remembered for a short while only and fades away as if we never knew it. This is because, we may not have someone around us with whom we can discuss the topics you leant. Basically, the idea is to put the information to use in order to retain it. Recently, I came across a brilliant answer on Quora regarding the special mark on a currency coin, underneath the minting date that is embossed on it. This mark defined where the coin was minted among the four places we have in India. I was amazed by this fact and went immediately to find a coin to verify it. While doing so, I was asked by my mother what I was doing and this made me to explain the whole gig to her. This way I shared what I found out and remembered it longer. So, answering the first part of your question: You will come across new information everyday, but it will only be retained if it is reused/shared/thought of at a later time. This acts as a filter. So, answering the first part of your question: You will come across new information everyday, but it will only be retained if it is reused/shared/thought of, at a later time. For understanding better the things you already know, writing answers on Quora is an excellent option. As I have experienced, while writing, you come across various questions that you ask yourself! These questions wouldn't have risen if you did not enlist whatever you know in a systematic manner. Enlisting known information brings more clarity and exposes gaps and when those questions arise, you will try to look for answers. And on looking hard, answers will be found and the whole information will start making sense because the gaps get filled. Reading more about what you would like to learn is another good way too. In my case, reading once always goes in vain. Hence, repetition of exposure to information is a way to get immersed in it. The more you come across a fact, it gets remembered longer and understood well. Hunt for what you want to learn. The information coming to you as a feed will not be of use in the longer run.    Embed Quote