★What is the psychology or neuropsychology of information overload?Does information overload have any traction as as scientific topic within psychology or neuropsychology? Or is it mainly a "media culture" or folk psychology concept? The  question is also about whether, and how, the topic is formulated and  studied in the disciplines of psychology and neuropsychology.
There is a concept of information overload in science, and most professors and scientists believe it is this scientific concept that popular media tries to report on when they speak of "information overload", but for whatever reason, this concept has been distorted from reality. Most of what popular media reports on for information overload is related to the situations when there is lots of information present, but there is not a way to tabulate that information so you can find what you are interested in. Because of this disconnect, popular media stories often conclude that it is better to reduce consumer choices, or reduce the availability of information. This however is not the scientific viewpoint. A professor named Peter M. Vishton Ph. D from the College of William & Mary speaks extensively on both how popular media confused the issue of information overload and also about what information overload actually is and how the brain processes information extensively in these two lectures: Scientific Secrets for a Powerful Memory Understanding the Secrets of Human Perception I'll recap the basics because these lectures are not free, but they are never the less worth the watch, especially the lecture on perception. The scientific view The scientific explanation of information overload is simply that our brain gets tired when it processes real and useful information.  That is it. This is because ideas and concepts are forming and changing in your mind; this correlates to physical changes to your neurons; your dendrites are actually moving, creating new connections, breaking old ones, new pathways are being energized, mylinated, tested, regression checked, analyzed for logic, inconsistency, etc. Your body spends 25-50% of it's energy in your brain while you're at rest.  Learning, or processing information, takes a lot of heavy lifting from your brain, and just like any other part of your body, it must rest. If you fail to rest and continue to take in information, you will feel disoriented and confused.  There are many dozens of scientific studies that confirm this. The popular (incorrect) view Popular media gets this a little wrong: The popular view is that too much available information leads to confusion. The most common analogy is that with 300 choices of mustard, you will spend more time making a choice and be less accurate at making a good choice. This is partially correct, and many studies show this to be exactly true, but as Dr. Vishton points out, this is only correct if there is also not a way to tabulate facts about the mustard.  For example, Amazon sells many millions of products, including over 300 choices of mustard.  However, Amazon sales of mustard is also on the rise, and their customers report greater satisfaction every year, and he points out that this is because Amazon has created a way to search for a particular type of mustard you want; Amazon has lots of information, and a way to tabulate the information. Dr. Vishton postulates that information availability is not in itself a bad thing as long as we also generate information about that information, so that a human being can make sense of it. He further suggests that a media correspondent perhaps wrote a story on "information overload leads to confusion" which is scientifically true, but not the whole story, and that soundbite alone is what made it into pop culture.  However as you see above in the scientific view, this is part, but a distorted view of what actually occurs in a human mind.  The availability of information itself does not have an affect on humans.    Embed Quote