★What innovations are focusing on dealing with information overload?
@Scobleizer alludes to a blend of curation, algorithmic approaches, filtering and aggregation, but mainly points to start-ups who may or (in most cases) may not be working on the best ways to do one or more of these things. It's just a laundry list, not a guide to where the crucial innovation is. Semantic Web or Linked Data standards developed at the W3C are the main public vehicle for combining the techniques listed in the summary at the top of this discussion. Start-ups aren't the only place to look for innovation in this area. These standards are being effectively used in the media industry at the BBC, the New York Times, Reuters, the Library of Congress, and in other knowledge-intensive industries like government (the UK's an example, the US also), oil and gas (Chevron's an example), and healthcare (MD Anderson's an example). In other words, the users themselves are developing the methods as much as vendors are. So why haven't many start-ups succeeded on the data aggregation front? It's because they're still using relational database techniques that can't scale. Ontologies built to link with RDF or variants of RDF like RDFa, by contrast, can scale and are critical to the process of aggregating and navigating large data graphs. Without the aggregation and large-scale navigation, what you're filtering is insignificant. Semantic Web methods have taken longer to develop effective ontologies and a scalable base data layer, but are being used effectively today by a number of  organizations. Bottom line: You've got to be able scale the metadata development and enrich the metadata by allowing contextual, wikified approaches to adding metadata to the cloud. The "cloud" has to be a fully machine-readable graph. We explain why in this 50-page publication that provides a clear summary, argument and case studies here: http://www.pwc.com/us/en/technol.... Essentially, we need to tag and share data with rich, contextually relevant metadata so that it is readable by machines, and post what we can out on the public Web, Otherwise we'll continue to be overwhelmed and underserved.    Embed Quote