★How can I survive Information overload (especially from a security researcher's perspective)?
I would suggest two things: Finding your own balance.  What works for you. Asking experts/friends in the field One way around this is to learn how to scan effectively in terms of both your RSS reader and other types of content.  If you can scan to whats important and save the most important parts--you should be golden. In order to make these decisions I would find out exactly the kind of data/information that is most useful to who you are providing it to. What types of data are useful?  What types of data are actionable?  Where are the big multipliers? Are ongoing debates in the field important?  What are the ongoing debates?  Or what are the most important ones? Do you need to know most about strategy, new technologies, or what other countries are doing most?  (Or perhaps a number of other issues) Part of your workflow should probably be a way to save the links in an organized fashion so its easy to reference again.  For instance Drop Box or perhaps more likely Evernote. I would re-iterate the points made about time and depth versus breath.  Its also obviously smart to figure out what you are going to do with your extra downtime beyond perhaps your allotted time to learn new stuff. The following formula may or may not be helpful: Trust [Credibility, Reputation, Track Record] X Relevance [Signal to Noise] X Value = Decision-making calculus for what to follow There is at least one term of are  for what you are referring to "personal learning management."  Although I think most of the articles and content you will find by reading about that space will be pretty meta & theoretical. The other term would be "personal knowledge management"  A search yielded this overview of the space: PKM | Harold Jarche Personal knowledge management (wikipedia entry) You may also find that crowdsourced sources may also prove as good filters for what is relevant and what is not.  That is to say--if you want to keep up what other people in your field are keeping up with an RSS reader with a social singal ranker may be helpful. I think these frameworks may help you think beyond the realm of knowledge transfer. As such, looking for RSS reading tips or productive RSS reading or the like may be helpful.  In addition, the issues of email management and folderizing some of your incoming email may help create a more effective workflow around your personal learning management.    Embed Quote