How are students in Indian colleges taught programming?
This answer will specifically try to elaborate the current methods of teaching programming to first years at IIITH. In my opinion, first step in programming is learning semantics of programming languages with help of a language like C and the second step is data structures and algorithms. These two courses are taught at IIITH in first and second semesters respectively. I'll try to write about main aspects. 1. Faculty and class: The professor usually(except a few exceptions) presents basic features of programming language C like recursion, arrays, pointers etc. with a mix of algorithms like Newton's sqrt method, Euclidean gcd etc. In DS course, classes consist of theory about data structures and algorithms. Minimal syntax is discussed in classes. 2. Programming Assignments An online judge(OJ) which tests programs is setup and all assignments are graded through OJ. Problems in CPro course include implementations, linked lists, sorting, sieves, binary search, modular arithmetic etc. Here is a snapshot of status page. Language is kept C. C++ is allowed in later stages of second semester because by then students have implemented in C the STL data structures available in C++. Copying such assignments leads to very strict action. So, major of the life in first year at IIITH consists of all the fun with OJ(Wrong Answers, TLEs and most eluding ACs). OJ is just up in the air during assignment times. A search "oj" in my feed brings up various posts like "OJ is bullshit!" and lot of other posts describing what a monster it is. Following is a picture before one of the assignment deadlines. Internet is not provided to first years, but this particular location in hostel has internet accessibility due to a workaround. 3. Labs/Tutorials A 3 hour lab is held every week which aims to make proper introduction with the C language and implementation aspects. Being a Data Structures TA I'll tell you about the structure I follow in the lab. The lab begins with detailed introduction to the algorithm/data structure, followed by implementation details. A problem consisting of input/output files is formalized which is usually the direct application of the DS/algorithm. Often problems are solved on online platforms like SPOJ/Codeforces in the labs. Students can ask for implementation related issues, and there are 2 TAs per 60 people, hence proper attention is paid to every student. Two lab exams carrying good weightage are held in the course, which too consisting of submitting problems on a platform within fixed time span. 4. Teaching Assistants and the coding culture IIITH is assumed to have the best coding culture among universities in India. In my opinion, one of the main reasons behind that is TAs of courses like DS and CPro which introduce freshers to programming are themselves experts in competitive programming and ACM ICPC World Finalist and make sure the spirits stays. One of the things I vividly remember is that Nadeem Moidu usually used to give WFs goodies to best solver of problem in labs. I myself distribute T-shirts(that I got from competitive programming) in labs. 5. Result of the process At the end of the first year a student is proficient in C and C++ and by then implemented in C data structures and algorithms like graph algorithms(Dijktra's, Prim's, Kruskals etc.) BSTs, AVL trees, stacks, queues, heaps, tries, segment trees etc. A student by then is very well acquainted with competitive programming. No doubt, IIITH keeps producing world finalists and enormous GSOCers every year. Updated 31 Mar • View Upvotes