Do grad school students remember everything they were taught in college all the time?
I've had to use tricks, verging on magic, with my students. Some highly entertaining, others gravely serious, to make sure my psychology students learned and remembered the curriculum not just for exams, but for life.   This is how I taught the concept of conformity:   I asked if anyone in the classroom had a £20 note. Someone always offered to help out. I then put the note in an envelope and sealed it in front of the students. I asked for a volunteer to come up and cut the envelope in half, while checking against the light that they cut right through the Queen's head, thus defacing the Queen and her currency. I always chose a student who didn't appear to have any underlying emotional problems, and looked more of an extrovert with high popularity ratings in the class.   At that point, I would suddenly exclaim that I needed scissors, which I kept in my bag. As I lowered my hand into the bag, I secretly swapped the envelope with a real £20 note with one that looked exactly the samethrough, with a photocopied (in colour) note inside. I lifted the swapped envelope and the scissors, as the students were arguing who was going to be my volunteer (thus remained distracted).   I handed the envelope and scissors to the volunteering student and repeated the instructions. They normally enjoyed cutting through the envelope and checking the note was indeed in two separate pieces (still inside the cut envelope). First, I would say they were guilty of defacing the Queen, which remained a punishable offence. I then asked them to pay the money back to the student who lent us the note.   Not surprisingly, the volunteer would protest, saying I made them cut the note. I would then say, 'I didn't put a gun to your head, or twist your arm, did I?' They would look at me genuinely puzzled, shocked and confused.... which is a perfect start to a lesson on conformity, and the type of circumstances that make us stop thinking for ourselves.   The rationale? A modern twist on the Milgram electric shocks experiment, with me playing the part of an authority (a teacher) who gives unsuspecting subjects (students) instructions, thus shifts the responsibility of undesired unethical behaviour onto them. This is what happened to German civilians working in concentration camps during WW2, who chose to interpret the instructions from the Nazis as a form of excuse for committing the crimes of the war: "It was my job".   At the end of the lesson, I'd give the surprised volunteer a chance to say how they felt. I would also say in front of everyone that their behaviour was perfectly normal and representative of nearly every single one of us. The whole class witnessed psychology in action. I would also explain that the note was fake and give the real one back to the student.   They still tell me, after years, they remember my classes. 