How are students in Indian colleges taught programming?
I have taken all the courses in Chennai Mathematical Institute that has some part of programming and was a TA for two of them. What Prateek said is right, and I would like to expand on that. I didn't have any experience with any programming, or rather, computer, before entering college. I learnt everything I know in my 3 years of undergrad, thanks to the amazing teaching facility. The two teachers who mainly teaches programming are co-ordinators of Indian National Informatics Olympiad (INOI). They are one of the best computer science teachers in India and have been mentoring bunch of great programmers of the country. Hence it is quite obvious that they are arguably the best programming teachers in India. The first course of programming is Haskell (programming language). This is more of a mathematical way of teaching programming. As the batch will have a mix of people inclined towards Maths or CS, there are people who hate programming. But I am yet to find someone who does not like Haskell! See More: Prateek Karandikar's answer The Advanced course of Programming is based on Python. Yes, there is no traditional C/C++/Java yet! Again, the course is heavily algorithm based (while Algorithms, for theoretical, has it's own course). In every class, there will be a problem shown, then an algorithm explained and finally the ways Python would help you code it. The assignments are INOI-styled and hence quite creative as well as tough. I personally have really struggled with the assignments (add to that a strict no cheating rule imposed by the collective mass of our batch) with Haskell being the only experience I ever had. In the end of the course, there is a glimpse of C, with less than three easy assignments. Programming Language Concepts is taught using Java as the primary language. The assignments are quite easy, course is more based on the theory of programming languages. Again, the lecture note is an amazing read (Programming Language Concepts). All the other courses (Data Mining, for example) that needs programming assignments has no restrictions on which language has to be used. Note: 1. The idea is to show what programming is and make sure programming is helpful on whatever stream a student takes. 2. This trend does NOT represent India. Most of the brilliant coders in India are entirely self-taught. 