Do grad school students remember everything they were taught in college all the time?
No. (Almost) No one does. An image similar to this was shown to me as an undergrad and it is functionally true for everyone: Grad school is not so much an exercise in encoding and decoding as much information into/out of your brain as it is one about acquiring specific technical and mental skills, refining the heuristics you use to interpret new information, and drawing inferences between otherwise disparate pieces of information. Case Study: EndNote and Mendeley. EndNote and Mendeley are software suites that help a grad student (and scientist) keep track of the documents (usually technical manuscripts) and their contents for streamlined search and archiving.  Since much of the hands-on work of a grad student (forming novel experiments and techniques, executing techniques, and extracting knowledge from data generated from said techniques) requires remarkably precise but otherwise isolated pieces of knowledge, tools like EndNote and Mendeley exist to provide queryable records of what a student has encountered. While memorizing these pieces of information can make one more time-effective in technique and analysis, it is very common for students to rely on an 'external-brain' for these smaller, less frequently retrieved details. A defining trait of a good graduate student (IMHO) is a broad base of knowledge about their field from which they can draw, a sharp heuristic for judging the veracity of data and claims, and the ability to draw creative conclusions from non-intuitive and (at times, disjoint) data. A GREAT graduate student (and thinker in general) is one who can combine these traits with a very deep, specific knowledge on his/her particular academic question. The leverage that breadth in knowledge, sharp heuristic, and creativity grant them allow them to take very specific insights in their question and connect them to related phenomenon in their field. When this happens, more systemic explanations than the answer to their narrow question can be generated and new, deeper understanding of the phenomenon in study can be reached. 