Do grad school students remember everything they were taught in college all the time?
Here is my take being a self taught person. I learned basic physics from encyclopedias where the math was mostly fuzzed over. I started reading textbooks, and forced myself to derive every formula from first principles as best as I could. I remember the two most frustrating weeks of my life deriving the equations for a pendulum, and I always ended up with an extra sine term in my answer compared to what the textbook had. I did it many times, same answer, so I gave up and assumed I was screwing up the math somehow. It wasn't until much later that I was told, I had been right, it was simply customary to assume sin(theta) equal to theta for small theta. I never spend too much time remembering formulas - that is silly - symbol manipulation is a mechanical process, that wolfram alpha can do better than any human. Pointless to measure one's understanding of Math or Physics based on formulae. Sort of the same silliness where software professionals are rated based on how many algorithms they have memorized and can implement on the fly correctly. I did the MITx 8.02x course recently, and scored 78%, I never studied the book, I just watched the lectures where Walter Lewin explains more of the big picture stuff. During the exams, it was allowed to use the textbook, so I referred to the formulas and solved the problems quite easily. The only hard part was to map the problem to the math initially. Even some calculus and differential equations, instead of thrashing it out with my modest algebraic skills, I used MS Excel to help me do numerical methods and get the answer. It's enough for me to know that the answer is the point where the differential of some function is 0. How to get that point through math is merely a detail, that I can refer to, or simply call on Excel or Wolfram Alpha or whatever.  Big picture matters, and concepts matter. In all the three fields mentioned above, it's not about the equations, or implementation details, it's about how you visualize the problem and choose the right tools based on creativity and pattern matching which the human brain is good at. In 10 years, Google Glass like devices will instantly do things like parse an equation you see, and solve it, or even measure spatial dimensions, angles and so forth on the fly. All this silly grunt work based on memorization will become a lost art, and good riddance too! Updated 27 Aug 2013 • View Upvotes