How are students in Indian colleges taught programming?
Agree with most of the answers here. This is what a CS Lab meant for me:- The following are some of the questions I remember during my lab examinations and how I answered them all:- C Programming Lab Midsem Question:- Write a C Program to print the sum of digits of a number Answer:- #include<stdio.h> main() { int a,b; printf("Enter the digits\n"); scanf("%d%d",&a,&b); int sum=a+b; printf("The sum of the digits is %d",sum); } Yes! I just took two digits as the input and printed their sum. I convinced the lab instructor that the question was ambiguous and did not know whether the input was the digits or the number. Result: Ten out of Ten !!!   Data Structures Lab Endsem Question:- Write a C Program for Heap Sort Now, to my credit, I knew Heap Sort. But I was getting some error. So, just implemented the Bubble Sort code with some variables looking like Heap Sort which were actually contributing nothing to the program.  Result: Ten out of Ten Operating Systems Lab Midsem Question:- Write a C Program to print the last n lines of a file I wrote an input file containing numbers 1 to 50 in consecutive lines. And then wrote a C Program to print the last n numbers of an array containing numbers 1 through 50. Result: Ten out of Ten Operating Systems Lab Endsem Question:- Write a C Program for the Dining Philosophers Problem. With just 2 minutes remaining, I just randomly printed some random philosopher hungry and some philosopher dining and let the code run into an infinite loop. The lab instructor approaches me in a hurry. This was the conversation that followed:- Ma'am: Did you execute the Dining Philosopher's Code? Me: Yes Ma'am: Show the output. Me: (Showing the output) See. Ma'am: But your code is going running infinitely. I can't see anything. Me: (innocently) But the code was running perfectly fine just now. Don't know         what happened. (Bell Rings) Ma'am: Okay. Result: Ten out of Ten Compilers Lab Midsem Question:-Write a C Program using LEX tool for Bubble Sort. My first reaction to this question was WTF !!! Now, LEX is a tool for scanning a program and generate a table of tokens. Why would you want me to implement Bubble Sort via Lex??? Haven't we been implementing Bubble Sort since ages??? Anyhow, I just implemented a simple Bubble Sort code and showed the output Result: Ten out of Ten Networks Lab Endsem Question:- Write a C Program to read an input file on the client side and print the contents on the server side. I opened two terminals, one for the server and the other for the client. Wrote some crap in both of them. And then just wrote a for loop containing thousands of iterations in the server side and printed the contents of a file reading the source file on the server side itself. Then I practiced how to show the output and wait for just the right amount of time after the execution of the client program. showed the output perfectly.   Result: Ten out of Ten Updated 5 Jun 2013 • View Upvotes