Which book(s) and other resources would you recommend for a beginner to understand Data Structures in C++?Books which preferably are well written and provide good examples/problems to work on and understand concepts clearly?
If you really are a beginner and want to learn data structures through C++, then I would strongly recommend that you study Sams Teach Yourself Data Structures and Algorithms in 24 Hours: Robert Lafore: 9780672316333: Amazon.com: Books . It is a book that claims to teach you DS in 24 hours which I really doubt but if you give it more time than 24 hours ( give it atleast 2 weeks ), it will really strengthen your DS fundamentals. I am not saying that reading this book will make you master of data structure or bring you even close to attain that goal. or that purpose, you have Introduction to Algorithms: Thomas H. Cormen, Charles E. Leiserson, Ronald L. Rivest, Clifford Stein: 9780262033848: Amazon.com: Books and The Art of Computer Programming, Volumes 1-4A Boxed Set: Donald E. Knuth: 9780321751041: Amazon.com: Books . But this book will give you the confidence that you will require while facing these two books. Just study this book once and write every program it has. It does not have many exercises ( only one per chapter ) but the code given in the book for every basic data structure ( linked lists, stacks, queues, BST, ) is given with impeccable detail. This book also teaches aggregation i.e using objects of multiple classes to create an object that you need. It is a new concept that learnt while learning from this book and I find it more useful and easy to follow than inheritance. However, while you are learning DS, make sure that you are also learning the nuances of pointers and arrays. They seems innocent but are real in the neck when you try some complicated gymnastics in C++. I know this because I am suffering due to this. Reading the chapter 4 of Algorithms + Data Structures = Programs (Prentice-Hall Series in Automatic Computation): Niklaus Wirth: 9780130224187: Amazon.com: Books should give you enough conceptual background to pick up pointers just like variables and start using them with considerable ease. 