What are the best online resources to prepare for GATE exam - Computer Science?
http://getbook.co/gate has all the online  resources for GATE prep Log In | Facebook is a community for GATE preparation and many GATE toppers share their experiences. Here is a sample post on Preparation 1>>Good technical knowledge 2>>Good understanding of Basic Concepts 3>>Ability to apply the knowledge and concepts on variety of  problems To Develop 1 and 2 you will need to read and understand  reference books, to develop 3 you will need to solve the problems. Now question  is from where to get the problems or the MCQs, the answer is  the problems are given at the back of every chapter in the reference  books, you will need to solve those problems,may be not all of them.  Problems reveal lot of truth and clear our misconception and  false convictions. And GATE has certain property that lot of Questions in  it are based on concepts that are revealed in certain problems in  reference books. So its really really important to have a shot at the  problems. DISCRETE MATHEMATICS I started my preparation with discrete maths, and I would recommend  you also to start with this perticular subject because this is the  subject from where Computer Science spreads out. Understanding of this  subject is very important. I used following books: 1>>"Discrete maths and its applications" By Kenneth Rosen This is an excellent book for GATE preps. Lot of problems are given  at the end of every chapter plus answers are also given to odd numbered  exercises. The explaination in this book is really very good and "easy  to understand". This book is must read for GATE preps. 2>>book by Tremblay and Manohar I recommend you to read this book after you have read Rosen’s book.  The contents in this book is hard to comprehend. You need to have your  basics cleared before you attempt this book. This book is also a "must   read". I also have the lecture notes on discrete maths from some prof at  McGuire university the advanced counting and recurrence relation part  is good. ALGORITHMS I recommend to you to read this subject along with Discrete maths or  after you have completed discrete maths. I used only one book for this subject and found that to be more than enough for GATE. 1>>"Introduction to Algorithms" By T.H.Cormen et al. This is "THE" book for Algorithms. The Book is simply brilliant, it  makes you understand every details of Algorithms. So this book is a must  read. Although I did not read the entire thing. Here is the list of  chapters that I had read. If you are interested of course you can read  the entire book. Chapter 1,2,3,4[excluding 4.4],6,7[excluding 7.3],8,10,11[excluding  11.5],12[excluding 12.4],18,22,23,24[excluding 24.4 and 24.5] for  NP-Completeness you can read 34 also. In addition to this book I  strongly recommend you to see the video lectures from MIT. The lectures  are given by Lieserson[who BTW is also one of the authors of CLRS] and Erik demaine. The lectures are absolutely brilliant. You may download them from Free Online Course Materials  DATASTRUCTURES I did not read this subject exclusively. I mostly participated in  discussions in Algorithms and datastructures communities on orkut . That  is i think more than enough. • THEORETICAL COMPUTER SCIENCE I initially tried to decipher Ullman’s book but I found the content  too much for my brain to comprehend. So I switched to "Introduction  toComputer Theory" By Daniel Cohen. The contents in this book are lucid. Also solving or atleast attempting the problems in the exercises is a must. But its really great if you could read Ullman. • DATABASE MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS I used Korth and Navathe for this. Initially I read korth because it  is lucid and then only for normalization i read Navathe. The database  design part in korth is difficult so read this part with utmost  concentration and you may require several readings before you begin to  understand things. OPERATING SYSTEMS Read this from following books: 1>>Operating System Concepts By Galvin et al. 2>>Stallings Attempt problems in Stallings they are very important especially  problems on memory management and virtual memory. In Galvin the theory  on memory management is excellent. • Digital Design Read "Digital Design" By morris mano [period].• COMPUTER ARCHITECTURE Read this from following books 1>>"Computer Architecture" By Morris mano 2>>"Computer Organization" By Zacky,hamacher 3>>"Computer Organization Hardware/Software Interface" By Hennessey and Patterson Read book 1 almost completely then read memory system from book 2 then you can read book 3, I had read only the performance measurement chapter from book 3 as it is not given in any other book and also solve numericals fromexercises they are very very important. I recommend you to read this subject after "Digital Design". • COMPUTER NETWORKS I had read this subject only from forouzan and had read some chapters  from Comer’s book. Attempt the exercises from forouzan they are important. • C programming You read this from "the C programming language" by kernighan and  Ritchie that is more than enough plus spend some time in actually programming in C that is the best way you can learn C. • C++ I dont know C++ much and I did not read anything for C++. Dont be spoiled, you can read C++ complete reference if you wish to. Compiler Design  "People" say Ullman’s book is  excellent so you can read it from Ullman if you believe "People". In the  final phase of your preps "try" to solve GATE papers. The answers for  the GATE papers are not present anywhere but still you should attempt  them anyway. This will give youconfidence that you can actually solve  GATE. You can read all the subjects given here you can skip one or two  if you dont have much time But more important thing is to  "MASTER"atleast 2 or 3 subjects. Also actively participate in  discussions at GATE CS or GATE CS/IT 2009 and Algorithms and  Datastructures community in orkut - that helps alot in patching few  loopholes in our concepts and enhancing your problem solving skills. Thats it guys,this much is I think enough to crack GATE. You can ofcourse Device your own methodsand set of books. Just be confident you can do it!  These are few URLs Which I think "might" be helpful 1>>Opencourseware at MIT>>>>OCW Updated 29 Dec 2014 • View Upvotes