Does the United States national debt even matter given that the country has always been in debt?
The U.S. Public Debt matters in two distinct ways: First, it represents spending by the U.S. Federal Government in excess of the amount taken in in tax revenues and fees. I believe every penny spent by the federal government takes resources from the U.S. Economy and devotes them to the spending choices made by the government. This hurts the economy. Even if the ideas are good ones the government is so inefficient at doing anything that the spending is usually excessive for the goals achieved. All this spending - trillions of dollars - would be better used to reinvest in the economy through private business investment and wages for workers in the economy. Second, the level of national debt has reached an incredible level: currently around 17 trillion dollars, which is in excess of 100% of U.S. GDP. Even if the government decided to pay this debt off, the burden on the economy would be immense. In fact it seems unlikely the Congress will change its ways and decide to have a U.S. Federal Budget that is smaller than government income. That would be a total change in paradigm for the people in charge of government spending. If the government takes the only practical way out of debt then anyone who has either loaned the government money or saved money for their own future will be punished. This is what happens when the government "monetizes" the debt. That means they reduce the value of the U.S. Dollar by inflating the prices of everything dollars can buy. By "Printing" trillions of dollars, as the U.S. Federal Reserve is currently doing, the dollar is devalued through Inflation (economics). (Yes, I know the academics who have taken a vacation from their ivory towers say there is no inflation. They reach this obviously wrong conclusion by considering wages and housing that have reduced prices but ignoring energy and food that are going up like moon rockets.) Since the resulting dollars have less value, the debt repayment is reduced and also the savings of everyone who saves instead of borrowing are reduced. This is nothing short of theft by the federal government from anyone who loans it money or saves money. 