Physics Education: I am very poor at physics. How can I make it a strong subject for me?
The fun part about physics is that you can stay engaged by asking 'why' until you reach the horizon- which usually is "due to experimental evidence". So a few steps I can suggest is: Get curious: Curiosity can be engaged by just the question why? Do not accept whatever you hear until and unless you are thoroughly convinced as to 'why' it works or is the way it is. Be speculative and be curious about every theory, page etc. Read on wikipedia, google up stuff, ask questions on physics forums, even quora all on a quest to answer 'why'! Get creative and teach: It could be an imaginary friend or even a stick figure on paper. The point being that you should try and explain things with as many metaphors as you can to make your self understand clearly the topic at hand. I used a stick man for one of my engineering classes. I would have a detailed dialogue with it and whatever question popped in my head, I would make the stick man ask it, and I would answer it in text. You could try it too! These were my notes I made in a subject called Electric Drives and Special Machines (EDSM) in my engineering course-ware. I disliked the subject initially but after putting in some effort and using this method, I topped the branch in this subject and grew to seriously like it. Create a detailed model in your head: This is a bit tricky to explain because not all of us think in the same way. I think of the subject I am learning as an interconnected web (like a Graph (abstract data type) for the CS oriented). This web should be connected well enough that if you start at one point, you can reach any other part quickly. Each edge of this web would be metaphors or experiments which link one concept to the next. The best way to test your detailed model is by                Creating questions: By creating questions like the ones which appear on your textbook/exams (and then solving them of course!) you really test yourself on the model you made in your head. You can practice making problems for you to solve and this will actually help you understand the topic very well. Diagrams: The beauty of physics lies in diagrams! Draw them, label them and love them! They will help you in getting that model in your head. It's amazing how one can learn so much from a single diagram than a 100 word text. I have written more on diagrams and certain parts which you might find interesting as a further read: Shubhang Goswami's answer to I am very interested in chemistry and physics but it is very difficult for me. How do I become more proficient in these subjects? Best of luck! Hope to see you excel in physics! :) 