Do grad school students remember everything they were taught in college all the time?
It took five years to write that text book. It took three years to get it to market. You have a few more years of college. So when you leave here your knowledge is about ten years out of date. So why would you want to memorize it. Seriously, I would tell my students to read the book before class and study it after class in light of your new understanding. No taking notes in class (boy did that tick a lot of people off.) We are here to work through the problems in terms of what you already know. That is how you learn and retain a working knowledge that will serve you years later. Later in life you can look up all the formulas you need, BTW you can bring this or any other text you find useful to the exam (including your notes). When I was in school, many years ago, I found that I usually got better grades than my contemporaries because I applied all new concepts to what I already knew. All of life fits together like a jigsaw puzzle if we create our own. Lets take a simple concept from psychology (apply as needed to any other discipline). Operant conditioning begins with a reinforcement for exhibiting the appropriate behavior. Oh yeah, that is like my dog. He raised his paw, I gave him a treat and he came back a minute later and raised his paw again. I thought it was weird but that is the beginning of operant conditioning.  Funny, the dog didn't know it. Was he training me or was I training him. Hmm -- Wait a minute what were the other things needed to operantly condition? Oh yeah schedules of reinforcement, yeah that is like getting paid, some times every time, some times intermittently. Seems my buddy Harry has been placed on an intermittent schedule by his girl friend when he ... Everything you learn can be related to something you already know. Years later, like that kid with a paper route, you forget who Mrs Jones was but you remember the red house, inside the screen door, next to the green house, third from the left after the corner. Yeah, she was the (expletive deleted)  woman who never gave a tip -- even at Christmas. Learn the paper route based on what you already know and everything comes back as needed. Of course when it comes to advanced topics you need a fund of knowledge to begin the class. That is why we don't have undergrads in grad classes. I can do the same understanding and relating with equations based on prior course work. 