What is the adjacency matrix of a graph or network?
In short, yes, if the graph is well defined, the adjacency matrix is too: clear equivalence in representation. Longer: Going from a graph to adjacency matrix: A graph or a network is a "defined" object, G = (V,E), V is the set of nodes or vertices, E is the set of edges. Each element in E is of the form {v_i, v_j}, which means node v_i is connected to node v_j. Together, V and E define the network or the graph. Now we come to the adjacency matrix: say you have N nodes or vertices, or |V| = N. You "Define" an N times N adjacency matrix, where each row and column represents a node, then, take the set E, and put an entry of 1 in the matrix where row v_i and column v_j cross. This represents the edge. You do this for ALL edges in E. Your question says 8 neighbors, well, only if the "graph" is a grid in the usual sense. But, there is entirely different families of graph beasts, each of these would lead to very different adjacency matrix forms. Your question says "nearby entries would be treated as neighbors" - well, again, it depends on whether you have defined the nodes to share edges or not, so the edge definition is important. Two nodes could be sitting close to each other in physical or similarity or whatever space, but, if you have not explicitly encoded that by putting the edge in, they are not neighbors in the graph sense, and the corresponding entry in adjacency will remain empty.  Going from any matrix to a graph: depends, suppose I have a "distance" matrix, where each matrix entry gives me the distance between points i and j in space. In this case, the "graph" would have locations as nodes, and the edge weights would be the distances. So, going from a matrix to a graph depends on the domain, on the interpretation of "what" you define to be an edge. For example, Facebook friendships between people leads to one graph, but the number of times they actually interact with each other over a period in time, is another graph, and both will lead to different adjacency matrices. A good book on graphs and networks will help too. 