Is Quora important to Siri?
Yes, very important! Quora As A Best Source For Siri We are at the precipice of a major shift on how we interact with our devices and the information that is in the cloud. In fact perhaps the entire electronic world controlled by these devices will see this shift.  Siri is the first real step in this direction of the 4th user interface, not replacing the Mechanical User Interfaces (the keyboard, mouse and gestures) but enhancing them and perhaps creating an entirely new use case for instant knowledge.  The model we had up until this point may in the near future seem somewhat clumsy and dated when used to get at simple end point data. It is perhaps the tasks that all of us have become accustomed to that will be the most stark noticeable difference we will be confronted with. To put it simply, most of us find  it is easier to ask a question with our voice, then to go through a Mechanical process.  In the old Mechanical User Interfaces model there are the obvious steps and the steps that are less obvious, in the very simple form one would: Mechanical User Interfaces model: Gestures/Mouse-    - Open the device     - Select the app/software     - Access the function/menu Keyboard/Gestures/Mouse-    - Type in a request     - Sort the results     - Discard irrelevant data     - Condense the data     - Formalize an answer Action(s) performed as it relates to the answer Your Brain and your time is a part of this entire process Siri Voice User Interfaces model: Lift iPhone 4S to your ear/Ask the question-    - Sort the results (if needed) Of course there are many variations to these steps.   Some will have dozens of iterations and curations to arrive at a result.  But there is a lot more that is also gaining on in the sorting process that can not be discounted.  This is you acting as a Tutor to the computer and guiding the process.  This takes time from you while the computer is basically idle.  Thus if one were to want to find the best place to buy Flowers for your Mom there are all the steps mentioned above but also contextual inputs by your Brain related to your Mom, such as: Where does she live (limit searching to this area), What is her address (this would need to be entered) and perhaps a few dozen other contextual inputs.  One can not also discount the amount of time this task will take, and you will have 100s of tasks in a typical day.  Siri can do most of this today with a statement “Find flowers for my Mother”.    In future versions Siri will pull the address data and perhaps likes and dislikes along with optimal delivery times and produce and end point to order the Flowers with perhaps some refining questions like “Are there better selections for less than $50”.  This process of reduction would have taken most of your attention and much use of Mechanical User Interfaces.  The ability to present a task in a conversational manner and then go on to do something else is not only liberating but it will create new dimensions of productivity. Wolfram|Alpha, Wikipedia And Quora With Siri we are eliminating a majority of the tasks and steps needed to be performed to arrive at an action or an answer or both with little to no use of Mechanical User Interfaces.  Simple or even complex questions can be posed and the context and intent can be extracted.  Today Siri’s organic results use Wolfram|Alpha and Wikipedia as the default, however there is a clear path that front end APIs and backend APIs will be opened up to some extent in the near future.  Quora already has created a definitive curation of some of the best answers to be found anywhere.   This is in great contrast to the Binary Factual data that is presented at Wikipedia (e.g.: "What is the diameter of the Earth?") and perhaps the systems of curation at play with Wolfram|Alpha. Quora has the baseline data to become a very meaningful and important part of what i believe Siri will be used for. Quora is perhaps as important as Wolfram|Alpha and Wikipedia and will become more so as it continues to grow.  Quora is in the very unique and fortunate position to be at the convergence of good answers and perhaps the best curation platform to get at the vast points of data that Siri will need to create a satisfying answer or a satisfying action. By building what is perhaps the best method to be found thus far for attracting and presenting and perhaps extracting First Hand accounts of information and more “Human” accounts of Wikipedia data, Quora’s value to this new Siri ecosystem is spectacular. It is extremely important to understand that Humans are not usually looking for hard Binary, Factual data (eg. Wikipedia) in most use cases.   We are usually looking for the closest thing to a subjective "Best Answer".  The reality is the "Best Answer" is usually not going to be Binary (eg. right vs. wrong), but it is going to be closer to a general consensus and it will always be subjective.  Quora has the only system I am aware of that can capitalize on this aspect of Human nature. Siri And Ontology Tom Gruber (http://tomgruber.org), now working at Apple and co founder/CTO of Siri, Inc. has spent about 15 years coalescing the vast number of successful ideas in Artificial Intelligence, dialog and natural language understanding, machine learning, evidential and probabilistic reasoning, ontology and knowledge representation, planning, reasoning and service delegation.   At Stanford University Tom was a pioneer in the use of the Web for knowledge sharing and collaboration and evangelized the idea of Ontologies as a technology for enabling knowledge sharing. He also established the DARPA Knowledge Sharing Library, a web-based public exchange for ontologies, software, and knowledge bases and was part of the group that established the technical foundations for what is now the Semantic Web.  Tom also led the Stanford team that invented and deployed the first Virtual Document applications on the web that generate natural language explanations in response to questions. This continued a line of research in intelligent interfaces that ranged from knowledge-based communication prosthesis to automated knowledge acquisition  from human experts.  This work along with other DARPA projects has created the foundation in what we now see in Siri.  More can be found here: Why is Siri important?. Siri Needs Good Answers And Good Questions For Quora to have a head start, it would be quite important to understand how Tom's ontologies-as-specification concepts can be applied to the schemas in use at Quora.   Siri isn’t a source of data, so it doesn’t expose data using the Semantic Web or it’s standards.  Thus the Semantic Web vision is more focused on exposing the structured data, however it assumes APIs will actually act on the data. For example, if Siri wants to schedule a dinner it needs more than the information about the free/busy schedules of participants, it needs API access to their calendars with appropriate credentials, ways of communicating with the participants via APIs to their email/sms/phone, and so forth.  Siri is building on the ecosystem of APIs, which are better if they declare the meaning of the data in and out via Ontologies. That was the original purpose of ontologies-as-specification that Tom postulated in the early 1990s.  The base point is to specify how to interact with these agents via knowledge-level APIs marked with Ontologies. Tom wrote a landmark paper in August 1993 “Toward Principles for the Design of Ontologies Used for Knowledge Sharing” describing this concept: “Abstract: Recent work in Artificial Intelligence is exploring the use of formal ontologies as a way of specifying content-specific agreements for the sharing and reuse of knowledge among software entities. We take an engineering perspective on the development of such ontologies. Formal ontologies are viewed as designed artifacts, formulated for specific purposes and evaluated against objective design criteria. We describe the role of ontologies in supporting knowledge sharing activities, and then present a set of criteria to guide the development of ontologies for these purposes. We show how these criteria are applied in case studies from the design of ontologies for engineering mathematics and bibliographic data. Selected design decisions are discussed, and alternative representation choices and evaluated against the design criteria.” http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/vie... There is also an interesting adaption on this concept in this paper: http://citeseerx.ist.psu.edu/vie... What Is an Ontology And Why Is It Important? The root of the term is the Greek ontos, or being or the nature of things. Literally — and in classical philosophy — ontology was used in relation to the study of the nature of being or the world, the nature of existence. Much like taxonomies or relational database schema, Ontologies work to organize information. No matter what the domain or scope, an ontology is a description of a world view. This view might be limited and miniscule, or it could be global and expansive. However, unlike those alternative hierarchical views of concepts such as taxonomies, ontologies have a linked or networked “graph” structure. In this view multiple things can be related to other things, all in a potentially multi-way series of relationships. Conventional hierarchical structures (above) compared to Ontologies (below) and their degree of connectedness, their ability to model coherent, and linked relationships. Ontologies supply a structure for relating information to other information in the semantic Web or the linked data realm. Ontologies thus provide a similar role for the organization of data that is provided by relational data schema. Because of this structural role, ontologies are pivotal to the coherence and interoperability of interconnected data. What Are The Benefits Of Ontology? A good ontology offers a composite suite of benefits not available to taxonomies, relational database schema, or other standard ways to structure information. Among these benefits are: Coherent navigation- By enabling the movement from concept to concept in the ontology structure Flexible entry points- Any specific perspective in the ontology can be traced and related to all of its associated concepts, there is no set structure or manner for interacting with the ontology Connections- Highlights related information and aid and prompt discovery without requiring prior knowledge of the domain or its terminology Free form data- Ability to represent any form of information, including unstructured (e.g.. documents or text), semi-structured (e.g.. XML or Web pages) and structured (e.g.. conventional databases) data Inferencing-  By specifying one concept (e.g.: mammals) one knows that we are also referring to a related concept (e.g.. that mammals are a kind of animal) Concept matching- Even though we may describe things somewhat differently, we can still match to the same idea (e.g.. such as glad or happy both referring to the concept of a pleasant state of mind) Framework for disambiguation- By the matching and analysis of concepts and instances in the ontology graph Reasoning- The ability to use the coherence and structure itself to inform questions of relatedness or to answer questions How Are Ontologies Used By Siri? The relationship structure underlying an ontology provides an excellent system for discovery and linkages. The relationship structure is a powerful and more general and more nuanced way to organize information. Concepts can relate to other concepts through a richness of vocabulary. Ontologies would capture subsumption, precedence, Mereology- parts of relationships preferences and importances along virtually any useful metric. Siri's access to richness of expression and relationships can also be built incrementally over time (a form of learning), allowing ontologies to grow and develop in sophistication and use as desired. Siri produces a coherent reference structures whose purpose is to help map and integrate other structures and information. Quora And Ontologies-As-Specification Quora could integrate ontologies-as-specification concepts into an API that can be access via Siri, on a cloud basis. Of course some of Quora’s data would perhaps need be tagged to a much higher magnitude of resolution along with content summery systems.  It is very important to note that not all of the end point results from Siri will be as a simple voice response, a great deal will be displaying the most relevant parts of the data for presentation to the user.   These processes can take place as a Front end API also, however I think the best system would be a backend API. The Siri engine actually can do much of the work to extract meaningful data so the task may not be as complex as it seems. Open APIs For Siri Apple has not announced any positions about how the APIs will work with Siri.  However, Tom’s work in the past shows how this framework will likely take place. Apple will certainly take time to grow the functionality of the APIs moving forward.  In fact, Siri, as a stand alone app released by Siri Inc., had more API relationships than its current implementation in the iPhone 4S, for example, you were able to reserve a table via OpenTable.  Apple certainly will address these limitations and, as a result, the usefulness of Siri will explode. The Future These are the early days for Siri and when we look back at the current limited form, it will look quaint, but it is very clear that the foundation that Siri has been built upon is the best that has been seen in public.  As Siri grows and APIs are developed, we will see a magnitude higher order of power.  I firmly believe that all that we contribute to Quora will impact the value of Siri in the long term.  It is fascinating to think how a simple question will travel through the cloud and land as an answer curated on Quora and returned back as a spoken result via Siri. It feels like we are living in the future. Updated 21 Oct 2011 • View Upvotes