Does the United States national debt even matter given that the country has always been in debt?
In the abstract, it matters a lot. In reality, it matters only a little. Here's the bottom line. The national debt matters fundamentally only in one way: If it prevents the country from spending on other things more important than debt service. What does that mean? It means that there is a cost to servicing the national debt in the form of interest payments on that debt. While there is some small crowding-out effect from the mere presence of paying interest at all -- we can't spend the interest dollars on schools, or military pay, or social security benefits -- that isn't actually a real problem. To understand why, you can simply ask yourself whether the presence of the national debt has stopped the growth of spending on all those things over time? And the answer, of course, is no. But there exists a possibility that we would at some point be unable to continue borrowing at favorable rates and we would therefore spend most of our collective resources (in the form of government spending) on servicing the debt. At that point, incremental borrowing would be prohibitive and we might be unable to afford some desired public good or service. The doomsayers keep insisting the national debt will all sorts of terrible things like: bring runaway inflation prevent us from increasing government spending become Greece, unable to refinance our own debt So let's actually look at some data. Here's the national debt over the past few decades: My goodness, that's scary! ----------------- Here's a couple decades of inflation data... Oh dear... Inflation is stable and low even with the national debt soaring! How can this be oh foretellers of doom?!?!? ------------------------ Here's the doomsayers chart showing interest payments as a portion of GDP: (The doomsayer in this case is the Center for Economic Policy and Research). The "sky is falling" types are so worried about interest payments as a share of GDP, they think such payments could return to the shocking levels of the 1980s and 1990s by the 2020s! My goodness, imagine if economic growth also return to those levels. That would be truly terrible! (For the sarcasm challenged, those last two sentences were meant to be dripping.) The prophets of dooms probably aren't realizing that right now, interest as a portion of GDP is actually at the lowest levels in about 4 decades. This with record-high debt levels. Can we ignore them at this point? ------------------------------------------------------- Oh, and we can't "become Greece". We issue our own currency, Greece does not. We can't be unable to refinance our own debt like Greece because we are not beholden to another entity for our currency. We might face higher interest rates in the future and this will have costs (see their forecast in the graph above), but there is no chance of a "Greece scenario" in the United States. Now, in closing, I want to be clear: We should get our debt under control in the medium and long term. We don't want to be unable to respond to future economic crises and we don't want our taxes to go primarily to funding expenditures we made decades before. But you should be very careful believing what you read online or in print or what you see on TV or hear on the radio about the national debt. Most of it is ill-informed nonsense from people who have (or are influenced by) political agendas. The good news is that federal spending growth is slowing massively (after a big spike associated with the recession of 2008); And there are serious opportunities to cut spending farther. There are serious challenges around an aging population, long-term runaway health care inflation and what that means for Medicare and Medicaid, but a semi-serious effort to deal with these would more than stabilize the debt-to-GDP ratio and allow it to fall over time. Sorry to disappoint the doomsayers. Updated 15 Feb 2013 • View Upvotes