Job Interview Questions: Which are the frequently asked interview questions for Java Engineers ?
This is an extract from this resource on Java Software Engineer interview questions. There is also Senior Java Developer interview questions and Java Developer interview questions For many other software engineering roles check out the Computing/IT section here Interview Questions which includes interview questions for many other types of role too. Computing Science Questions How do you know if a linked list has a cycle in it? As in, one of the nodes in the linked list points to a previous node in the list. How is preemptive threading model different from the cooperative threading model? What tools & practices would you consider necessary for a Continuous Delivery solution? Role Specific Questions Is Java a statically or dynamically typed language? Do arguments in Java get passed by reference or by value? What is the difference between an abstract class and an interface and when would you use one over the other? What is a factory pattern and how would you implement the Singleton pattern? What is the difference between “==” and equals(…) method? What is the difference between shallow comparison and deep comparison of objects? How is Java SE related to Java EE? How are Runtime exceptions different from Checked exceptions? What are the most important features introduced in Java 5, 7 and 8 respectively? Choose a Java EE platform API and give a short description of it. In a 3-tier application running a Java application server you notice freezes for several seconds during high load. What are the most likely reasons? How would you troubleshoot them? Servlets 3.0 introduced async support. Describe a use case for it. Why do you think lambda expressions are considered such a big thing for Java 8? Is this possible in Java? This is an extract from this resource on Java Software Engineer interview questions. There is also Senior Java Developer interview questions and Java Developer interview questions For many other software engineering roles check out the Computing/IT section here Interview Questions which includes interview questions for many other types of role too. Updated 4 Nov • View Upvotes