Do grad school students remember everything they were taught in college all the time?
There are some excellent answers here, particularly Mark Eichenlaub's, but I want to break it down and delve into some of the results of cognitive science. It's been a long, long time since I was in school, though if someone gave me a big bag of money, it would be fun to go back. I don't remember any derivation in detail. Since then, I've come to realize that there are two main reasons for doing them: To give you some trust that they are right. To create neural pathways along the lines of Hebbian learning such that the next time, they are easier to follow. This gives you what might be called an intuitive understanding. In High School, we derived the Lorentz transformations. It took a whole class session, and I remember it as being unbelievably tortuous. I don't remember any of the details. I'd have to look up the conventions to be able to give an explanation of what it is, what's the t and the t' and all that sort of stuff. Which I have to do when I see someone touting that "auto dynamics" drivel, and it's still just as unpleasant to break it down to that level. However, now, I think, "yeah yeah, right triangle, Pythagorean theorem, Minkowsky metric, big fat hairy deal, it's obvious." I can do it quickly. Better yet, if I have a particular problem, I can go directly to a particular solution without having to do the algebra to get it from the general solution. I don't make the dumb mistakes of forgetting the square or the minus sign when I do one step in the algebra and write it down, because I have a feel for it. I can also explain things qualitatively, which I really enjoy. All that annoying derivation did something to my brain to make it work better. I must have re-derived the perspective projection (more right triangles) 30 times in my life. I don't mind, because every time I do it, I see another little trick that will help out the efficiency of the problem I have in mind. Every time, I see a little bit more, and it becomes more natural. 