What are currently the hot topics in computer science research?Especially in academic research
See Prof. Valiant's research statement, I think it's a good summary: The majority of computational problems, including those with explicit mathematical characterizations such as the NP-complete problems, fall within the category of those for which the question of how best to compute them is little understood. These core problems of complexity theory remain the most fundamental mathematical challenges of computer science. They are related to foundational questions in quantum physics, most notably through polynomial time versions of the Turing hypothesis. In computer systems major conceptual challenges remain in controlling, load-balancing and programming large parallel systems, whether they be multicore devices on a chip or highly distributed systems.. how to design algorithms for multi-core devices that are portable, and run efficiently on wide classes of architectural designs with widely varying  performance characteristics. A fundamental question for artificial intelligence is to characterize the computational building blocks that are necessary for cognition. A specific challenge is to build on the success of machine learning so as to cover broader issues in intelligence. This requires, in particular a reconciliation between two contradictory characteristics--the apparent logical nature of reasoning and the statistical nature of learning. In neuroscience a widely open problem remains how the weak model of computation that cortex apparently offers can support cognitive computation at all. .. how broad sets of primitive operations can be computed robustly and on a significant scale even on such a weak model. A challenge in a different direction is understanding how Darwinian evolution can evolve complex mechanisms in the numbers of generations and with population sizes that have apparently been available on earth. Darwin's notions of variation and selection are computational notions and offer a very direct challenge for quantitative analysis by the methods of computer science. What is sought is a quantitative understanding of the possibilities and limitations of the basic Darwinian process.http://people.seas.harvard.edu/~... Also Bengio, Y. and LeCun, Y. Scaling Learning Algorithms Towards AI. In Large Scale Kernel Machines, MIT Press (2007): http://yann.lecun.com/exdb/publi... Jim Gray's "What Next?" on long-term research goals: arxiv.org/pdf/cs/9911005 Solomonoff,  Machine Learning - Past and Future (2006): http://world.std.com/~rjs/dart.pdf Which CS areas have the most low-hanging fruit for research? What are the best recommended research topics on databases according to edge technologies and recent research trends? What computational problems are the most interesting in genome informatics today? Has compressed sensing peaked? What are some introductory resources for learning about large scale machine learning? Why? What new innovations have occurred in the field of artificial intelligence from 2000 to 2010? The list of unsolved problems in Theoretical Computer Science: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lis... The Coalescent theory in population genetics: Wakeley, ch.3 Updated 23 Feb 2014 • View Upvotes