What is the most recommended coding language for creating full blown human AI?
I program my AGI theories in Haskell. Why? The mottos of some programming languages are: "C is designed for high-performance." "Java is designed for cross-platform apps." "Lisp is designed for metaprogramming." Haskell's motto is: "Haskell is designed for hard problems." AI systems are hard problems. I like Haskell because of its purity, relatively good speed, lack of bugs, parallelism, safe multiple concurrency, rich type system, generalized algebraic data types (GADT), metaprogramming facilities, Domain Specific Languages (DSL), and abstract mathematics. Moreover, ghci is nice. Haskell's functional purity and strong static typing guarantee our AI code will work like charm in the first run, unless we have some logical or mathematical error in our mathematical model of artificial intelligence. Moreover, modern AI systems are based on highly multidimensional networks that learn patterns, self-organize knowledge and exploit expertise in real time. That creates lots of multiple concurrency problems that are a real headache to debug in stateful imperative programming languages. In Haskell, we instead define the data structures and states evolve through mappings from older memory addresses to different memory addresses. In that way, concurrency problems simply don't exist. State evolves from one variable to a different variable. There are no shared memory addresses like C or Java. Nowadays, artificial intelligence systems MUST be adaptive, meta-programmable, versatile and capable of learning from big data. Such features are only achieved by stateful, intertwined and holistic networks. Artificial intelligence systems MUST deal with and learn from complex systems. When systems and their data are complex, they get difficult to debug and thus we need to program in purely functional programming languages like Haskell that promise to produce elegant code that works the first time it is run. This question arises: How to Program Stateful & Intertwined AI Networks (Graphs) in Stateless & Modular Programming Languages like Haskell (Trees)? https://www.facebook.com/notes/j... 