Job Interview Questions: Which are the frequently asked interview questions for Java Engineers ?
Originally Answered: What are the most common Java (core) questions asked in interviews?Now, the answer for the questions depend really on atleast on two factors - 1. Number of years of experience you have. 2. The kind of company you will be attending interview for. Obviously, when you have an experience of 6-7 years and above, the questions asked would be more on architectural level based on your previous project in your previous organisation. When you have lesser experience, say 3-4 years, questions will mostly be to test your knowledge and approach to questions. And, second factor, if you are attending a typicl sotware MNC, questions will be usually of very common level of knowledge on Core Java, but, in case you are attending interviews for, say, Flipkart, Amazon, Walmart, then be prepared with tough written test. Anyhow, now assuming that you are of 3-5 years of experience, here are the questions I would ask when I take an interview - Here I would just put the questions, I am sure you can find answers for all these questions. Also it would motivate you to find answers :) 1. Questions involving Strings - Very clearly, interviewers love this topic, also because many people have misunderstood strings concepts. a. What is the difference between these two statements?  String string1 = "Quora"; String string2 = new String("Quora"); b. What is the difference between these two statements? Predict the output String string1 = "Java"; String string2 = "Java"; String string3 = new String("Java"); if(string2.equals(string1)){ System.out.println("name and name_1 are equal String by equals method"); } if(string1==string3){ System.out.println("name_1 and name_2 are equal String by equals method"); } c. Give an example of Overloaded method in String class? How does Substring method work? How is String class made immutable? What are the conditions to be followed to make a class immutable? d. Difference between String, String Buffer and String Builder? How does implementation of these classes differ? 2. Questions on Collections - a. Explain remove() method difference between collector and iterator? b. Explain the difference between Hashmap, Hash table, List interfaces, Set interfaces? How does all these work? Here they might ask you, given a question, which one of them would you use? How are iterators used? and When? c.  What is the difference between Comparable and Comparator 3.  Let's move to general set of questions - a. Importance of hashcode() and equals() methods b. Singleton Class speciality, How to make a class singleton c. Threads life cycle d. Inheritance, Composition, Aggregation differences e. Synchronization concept f. Volatile, final, Vectors , static, Garbage collection And the set goes on. I recommend you to go through this blog - http://javarevisited.blogspot.in/ they teach basic concepts of core Java. I find the following articles very helpful. Check out. http://javarevisited.blogspot.in... http://javarevisited.blogspot.in... http://javarevisited.blogspot.in... http://javarevisited.blogspot.in... All the best and Good Luck 