Does the United States national debt even matter given that the country has always been in debt?
I don't know why do you separate US (meaning that us operated differently from other countries). So the question is really - if a company has a deficit, it is essentially bankrupt, countries have deficits all the time - so why does it matter if the deficit is rising? That IS a good question. And it is a very difficult question to answer. The question is the level of debt. If you have debt at 200% of GDP than yes - it matters a lot. If you have 70% - its not as significant. But thats just half the story. Then you need to look at the financial situation in the country - does it make money or not. Currently US revenue is nowhere near its expenses and the gap is increasing and increasing - and this MATTERS. It is a big deal knowing that a country can't balance its budget. Here is a brief snap shot at the problem: Also I like how Reagan talks about this problem at the time when we saw the world in black and white (ignore the stupid title of the video) Reagan realised a very simple problem: USA was spending MORE than it was making and the gap went up and up and up. Now when the whole world is growing financially - it doesn't seem to matter. Who cares if tomorrow is brighter than today, right? BUT If everything is gloomy and the world economy is like a monday morning in London - its a different story. Here is a map of debt situation in the world: The global debt clock Note that Japan owes more than USA and the debt level of Japan is MORE than Greece (bet you didn't know that - because the news didn't tell us about it, right?). Yet we all know that Greece is bankrupt, but no one knows that Japan is also Bankrupt TODAY, not tomorrow. The reason WHY we don't hear it in the news is this: The bigger the economy is, the slower it is slowing down. Its like the movement of large ship - you press stop, but its gonna take time, while when you are on a small boat it stops quite quickly. Same here. But by no other means Japan is in different position than Greece. The very interesting thing is - we never had a case when all the world is bankrupt before. Always it was 1 country - either Russia or America or some other country, but the never the whole world at the same time. This is ANOTHER problem that contributes to the significance of the debt level (of US in this case). So to summarise: It depends on the world financial situation. It depends if the country is making money or loosing money It depends on the level of debt (a jump from 10% to 30% is not crucial, a jump from 100% to 200% IS crucial). To support the credibility of the answer (obviously people don't believe you until you make the forbes list): Whither Japan Stocks and Bonds:  Are Kyle Bass and Martin Feldstein Right?  Is Market Collapse Ahead? - Forbes Where Martin Feldstein is one of the best economists in the world. And Kyle made half a billion on 2008 crisis. Don't believe me - believe them. 