Job Interview Questions: Which are the frequently asked interview questions for Java Engineers ?
Originally Answered: What are good interview questions for Java developers?Check this post - Java Interview Question and Answer - careerbaba.in What is the most important feature of Java ? What do you mean by platform independence ? What is a JVM ? Are JVM’s platform independent ? What is the difference between a JDK and a JVM ? What is a pointer and does Java support pointers ? What is the base class of all classes ? Does Java support multiple inheritance ? Is Java a pure object oriented language ? Are arrays primitive data types ? What is difference between Path and Classpath ? What are local variables ? What are instance variables ? How to define a constant variable in Java ? Should a main() method be compulsorily declared in all java classes ? What is the return type of the main() method ? Why is the main() method declared static ? What is the arguement of main() method ? Can a main() method be overloaded ? Can a main() method be declared final ? Does the order of public and static declaration matter in main() method ? Can a source file contain more than one class declaration ? What is a package ? Which package is imported by default ? Can a class declared as private be accessed outside it’s package ? Can a class be declared as protected ? What is the access scope of a protected method ? What is the purpose of declaring a variable as final ? What is the impact of declaring a method as final ? I don’t want my class to be inherited by any other class. What should i do ? Can you give few examples of final classes defined in Java API ? How is final different from finally and finalize() ? Can a class be declared as static ? When will you define a method as static ? What are the restriction imposed on a static method or a static block of code ? I want to print “Hello” even before main() is executed. How will you acheive that ? What is the importance of static variable ? Can we declare a static variable inside a method ? What is an Abstract Class and what is it’s purpose ? Can a abstract class be declared final ? What is use of a abstract variable ? Can you create an object of an abstract class ? Can a abstract class be defined without any abstract methods ? Class C implements Interface I containing method m1 and m2 declarations. Class C has provided implementation for method m2. Can i create an object of Can a method inside a Interface be declared as final ? Can an Interface implement another Interface ? Can an Interface extend another Interface ? Can a Class extend more than one Class ? Why is an Interface be able to extend more than one Interface but a Class can’t extend more than one Class ? Is sizeof a keyword ? 