How are students in Indian colleges taught programming?
Incident 1 :  Web Development : There is a Lecturer in my college who was appointed to teach us Web Development in 5th Semester of B.tech. the last month of semester she was worried because there was a lot of syllabus pending to be covered. She started assigning topics from remaining syllabus and we have to discuss that topic as a presentation of like 15-20 min in class. I was shocked when I came to know my topic. My topic was: "What is XML. What is the difference between XML and HTML. Write a program in XML. " I already new much about XML and its use. On the D-Day, I explained the class (including lecturer) that XML is a markup language and not a programming language. So you cannot program anything in XML. I wrote some code in .NET to explain how XML can be used. She was listening everyth and I thought atleast her is benefited with my presentation. Two years after this incident, One day when I was working in my office, A batchmate of mine who is doing MTech from same college pinged me on Facebook. She : hi Me:  hello ! wassup... She : Bharat  I need a help.. Me  : what kind of help. She : My class just got an assignment to write a program in XML. " I searched a lot on google but all waste. You used to be very good at web related things. Can you help ? Even a 'Hello World' program will do.. Me : who gave your class this impossible assignment. ! That too in M.Tech !!!! She : are wo hi jisne Web Development padhaya tha... Apni NIDHI SHARMA ( in engliah : Its the same teacher who taught us Web development in B.Tech, Mrs. Nidhi Sharma  ). Me :  ***** facepalm ***** --------------------------------------------------------------- Incident 2 :  NETWORKING : So the great lecturer was Aastha Kalra [she deserve bold letters for ruining two semesters] who used to have a diary (notes) in which she had some cherry-picked lines from  books on Computer Networking and she used to literally recite that only as lecture. One day, the topic was about Networking Devices and we were copying her notes as usual when out of nowhere my friend Deepak raised a very common and obvious doubt: Deepak : Mam, what are the differences between router, switch and Hub? As per your definition, all seem to solve the same purpose. And the mighty line that came out as an answer was : " Its very simple Deepak, "Switch is switch And Hub is hub ". [[ And we were like... Oh Really !! Such a big difference ! ]] and then she just  repeated the definitions.... PS: whenever we meet and discuss college life, we discuss this line. -------------------------------------------------------------- Incident 3 :  JAVA TECHNOLOGIES : We were taught Java by Vaishali Yadav. Mrs Vaishali, in her first lecture in our class, introduced a local book that had all the topics from syllabus listed line-wise just like question - answer [with sample programs, not to forget], costs like 100 -120/-, had some stuff copied from wikipedia and other online sources. She  said : "See guys, I am gonna follow this book  [[presenting like an advertisement of NIRMA, GHADI or any other Detergent powder]] for this subject. It has all topics covered, so you {read ME } don't have to go anywhere and search this topic. Moreover, I believe if you read this book completely, you can easily get the passing marks. " Anyways, One day she were teaching about Multiple Inheritance in Java. She : We don't have multiple inheritance in Java, but we can achieve this with the help of Interfaces. ME [ a novice at that time as far as java is concerned ] : Mam, it sounds confusing. Can you give an example to make it clear. She : I don't  have small example. Its gonna take time. Read it by yourself at home. Me [and some random mates ] : Please Mam !!! She : Ok Bharat, Come here and write this code on board. I am too tired for it. I literally copied a 5 page example from that shitty book to board and class copied it from board to book. After that 15 min copy-paste session.. SHE : Got it now ? Me [ tired by writing and feeling punished for asking doubt] : absolutely ! And the lecture is over !!.. College: The Technological Institute of Textile & Sciences. Edit 1 : corrected spelling mistakes. Edit 2: Added more incidents. Updated 19 Apr • View Upvotes