What is category theory?
Category theory is an abstract framework for (among other things) describing other fields of mathematics. (I write this as an extreme non-expert, which may be helpful to people who are even less expert than I am.  The experts should let me know if I got something wrong.) Rather than give a definition, let's start with an example.  The category Set has "objects," which are sets, and "morphisms" or "arrows," which are functions between the sets.  It has a few other interesting properties, notably: If there's a function f  from some set A  to some set B  , and there's also a function g:B→C  , then there's a function g∘f:A→C  . Composition is associative: for functions f:A→B  , g:B→C  , and h:C→D  , we have that h∘(g∘f)=(h∘g)∘f  . For every set B  , there's a special function 1 B :B→B  , which is the identity for function composition; that is, 1 B ∘f=f  and g∘1 B =g  . Now, if you change "set" to "object," "function" to "morphism," you have the definition of a category.  The key thing is that while sets have a bunch of other properties, such as Cartesian products and function spaces (sets of functions), not every category has all that structure.  However, many categories share some common bits of structure, and this lets us say things about all the categories that share that structure. The other important thing is that we describe this structure without looking "inside" the objects — all we're allowed to see is the structure of the morphisms. It might help to consider a few other categories Grp, the category of groups.  The objects are groups, and the morphisms are group homomorphisms.  Note that group homomorphisms are closed under composition, and that every group has an identity homomorphism. Rel, whose objects are sets and whose morphisms are relations.  (Again, note identity and associativity.) Top, whose objects are topological spaces and whose morphisms are continuous functions.  (Again, note . . .) Met, whose objects are metric spaces and whose morphisms are metric maps.  (Again, . . .) Every partially ordered set is a category: The objects are the elements of the set, and there is a unique morphism f:A→B  for every pair of elements A  and B  such that A≤B  .  Note that the poset axioms give us identity morphisms and associativity. What makes category theory potentially interesting is that many general definition in terms of categories often correspond to the specific definitions within several categories.  For example, a morphism f:A→B  is an isomorphism if it has an inverse morphism g:B→A  such that f∘g=1 B   and g∘f=1 A   .  We just defined isomorphisms quite abstractly, in terms of relationships between morphisms, but that definition corresponds to bijections in Set, group isomorphisms in Grp, homeomorphisms in Top, and isometries in Met.  Many other definitions from specific fields of mathematics can be generalized to category theory, and theorems in category theory are then theorems in every category having suitable axioms. There's a lot more to category theory — I don't know that I've even captured the basic flavor.  However, you might get the idea that to a category theorist, your branch of mathematics is merely one point in hers. Updated 16 Jan 2011 • View Upvotes