Is using a graph database as opposed to a relational database better suited to mining information from Twitter API data extracted in XML/JSON format?How should I model the data in graph database? In relational data mode, I would just have to parse the XML/JSON data into different fields/columns. And what could I mine from using the graph database approach as opposed to relational data model ?
Basically you will model the same. The following picture shows a Social Network Schema that we use both at Sparsity Technologies (Sparksee high-performance graph database) and DAMA-UPC (Data Management Group. DAMA-UPC) that will allow you to map all the entities in a Social Network environment: This Schema allows you to represent a SN in a Graph Database as well as in the Relational model. Please, ask us if you want to implement this in Sparksee high-performance graph database. Once you have the schema, the type of queries that you may launch to a GDB as oposed to a Relational DB are several: Recursive queries. Those may be easier to implement in a GDB. For instance, a PageRank query, where you are using the number of references of an entity to rank the value of an entity being refered to by this entity, is something easy to implement in a GDB and not so easy in a Relational query engine. Traversal queries (including full traversal or a few hops like friends of friends). With those you want to traverse the graph either in a Depth or Breath first approaches, will be easier also in a GDB than in a Relational DB. I would say that queries of those types are the usual ones when you work with graph technologies. Those queries are used for: Recommendation. You need to visit the nodes of the friends of an individual to be able to recommend an item that may be of her/his interest. Reputation. In this case, it would be necessary how people refer to you and how reputed are their references. Thus, PageRank like algorithms may be suitable. Minimum distance in maps. You may need to know the minimum distance between nodes. This is a typical minimum distance algorithm that can be solved in different ways, for instance, with traversals.There are many applications of graph algorithms and those are typical, but there are many others. I recommend you to contact us if you have doubts or want to know more about graph technologies. 