Which is better for quantitative finance, R or Matlab?Which do you prefer for what? Or just general pros and cons.
My experience with the two: I have used both R and MATLAB extensively. R, undergraduate: Courses such as "Applied Statistics", "Statistical Simulation" and "Statistical Modeling". Computational tool for BSc.'s thesis (Primarily on Longstaff-Schwartz). R, graduate: "Time series Analysis", ("Derivatives Pricing") courses. MATLAB, undergraduate: None. MATLAB, graduate: In "Derivatives Pricing" the limitations of R was obvious as it has, limited symbolic math capabilities. Essential, e.g. when you need to compute greeks or some non-obvious densities. Firstly I used Maple (as I was already familiar with that) or pen & paper for these problems. But it was time consuming as one needed to utilize the expressions in some setting afterwards. I thought that there must be a tool that could do the job more efficiently. Searched online, got a trial on MATLAB, and was completely sold after a few days. I have generally been using it as m primary comp. tool ever since. Which is better: From an individual's perspective, it depends on what you do in the field. Choosing between these two only! I would generally choose R for any problem in Time Series Analysis and MATLAB for any other, (though there may be exceptions that does not immediately come to mind), i.e. I thik MATLAB is generally better. Analogy: To some extend I guess you can view it as: Let R be a screwdriver with many different sizes of philips bits that you have to learn to spin counter clockwise to mount. Then MATLAB is a screwdriver with even more bits of different types and sizes, though significantly fewer sizes of the philips type than the R screwdriver and you have to learn to spin it clockwise to mount. Generally one could consider which type of screwdriver a craftsman should buy if he finds it marginally easier learning to spin the tool clockwise than counter clockwise when mounting. If he knows that he will only work with the philips type, he should clearly choose the R tool. But if he doesn't, then... 