What are some actual projects data scientists have worked on?Given how much interest there is in data science, I was thinking it would be great if some data scientists could walk through a project they've worked on, what tools and analytical techniques they used, and most importantly, their thought processes behind each step of their analyses and execution, as well as what mistakes they made.
It looks like you're looking for the complete end-to-end of a data science project, complete with code, reasoning, thought processes, and dead ends. It's hard to find industry projects that can be shared to that degree (mine certainly can't). But perhaps you can find some student projects. I wanted to share the project done by team Buffalo Capital Management (Me, Sebastian Chiu, Salena Cui, Carl Gao) for the 2013 Harvard Data Science course taught by Joe Blitzstein and Hanspeter Pfister. Our project was to predict directional movement of stock prices. While not a standard data science problem, it fits in with the data science process quite nicely and will give you some insight in how a data science project is completed from end to end. Ultimately, we found that directional movement of stock prices for blue chip stocks was highly predictable given today's opening price and open/close prices for the previous 9 days. Directional movement was predictable with over 90% AUC. We were able to win a predictive modeling competition (2013 Boston Data Week) with our Ridge-RF Blended model. Our video briefly summarizes our motivations, results, and main takeaways. Our IPython process notebook completely outlines our reasoning and thought processes behind each step. Our GitHub contains all of our code. And lastly our website ties everything together. For more projects like these from our classmates, simply search on YouTube for CS109! Hope that's what you were looking for. Good luck in your data science ambitions! Updated 14 Jan 2014 • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Rohan Patil and Neal Wu