Does the United States national debt even matter given that the country has always been in debt?
Yes, the debt matters. Which is why the Bush administration fought so hard to make sure it did not go away and wreck the market for treasuries. The debt is a profit center for the wealthy investors. Most of the US debt is held by US entities. It would be much better economically to tax to raise the two thirds of the debt from those US entities then to borrow the same from them. Then the investors would have to borrow on the open market rather then get a handout from the government in the form of unpaid tax giveaways and then interest on the bonds. Recently the idea of minting platinum coins valued in the trillions of dollars, effectively wiping out the debt. The two major side effects would be to potentially lower the value against other currencies and also zero out the treasury market. Although this might benefit the economy and especially the less than wealthy, it would decrease profiteering by the investor class. Also, vital to understand is that most of the current debt and future debt was built into the US accounts by the Bush administration. Most businesses, states, municipalities and even families use debt and only have balanced budgets in the sense of cash flow. The US could use operating and capital budgets, and probably social insurance budgets, separately to better get a grip on what is what rather than the current discussions and answers that do not help much to explain the system. Right now the government is needed to create wealth, and the Republicans are insistent on the regulations that create wealth for the wealthy like patent, copyright, civil courts for corporations to bring suits, trademarks, to limit personal liability from jointly owned entities, enforce debt collection, etc. However, the government creates wealth for everyone currently, through universal pensions (aka Social Security), free and subsidized education, medical and basic research, economic, electronic and transportation infrastructure. If we let the debt issue be used to break the back of representative democracy to force the government to only benefit the wealthy, we will hurt the overall economy and status of our country. Debt matters. Stop it from being a profit center for the wealthy and a false argument against government investing in our society. Instead educate people on what debt and budgets are to inoculate them from the misinformation from those who profit from debt and distraction from reality. 