What are the differences between a Graph database and a Triple store ?
SUMMARY: Graph Databases vs. RDF Triple Stores   To summarize, both graph databases and triple stores are designed to store linked data. RDF is a specific kind of linked data that is queried using SPARQL, so it is fair to say that RDF triple stores are a kind of graph database. But, there are some subtle but important differences that are described below.   How They Are Similar ·       Graph databases and rdf triple stores focus on the relationships between the data, often referred to as “linked data.” Data points are called nodes, and the relationship between one data point and another is called an edge. ·       A web of nodes and edges can be put together into interesting visualizations—a defining characteristic of graph databases.   How They Are Different ·       Graph databases are more versatile with query languages:  Neo4J can run an RDF triple store and use SPARQL but generally focuses on its own proprietary language, Cypher. Other graph databases support G, GraphLog, GOOD, SoSQL, BiQL, SNQL, and more. RDF triple stores only use SPARQL as the query language. ·       Graph databases can store various types of graphs, including undirected graphs, weighted graphs, hypergraphs, etc. RDF triple stores focus solely on storing rows of RDF triples. ·       Graph databases are node, or property, centric whereas RDF triple stores are edge-centric. RDF triple stores are really just a list of graph edges, many of which are 'properties'  of a node and not critical to the graph structure itself. ·       Graph databases are better optimized for graph traversals (degrees of separation or shortest path algorithms). With RDF triple stores, the cost of traversing an edge tends to be logarithmic. ·       RDF triple stores also provide inferences on data but graph databases do not (e.g., if humans are a subclass of mammals and man is a subclass of humans, then it can be inferred that man is a subclass of mammals). ·       RDF triple stores are more synonymous with the “semantic web” and the standardized universe of knowledge being stored as RDF triples on DBpedia and other sources whereas graph databases are seen as more pragmatic rather than academic.   MarkLogic’s Approach ·       MarkLogic has semantic capabilities because it can store RDF triples and query them using SPARQL. ·       MarkLogic’s RDF triple store can leverage MarkLogic’s indexes and can store annotated metadata about triples. Queries on triples using SPARQL can then be restricted to a source, a date range, author, or provenance. ·       MarkLogic’s is the only enterprise triple store that has enterprise HA/DR, security, scalability, elasticity, and performance monitoring ·       MarkLogic resources: MarkLogic Semantics Resource Center | MarkLogic     Blog Posts/Discussions: Introduction to: Triplestores What are the differences between a Graph database and a Triple store ? Semantic Web: Exactly what is the difference between a triplestore and graph store, examples? Google Groups What is the difference between triplestores and graph databases?   Academic Sources: Page on ceur-ws.org Page on ui.sav.sk Page on ing.puc.cl Page on dcc.uchile.cl 