★What is your favourite graph theory problem?
The "pecking order theorem" and other stuff related to tournament graphs. Among a group of chicken, they often peck each other to establish order in their group. Pecking is usually asymmetric – if chicken A pecks chicken B, then B does not dare to peck A. But, surprisingly, it was observed that it is not necessarily transitive. For example, there may be a trio of chicken such that A pecks B, B pecks C, and C pecks A. Still, it turned out that even in chicken groups with such non-transitive behavior it was still possible to find a “linear pecking order” – i.e., to arrange all chicken into a sequence in which each chicken pecked the next one. Empirical evidence about this was first published as research in biology. However, the surprise ended with Landau’s proof in 1953. Landau has shown that this is, in fact, a mathematical certainty that has nothing to do with chicken. A tournament graph is a graph obtained when you take a complete undirected graph and direct each of its edges one way or the other. Each tournament graph on n vertices can be seen to represent the results of a tournament in which each of n teams played all other teams, hence the name. In the language of graph theory, Landau has shown that every tournament graph contains a directed Hamiltonian path. It gets better. Even though a tournament graph contains n(n-1)/2 edges, it is possible to construct one such Hamiltonian path in O(n log n) time, if we can look at an edge in constant time. That is, we can construct one path without even looking at most of the edges. And it gets even better: the algorithms to do so are closely related to some of the comparison-based sorting algorithms! :) Tournament graphs have lots of other fun properties as well. Here's one more: Clearly, in some tournaments there is no clear winner: each team lost at least once. Let's say that a team T is an almost winner if for each other team X either T defeated X, or T defeated some team that defeated X. Is there always an almost winner? Can you find one just by looking at the outdegrees of vertices (i.e., the number of games won by each team)?    Embed Quote