★Is there a generic approach to proofs in graph theory?I am currently taking a Graph Theory course at my high school. The material is very much centered around mathematical proofs. However, I have virtually no experience in "higher-mathematics" and, consequently, I struggle to understand when to utilize specific approaches. Is there a strategy that I should look into in order to improve my understanding?
I have met many students good at mathematical calculations who felt lost when they were asked to write proofs. Anti-authoritarian misfits can find this new task fits like a glove, since they are used to asking "why?". Students who were rarely troubled by this question, possibly because they were gifted with ability to remember miscellaneous disconnected facts, can suddenly find the need to slow down and form the connections they didn't previously need. The task itself can seem odd, since the conclusion, which beginners sometimes confuse with "the answer", is already given to you and you are asked to persuade the reader why it is true. Part of the challenge is drawing a line between what can be assumed or is obvious and what needs to be explained. It used to be common for the basics to be taught during a Geometry course where some teachers required a strict two-column format to separate statements from their justifications. (See Two-Column Geometric Proofs.) It forces students to give a reason for every step, often with specific citations of theorems to help avoid circular arguments. You ought to check it out if proof writing is entirely new to you. Proof writing is also introduced in Discrete Mathematics classes, often including a healthy dose of Graph Theory. Concrete Mathematics by Donald Knuth et al is an excellent and widely-used textbook. If you have somehow dived deep into Graph Theory without any mention of basic ideas like the Pigeonhole Principle or the binomial coefficient, I highly recommend you treat yourself to it. If you're already past the basics and want to crank up the power on your problem solving ability, peruse The Art and Craft of Problem Solving by Paul Zeitz. It'll teach you radical perspective shifts that let you apply the basic techniques you've learned to obtain surprising and awesome results. Personally, I prefer this kind of adventure to the plug & chug dreariness of what people usually think mathematics is about.    Embed Quote