What's the average number of views per upvote per person?
I honestly don't think this is particularly answerable, as it is too hard to get the data to make it actually be reliable.  There are so many variables involved that explain why some answers get upvote totals, that it boggles.  The data is just too skewable.  Did I mention, the data is really hard to get unless you're violating Quora's Terms of Service to get it.  Or you're going to have to spend a lot of time to get it manually.  Seriously, it is difficult to get in on a per person basis. I'm going to walk through this here with a few examples.  I apologize to people mentioned.  As a favor to them, please read their answers and consider upvoting. Sunitha Gudivada is one of my followers.   She has only 13 answers, so I can easily manually get the data. The above is the graph of her upvote to views.  Of her 13 answers, only 5 have upvotes.   We have to ignore the 8 answers with no views.  On average, she gets 1181.7 views per upvote.  That outlier, wow, it skews.  Her median is 67.5. Finn-Lennart Heemeyer is another one of my followers.  He has 6 answers.  Only 2 have upvotes.  Mean and median are 191 views for every upvote. Samuel Raj has 5 answers and no upvotes, so I can't use him. Siddharth Singh is another one of my followers.  He has 13 answers.  All have upvotes.  He has an average of 113.28 views per upvotes,  while he has a median of 87.675 views per upvote. The above is his upvote views graphed out. Lawrence Phipps is another one of my followers. He has 55 answers, of which 41 have upvotes. For answers with upvotes, those are the data points. On the mean, he gets 230.8 views per upvote, and 91 views per upvote on the median.  AS you can see on the graph, Lawrence has some highly viewed answers with low upvote totals.  It makes me suspect he is getting search traffic, not internal traffic. Yuen Lo has 35 answers, of which 33 have upvotes. The above is a graph of these distributed.  On the mean, he has 336.44 views per upvote, and has 233 views per upvote on the median.  I really don't want to go further with this time suck with new data.  Anyway, let's tableize the data I have: From this sample of users I consider rather representative of the vast majority of Quora users, the average number of views per upvote per person is 410.  You want one upvote? Get 410 views. The median suggests you need far less.   The mean is almost certainly being pushed up because a few of these users have answers that appear in search, thus skewing their potential upvotes as these search arriving viewers cannot upvote. And the slope of the line for each user here?  It is completely different.  We're not seeing predictable patterns that would allow for any sort of meaningful number. I don't want to have to go and get a heap more data. Too time consuming. Upvotes: Your answer is not going to get the vote total you are looking for by Laura Hale on quora numbers  and Data drop: Differences in views/upvote conversion rates by Laura Hale on quora numbers  has some data related to this.  It pretty much reaffirms the points made with this sample.  Oh, and right.  I spent 5 minutes culling through some data I had.  I cannot get per person from posts on quora numbers because historical data is problem with me easily tracking it. So these 1,356 pairs (with 44 removed for having 0s) tell me that the number of views per upvote is 154 on average, 66 views per upvote on the median. (See graph above and clustering.)  I trust this set a bit more than the per person number.  But still, given the number of complicated variables that impact this number, I can't see this number actually getting much more accurate unless you get a whole lot of partially active users involved to get you numbers.  They are much more representative.  Or you need to spend hours and hours getting data, as this data is not scrapable.  You also  really need to account for things like SEO getting answers and newsletter answers that beget view upvotes.  You should also consider things like upvotes.  (Some evidence suggest women get fewer upvotes on mean and median than men.) You also need to account for topic, and ideally the demographic of readers.  (White people answers for white people work differently than Indian answers for Indians. Also, women.  Also, Asians who cross over as less ethnic by white people.)  Also, you should really make sure you over sample writers with 1 to 50 answers as that accounts for something like 85% of all registered accounts. Though if you want to try based on the question details  for your own analysis, I have  1,720,000 all time views and 19,200 all time upvotes on 3,419 answers. 