Are doctors overcompensated in the U.S.?
No. This calls for a rant. Time: The number of years it takes to become a physician in the U.S. is insane. Generally speaking, the comparison looks like this: America: high school -> 4-year college -> 4 years med school -> 3-7 years residency -> fellowship Elsewhere: high school -> 6 years med school -> 3-5 residency (not required in some countries) -> fellowship The American medical student is generally 2-10 years behind some of their international colleagues in terms of when they can begin to practice. There may be exceptions based on the country. Debt: The average debt of a medical student graduating in 2009 was $156,456. That's a little over 3X what the average American makes in a year. Tack on merciless interest, and most will be paying back well over $200K by the time they're done. Oh, did I mention 87% also have outstanding loans? It's small wonder why med students are now far, far less likely to pick primary care (typical salary: $160K) and instead go for a specialty ($250K+). And for the record, all doctors and medical students know damn well that the barrier to entry is ridiculously high, especially compared with 20-30 years ago. Current students all know this going in, and we're willing to take it on mainly with the expectation that at some point, we'll hopefully be able to pay it off. Will we be working 80+ hours a week for years before we come even close? You bet. But we go into this field because there is little else we can possibly imagine ourselves doing--we love doing what we do. Risk: There is simply no other field with as much risk for personal financial/reputation demise as medicine. Frivolous lawsuits are flat-out crazy. There's a particularly crude case I know of where a starting physician was served a lawsuit for being involved as a consult in a case for a small child who had a bad outcome. Why was he singled out? Because his signature on the medical forms was the only one legible enough to make out a name. Malpractice insurance varies by state and specialty, but it can soar up to $200,000/year. That's enough to support 10 grad students. The worse part? This doesn't guarantee a physician anything in terms of protection, as most states have no laws setting maximum punishments for malpractice. If the judge rules a really high fine, then the doctor is still screwed. Oh, but wait, you say. Doctors are human. They mess up like everyone else, and they should be punished, particularly since they're dealing with life/death. Yes, I agree there are some poor decisions made, but I daresay 99% of physicians are doing their best to act in good faith--seriously, when's the last time you heard of a fireman getting sued for trying to save someone's life and being unable to do so? Current American culture is one of fearing death, and the number of people who comfortably say, "I've had a good life--just let me go" is quickly growing small. People come into hospitals expecting the hands of God to work miracles, and that can't happen all the time--we just can't cure everything. It's depressing, and people don't seem to understand that even as a mere student I've gone into a corner crying after seeing cases where I know the patient will die--think about it: physicians are typically those who were academic superstars. When even the massive amount of knowledge we work so damn hard to learn fails to save a person's life, there exist no words to describe the helpless hopeless feeling that comes in waves. And knowing that one could be smacked with a lawsuit on top of that? ...that hurts. Value: NCAA Division 1A football coaches are commanding million-dollar salaries to teach young men how to effectively give each other concussions, broken bones, and torn muscles/tendons in the hopes of going pro, where the average life expectancy for a lineman is 52--all for the sake of entertaining thousands of strangers. A top-notch neurosurgeon will make ~$650,000 (not counting insurance, lawsuits, debts, etc) curing people of seizures, cancers, and aneurysms in the hopes of getting their patient to live to 70, 80, 90 with comfort--all for the sake of seeing their grandchildren one more time, to give their loved ones another memory of their smiling face. Think about it. Work hours: on paper, the average physician works "50 hours/week". Right. That doesn't factor in the time spent on administrative overhead, the time spent on call, the time making/taking phone calls to/from patients, the time spent giving consults, etc. 50+ hours/week spent knowing your every decision can deeply affect another human being's life. 50 doesn't sound like a lot, but the nature of the work is like no other. I know of a pediatric oncologist who runs clinical trials for new cancer treatments. Almost 100% mortality. Like I said, we just don't have cures for everything, and while we're trying to make them, the testing process is an utter emotional hell. 50 hours a week of watching faultless children die, parents having their hopes shattered, and trying to stay positive through all that? How many of you reading this would willingly trade your day job for that? This brings me to my next point... Stress 1: burn-out isn't a possibility. It's practically guaranteed. Physicians have the highest suicide rate of any profession. http://www.newsweek.com/2008/04/... Stress 2: oftentimes, a non-medical professional (i.e. insurance  company) is calling the shots. Why the current system is such that an immunologist has to spend time explaining why a patient will die unless given special medicated juice, or why a neurologist  has to call and beg permission to get a brain MRI on a patient with  tonic-clonic seizures, or any number of other examples, I will never know. I'm not trying to be an intellectual snob, but I can't help but sympathize a bit when I hear physicians describing this process as feeling like a Nobel Prize physicist trying to explain the details of string theory to someone a few hours short of a GED. =__=; Caveats: sure, there are exceptions. Some doctors sell out, for various reasons. If a person's been through trauma and reconstructive surgery is called  for, then of course I fully support it. But these "doctors" feed off of patients' vanity to line their pockets with money as they hand out Botox treatments, breast implants, and make Heidi Montags. I personally find this disgusting, and I am not including those who make wild profits from elective surgery in my definition of "physician". They can spout all the bullshit they want about making people's lives better by improving their appearances, but whatever, the Hollywood influence is gross, and the thought of putting a high school girl under the knife so she can get the hottest boy to ask her out to prom sickens me. Feel free to inbox me with questions/comments/concerns. EDIT: a news article that may be of interest is http://economix.blogs.nytimes.co... Updated 74w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Guillermo Rauch