What is the best way to learn maths for a std. 8 student who literally hates mathematics and is very weak in the subject?
To be straightforward, you've got a horrible teacher or peer group. This is not an age to hate mathematics. What you study till 10th class in Maths is like "ABC" you studied in kindergarten that prepared you for English. I started appreciating the beauty of mathematics after I was 23, and my Computer Science textbooks looked like this: Don't worry. You'll get to it soon. Remember no matter what everyone around you tells you, everything you study in Maths has applications in real life. Carla René wrote in an answer that math isn't about the numbers:  the numbers just pay the bills.  Math is about the way we attack life's problems. I wanted to explain a few applications of mathematics in this answer but at 8th grade level, everything is total basics - every concept you study is being used in almost every industry. For the lack of time and space, let's skip this. Quick Tips: > Stay active in class. If you don't understand even a single line in a solution, ask. Get friends or seniors to help you. > Take things slow. Every step in a solution has a reason. Understand it. If you don't, do not jump over it. > Visualize Maths. It might be hard to grasp if you've been conditioned to think of maths as a bunch of numbers on paper. > Learn to appreciate maths. Every problem has many ways to tackle it. > Do not fall into shortcut trap without learning the basics. You must think about questions like what is Pi. Why is area of triangle half of product of it's base and altitude. What's the relation between volume of a cylinder and area of a circle. In mathematics, real thing that you must learn is how are the formulas derived. Quick Sources: Make an account on Khan Academy. Sign up for the lessons that are same as your current curriculum. They have cool teachers and a brilliant way of teaching. The guy who started it used to teach his cousins online and it has now become million dollar non-profit enterprise. If you're really serious about becoming someone who love mathematics, definitely read few books about maths. + Hans Enzensberger's The Number Devil would be good for your age. + Simon Singh's Fermat's Last Theorem is a novel that revolves around a famous mathematical observation. + Mario Livio, Is God A Mathematician is a more deeper philosophical book that talks about how we're trying to understand the universe through mathematics. I strictly recommend these books. They don't contain any equations that try to solve a problem - but provide a lighter way to appreciate the mathematics while being entertained. Well being in India, you'll face competition from the kids who're cramming formulas and solving hundreds of problems again and again. Buy RD Sharma's books and beat them in their game. 