How many all-time-views does the average Quoran have; counting only Quorans with more than 10 answers?
Let us go at it from a little bit different perspective. Quora has 80 million unique users, per Adam D'Angelo. Let us further assume, generously, that each user views 10 pages each month. In general, 10 views per user is very good across a broad range of sites including search, e-commerce, social etc. That gives us 800 million page views every month, or close to 10 billion annually.  It turns out Wolfram Alpha gives a very similar estimate. Quora has not always had this number of users and they have been around for over 5 years. Since all these are just ballpark estimates,  let us assume linear growth , for 2.5 years of 10 billion page views each, for the grand total of 25 billion all-time views. The next part is how many Quorans are there with more than 10 answers.  Laura cites 16M from the sample in her excellent research but my sense is that is bit  too much and would be practically unheard of  for a major site with user content.  A recent answer How many questions have been asked on Quora?  quotes 6 million as of Dec 2015. We can ask how many answers are there  to those 6 million questions. With even 16 answers per question, we would get 100 million answers, which would not square with 16M+ users with over 10 answers. My sense is that for, say 5M users with over 10 answers, their average number of views would be less than 5K. The total number of monthly page views on Quora is very important for monetization going forward, as it will be one of the chief factors determining revenue for Quora  in the future. For instance,  assuming half of 800 million monthly views with highest potential revenue are from the US (as Adam said recently in a session), we would get  400M views or 400K CPMs. Next, we would need to estimate the fraction of views that can generate revenue by placing ads next to them. 50% would be a generous assumption, giving 200K CPMs/mo. The next guess will be how much to charge for those CPMs, $5-10 would be also very optimistic, yielding $1-2M monthly revenue. That would certainly not be bad, but for $1B+ valuation which Quora now has, the expectations will be higher, for $100M+ annual revenue and growing fast. That will be one of main challenges going forward for Quora  IMO, based on their advertising business model. The main leverage will be from continuing to grow the number of users. 