What are some bad but popular reasons for people to go to law school?
You think it's going to be: Lucrative: it might be in the long run, but it's going to take you many years of hard work to dig out of that massive hole of student debt.  Columbia cost me $225k+ USD in tuition and room&board [1].  Also, unless you attend a top 10 law school, the chances of you landing a biglaw job that pays north of six figures right out of school are kind of slim... Prestigious: maybe to a few people, but keep in mind that most intelligent members of society (from Shakespeare to Marc Bodnick [2]) think that lawyers are somewhere between the scum of the earth or people who are squandering their potential. Fun and Exciting!: stop watching so much TV and movies.  Also, see my footnote [1] below.  Most of law is boring.  You are also being paid to be cynical and acrimonious -- this will affect your personality and how you see the world.  Law has one of the highest, if not the highest, rates of depression and substance abuse of any profession. Creative and Intellectually Stimulating: Again, law is boring.  You need to apply it consistently and cite a great deal of past precedent.  Once you become experienced at a certain practice area (i.e., trying a certain type of case or working on a certain type of deal), you will be asked to leverage your experience and continue working on that same type of case or deal over and over and over again.  Also, you will be surrounded by smart people, but most of them are going to hate their profession and their lives.  Powerful and Influential: Maybe to your secretaries, paralegals and junior lawyers once you accumulate a few years of experience -- not your clients.  Your job will be to make them happy and to occasionally kiss their ass and tell them what they want to hear.  You will be paid to be someone else's bitch -- just like any other service, client-oriented industry; only your hours will be worse and the demands higher. Full of Exit Options: If you land a great job with great clients and work your butt off for many years -- accumulating valuable experience, building up your network, and making your clients happy -- then perhaps, just maybe, one day you will get offered a great job outside of law.  Good luck landing a great legal job first though.  The market is saturated and there is a huge oversupply of lawyers in the U.S. -- [1] See my first point here: Dave Cheng's answer to Why are so many lawyers unhappy with their jobs? [2] http://www.quora.com/Attorneys/Is-having-a-bunch-of-the-worlds-best-thinkers-and-writers-become-lawyers-particularly-corporate-lawyers-a-waste-of-human-capital/answer/Marc-Bodnick 