What are good ways to solve mass unemployment?
RURAL DEVELOPMENT IS NOT THE RIGHT ANSWER FOR UNEMPLOYMENT PROBLEM To begin with, rural is a specific feature of a country which has a lot of difference with relation to city or developed area. The difference can be listed as availability of certain facilities that are required for development that lack in the rural area. Now, what has development to do with employment? Why this is required to answer the unemployment problem? In specific why rural development will not answer the unemployment issue? We’ll see this matter in detail now. What is development to do with employment? As we know, employment is the state of having paid work. By this, the buyer and seller are profited. So, now, it is understood that to get employed, we need to have some skill, knowledge or capability of doing labor. To acquire skill and knowledge, the skill development centers are run by the government and the private enterprises. So, what is the solution for spreading the skill and knowledge that is required for someone to get employed? The burden should be shared by both, the Govt. and private parties. There will be other political and social conditions that will ensure the development is limited to certain constituencies. Here, comes the private sectors which are willing to participate in the skill development cum employment generation process. How? Now, no private individual will like to invest their hard earned money in a venture that will not give profit. They will ensure their investment gives good return and at the same time in them, employment is generated. So, where will these businessmen like to put in their money? Definitely where there is good infrastructure facility. Here again we have to know what are infrastructures that is required for such investments. The list can be never ending. Vast land to establish institutions and factory, electricity, water, well connected by road, air, sea and rail, good communication facilities, skilled masters and easily approachable government officials are a few basic must. All the above are basic minimum to set up any institution or factory. While, institutions are for building skills and employment, factories are required to put all these knowledge into profit. This can also rightly be interpreted as getting employed. All the above cannot be installed in every rural area. If we start to install institutions and factories in rural areas for the sake of rural development, we will be taking away the agricultural land. This will altogether give rise to other issues. We may have to import the food grains which are grown here in the rural areas. So, the investors will look for these infrastructures, which is concentrated in the urban or city area. For this, they are providing all facilities to get the unemployed youth to approach such institution and get them trained and seek employment opportunity to suit their knowledge acquired by them. We cannot just say rural development answers all the employment problems. There are other solutions. We first have to control the rapidly rising population. The quality of Indian education should be in such a way that it generates skilled labor force. In short, skill based self development and better educational system will empower individuals and society on a larger level. Rapid industrialization should be created. All these solutions must be considered.  Thus, employment opportunities won’t be created only through your rural development. Hence, bring skill, get investment and generate employment. Thank You 