What are some bad but popular reasons for people to go to law school?
They like to argue. The worst of the worst reasons. Truth time: the TV lies. Most lawyers will never see the inside of a courtroom. While the U.S. legal system is adversarial, you will spend a lot more time collaborating than arguing. In general, there is a 99 percent chance that a case will end through settlement, dismissal, or summary judgment, long before the actual trial stage. (Note: in most other countries, lawyers get even less courtroom time.) Also, you're not as good at "arguing" as you think you are. They don't know what to do with their liberal arts degree. If you really want to be a literary critic, or a professional dancer, or a museum curator, the law will probably be...less than self-actualizing. Surprise, surprise, the only good reason to go to law school is to become a lawyer, and you know, practice law. There may be some exceptions (JD/MBA joint degrees, for example, or people that already have an established career in another field) but these are rare. They want to postpone making a career choice, and people have told them that they can do almost anything after law school. It's fall of your senior year in university. You don't really know where your life is headed or what you want to do with your degree. You decide to take the LSAT, because...well, why not? You take it in December, you do okay, you send out a few applications because it won't hurt and you got some fee waivers. You get into a couple of okay schools by March or April, and suddenly your mom is telling everyone that you're going to be a lawyer. She stops nagging you to find a job. May rolls around and you put down a $500 deposit somewhere, thinking you have all summer to back out if you want to. Suddenly, it's August, and you're signing loan applications. It's September, and you're on campus. How did you get here? What are you doing? You move through law school in a daze, never really enjoying your classes, never developing a passion for the material, always grasping for something...and then you graduate in the middle of your class. Now what? Welcome to the rest of your life. They want to be able to tell people that they're a lawyer. The prestige that comes with being a lawyer is the same kind of "asshole" prestige that comes with being an investment banker or management consultant. Unlike nursing or teaching, the law is not often viewed as a "noble" profession, even though many lawyers actually do very noble work for very little pay. People just don't like lawyers. So if you just want to impress people and make it rain to boot, you might as well do one of those other things and save yourself three years and a lot of debt. Their parents want them to be lawyers. This is a bad reason to do almost anything, least of all make a potentially life-ruining decision. When your parents were your age, law school was cheap and lawyers were in demand. Now law school is expensive, and there's a surplus of lawyers. Do the math. 