Hack Reactor: When you say the average income of HR grads is ~$103k, is that the mean or the median? If it's the mean then what is the median?
We've never been convinced that either a mean or median provides an accurate picture, and there's a lot of work going on in here to produce an industry standard for measuring outcomes. That said, Adam Lovallo is right. Whenever we mention an "average", we've meant a mean, not a median. Skew aside, here's some questions that even this clarification would leave unanswered, that we hope to address pretty soon: What's the time frame being reported? Is it all graduates ever, the most recently graduated class for whom reporting is available, the most recent 12 months of graduates, the current calendar year, or some other (variable?) time frame? Is the amount reported solely base salary on the offer, or does it include one time sign on or relocation bonuses, performance bonuses, stock grants or other forms of compensation? Does it track the offer an individual accepted, or the highest offer they received, regardless of whether or not they accepted a lower offer? How is time addressed? Could this include graduates who are looking for jobs, say, for a whole year or longer after graduation, or is it only counting job offers received by a determined cut off time period? Is the data an extrapolated sample, or is there 100% reporting among the population. Are multiple offers counted per graduate? For example, if one person receives five offers ranging from $100k - $140k, are they all added into the reported number, or is only one offer counter per individual? Who is taken into account and who is excluded? Is it everyone who started with a cohort, everyone who completed the program, or only those who completed the program and decided to look for a job? If the latter, who gets to decide whether or not someone is counted as looking for a job, and on what basis? There's more than one appropriate way to address each of these questions, and I think the immersion engineering school sector is the first to face these questions due to our focus on outcome based education. At Hack Reactor, our goal is to try to provide distilled information that provides potential job-seeking applicants with a reasonable expectation of their circumstances upon being accepted into the program. With the context of this particular question in mind, I've just put together a little working chart of the data we're focusing on right now: the performance of graduates who finished the program and started their job search in 2014. This is a snapshot of our current data for 2014 that includes some folks who have yet to accept an offer, which means that there's room for the numbers to increase, but not decrease, when job searches are complete. On our web site and elsewhere, we track and report on all alumni ever, although changing that methodology is a work in progress. The mean of this set is $103k, and the median is $102k, so there's negligible skew, consistent with what we're used to seeing. Some things that pop out to us: Compared to our finalized 2013 outcomes (pictured elsewhere on Quora in a question about our average graduate salaries), the head and tail of the graph have tightened: we've seen zero grads have highest offers below $75k (actually nothing less than $80k), and nothing over $150k. 70% of graduates receive offers between $90k to $120k, and 53% get offers at $105k or more. There's still very strong clustering around $105k There's people both with and without CS degrees, formal tertiary education and prior engineering experience scattered all over this graph. Even internally, at the program's conclusion, I couldn't tell you with any accuracy who would end up in which bucket despite being close to graduate job search. This is a testament to the admissions system's excellence at identifying talent without relying on education, GPAs or prior work experience.Our top takeaway is that in scaling the program from a single on-site class of a dozen, to two parallel on-site classes of ~30 each, outcomes, education quality and the experience we deliver have all increased measurably without any increase in tuition. Edit: In my first post I neglected to answer my own tough questions with respect to the chart and numbers I just threw up. Here goes: This includes every graduate who completed the program in 2014 who has received offers to date. Only base salary is counted. This is highest offer received. It's quite possible that a graduate may have accepted a lower offer with a team they felt was a better fit. Even those graduates who received their first offers after passing the 3 calendar month cutoff for the 99% placement rate are counted. This is not a sample. It's everyone who has graduated and received offers. Only one offer is counter per graduate - the highest offer they received. Included are those who completed HR, are eligible to work in the US, who conducted a job search anywhere in the country. Hack Reactor determines whether or not they performed a job search. We do this in a way that aims to pass a test that sounds like: "Would the person and their peers believe that they were looking for a job upon graduation?" Final note: We're actively working on refining the method and frequency of our reporting, and are in search of the kinds of tough questions that would make our final reporting product unimpeachable. We would love to hear other questions or concerns that we could address from a potential student standpoint. Our feedback from alumni hasn't been focused on salary or placement rate - neither varies enough to affect their post-completion life significantly. Their main area of interest has been a deeper breakdown of how long it takes to start receiving job offers, so that's another area we're putting a lot of work into. 