What are some examples of great new-user experience flows on the web?
1. Facebook - it's hard to argue with a new user flow that has helped onboard over 800 million active users. It isn't the prettiest but is arguably the most effective new user flow on the planet. For any graph density business you have to satisfy a minimum graph density for as many users as possible as quickly as possible. Graph density is a predictor of a user becoming engaged so if the flow fails to deliver upon a minimal quantity and quality of density, then it isn't doing its job. You can reasonably assume then that Facebook's flow is crushing it. 2. Twitter - similar to Facebook this flow has also been battle tested by hundreds of millions of users. In the last iteration we also focused on a product education component of the flow (while also wanting to satisfy users following a minimum quantity and quality set of accounts). I think it handles the qualitative (i.e. educational) and quantitative goals of a new user flow quite well. 3. Tumblr - their new user flow arguably starts with the logged out homepage. It's probably the most intelligent and elegant utilization of the homepage that I've seen in any major consumer technology product. It is optimized for increasing signup rates but clearly explains the value of the product to the user before they even register. The new user flow continues with the messaging that begins on the homepage. They are also battle tested in terms of volume of registrations that have gone through the flow. If you're looking to improve your new user flow look at a few key metrics: funnel view of completion rates by step and total completion rates conversion rates of key steps (e.g. what % completed filling out their profile?) unique bounces in aggregate and per step (a good proxy for solving the "why would I do this?" part of the flow and instantly delivering relevance) conversion rate to active for cohorts of users 7 days, 30 days, 60 days after signup date And some general rules of thumb for testing and optimizing your new user flow: optimize for step rotation i.e. what you have as step 1 today may actually perform better when used as step 3 in the flow. Try shuffling the steps and looking at the output keep it focused on the core actions most predictive of the user becoming engaged (i.e. don't ask them for phone number simply because it gives you/your business value but instead freaks the user out and they decide to abandon the flow). Know when to ask for data like that. Asking for it immediately usually isn't the best choice. force the user to take actions e.g. don't allow them to click the logo in the header and "escape out the flow". It doesn't help them to skip the flow and it doesn't help your product/business either. You can also force actions by setting thresholds for completion (e.g. "follow at least 'N' accounts!" and then allow them to take the next step) if your flow is based on making recommendations to the user, then build underlying data services that make personalized recommendations. Personalization outperforms non-personalized recs. Think of signals you can aggregate at scale and use those services and algos to your advantage and to the user's benefit. consider extending the new user experience beyond just the new user flow. LinkedIn does a good job of this with their "complete your profile" module with a progress meter. It's game mechanics at its simplest/least cheesy but works very well make it fast. Google taught everyone this lesson. Don't forget it. A median page load for your product in the U.S. might be 1.5 seconds but it could be 4.5 seconds in Brazil. Latency kills conversion rates. Keep your calls to action above the fold The list could go on, but those are some key points. 