Why have the wages of the American middle class stagnated for decades?
This thread is quite interesting.  I live in France and not the US, so what I see about the debate back in the States vis-a-vis "income inequality" is really second and third-hand. I've read through the many responses and debtates. Let me try some somewhat heterodox suggestions. 1) Automation - the argument has been made since at least the industrial revolution that the increased participation in the "work force" by machines is a threat to worker wages.  At virtually every step thus far, that has not been the case, really, as data from, e.g., Glyn Williams, attest.  As machines reduce the brute labour necessary to first farm, then produce factory items, historically, this has grown the economy, as new industries (at the least, making and/or repairing the machines) crop up. But is this trend universal until the end of time, or does it have an upper limit?  As tractor with a harvester replaced a team of men, those same men, with limited education and skills, could be trained to manufacture the parts.  But as things like accounting (Turbo Tax) go, what do these guys do?  The model presumes that there will ALWAYS be a new job (or more) to replace the old, but what if that assumption turns out not to be true?  And if it is not true, what you end up with is surplus labour.  In this case, it should surprise no one that wages at first flatten, and then fall.  2) Immigration/Globalisation.  Often (I suspect for partisan reasons), reference points for when this occurred are put at 1980.  I suspect, because that year, Ronald Reagan was elected.  But wage stagnation began several years before Reagan, which is plain if you look at the longer-term plots of wages and productivity.  If my memory is correct, the "high water" mark was about 1973.  Deregulation may have hastened the decline, but it did not completely explain.  But in 1965, the US immigration reform act, which ended decades of strict regulation of immigration - which coincidentally also neatly correlated with middle class gains - meant that the number and nature of immigrants changed.  Radically.  Many of the new immigrants lack more than a high school education and limited skills necessary to compete for high-end jobs.  These newcomers almost necessarily began to compete with those first at the bottom, and then gradually towards the middle (first, in agriculture, and later, in semi-sklled trades like construction).  Should it surprise anyone that the introduction of millions of competing workers would have an impact on wages? 3) The entry of women into the work-force.  Setting aside the arguments about whether the opening of careers in large numbers to women was positive or negative socially (and let me say before the attacks fly, I view it as a positive), once women entered work in large numbers - again, starting in the mid and late 1960s - suddenly, the labour force, if not doubling, was increased by millions.  That had to have some impact on wages.  And, if one believes the data that women earn, on average, less than 80 per cent of what a man earns, well.  If a woman is willing to do the same job as a man for 80 cents, would any smart business give the job to a man?  Why pay a 25% premium for the same work?  I have never seen an academic analysis on the impact on wages of the large-scale entry of women into the workforce.  I suspect because it's fraught with political peril. ALL of these things have had some impact along with the points others have made. 