Law School Admissions: Is it true that attending any but a top-tier law school is a personal and financial mistake?
You ask two different questions. Is it a personal mistake?  No,  if you have a passion for it and have adequate aptitude.  Warren Buffett has said words to the effect of if he loved teaching as much as he loved investing, he'd be a teacher.  As far as at least some aptitude, I would have loved to have played on the San Francisco Giants, San Francisco 49ers or raced in a tour de France.  Maybe I had the passion, but I had absolutely no aptitude for it even in my younger years. Likely you have adequate aptitude, so don't worry too much about it.  There are a lot more legal jobs than there are jobs playing professional sports. And, I note, the skills needed to be a great lawyer in many aspects have nothing to do with the selection process of getting into or graduating from law school.  Except for one: the capacity for hard work.  And getting into an elite law school often involves outworking other similarly situated students who did not get into an elite law school. Is it a financial mistake?  Depends.  If your goal is to get a $160,000 per year job and stay at or above that salary level for the rest of your career, then you are making a terrible bet. I do not believe that average salary of the average Harvard grad first year is $160K. Those $160K jobs are big law first year assoiciates.  Lets say there are 250 firms that pay this starting salary and hire 10 first years a year.  2500 jobs.  Harvard has a class of over 500.  Hastings, a solid San Francisco law school also has 500.  Thus, you could fill something like 40% of those jobs with the graduates of two law schools.  If you listed the top 10 schools and their class sizes, I bet that the number of graduates would exceed the number of first year jobs which pay $160K. And, not everyone goes for a high paying job.  First years, even at Harvard (many at Harvard do), may go into judicial clerkships, start careers as prosecutors, criminal defense attorneys, public interest law, and other less lucrative areas of the profession etc. So, I do not believe that every Harvard student by a long shot goes of to a BigLaw firm with a starting salary of $160K.  A few, though, may go into investment banking which pays more. Moreover, the burnout rate at BigLaw is very high, so you may not keep that job for long. I agree that the law schools are just not honest about your career prospects which makes it difficult to truly assess whether it would be a financial mistake. 