What are some graphs that clearly show changes in the US economy?
I'll pick a few that cover some of the more interesting changes in the economy, from health care to employment to total debt in the economy and the stock market. On health care, these 2 show where the US system ran away from realistic and sustainable and became a parasite on the economy. No, neither Medicare and Medicaid have to do with it.  Rather, Nixon's Certificate of Need laws and attempted wage caps created monopolies in health care and made them immune to market forces, letting them experience 1970's inflation while the rest of the economy's inflation slowed down. And compared to the rest of the world: There's that split around 1980 again. Wealth Distribution: Eivind Kjørstad has some great graphics on wealth distribution, so I'll just leave this here: Again, late 1970's to early 1980's for the split . . . Total consumer debt: Source This is more interesting -- the debt ramp over GDP started around 1999, with the repeal of Glass-Steagal through the Gramm-Leach-Bliley act.  Any questions? Oh, and in case you get any ideas about how President Obama has been doing better on this, what you need to look at in that regard is the slope since the system has some amount of momentum.  The current debt slope is worse than the bubble slope, bound for a catch-up in level soon. What the graph really shows is that since about 2000, every bit of GDP was purchased not with debt, but rather an increase in the increase of debt. The stock market: The S&P may be at a new high, but when adjusted for the producer price index (the business version of the consumer price index, or a more business-accurate indicator of inflation), it has been slipping with some radical instability .And in terms of what the stock prices mean, which is how much stuff you can buy with a single share, the picture is not pretty for anyone who actually pays attention. Charts are from here and here. In terms of actual stuff you can buy, record highs mean you can buy less stuff. The chart sources also show gold and oil, but those have very significant trend/transient factors that make them a little tougher to cast as inflation/commodities.  But ultimately what these charts show is a serious disconnect of the stock market to the real economy. Employment: Employment:population ratio took a sudden dive in '08-09 and never recovered.  Actually if you extend the chart back further, the current employment-population ratio is closer to the historical norm, and the high period before is either a bubble or a culture shift to having more 2-income homes. All of these charts are pretty infuriating. 