What are some unsolved problems in math which seem easy at first glance?
I am not necessarily up to date on this problem, but I'm adding this because I still find it fascinating and appropriate as an answer, and i think most of what I am saying is true, at least as of a few years ago. Seymour's Second Neighborhood Conjecture (SSNC) Statement (with some flavor text): Suppose you have a country such that between any two cities, there is either no road or a one way road (i.e. a directed graph). In particular, if you can go directly from A to B you cannot go directly from B to A. Define the outdegree of a city A to be the number of cities you can reach from A using exactly 1 road, and its second-outdegree to be the number of cities you can reach from A using 1 or 2 roads. The conjecture claims that for any road network in such a country, there exists a city whose second-outdegree is at least twice its outdegree. 1) One first glance, the conjecture seems to be obvious If you try drawing a few directed graphs, usually represented by drawings dots as verticies (cities), and arcs/lines with arrows between them as directed edges (one-way roads), the claim should seem "obvious." You can immediately rule out some small counterexamples, because, for example, you realize any vertex (city) with outdegree 0, obviously satisfies the conjecture, so you can reduce you small-case experimentation to graphs where every city has at least one outgoing road. You can also do a similar argument with cities of outdegree 1. Experimenting some more, your intuition should tell you that you probably can generalize your thinking to bigger graphs. 2) But we don't even know if the conjecture is true In fact, famous mathematicians even believe the conjecture to be false. 3) Classical Graph Theory/Combinatorics arguments don't work for proving it true One of the most common techniques in graph theory is using an extremal argument, and for problems like this it is the natural place to start. Extremal arguments involve taking a "smallest" or "largest" object in a graph, such as, in this example, the vertex with smallest outdegree. Abstractly, considering such objects tend to hit at the heart of the problem's complexity better and give a better feel for it. However, for SSNC, a lot of such arguments don't work very well. For example, based on small case analysis, considering the smallest-outdegree vertex seems like the natural thing to do, but when you try it you immediately run into a lot of ugly casework and lack of structure. (Hence, your intuition from 1) was probably wrong) (Although, if you take a directly complete graph, i.e. between every two cities is a one way road, also known as a tournament, SSNC is known to be true here, and you can prove it by taking something tricky called the median order, which is an ordering of the vertices of the graph that minimizes the number of backward going edges) 4) It's very easy to fake-solve Based my own experience with this problem as well as from other stories, it's very easy to find a seductive looking proof of this conjecture that doesn't work. What is sadder though, is that some of these proofs even get published, and in my research we even broke one of the published papers. Updated 120w ago • View Upvotes