Are startups overvalued right now?
I gave this quite a bit of thought as to what I could possibly answer that would provide unique insight over and above what is already known to those who value startups, i.e. early stage investors, venture capitalists, purchasers, and sellers (am I missing anyone?)  It's possible that people with superior information to me are all making systematic valuation errors, but I am not the only one who has detected and warned about this possibility. Primarily through accidents of personal experience, there are a few domains where I know as much as, say, the top 1000 people in the world. From previous consulting work, I have a broad view of the national security implications of climate change. All aspects of climate change pose huge risks that may be systematically undervalued by the markets and thus pose environmental risk of national or global recession to startups. To be frank, though, I have no dazzling or highly original insights on that topic, and sophisticated investors like ultra high net worth investors and huge institutional investors (what's the term for these?) can easily tap on the knowledge of world-leading scholars via consulting arrangements or official bodies.    Also, climate change is by definition slow-acting, and the question is present-focused. I have my own startup, and I believe I have two major insights* that are shared by only a few people in the world at this time that are symptoms of broader and not fully appreciated technology trends that will affect certain classes of startups, but these trends would not affect the valuation of the entire class. I was surprised when I realized the nature of the one unique experience that I have that  possibly brings unique insight to bear on the prospects for startups. It is something I have been doing since 2007 but frankly has been largely a hobby.  Through my publishing company Nimble Books I have published a series of books that are what I would describe as cogent radical critiques of American foreign policy from out of the mainstream left-leaning scholars and journalists, including GLOBALISTAN by Pepe Escobar, BLOOD ON OUR HANDS by Nicolas J.S. Davies, and now THE ESSENTIAL SAKER: FROM THE TRENCHES OF THE EMERGING MULTIPOLAR WORLD by the eponymous Russian blogger.  But this in itself is not what makes my perspective unique. After all, there are literally billions of people and certainly thousands of publishing professionals who share this jaundiced view of America's role in the world. What makes my view unusual and possibly unique is that my personal perspective is that of a well-informed and well-educated right-centrist, hawkish expert in military history and international politics who is also immersed in startup world.  I have my own views and hold them strongly (I am an unapologetic patriot), but I work hard to bring these almost diametrically opposed views to an American public that is largely unaware of them.  This ability to hold multiple sophisticated political views of international relations in mind is rare in the popular in general and, as far as I know, almost unique in the publishing world. (Probably there are some liberal editors who work on books by Donald Trump, but I am talking specifically about serious works on IR). How does this bear on startup valuations? It means that I have an unusually deep and sincere understanding of the fact that the present-day world is characterized by radically divergent views of the future of international politics.  It's the "sincere" that distinguishes my view from others, because most scholars on all sides are well aware of the existence of competing ideologies and agendas. However, my observation is that most, people, even experts, view opposing agendas as schematic and insincere, and see "their" view in a more concrete and heartfelt way.  I have a quirk of personality that makes me better at seeing things from multiple viewpoints.   So what does this tell me about startup valuations? I think most people are systematically undervaluing the risk of global war.  If you assume, as I do, that everyone on all sides holds sincere, legitimate, and committed views--something's got to give. This is an unlikely scenario, but not as unlikely as many think. Ten out of the hundred years in the previous century were convulsed by unforeseen global war.  Admittedly, war can be good for startups. (Viz. the US defense industry in WW2).  But it can also wreak havoc on the economies of entire nations.  England, France, Germany after WWI; England after WWII never recovered.  So the risk is not as much to all startups everywhere, as to major groups of startups in particular markets, that might be completely clobbered by unforeseen geopolitical events.  Diversification, diversification, diversification. Weight startup investments by more pessimistic political risk. * 1) Authors are going to be almost completely disintermediated much sooner than people think. 2)  The click-cycle-driven advertising revenues that has produced the hideous usability mess that is today's content delivery is going to replaced much sooner than people think by revenues from delegating tasks and creation of complete work product to intelligent agents. 