Is there a racial wealth gap in the United States?
Yes, there is an unmistakable racial wealth gap in the United States. The statistics of net worth that Marie Stein posted are widely quoted and in general, quite accurate. I'm want to address some of the historical processes that led to the wealth disparity being what it is today. This highly stratified distribution is an institutional problem that dates back several decades, and much of the root cause is social rather than economic. The case of the United States is a society that, until very recently, overtly and legally privileged white people over all other races and groups. This racial preference has had long-standing repercussions that many of us fail to acknowledge because everything is "equal" now. (Usual disclaimer: I'm not saying that white people today should accept total responsibility. But based on the institutional history of race relations, it's clear why there is such a wide, race-based wealth gap today. This is sometimes believed to be because black people are inherently lazy or unintelligent, which is absolutely untrue.) Upon the end of slavery, there as a long debate over what should be done with this newly freed population. Many believed that black people were inherently incapable of taking care of themselves, a belief that only served to reinforce itself when land ownership and educational opportunities for freedmen were clearly lacking. The 1865 "40 acres and a mule" idea was a short-lived policy, and after the assassination Lincoln, the Johnson administration quickly reverted the land back to its original white owners. In many ways, the failure of this policy reflects the failure of Reconstruction in general to accomplish any significant change for black people in America, most of whom literally had nothing to their names at this point in history. [1] Sharecropping became the South's response to slavery's end. This system of exploitation was one of the few ways that freedmen could find work, and a convenient way for former white slaveowners to retain their dominance. It was essentially a system designed to create a indebted peasant class and permanently tie individuals and their future descendants to the land...so really, it was a form of serfdom not all that different from slavery itself. The system of sharecropping persisted well into the 20th century, and the concentration of land, wealth, and power among white elites remained long after. (While poor whites were also subject to sharecropping, the demographics are not by any means equivalent.) [2] (Most of this information, and the information that follows, is discussed in more extensive detail in this excellent PBS webpage about race: http://www.pbs.org/race/000_Gene...) Of course, Jim Crow legislation did nothing to help the situation of blacks in America, but I want to highlight some aspects of economic and social oppression that often go understated: In the midst of the Great Depression, when many Americans were relying on government spending for basic necessities, most minorities (particularly blacks and women) were ineligible for social security, unemployment, and pension benefits. These groups were disproportionately agricultural and domestic service workers, fields that were excluded from social security. Basically, those that were poorest and most vulnerable to economic instability were systematically denied the protections available to white males. [3] Many powerful union groups, such as the American Federation of Labor, were exclusively white and not only denied the admittance of nonwhite members, but actively discriminated against black and Chinese workers. This inevitably locked minorities out of high-paying jobs and denied them union protections such as medical insurance and job security. Minorities were typically the "last hired and first fired" in the workplace. Many crafts unions excluded nonwhites into the 1960s and 70s. [4] Black students were obviously segregated in education, had poorer quality of educational facilities, and significantly less access to higher education. Even those students that could afford to remain in high school to graduate and pursue higher education (a rare enough case) often found that there were few universities that accepted black students on equal terms, even in the North. Possibly the most important issue is the degree of housing discrimination that extended throughout the 20th century, and still exists today. This is particularly important because property and not income is the primary determinant of wealth and status today. The national appraisal system of the 1940s tied property value to race, so all-white communities received the highest ratings and access to low-interest government loans, while mixed and minority communities received low ratings and no access to government loans. Virtually all of the funds allocated for these loans went to white families. This effectively locked most nonwhites out of home ownership. [5] Many neighborhoods throughout the mid-1900s barred or disincentivized renting and selling homes to nonwhites. Even though states couldn't enforce restrictive covenants, groups such as homeowner's associations could and did. Private developers could refuse to sell property to blacks and Asians, reinforcing the argument that segregation was market driven rather than simply a product of racism.[6] Lenders could also charge higher interest rates to nonwhites to account for the additional "risk." All of this served to further limit minorities' options for home ownership.[7] Most urban renewal projects in the 1950s and 60s that destroyed primarily black and Latino residences did not replace the lost property, and the displaced individuals were not compensated. As white flight continued, transportation systems were built to connect cities to suburbs, and much of these construction involved the destruction of black homes, businesses, and neighborhoods. [8]The impact of all of this was felt most strongly throughout the 1970s, 80s, and 90s, as housing prices soared, and whites that owned their homes were able to sell at significant profit. They often earned a return that was 15-20 times higher than their initial investment. By contrast, minorities that were excluded from property ownership couldn't reap the benefits of this boost in property value. Even those that did own their own property were often in minority neighborhoods that didn't see rises in home value. The wealth that many white families gained from this time allowed them even greater benefits for their future, and is the source of much of their wealth today. Home ownership and high property values, a product of programs that excluded minorities, allowed many middle class whites access to higher education and economic stability that minorities lack even today. The trend still exists that as soon as neighborhoods become 10-20% black or Latino, white families begin moving out, and when these neighborhoods lose that 65% of their demand market, property values drop, services suffer, and those areas become vulnerable to factory construction, waste treatment plants, pollution, etc. The bottom line: "most white families have acquired their net worth from the appreciation of property that they secured under conditions of special privilege in a discriminatory housing market." [9] What's notable to me about these facts is that it demonstrates the extent to which the federal government and social institutions were responsible for contributing to the racial wealth gap. Yes, the activities of the Ku Klux Klan and other white supremacists were deplorable and unforgivable, but so are a lot of the more subtle and equally damaging legal policies of the 20th century. And virtually nothing has been done to address this inequality today. Sources: [1] http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/amex/rec... [2] http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/amex/rec... [3] http://www.fathom.com/feature/12... [4] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ame... [6] http://www.pbs.org/race/006_Wher... [5] http://warrencenter.fas.harvard.... [7] http://depts.washington.edu/civi... [8] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Urb... [9] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Whi... 