Are doctors overcompensated in the U.S.?
There are no wrong answers, here. US doctors are overpaid relative to the rest of the world, but do have some extra expenses and in some cases longer and more intensive training than the comparison countries. Patient wealth still affects prices in the US. Pediatricians for example less money in comparable sub-specialties, as adult docs. Less money for smaller patients, one supposes. US primary care docs are only overpaid by a factor of 2 relative to the world, while specialty docs are overpaid by a factor of 3 or 4. That is in part because the gap between primary care docs (defined by people who bill for talking to patients and thinking) and specialty docs (defined by people who bill for a procedure) is widening. Dermatology has been mentioned-- they make $300,000 a year now, whereas general internists make $180,000. There was no gap of this kind 30 years ago when they made the same money. The difference is in billing rates since then. Dermatologists slice and freeze and photograph and so on faster and faster, and Medicare and insurance companies are willing to pay, while talking and thinking goes at just the same rate. It's hard to document thinking; dermatologists can show path specimens. The basic problem here is that it is primary care and cognitive specialties that have the best chance of slowing down the increase in medical spending, which has been going up about 6% a year in the US (with the majority of increase in physician salaries going to procedure-specialists). The rapid increase in spending in the last generation has been driven by procedure-specialists finding ways to do more procedures. Doctors make only about 10% (perhaps a bit less) of the total healthcare dollar, as salary, but they control 80% of the spending, and they do it in such a way as to compensate themselves at a nearly constant fraction of the health care dollar. http://mobile.nytimes.com/2014/0... And that is how we spend 17% of our GDP on healthcare and get relatively little for it. It's not just those $400,000 a year gastroenterologists (I saw one with a very expensive car with license EGD PRN), but it's the cost of the procedures themselves, that are eight times as expensive to the system as the simple salaries of the people who do them, or order them. Specialist procedures drive costs, and the major mechanism is NOT their salaries per se, but how they make those salaries. So surgeons are not overpaid: surgery is inhumanly hard (no, I don't mean the dermatological type). I think non-interventive radiologists and dermatologists ARE overpaid, as they work no harder than most other docs. Or perhaps the primary care people are underpaid. I don't know. What fraction of your healthcare dollar SHOULD doctors get? I do know that if we don't do something about the way doctors ARE paid in the US (by procedure they bill for), the system will collapse. So pay the specialists what you like (I don't care), but decouple that from the number of procedures they do, else those procedures and scans and whatnot will bankrupt us. And is doing so. === You will see that cardiologists and radiologists are now up to $350,000 average income. If course it's an average and more for the fluoroscopic procedure people than the rest. Still, a recent experience of mine illustrates how fee-for-service in highly paid services leads to waste. Specialists doing their own referrals drive costs: Last week it was my dubious privilege to see a young woman I know who is 35  and on MediCal and also half a dozen social programs (she has never had a  job), get referred by a quack for a full cardiac workup. She had  previously gotten a C-section for reasons just as dubious. Now, she was  feeling tired and depressed. Lo, she got an echo and found herself  waiting at a portable nuclear scanning facility here in the LA area  called "Digirad nuclear imaging" ("DigiSucks" would be a better name).  This gamma camera mobile scanner thing makes the rounds like a rolling  taco truck. She's going to get a 24 hour Holter monitor. Incredibly,  she's then going to get a full chemical adenosine stress test complete  with a Tc-99m sestamibi cardiac nuclear scan. Now,  her heart is clinically fine. I saw the EKG and the normal echo, and  I've examined her many times. She has no failure, no murmers, has good  pulses, no JVD, no runs of V-tach, no history of anything that sounds  even vaguely like coronary syndrome. She's a healthy young woman (except  for her teeth). Which is good, since if she was to have an MI during her stress test  (unlikely) she won't be anywhere near a hospital, but rather at some  podunk corner of nowhere, in downtown Chino, at the mobile Digirad scanner. Most of the people standing around waiting for the screw-the-taxpayer  gold-plated workup, there at the Digirad scanner, look just as good. Most  are young and don't speak English. MediCal (California Medicaid) and some Medicare disability will pay for them to get radiation they don't need. A cardiologist and radiologist working one of these things together can make $8000 a day. It's also total horseshit medicine. It's my story for today. I know what I'm seeing, and it's not good. Hope you enjoyed it. Updated 11w ago • View Upvotes