What is grade inflation like at world-renowned universities?
tl;dr: In an institution that selects its students rigorously, it is not inconceivable that every person in the class can master 100% of the material.  Students in hard majors still work their asses off.  As derisive as some people are of so-called grade inflation, I am equally defensive. I was a physics major and a materials science co-term at Stanford, and my answer is intended only to apply to the realm of science and engineering. In these majors, there is generally a correct answer for classroom assignments, and beyond a certain point, an answer cannot be made more correct.  For those of us that worship at the altar of partial credit, there are objectively correct steps in the process of solving a problem.  Also, these majors tend to not attract unqualified legacy/donor admits, so we can put aside our cynicism about the actual quality of students at elite colleges. Many people have a reflexive aversion to the idea of a majority of people in a class earning an 'A.'  I admit, I felt this way before I actually attended an elite college.  The difference from high school (or schools which capture a large pool of incoming students) is that pretty much everyone in the class is capable of mastering the material.  This is not to say they are equally smart--it is plainly obvious who the geniuses are.  However, when you put a bunch of motivated overachievers in a challenging situation and give them all of the tools they need to help themselves--professor, TA, dorm tutors, other students, a library--by golly, almost all of them will avail themselves of these resources.  If everyone objectively masters the course material, why shouldn't everyone receive a letter grade which reflects this mastery? This has the added bonus of promoting collaborative, pro-social behavior.  You say you need some way to distinguish the good students from the great ones? This is what technical interviews, internships, research projects, and letters of recommendation are for. At this point, someone might quip that if everyone masters the material, then the course content should be made harder.  Well, I have been in classes where the content was taught exclusively to the two geniuses in the classroom (because the professor gave zero fucks, which is their right, not because they wanted to give a bunch of C's), and I can assure you that this was a perfectly useless experience for the majority of the class.  The course content should be set by the demands of the workplace, the zeitgeist of the field, the academic consensus about what the important concepts are, the whims of the professor, or any criterion actually related to content rather than outcomes.  It makes no sense to build a curriculum purely so that 50% of the class will perform poorly, and thus, in my experience, professors didn't really do this. It also makes no sense to expect a bell curve distribution in a class with 10 people, which is the size of many upper division classes at elite colleges, and thus, professors who know about the central limit theorem tended to not do this either. Updated 60w ago • View Upvotes • Not for Reproduction