Law School Admissions: Is it true that attending any but a top-tier law school is a personal and financial mistake?
Coming from a non-first tier law school for the most part, yes, but (insert typical lawyer answer) it depends. If you want to get into start-ups, venture capital, technology, big corporate type work, it will be much much easier with a top tier law school or AmLaw 50 or 100 firm on your resume (but you usually need the top tier school to get into a AmLaw 50 or 100 firm).  If you excel in a mid-tier school and get into law review (typically top 10% of your class to get invited into it), you can overcome the non-top tier issue.  On a side note, a classic move that I admire to this day was a law school colleague in San Diego, Theo Epstein, being in the top 10% of our law school class and not accepting the law review invite.  Didn't hurt him in any way, he took the Boston Red Sox to the World Series as the youngest GM in Major League Baseball history despite no law review and only mid-tier law school. The cost of law school is tremendous, so you need to understand that.  Having gone to law school will definitely help you tremendously even if you don't practice law; however, a lot of the top business schools have legal classes that can give you some of the same competitive advantages. It is like any other advanced degree, the more education you get, the more potentially competitive you can be and the better odds you can climb higher to be successful.  Same thing with a law school ranking, the higher, the better odds to climb higher; however, I have met many lawyers from top tier schools that have absolutely no business or common sense, only book smarts. Bottom line, try to get into the highest law school you can apply to, which is almost entirely based upon your LSAT score and undergrad GPA.  If you go to a school less than top 100 or so, be aware that you may have a harder time getting the high paying job to pay for it.  Be wary of the lower tier schools that offer you big scholarships and make promises of huge employment.  Go in realizing that it will cost you at least $100k for a decent law degree. 