Is Oakland following the trend of other Bay Area cities in becoming more gentrified over the past few years?
(north oakland resident, former west oakland resident) a lot of your perspective depends on whether you think 'gentrification' is a good thing. it's a negatively loaded word which generally implies infringing on the ability of poor urban people of color to continue to live in their neighborhoods when wealthy home buyers enter the scene and view them as undesirable because their relative poverty ties them to crime and run down environments that are no longer thriving. oakland has black working class multigenerational homeowners.  actual neighborhoods where kids play outside in the streets, etc. like in many economically blighted communities, one family's run down home-sweet-home looks to a wealthy outsider like a relatively cheap real estate investment. thus the migration, economic push for gentrification. but the unfortunate side effect that happens in many places is the cultural obliteration as those families are pushed out. in the effort to clean up and rehab neighborhoods you throw the baby out with the bathwater. personally i don't think those so-called "safe" neighborhoods are worth the extra price - they are just simply richer and whiter than other neighborhoods, not safer and not better. the art scene has already grown in oakland. during the dot com boom a big wave of artists moved to oakland for really low rent. then during the real estate bubble, families priced out of sf moved to oakland to buy homes.  whats interesting to me is that after these two booms and collapses, you now have this mixture of artists and white exec homeowners and condo dwellers and working class black families all in the same place, none of them can afford to move after the market crash. i think the artists got the best part of the deal because they have the employed young white people with discretionary income to spend on artsy stuff and they've been in oakland long enough to have low overhead. 