Why have the wages of the American middle class stagnated for decades?
The trend above post-1980, in which Productivity increases steadily while average hourly wage stays flat would probably be fairly similar to what we saw in the 1880-1930 period, when "Laissez Faire" (No government interference in business) was the majority economic consensus and populism was a rapidly growing minority viewpoint.  The left half of the chart above was when we created the one-income family, whereas the right side was when we went back to the two-income family model. Another way of looking at the above chart is, before 1970 (and of course after the new deal started), every time a company doubled their revenues per worker hour the workers got twice as much money.  After 1980, every time companies doubled their revenues per worker hour, wages mostly stayed flat.  Even not counting our GDP growth slowdown since 1980, if the graph above had held linear to the present, then the average person making 50,000 today would be making closer to 90,000 instead.  This is what I mean when I say that for most people, who we collectively decide to put into political power is the single most important financial decision most of us will make in our lifetimes. There are several directions we can go with the question "What caused this?"  Most proximally, organisations like the Chamber of Commerce, ALEC, and Fox News have been steadily growing in there influence over the entire period, starting from a multi-generational low when FDR established the New Deal.  There were a variety of protections that were built into our society during the New Deal - A high top marginal tax rate increased the ratio of small businesses to large businesses.  Strong encouragement of Unions both helped small businesses both directly and indirectly by increasing labor costs of large businesses and increasing disposable income, which allowed workers to choose quality and choice over efficiency and low cost.  Banking was divided into several types with those banks benefiting from individual deposits and FDIC insurance not being allowed to play the stock market.  There were capital requirements in place for Mergers, which prevented LBO's and made it harder for socially irresponsible companies to simply buy more responsible companies and "unlock value" at the expense of society.  Unfortunately, even as the New Deal was doing everything else right, we were forgetting our trade roots and protectionism became an economic curse word.  Every first world country in history larger than about Delaware was protectionist during the process of becoming first world, yet modern economists have gotten that free trade religion and protectionism is about as popular in our economic community as pure communism. Remember that the primary force driving wages down is the negotiating leverage of multinational corporations, and open borders, free ability to move plants with no tax consequences, loss of unions, and simple loss of economic infrastructure all drive down the ability of a skilled worker to negotiate for wages as revenues go up. Fortunately we have made back part of what we lost in wages as the price of everything that rich people buy has gone up giving part of the middle class windfall profits.  Unfortunately, this cocaine rush and the invisibility of the lost wages we would otherwise have encourages people to vote against their self interests allowing the negative impacts to continue far longer than they would otherwise. A simple answer to "What caused our wages to stop going up with profits" is pretty much everything that the Chamber of Commerce lobbies for. 