What are some examples of great new-user experience flows on the web?
Some great answers in here, I agree with pretty much everything that Andy Johns said :) Make sure to check out Pinterest, they have a relatively non-tech-savvy target audience, but even my mother gets it! Below 10 best-practices I picked up along the way as a PM at Playfish and while designing the onboarding of Pie, a team chat app I'm currently working on. List contains designs from Pinterest, HeyDay, Quora, FarmVille, Nimble, and others. 1. Don’t have a tutorial Does the iPhone have a booklet? No. The UX is so simple and self-explanatory, you don’t need one. It’s the holy grail: designing a complex product that’s so intuitive that users don’t need guidance to get started. If your onboarding-less product confuses your users, strive to make it so seamless that users won’t even know it’s there. An elegant onboarding should be so close to your main product experience that users won’t notice that you’re teaching them something. Social games like Cityville are really good at this. After you perform a few key actions they tightly knit your first-play experience together with quests and more peripheral gameplay. 2. Let the user do it Aristotle once said, “For the things we have to learn before we can do them, we learn by doing them.” If you want your users to learn and remember something you need to let them do it, don’t just tell them. People want to figure stuff out by themselves. Let users experience your product and they’ll figure out the value and why they do things. There’s too many product tutorials that feel like work with lots of text to read and long lists of to-do’s. Pinterest is good at letting new users feel the delightful part of their product. One of the first things you do is browse through a list of beautiful images, pick your favourite, and pin it. Evernote can get better at this. In one step of their onboarding they’re telling me about all their features and the value of each one of them. It’s so overwhelming, I can’t be bothered to read it let alone… remember everything (so punny!). Why not let me do stuff so I can observe the value? 3. Don’t teach me all at once I can’t experience all your features in one go. Rather let me focus on the core experience and introduce more secondary features later, when the context is relevant. After I’ve figured out the basic stuff my willingness to learn is higher and I’m ready to be introduced to new concepts. Nimble and Mixpanel are relatively complex products, but both are good at not overwhelming their users. They make sure to teach me about features when I’m ready instead of forcing me to learn everything in one go. 4. Let me experience the ‘wow!’ There’s a must-see talk by Gail Goodman where she shares her experience of designing the onboarding for Constant Contact. One of her key learnings is to focus on the ‘quick to wow!’. She describes the ‘wow!’ as the moment that a user understands an outcome and is blown away by it while experiencing it as fun. To determine what your ‘wow’ moment is, don’t look at your metrics and try to change user behavior, but look at your business from your customer inward. To get your user sucked in you need to show users your product as soon as possible and figure out what their first moment of investment is. Watch the full video here. 5. Repeat to create a habit After you’ve figured out what your ‘wow moment’ is and you’ve made sure that your users are exposed to it as soon as possible you can let them experience it again. This mechanic is often used in games to get players into a habit, a fun behavioral loop that sucks users in. Best example is one of the most repetitive games in the history of gaming: FarmVille. The second you start playing it teaches you to click on a plot, seed, harvest, COINS!, plow, seed, harvest, COINS!, plow, seed, harvest, COINS!, plow…. you get the point. 6. Use fewer words It’s hard to write short and to-the-point copy. It’s tempting to tell new users about all the great things your product does, but keep it short if you want users to pay attention. A good guideline is to have no more than 10 words on screen at a time. If you really need more words to make your point, break it up into smaller bits for users to click through. Don’t just present a bunch of sentences. Most users won’t read it and skip, or worse they’ll leave. Pinterest does this well. As it’s a visual platform they let the pictures do the talking and have little copy on screen in each step of their tutorial. 7. Don’t break flow Game designers often strive to get players into a state of ‘flow’ in which “a person performing an activity is fully immersed in a feeling of focus, full involvement, and enjoyment in the process of the activity”. Game designers have many tools to their disposal to achieve this state, but some general ideas behind it can be applied to the onboarding design of software other than games. One of the main requirements for achieving flow is to be as unobtrusive as possible. For example, don’t surprise users with unexpected pop-ups and messaging. An nice way to prepare the user for what’s coming is showing them the amount of steps to take and how many steps they have left. For a smooth experience, context is important. The journal app Heyday does this well. The app needs a lot of permissions which normally breaks flow, but they request it in a way that feels natural. First it explains the value of knowing your location. Then you’re asked to grant permission in the Heyday style interface. Only after you’ve done this the iOS permission box pops-up. 8. Be adaptive Some users prefer a guided product tour, others rather skip and explore without handholding. What works best for you depends on the complexity of your product and the savviness of your target audience. If you decide to go for a less ‘on-rails’ onboarding experience try to adapt your messaging based on the actions of the user. This way the experience leaves plenty of room for exploration and learning, giving your users a chance to feel smart. A checklist is a nice way to facilitate both self-exploration and a guided experience. Quora does this nicely. Their checklist automatically updates based on your actions, but you can also select each step for more guidance. 9. Remove noise To let users focus and rule out potential distractions you can choose to show them a simplified version of your product. By removing noise like excess copy, peripheral features, or irrelevant parts of the UX, you can increase the likeliness of users paying attention. Twitter is good at this. They gradually expose more of the product as you progress in the tutorial. By design Twitter has lots of copy on screen, but they manage to keep their onboarding clean. The copy is short and irrelevant text is blurred out while the blurry parts still convey that it’s supposed to be text. Watch their onboarding here. 10. Use conventions Unless you’re already a household name, don’t do things differently for the sake of being original. This is especially true for games. When designing your in-game currency it’s wise to go for conventional currency units like ‘bucks’, ‘gold’, or ‘diamonds’ as these already convey value. Adding flair to your product is great; it’s the small details that create a truly delightful product experience, but be descriptive. Don’t confuse your users. Everyone knows what a ‘like’ is and how it works. Please don’t call it a ‘diddlydoo’ because it’s a clever pun on your company name. Google+ tends to make this mistake. They don’t leverage what people already know and rather make up new terms for you to learn. ‘Sparks for nerding out together’? Why not just call it a reader? ‘Circles’? Yeah, that’s groups. Hope this helps, let me know when you have an onboarding I can run through, happy to provide feedback. Lastly, please try out Pie’s onboarding and let me know how we’re doing! :) 