Are doctors overcompensated in the U.S.?
Funny - if you ask a doctor (or a sleepy medical student) you'll get a long winded answer largely around an emphatic (and passionate) no. The real answer is a much more nuanced yes - and is summarized every year in this one chart: Why this is so - isn't some big mystery. I've written about it very directly here: Med Student Gives Sober Assessment Of Future With $500K In Student Debt ... and opened the piece this way: The path to becoming a physician is intentionally rigorous in every possible way. It is technically, physically and financially grueling for at least 7 years (often more) after the first Bachelor’s degree. In 2012, Fed Chairman Ben Bernanke testified before Congress that his own son will complete his formal medical training with $400,000 in loans. The median four-year cost to attend medical school – which includes outlays like living expenses and books – for the class of 2013 is $278,455 at private schools and $207,868 at public ones, according to the Association of American Medical Colleges, a nonprofit group of U.S. schools. Medical School at $278,000 Means Even Bernanke Son Has Debt – Janet Lorin, Bloomberg Article – April 11, 2013 (here) So - healthcare training takes an incredible amount of time - and money - at which point those who survive as freshly minted docs have a huge debt - roughly equivalent to a nice home mortgage. Oh - and for those who don't know - unlike all other types of financial debt - student debt is not dis-chargeable through bankruptcy - so it's lifelong until satisfied. None of this is a mystery to U.S. med students - nor should it be - they are exceedingly bright (by necessity) - and start planning their career trajectories fairly early. A key component to that planning is the amount of debt they'll have when they graduate - and the number of remaining years they'll have as high wage earners. It's basic spreadsheet math - that leads to the above graph. If you have a choice at graduation of being a family practitioner or internist (with long, grueling hours - inside a clinic) for $15k/mo - or the cushy job of being a radiologist (reading images for 8hrs) for $30k/mo - where's the choice? It's not a choice - it's a no-brainer (for most) - which is why we have a severe shortage at all the specialties on the right hand side of the graph. That's the U.S. (and why our system is dysfunctional from the start). The system from the start is optimized around revenue and profits - not safety and quality.  France, by contrast, has a different view - and (not surprisingly) better health outcomes and cost. Their view is that medical training is an "infrastructure" cost - and the best way to accommodate that is to have med students graduate with $0 debt. Now, in fairness, doctors in France don't have the opportunity at a lavish wage of $400 - $500k/yr (or more), but they also don't have a shortage of primary care docs. We do - and it's also a contributing factor to why our system is now a global embarrassment and perpetual national crisis - as represented by this one chart: Updated 62w ago • View Upvotes