What are good ways to solve mass unemployment?
People have been worrying about "mass unemployment" for over a century. Actually, in the past couple of years, jobs have been growing especially for those who are specializing in a profession. (Click to zoom the image) The graph shows a linear relationship; the better the education, lower the unemployment and higher the wage. It is clearly indicating the need for more education. The unemployment among professionals is at an historical low of just 2% and almost non-existant in some of the professions. The median wage numbers also show that people with college degrees have good chance of having a living wage ($50K+/year). Not only the current numbers are good, there is also a positive trend. Here is a sample of some of the most well-paying jobs in the US. Most of these are also quickly growing [1]. The real problem lies among the unskilled labor with no college degree. The jobs they take are getting automated, outsourced or eliminated. Some of the ways to reduce unemployment: Better education: College education is clearly an big factor in employment. However, colleges have also grown more expensive. This means that governments have to invest more in online education tools to enable the students dropping after high school to continue their education & get a degree inexpensively through the MOOCs (Massively Open Online Courses). Better training: Retrain workers in careers of the future. A lot of what the colleges & universities teach are completely irrelevant to the fast growing careers. This leads to a lot of structural unemployment. Dramatically reduce the count of humanities & liberal arts students and retrain them into more lucrative majors. Better guidance: A lot of young people are completely confused about the different career paths. We need better tools to help them pick the right education paths. Better connections: Unemployment is highest among teens, early twenties and people with no college degrees. These people are also among the least active when it comes to career networking (many of them don't even have LinkedIn profiles). We need to build more tools to help this segment of the population connect more. U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics Unemployment rate 7.4 percent overall; 3.8 percent for college graduates: Sunday's Numbers 