Law School Admissions: Is it true that attending any but a top-tier law school is a personal and financial mistake?
Short answer: hell no. Lots of people who go to law school should not be there, so going to any law school—top tier or not—is a huge mistake for them. I would put this at a third to a half of all law students. The key is to not be one of those people. If you know exactly why you want to be a lawyer, and feel strongly about it, go for it. It will not be a mistake, even if you don't get into Yale or Harvard. If you aren't sure you really want to be a lawyer, don't go to law school yet. Tons of people from lower-ranked schools do well, even very well. It's true there is a lot of elitism and prestige garbage in the legal profession, but anyone with talent can push through it and reach his or her potential despite the barriers. One example: the new Chief Justice of California is an alumna of my law school, UC Davis (currently #23 on US News; #45 when I entered as a 1L). We also have plenty of folks in fancy law firms. You will have to work harder for these opportunities than students from top-tier schools. But you can still get them. No one should expect a J.D. to be a magic ticket to full employment anymore. You will still have to hustle to get where you want. If you go in with this attitude, you will be fine. It's also true that the job market is bad. Actually, it's terrible. But it is getting better. My friends in the classes of 2012 and 2013 have had more opportunities for interviews than my class did, and hiring managers I've spoken to expect to be hiring more. From everything I've seen, it looks like the class of 2011 took the brunt of the recession, and is poised to be an outlier. (This includes me and Ani, so perhaps that explains some of our doom and gloom. We're also about to take a bar exam!) I agree with Ani and the article as far as pointing out the employment statistics are bad. They are far worse than bad. They are completely fraudulent, in my opinion. Law schools are threading some seriously thin needles to report these numbers, which are not supported by people's common sense definitions of legal employment, who should be counted, etc. This is a huge scandal in my book, and the FTC or the ABA should get involved and kick some asses; but that hasn't happened yet. I advise anyone considering law schools to talk to some recent alumni for the straight story on employment. 