What are some graphs that clearly show changes in the US economy?
One of the most striking effects in recent history in the United States is the stagnation in real wages since about 1970 or 1975, a trend which has become even more pronounced since about 2000. This means that although the economy has continued to grow over this period, the gains have mostly accrued to a small subset of highly skilled white collar workers, in such fields as technology and banking. See endnotes for sources. Really. I didn't make these graphs. It is only natural to ask, What has caused this? And can we reverse it? H. L. Mencken said that for complex problem, there is an answer that is clear, simple, and wrong. In this case, the answer that is clear, simple, and wrong is to treat this as a totally economic phenomenon, and blame it on some combination of government policies: fiscal policy, monetary policy, or the marginal tax rate. Supposedly, the advancements that were made in the state of the art in economic policy around 1975 are responsible for this change, and if just went back to knowing as little about economics as we did in the years before 1975 and resumed the economics fads of the 1950s and 1960s, the problem would reverse itself. But a better approach may be to treat this as a long term structural-demographic phenomenon instead of looking for a short term correlation with a change in economic policy. In other words, try thinking of it as a cohort effect and determine what's changed from generation to generation, changing even before the next generation enters the workforce. Peter Turchin, biologist, historian, and theorist of social change, follows that approach in a series of blog posts at Social Evolution Forum. In the next few paragraphs and chart I'm going to try to sketch out his explanation of the fall in wages. All the concepts and charts you see here are his. If the middle class is becoming smaller relative to the rest of the country, that might be because the upper class and the working class are actually increasing as a fraction of the population. If the size of the working class is increasing, and has been increasing, for a while, then the supply of labor is increasing faster than the demand, driving down wages. It's a buyer's market for labor, and the buyers are the (intellectual, tech-savvy) upper class. Sure enough, if you look at the demand for labor around the same time, you see the same shift: You might wonder what supply and demand mean here, so let me explain Turchin's method. The supply of workers is just the total number of employed + the number of unemployed workers actively seeking work, taken from the Bureau of Labor Statistics. The labor demand is calculated form GDP and worker productivity (All you have to do is take the total GDP and divide it by average worker productivity to get what Turchin calls the demand for labor, measured in units of man-hours). One of the interesting things that you can tell from looking at this graph is the disparity between the demand for labor and the supply was already narrowing from about 1950 onward, and especially from 1965 onward, right in the middle of what is usually thought of as a golden age for America. There really doesn't seem to be a big change in the slope of these two lines between 1965 and 1995. That is, by that point the supply was already rising faster than the demand was rising. Thus, from this perspective, the sudden change in wages in the 1970s wasn't that sudden. It was just the breaking to the surface of a trend which had begun before that point. Perhaps this began with the gradual entry of the baby boomer generation into the work force. Anyway, it's not that hard to match the changes in the real wage curve by fitting a combination of demographic and economic data. This results in the following formula (if anybody can edit this to put this in LaTeX format, I'd be grateful): Where G is the GDP, N is the population (so G/N gives you GDP/capita), D is the demand for labor, S is the supply of labor, and C is the smoothed, inflation-adjusted minimum wage, (which Turchin meant to stand in as a proxy variable for contemporary attitudes surrounding labor. His idea was not that the minimum wage affects the economy that much, but that increases in it signal increases in the power of labor). All variables are taken at point in time t, and z is a delay of five years to allow for structural adjustment. (Of course, performing a little bit of algebra on the curve fitting formula, you find that if two of the coefficients are the same, GDP cancels out. "GDP per capita times labor supply over GDP per worker productivity" reduces to "worker productivity times fraction of the population working or actively seeking work." Rather than being a proxy for cultural factors surrounding the power of labor, multiplying by the smoothed real minimum wage is necessary to convert the results from man-hours into inflation adjusted dollars. But this isn't my formula, and the reason for putting it in this particular form is presumably to tell a story about what's happening) The first chart is taken from: Relative Worth Calculators and Data Sets  via The End of Prosperity: Why Did Real Wages Stop Growing in the 1970s? The second chart is taken from: Cutting through the Thicket of Economic Forces (Why Real Wages Stopped Growing II) The third chart and the equation is taken from: Putting It All Together (Why Real Wages Stopped Growing IV) These charts are part of a series by Peter Turchin. I invite you to read the original sources if you have any questions. These are, after all, his ideas, not mine. If you have doubts about how he calculated D/S and C without being tautological, well, I do too, but it makes for some interesting graphs nonetheless. I'm especially worried about whether the predictor variables are really basic or whether they're just circular. This answer has been edited to make the source (Peter Turchin) harder to miss. I originally thought crediting Turchin's blog and linking to the original posts, plus adding the disclaimer the end (the previous paragraph) was enough. However, the comments make it clear that people don't follow links on the web, so I've tried to make this as clear as I can. It was my own mistake not citing this better. Updated 104w ago • View Upvotes