What is grade inflation like at world-renowned universities?
It certainly exists. At a place like Caltech (where I work/teach), nearly every student is intellectually capable of getting 100% on all the classes which are graded. There's a huge leap from there to reality, however. In some circles there seems to be an expectation that capability should translate to grades with no intervening step of competency demonstration. In particular, nearly every student at Caltech was the smartest person they ever met before they arrived. Suddenly, the workload requires them to not just memorize the right answer, they often have to think! Ironically, often the smartest students take the longest to realize this, sometime in sophomore or even junior year. There is a general recognition that nearly every student who manages to get their time management in order will get a 3.9 or 4.0 GPA. The problem with this is that sometimes otherwise awesome students have a bad day or a bad term, and their GPA is hosed with no possibility of redemption. In one class I taught, I advocated making one of the final exam questions MUCH tougher (thus earning the love and adoration of all the students...), precisely to give the top students a chance to distinguish themselves. Performance in this case was less a Bell curve and more a Lorentz/Cauchy distribution, where a few students were outperforming the rest of the class by an order of magnitude. It is important to cater to the bulk of the class's ability, but in order not to fail the students who will actually go on to be professors, you have to provide a steady ramp of difficulty so that grade-based ordering is effective. Unfortunately, Caltech's reputation for good quality non 4.0 GPA students is eroding, and a Caltech 3.0 is no longer a guaranteed position in grad school or med school. Something like 1/10 Caltech students will not even get into grad school due to statistical fluctuations. More recently, I've taught much smaller classes on a pass/fail basis. This, IMO, is infinitely preferable. I can ensure that every student is adequately challenged, despite widely varying levels of competence. Sorting students across schools is still a very difficult process. 