What is the best way to learn maths for a std. 8 student who literally hates mathematics and is very weak in the subject?
It's a known fact that if you hate a subject, then you simply won't do well in it, so my humble suggestion on top of Aditya Joshi's superb answer would be to find ways and reasons why you think math is THE coolest subject on the freakin' planet, baby! Do you have a Netflix account? Good. Go look up the show Numb3rs (TV series). My Twitter friend Cheryl Heuton helped create this show, to show that math is more beautiful than simply as a subject to teach. It's based on an actual person who was the first person to develop an algorithm to find serial killers. He was Canadian, but we'll try not to hold that against him. ;) My even more wunnerful friends Rob Morrow, David Krumholtz, Alimi Ballard, and former MIT mechanical engineering student, Dylan Bruno star in the series. I came to be friends with each one through Facebook and Twitter (and because I was on network television), and they are THE kindest men you will EVER want to meet. I've promised Rob and Dylan that as soon as they meet me, I WILL allow them to take me to dinner. Hey...it was the only way I could get them to quit pestering me about it. :D Now that you have a second degree of separation connection to the show, go watch all five seasons. Do it this weekend on a binge--it's more fun that way. :D And while you're watching, listen to the way Charlie Eppes explains why numbers are so beautiful in season one. It's near the end of the show, he's talking to the female agent with blonde hair at their dinner table, and he uses several real-world examples to explain why he thinks math is beautiful. I credit that scene with my deciding to return to college for graduate degrees, since I already have a performance degree in commercial trumpet. Like everyone else on the planet, I laboured under the misapprehension that math was only useful if you wanted to become a teacher. But THIS SHOW opened my eyes to an entire world I knew nothing about; a world in which math is regularly used to solve crime; to bolster the military when they need someone to crack "unbreakable" codes (Thank-you, Alan Turing for cracking the German Enigma machine in WWII!), to decide if it's going to rain today or the most obvious, how to shoot a space craft to a dwarf planet to take bee-y-oooo-tiful pictures. I've been thinking of starting a blog for those who are afraid of and hate math. Would this something you would read and be interested in following? In it I would talk about this very sort of stuff, and allow readers to comment with complaints and bitching about their fears, why they now hate it, and the experiences they had when younger that shaped those ideas. Then once those angry fears are voiced, we can begin to discuss ways we can move through them and past them; we'll try and develop ways in which we can be successful in math, in spite of those obstacles. Once you're done with Numb3rs, then go rent The Imitation Game (2014 movie) starring Benedict Cumberbatch (actor). This movie is a loose portrayal of Alan Turing, the mathematician credited with breaking the German Enigma code during WWII, and it makes you PROUD you are interested in math or know it. This story follows that account of his days being recruited by the Royal Navy to work on Enigma. It's so sad that such a brilliant mind was treated like common street trash when they learned of his sexual proclivities. And in those days, they could actually arrest you for being openly gay. Sad that he wasn't more discreet about it or they might never have known, but that's not the issue. It's just simply a brilliant movie and Cumberbatch's portrayal was so clean, sharp and vulnerable that he should've won the Oscar. Turing is also known as the father of modern-day computers, because it was his published graduate papers whilst doing his post-doctoral mathematics work at King's College London that laid the groundwork for the machine he used to break Enigma. Those papers are the reason we even have digital, and they outlined his thinking for wanting to develop a machine that, in his words, was, "programmable yes, but also reprogrammable." Anyway, all that to say that you need to search for a reason why you dearly love and are fascinated by this subject. Once you finally and truly tap into that love, the rest will simply come. Please read the response of mine to which Aditya is referencing, as it contains a lot of logical, nuts and bolts steps for how to accomplish this once you're ready, but for now, just find ways to love it. My best to you, and let me know if that blog sounds like a good idea. 