Is 2015 a good time to buy a house in the Bay Area?
The answer is it depends on your time horizon. Buying a house is  about buying a call option on the employment situation in the area you are buying a house. Housing is 100% correlated with employment. More jobs, more people who need houses, more value to existing houses. Less jobs, fewer people, less value to existing houses. Over the last 30 years the valley has had several boom-bust cycles and housing prices have tracked well with those boom-bust cycles. For example, right now SF is a crazy market when it comes to housing, with prices reaching stratospheric valuations and yet in 2009, I met a high end realtor who drove busses because the market was dead. In five years, the market completely flipped... and it will flip again ... I keep hearing about how SF became the cool hip place, SF became the cool hip place because it was cheap ... In addition the valley continues to experience population growth because of the weather, climate and physical environment and richness of the employment opportunities. If you believe in the long term prognosis for tech being an employer of many people - and I do, then the valley represents a reasonable place to buy a house over the long term because the combination of population growth and boom-bust cycles make this place likely to have continuously appreciating property values. The macro thesis is sound, but what about what the question of "should I buy a house now"? The answer is it depends. Right now we are in a bubble in seed investments that popped (see this http://wrongtool.kostadis.com/wi...) and as a result a whole boat-load of people are about to become unemployed. And as a result housing will collapse in price. And therefore when you are looking for a house you need to keep in mind that housing prices right now are globally inflated. The implication is that the further they are from 'establish' employers the more likely the inflation will experience a sudden deflation. Furthermore, the more undesirable a place is right now the worse the price deflation will be in the short term. The problem is that the desirable houses in the desirable areas will not change very much in value. Houses in Palo Alto will continue to appreciate. Atherton will keep getting more expensive. The house you want to buy - therefore - is probably very expensive and may stay that way regardless of the boom-bust cycle. The house you can afford may experience a sudden depreciation when the bust happens. For example, all those folks in Livermore who bought in the 2000 bubble are still not thrilled with the values of their houses. My recommendation therefore is to think strategically when you buy a house. Pick a house that is close to freeways or the train if you can stand the noise because commute always affects land value. Optimize for land rather than for house size. And realize that you might buy a house in a distressed area that may over time become a really swanky area... And finally realize that whatever house you buy there is a better one that you want and that's true for everyone even for the guy who has all the money in the world because the one house he wants is the one house that is not for sale ... (Romney and white house as an example ;-)) One useful tidbit from Andreesen is that the east bay is an example of a beat down area that may experience a swankification. He is long term bullish, or was when I saw an interview of his a few months ago... 