★What is a simple explanation of the Hidden Markov Model algorithm?
Well, to be fair, this really depends on your mom :P Assuming that the heights of mathematical jargon in 'the mom's' dictionary is 'probability', let us try to probabilistically explain what's for dessert based on today's weather. Say the mom can make 3 types of dessert: molten chocolate cake, strawberry shake, and butterscotch icecream. And let us suppose that each day of the week may be classified as either of the following: rainy, dry, or hot. But we have no way of ascertaining what sort of day it is. We want to develop a model that predicts which dessert the mom is going to prepare on a particular day, if we know the sequence of desserts that she has been making for the past month (say). To make the long story short, the observations (mom's desserts) are dependent on some process which is hidden from our view (the weather). We assume that each day's weather is dependent on and only on the previous day's weather. This way the sequence of weather description turns out to be a Markov chain. The probability of today weather, given that we know yesterday's weather forms the 'transition probability' of the Markov Chain. For example, if yesterday was rainy, the probabilities of today's weather may be 0.5 for rainy, 0.3 for cold and 0.2 for dry. The matrix formed by taking all such probabilities is called the Transition probability matrix. Now, we know that mom's dessert depends on each day's weather. Like, if it is rainy, mom is more likely to prepare molten chocolate cake. Hence the probabilities may be 0.7 for molten choc cake, 0.2 for strawberry cake and 0.1 for ice-cream. We construct a matrix containing all such probabilities for all weather conditions. This matrix is called the 'Emission probability matrix'. There are three questions that may arise out of this scenario and the answers to all three may be arrived at using probability: 1. As I explained earlier, if we know the sequence of observations (desserts) what is the probability that a particular dessert (say ice-cream) may be prepared on a particular day? 2. If we know the sequence of observations (desserts), what is the most likely sequence of weather conditions that would explain the dessert  sequence best? 3. If we know the sequence of weather conditions and the sequence of desserts, how can we arrive at the most likely values for the transition probability matrix, the emission probability matrix and the initial matrix*?  (*this is simply the probability of the first day in the sequence being rainy/dry/hot. The first question may be answered using the 'forward-backward algorithm' (in fact, for this question just the forward algorithm is sufficient).The second question may be tackled using the Viterbi algorithm and the third using the Expectation-Maximization algorithm. Does the mom need further explanation?    Embed Quote