★Philosophy of Mind: Logical Reasoning Not Possible via Hidden Markov model?
It depends on what we intend by 'reason' and even 'pattern recognition'. If we wanted to be faithful to a fully human quality of reason, then any use of a logical model would disqualify the process from being a kind of reason. To use reason is to be able not only to choose from among many kinds of logical techniques but also to access feeling and creativity to generate new techniques. Reason means that logical models specifically are available to be used voluntarily, not required mechanically. This extends to consciousness in general. It is not necessarily true that any machine designed by humans to simulate intelligence has any awareness at all. Cameras do not see, computers do not understand math, stuffed animals don't actually have personalities, and trash cans that say 'THANK YOU' on the lid are not really being polite. Pathetic fallacy "The  pathetic fallacy is the treatment of inanimate objects as if they had  human feelings, thought, or sensations. The word 'pathetic' in this use  is related to 'pathos' or 'empathy' (capability of feeling), and is not  pejorative. In the discussion of literature, the pathetic fallacy is  similar to personification." It is a difficult concept for many people, especially those who are skilled with mathematics and technology to be able to see the problem with conflating external indications of function with interior experiences, and even after much philosophical debates, it is clear that many people will likely never see the problem, or see that they are missing it. In that sense it is similar to handedness or artistic talent, certain kinds of minds who are gifted in some respects are somewhat handicapped in others. Fortunately many people do see the problem clearly so that if anyone is interested they could look try to learn more by researching the Symbol Grounding Problem, Map-Territory Relation, and thought experiments such as Liebniz Mill argument, Searle's Chinese Room, and the China Brain.    Embed Quote