★What is a hidden Markov Model (HMM) and how can it be used in speech recognition?
I’ll build on the introduction to Hidden Markov Models in  Deepthi Sen's answer to What is a simple explanation of the Hidden Markov Model algorithm? I suggest you read it before you continue with this answer. Now, let’s focus on 2 key components of HMM described in the referenced example 1. Hidden states 2. Observations Hidden states in the ‘weather <--> desert’ analogy are the states of the weather (rainy, dry or hot). Observations are the options for the deserts that could be prepared. As you can see, the only way the occurrence of a sequence of weather conditions and the possibility of type of desert being prepared were related, was through the HMM. In other words, HMM served as statistical model to estimate the probability of a set of observations based on the sequence of hidden state transitions. Now, on how HMMs are used in Speech recognition. Lets consider a simple isolated word recognizer. The goal of such a system would to find the most probable sequence of phonemes* given a sequence of speech signal segments. Observations in the domain of speech recognition are the segments of spoken speech signal. Hidden states are the sequence of phonemesthat we are looking to recognize. A phoneme based HMM for say the word ‘cat’ would have /k/ /a/ and /t/ as states. In this approach, we will need to create a HMM for every word in the corpus and train it to with the utterances of the word to strengthen the model. During recognition, these HMMs provide us an estimate (via probability score) if given sequence of speech segments matches a string of phonemes. Since a string of phonemes can be mapped to a word, HMMs can used to find the most probable word for speech signal. Thus, HMMs are a core component of speech recognition. Needless to say the accuracy of recognition depends heavily on how effectively the HMMs have been trained. *A phoneme based word HMM model will not scale for recognizing continuous speech since we will need to create a HMM for every word in the corpus. For good recognition of continuous speech you would need to use contextual triphone based sub-word HMMs. References: 1.    http://web.science.mq.edu.au/~ca... 2.    http://www.cs.ubc.ca/~murphyk/Ba...    Embed Quote