★Is it recommended to unplug a MacBook laptop when it's fully charged?I have the latest unibody MacBook Pro. I always keep it unplugged when it still has some battery charge left. I only plug it in when it needs to be charged (less than 20% remaining) and unplug it when fully charged. Is this recommended? Will this extend battery life? See especially #7 on http://forum.xda-developers.com/...
What you are doing is fine; but not necessary. The answers by Raffi Derharoutiounian & Mayukh Bhaowal are accurate. Since I answer these questions daily let me add the following: Apple wants you to use the battery and the charger in whatever way works best for you; but occasionally you do have to take time to calibrate the battery and it helps to know how to read the battery's cycle count and how to maximize your current charge. 1) Note that when fully charged the MagSafe LED will turn green. If you have battery percentage showing in the menu bar you will notice the LED will stay green and the adapter will not charge the battery until the battery drops to about 94%. That is normal & desired behavior, and is the computer doing exactly what you were thinking about doing... preventing the battery from constantly being in a charging state! 2) Learn about cycle counts and what they mean for your model of MacBook here: http://support.apple.com/kb/HT1519 Contrary to what this might imply, using the battery regularly does very little to wear it out. Most battery problems I see come from users not running the battery down enough (including swollen batteries). 3) Learn about battery calibration here: http://support.apple.com/kb/HT1490 Note that in my experience if you rarely run the battery down below 10%, you should consider calibrating every 4 to 8 weeks. If you frequently run the battery down (like a college student running on battery all day between classes) I don't think you have to calibrate more than 2 or 3 times a year. I've seen MacBooks with double the maximum charge cycle count still maintain most of their capacity even without calibration. In every case the user told me they probably drained the battery completely in normal use 4 or 5 times a week. But they also took steps to make the most of each charge! 4) Finally, follow these tips to get the most out of each charge: http://support.apple.com/kb/HT1490 A couple of notes from experience: A colleague of mine used to always have her screen brightness at maximum. She decided to keep it as low as she could (always below 50%) for a month. She estimated she gained an hour or more of battery life on each charge! Also, MacBooks come with Bluetooth turned on by default. Unless you are constantly using Bluetooth (rare for a portable) you should turn it off. It's so easy to turn on & off in the menu bar there is no excuse for keep it on! If you're having any issues with your battery... even if you're not sure if its an issue or not... go to the Genius Bar at an Apple Store or an Apple Authorized Service Provider. Ask them to run the Macintosh Resource Inspector on they system. It is a test that is designed for you to watch them run. It checks the battery's health along with other parts of your Mac!    Embed Quote