Is Bitcoin arbitrage a feasible trading strategy?
Yes.  But it's work.  One of the problems in answering questions like these is that if you give everyone a cookbook, then people will figure how to do it and beat you to the punch.  But none of the barriers is rocket science.  It's just a lot of the pain in the rear end things. Let me just mention one problem. The big headache is getting money from point A to point B.  If you are a US resident working with a US bank a lot of the exchanges will not accept a wire from you.  Now since I'm not a US resident with a US bank, then I don't have this problem..... Let me talk some more since I'm no longer making nearly as much money as I used to from this. You can arb bitcoin exchanges, but it involves having both bitcoin and cash on the right exchanges at the right times.  If you have to move bitcoin from point A to point, you are dead.  If you have to move cash through the banks, you are double dead. The mistake that I made this week was that I was expecting the Russian exchanges (btc-e) to have lower prices than the Chinese exchanges (huobi) so I moved a large amount of cash to take advantage of this.  However, this turned out to do nothing except make the banks rich from transaction fees because 1) The People's Bank of China moved RMB sharply move lower.  This means that instead of trying to convert dollars -> RMB, people are now going RMB -> dollars.  This means instead of buying bitcoin, people are now selling it on the Chinese exchanges. 2) Russia invaded Crimea.  There has been movement on the Russian exchange where people are now buying bitcoin.  My guess is that Russians are worried that the US will impose sanctions and this means that the price of bitcoin is driven up.  Now if the EU actually imposes "real sanctions" (i.e. freezing Russian bank accounts), then the price of bitcoin is going to go through the moon.  What all this meant was that my careful plans went out the window, and I'm setting with the wrong bitcoin in the wrong places. Updated 97w ago • View Upvotes