Is Bitcoin arbitrage a feasible trading strategy?
This is by far the most comprehensive diagnosis to the potential for bitcoin arbitrage, How To Arbitrage Bitcoin* titled: Is arbitrage across exchanges really as easy as it looks? by Peter Sellis He breaks it down into 4 step: Buy on Bitstamp. Transfer to Mt.Gox. Sell on Mt.Gox. Transfer the money back to Bitstamp. "Buy on Bitstamp. Buying on Bitstamp will require you to have money in a Bistamp account that has been verified. Verification involves waiting a few days while someone, somewhere looks at some very personal information from you (a passport, income tax form, utility bill, etc.). At this point, you need to transfer funds to Bitstamp. A boat carries a load of Bitcoin to Bitstamp’s HQ in Ljubljana, Slovenia While this carries only a modest 0.1% fee, you’ll be transferring your funds to Bitstamp’s bank in beautiful Ljubljana (via the U.K.). In many cases it will cost you some money on your side, since it will be an international wire transfer. Once the funds do hit your account, look for a 0.5% fee to purchase on the exchange. But now you’ve got the BTC in hand…or whatever passes for a hand in this case. Difficulty: Medium. Cost: 1%. Time: Up to a week. Near instant once funded. Transfer to Mt.Gox. Transferring BTC is the fast and easiest part of this. While there are sometimes small fees for processing the transaction, they are currently minuscule; hence two of the main reasons people are so excited about bitcoin. Difficulty: Very Easy. Cost: 0%. Time: Near instant. Sell on Mt.Gox. Selling BTC on Mt.Gox is relatively easy. You should once again have a verified account — at this point your passport has traveled significantly more than you have — but the order is relatively simple. Difficulty: Easy. Cost: 0.6%. Time: Near instant. Transfer the money back to Bitstamp. Neither exchange will allow you to send money directly to the other one — you must withdraw it to your own bank account and then resend it. An international withdrawal will cost you 2000 JPY on Mt.Gox, if it goes through. Assuming this is a $10,000 transaction, that is about 0.2%. It will also take a few business days, and you’ll initially be limited to $1,000 every 24 hours — but we’ll assume you smooth talked your way to a higher limit (you dog). And we already know to expect about 0.5% costs and another few days to get the money to Bitstamp again. Difficulty: Very Hard. Cost: 0.7%. Time: 1-2 weeks. Essential arbitrage is proved to be impossible when inefficiencies, taxes, and asset base are taken into account. "Giving it a try. So yes, there exists a spread among exchanges for an identical asset, net of fees — a definition of arbitrage. And you might be able to take advantage of it. But even to achieve the 1.5% arbitrage above from the 5% initially observed, we: Assumed an asset base 20x our daily trading amount; Assumed away some early limits that all accounts will be subject to; Assumed that every transfer would occur without error; Assumed no taxes.The four of these things together make the perfect scenario impossible. Taxes alone will reduce your take by up to half. And while the addition of currencies, altcoins, and more exchanges creates more scenarios, the problems highlighted at each step (fees, timing, limits, and depth) increase more than proportionally. And after all that sweat, you might look back and wonder why you had labored over a 63% return while buying $200,000 of BTC would have led you to a 6800% return." Note: All credit for this answer goes to Peter Sellis Resources Feed of arbitrage opportunities: Project Coin (ProjectCoin) on Twitter Arbitrage charting / calculator: Page on bitcoin-analytics.com Multi-currency market info: http://bitcoincharts.com/markets... 