Is Bitcoin arbitrage a feasible trading strategy?
It's very possible and already being done. In fact, there's several platforms that aggregate order books from various exchanges and lets you arbitrage from a single site, as well similarly operating bots. But let's say you wanted a manual method for arbitrage. First, the issue with BTC arbitrage is that if you wanted to arbitrage with your entire capital on each trade, then you'll have to be concerned mainly about time. Transferring BTC from one exchange to another takes 10-60 minutes depending on the required number confirmations of the receiving exchange and moving fiat takes even longer. During this time, you could easily lose money on your arbitrage if overall price moves against you or if the arbitrage opportunity disappears from prices equalizing on the receiving exchange. Waiting 10-60 minutes between a arbitrage buy-sell is simply too long of a period to wait, and you would be better off with normal trading because there would be so few opportunities you can take and the potential losses far outweigh the potential profit margins. That being said you would instead look to split up your capital (both BTC and fiat) between exchanges and executes orders according to the bid-sell differences. Calculate your total trading fees and use that as your break-even to look for opportunities against. Assume exchange A has higher price than exchange B (exceeding your break-even), and you have fiat+BTC on both. Sell the on-hand BTC you have on A for fiat, and simultaneously buy BTC on B with on-hand fiat. With this, you're emulating an ideal arbitrage situation where there's no transaction wait time, opening up many more profitable opportunities to take. With this strategy, you should mainly be looking to execute market orders rather than limit orders for the reason of cutting down on wait time since market orders execute immediately, whereas limit orders require you to wait for someone to fill them. This doesn't mean that you shouldn't or can't use limit orders, but rather that you should keep in mind the pros/cons. Market orders are quick to execute and don't expose you to price counter-moves, but you do have to take into consideration the relatively wide BTC spreads, thin float near trading price, and high price slippage that may occur. Limit orders require a wait time which may expose you to losses due to price counter-moves, but you could easily increase your profit potential if you make the right trades. Keep in mind that after you do a lot of arbitrage this way, your funds will likely concentrate on a single exchange, or you end up with all your funds in one currency type. When this happens, just even out your account sizes. Also remember that exchange hacks and run-offs are more likely to happen than in regulated markets, so having funds on more exchanges also means exposing yourself to more of these kind of security risks. All in all, BTC arbitrage is an interesting idea, though there's many variables that go into play and you'll likely end up doing it more so for fun than for profit. Best to automate your arbitrage trading with a bot. 