What are some of the wackiest titles of serious Computer Science papers?
My personal favorite is The Part-Time Parliament by Leslie Lamport. The title itself is not incredibly wacky, but the entire paper is hilarious. Here's Lamport's description: Inspired by my success at popularizing the consensus problem by describing it with Byzantine generals, I decided to cast the algorithm in terms of a parliament on an ancient Greek island.  Leo Guibas suggested the name Paxos for the island.  I gave the Greek legislators the names of computer scientists working in the field, transliterated with Guibas's help into a bogus Greek dialect.  (Peter Ladkin suggested the title.)  Writing about a lost civilization allowed me to eliminate uninteresting details and indicate generalizations by saying that some details of the parliamentary protocol had been lost.  To carry the image further, I gave a few lectures in the persona of an Indiana-Jones-style archaeologist, replete with Stetson hat and hip flask. Imagine this dude lecturing about consensus algorithms while dressed up like Indiana Jones. This gets even better when you consider that Lamport is often regarded as the father of distributed computing, and that this paper describes one of the more famous algorithms in the field. But Lamport's sense of humor delayed the publication of the algorithm for eight years. My attempt at inserting some humor into the subject was a dismal failure.  People who attended my lecture remembered Indiana Jones, but not the algorithm.  People reading the paper apparently got so distracted by the Greek parable that they didn't understand the algorithm. ... I submitted the paper to TOCS in 1990.  All three referees said that the paper was mildly interesting, though not very important, but that all the Paxos stuff had to be removed.  I was quite annoyed at how humorless everyone working in the field seemed to be, so I did nothing with the paper. It wasn't until 1998 that the paper was published by the same journal that had previously rejected it. So, basically, scientific progress was delayed for eight years because Lamport's joke didn't go over well. Source: Page on research.microsoft.com 