Which are the top affordable (not exceeding 25000 USD per annum in total) colleges with an excellent placement record for a 4-year computer engineering, computer science or software engineering in Canada, the USA or Australia for an Indian student?
the words TOP and affordable don't go together... I agree "TOP" institutions are expensive ... but honestly, they are worth the money. There are 2 ways at at which I can look at your question: 1. You can't afford tuition fee at a TOP institution 2. You just want an affordable institution to start with If you can't afford it, you still have financial aid options, Co-op options etc. Or just put the student in India, where he will end up with a very theoretical degree in "computer science". India is really cheap for education, but the quality of education is almost close to none. India has good students but it does not have good institutions or facilities. A theoretical degree in computer science will fetch him/her no job in this competitive job market. If you can't afford TOP institutions, why go for it. Try the not-TOP institutions anywhere in Canada, US, or Australia. There are some pretty cheap institutions in Canada; but, why opt for cheap institutions when in Canada, most TOP institutions offer Co-op. Co-op will help you cover some major expenses. If you can't afford a program with Co-op, then you can't afford a program anywhere in the world. I'm sorry if I'm being offensive. Spend more time on this. Its ultimately your son's/daughter's future, a good institution will give him/ her a good platform, at least to start with. You can argue Indian institutions are best, at least in Computer science; but, they are not ranked very well. You may think rankings are not honest ... but ultimately that's the only thing a hiring firm can look at to differentiate top students from the others. Google it ! Its good that you want to put him/ her abroad, it will give them the exposure they need to handle things in life... and most important of all, they will receive better education and a good platform to start with. That's all you need. Europe (non-UK) is a good place to study, but you will fave language issues, eg: Germany, France, Zurich etc where undergrad programs are all taught in regional languages. I believe you are talking about undergrad because, if you were talking about postgrad ... I don't know. You simply cannot do postgrad abroad in your selected stream of study if you do your undergrad in India... or perhaps I should say, if you do so, it won't work, because in India, all you do is theory in both undergrad and postgrad; but in countries like Canada, US or Aus, you do research based or practical studies from undergrad. So your son/daughter will find it way too hard to manage. Business studies is a different thing ... Google it ! Don't ask other people to search for you because we don't know your requirements... Search it up on Google.. you will get better results .. Good Luck 