Graduate Record Examination (GRE): Apart from good GRE scores, what are the other credentials required to ensure an admission in a good foreign university for an MS program?
There is always a misconception among students that GRE is the only criterion for admission to MS. This is not true. Universities always look at the overall profile of the applicant. A low GRE does not mean the applicant cannot qualify for top universities like Stanford. Many top universities have accepted students with GRE 310 and rejected students with GRE 335! So what makes your profile good?A student applying for MS should be good at everything- academics, extra-curriculars, work experience, etc. The following are some key elements of your profile, each having its own weightage in your application: Academics - your department ranking and percentage/GPA. (Note that you don't need to worry about GPA conversion if you have percentage system, most of the colleges do not require it, some ask you to use WES converter for the conversion) College Reputation - surely students from IITs, NITs and DCE are given more preference than others. But it isn't necessary that people from other institutions are not given admissions. Stanford has students from VIT too. Industrial internships- the quality of work more than the number of internships you have taken. Research projects/papers- MS is research centric. It looks for profiles which are research oriented. Again, it is not necessary to have papers published. Though, papers published in elite institutes like IEEE surely have a great impact on your profile. Also, the longer your involvement with the research, the better it is. Extra-curriculars- these create an important part of your application. Your non-academic participation is equally important for the universities. They look for diversity of students to their college. Students with achievements in sports, public speaking, art, college events, social contribution such as NGOs, teaching, etc. GRE score- while GRE score is not the only factor which decides your admission, having a good GRE can help coping with a weaker area. TOEFL score- for TOEFL, a student just needs to clear the minimum cutoff mentioned on the university website (varies from 70-100). This score has no impact on your profile. Work experience- Some universities give preference to students with relevant work experience, while some prefer fresh undergrads. For more questions regarding MS, follow my blog: Walking through your MS phobia 