Should I study what I want to study or what I'm good at?
You're fortunate in that math and physics are very closely related. If you're good at math, there's a good chance that you'll be good at physics as well. Physics is a combination of math and understanding what the math means, so if you understand the math well, you're at least half way toward understanding physics. I would probably suggest majoring in physics with some math electives on the side. You can always switch fields later if you want. If your plan is to go to graduate school, then you could probably get into a graduate program for either subject with either degree so long as you have at least some background in the core areas (analysis and algebra for math and classical mechanics, quantum mechanics, E&M, and statistical mechanics for physics) and an otherwise decent application. For other readers concerned with two fields that aren't so closely related, I'd say it depends on how difficult you find the subject you're interested in and what your goals are. Even if you find subject X to be interesting, it may not lead you to a very pleasant career (or any career at all) if you really struggle with it and if subject Y comes very naturally and you find it at least somewhat enjoyable, that may be a better option. Alternately, if you are better at Y but not terrible at X (or just want to learn X for the sake of learning X), then you may want to go with X if it truly interests you more. For instance, if you struggle with physics but are still able to get mostly As (or even mostly Bs) in your classes, then I'm sure you can pursue physics and do fine in it (you don't have to be Gauss or Einstein to be a good mathematician/physicist). Note that this answer is dependent on how well you can gauge your skills. If you are basing your perception of your math skills on lower division math courses, then once you get to upper division courses, you may find that you actually do struggle with math. You may also find that you aren't as bad at physics as you thought when you start taking advanced physics courses (I struggled a fair amount with introductory courses, e.g. calculus, but did pretty well afterward once I started getting the hang of things). Updated 8w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Anonymous