How does one become an independent genomics/bioinformatics researcher?
Oh man, I'm so glad I stumbled onto this question.  I started out computer science, and then immediately went into bioinformatics, and have been teeter tottering both ways ever since.   Here's the skivvy: Independent:  Depending on the term, you wont accomplish this.  Biology takes a crapton of money.  Computational science takes a crap ton of money.  Doing both, even more money.  To do basic bioinformatics at a reasonable rate, expect 10k in startup costs, and then if you dont know the question, or dont have the data (also super expensive), you can't do it. But lets say you go the college route (or you have a crap ton of money). Here's a few big pointers: Choose a specialty - Honestly, At some points you know more biology, some points you know more computer science.  It's a constant battle, being that you need to know a crap ton of stuff.  If you can learn them both, money will flow toward you, and you will have no problems what so ever.  Sadly, most people dont have that amount of time.  Specialize in the side you love the most.  Do you want to know more of the "how it works?"(biology) or more of the "how can i figure out what works?"(bioinformatics) Learn programming - This should probably be #1, but you will need to know this.  Most (college) programs I know are still heavy on biology.  If you know programming, they will eat you up.  There's sadly a lack of people that understand biology, and can program. Data Science - This is HUGE, and will become more important.  You need to know how to work with huge amounts of data, and how to store it.  If you don't know the basics, you wont really do much research. STUDY - This is the most important.  Find something that TRULY interests you, and go for it.  You weren't super specific on your goal, but you need to know everything you can, About what you want to know.Those are super basic, I'm not sure if you want to be truly independant, but here's a few more (general) tips: Network - Almost zero research is done by one person.  There is too much cost, and too much to do.  If you can find someone local that's interested in what you want to do, hit them up, get coffee, and see what happens.  Heck, if there's someone across the world (especially in a college you want to go to), hit them up, talk to them! Be Outgoing - Great job asking this question on quora, but there's also tons of research forums and websites to look at.  As you learn more, you can contribute more, and try to build your reputation.  This might be the longest road, without publishing. Publish - In research you have to publish.  And it's always a sticky situation  There's times where people shouldn't be on the paper, there's' time where you should be lead author but aren't.  It's kinda a cluster right now.  But if you can get your name on some stuff, and you actually learn from it...You'll do well!  Kinda politics...These are the tips I can think of off the top of my head.  I'm sure there are a crapton more.  But I've written a huge answer already. TL;DR - There is none.  Read above, cause you need to do it all! 