What should I do to be accepted into the Masters' program in Computer Science at ETH Zurich if I am a EE major & I don't have a great under-grad academic record?
I did not have a "great" undergrad record either (2.1), but I think the following might help: -- having worked on something related to your current field of study or the one in which you want to embark on in your graduate programme. I had several years of experience as a web developer for a US startup at the time I applied for the Master's programme (I was working in parallel with my BSc studies) and I think this was a major factor in being admitted, considering that my academic record was not particularly impressive. I realize that a lot of people are not working & studying at the same time (or working a temporary job just to get some cash), so if this is the case for you, talk about some projects you have been working on in your free time. -- study the research interests of Professors in your Department (D-INFK). The application procedure is, I believe, carried out in two steps: first, an initial screening to determine your merit; then, should you pass this, your application is forwarded to people in the Department for evaluation. Familiarize yourself with projects carried out in the Department and include references to those in your motivation letter. Show some interest and (ideally) achievements in an area that is popular with D-INFK. -- include a short explanation of why your academic record is not excellent in your letter. Try to tell a story: e.g. you had to work night shifts to sustain yourself because of family hardships, you were involved in non-profit organizations and chose to spend a lot of time on their activities, etc. (hopefully, there is some reason for your "non-optimal" GPA and it's not just you being lazy :)) Please note that all points above are my personal opinion and are entirely subjective. I am in no way affiliated with the admission procedure or in a position to offer authoritative advice. Thus, there is absolutely no guarantee that the above would increase your chances in any way. Having said that, I wish you all the luck in your application -- ETH is a top school with excellent teachers and students and it's great that you are considering coming here! Even if you don't get accepted, however, there is not the slightest need to despair: there are plenty of other top schools, and you can just as easily spend a couple of years in industry and then try to apply again. 