Should I study what I want to study or what I'm good at?
Arthur Conan Doyle loved writing historical novels and, later in life, writing about psychic phenomena and fairies.  He didn't particularly like doing so, but he was good at writing detective and adventure novels, which ended up making his fortune and his long term reputation (consider the popularity of Sherlock Holmes for well over 100 years).  Meanwhile, his historical novels have been largely forgotten and his ventures into the psychic world have been proven to be totally wrong. (His belief in fairies was based on a hoax perpetrated by a few schoolgirls, but the truth was not discovered until long after he passed away.) Many other authors can tell you similar stories - what they write to make money vs what they write because they enjoy it. That brings me to my own story. I loved writing computer software but it turns out I was good at managing and at teaching (facts I didn't learn until long after college).  I had a long career doing the latter two and my programming efforts have morphed into developing fancy spreadsheets which, while still enjoyable today, will not make me a fortune or win many prizes (although I did get a short publication out of one of my early programming efforts). So as I see it, you need balance. You want to learn enough to develop skills and talents that give you pleasure in life but you also need skills and talents that help you make your way financially in life.  Don't do only one or you may up the way many starving artists do or the way many bored businesspeople do. Recently I did some soul searching about myself and several colleagues of mine and our careers and lives.  I realized that what set the successful ones apart is that we went to school to be educated and our appetites for learning were broad and deep. We didn't take a course solely because it would result in a job.  We took a course because it was something we wanted to learn about or we liked to do and, in some cases, would help us earn a credential or gain some experience that would help us get a job.  Your career will typically last for 40 years and much of what you learn today will be obsolete by the time you are halfway through that career.  So get yourself a good education.  Learn as much as you can about as many things as you can.  It will enrich your life and better prepare you for the changes the future brings. 