With some research experience & 8.22 GPA and 340 in graduate record exam can i get into Berkeley for ms in computer science?
Yes and No. There is no sure qualification criteria for getting into these schools. We are talking about UC-Berkeley here. Most of the CS students would give an arm and a leg to get in. So the question now is, what do you have to offer which will make them choose you over them...and the answer is...no one knows! Getting into any such esteemed schools is highly dependent on the committee that reviews your application and the need of the hour. If you are applying for MS in CS and you mention that you want to work on 'X' as your focus, and there happens to be good amount of research going on in that field at the school, then they are paying attention. It is better for both, the student and the school. For you, there is experience to be garnered from working in that field and for the school, there are more people hands-on looking to make a breakthrough. However, if everyone says we want to work on 'X', then you again have a problem, because another thing that the universities boast about is their diversity. If they have enough working on 'X', you might not make the cut to work on 'X', but if you had proposed to work on 'Y' it would have won you a seat at the school. At this moment, maybe you are more confused than when you started out and that is natural, because, there is not concrete, right, precise and meaningful answer to the question other than "Its relative". The only thing you can hope for is that your application is seriously considered and then leave it to lady luck. The thing I would suggest you to do though is, keep on maintaining high standards all throughout. Your profile has to be stellar and there should be enough material on their plates to convince them when they open your application package. It is purely in your hands that you give them enough food for thought to make them push you into the pool of serious contenders. So keep up the good work and look at going wherever you get the opportunity to garner enough knowledge...Cheers :) 