Which topics/problems marry biology and computer science very well?
In addition to "omics" / data-mining applications already listed, computational methods are important in model construction in systems biology and synthetic biology.  Even though applying differential equations to model biological systems as spatially-homogeneous mixtures can provide valuable insight, computational approaches are often necessary.  This is because interesting aspects of the dynamics of biological systems can occur at fine scales (spatially and temporally).  Stochastic simulation Differential equations are often used to describe smoothed-over average time rates of chemical reactions.  However, it can sometimes be important to study the granularity and irregularity of chemical reactions in time.  Considered together, the colliding molecules in a cell are great in number.  As the contents of a cell reshuffle, the timings of reactions can be highly varied and practically unpredictable.  In other words, chemical reaction timings appear to simulate randomness.  Furthermore, owing to quantum effects, it is said that they are random.  Because the numbers of copies of particular molecules of interest (i.e. one kind of mRNA) might be small (of order unity), the fluctuations in some chemical species are said to be non-negligibe relative to time-averaged and population-averaged values.  Stochastic models are thus important for understanding the dynamics of such systems.  Analytic description is not always convenient.  Numerical studies are often conducted using the stochastic simulation algorithm (SSA)/kinetic Monte Carlo (KMC), as well by using approximate master-equation methods, such as the finite state projection.  The SSA/KMC method (ca. 1970s) was a clever numerical method that dramatically reduced computational expense required for modeling stochastic chemistry.  Agent-based modeling Regarding a biological system as a vigorously stirred, homogenized mixture reduces the number of differential equations that must be tracked.  However, some features of a system cannot be even qualitatively modeled unless the simulation can distinguish interactions according to the positions of participant entities (i.e. cells).  An example is the tendency of "defectors" to dominate and takeover "cooperators" in a lattice that is well mixed, but, instead, for defectors and cooperators to co-exist when the same lattice is not vigorously mixed.  When the basic agents being modeled (cells, people, etc.) display sophisticated mobility, the type of computer simulation used is often "agent based modeling" (ABM).  Examples of ABMs include those used to model tumor expansion and the spread of diseases in structured human populations. 