What are some good top universities in Canada for computer science with a good placement record?
Thanks for the A2A. You can very easily find out the best universities to study Computer Science in Canada by having a look at this :- Which colleges/universities in Canada are good for a master's in computer science? But, Since you are asking for an Undergraduate degree and are very adamant ( I am assuming) about the placement scenario then i would recommend you to go to a University which has a mandatory Co-op program included in the curriculum. The best such University that directly comes to my head is University of Waterloo. Co-op is a kind of Internship which is mandatory to complete your degree and Waterloo has, arguably, the best Co-op program in Canada, rather, world. Waterloo graduates have 2 years of work experience as Interns at top notch companies ( like Facebook, Google, Microsoft etc). The Undergrad degree there is of 5 years. So you can be very sure of finding a good job just after graduating. Now, this does not mean that University of Waterloo is the best CS department in Canada for research. That would be U of T ( for me, at least). Even UBC and McGill would be equally good or maybe better than Waterloo for research (grad school). Much depends on what you want to do with your undergrad degree. All of these schools are going to get you amazing jobs anywhere in the world. Waterloo might boost your chances more because of the networks made during Co-op, but if you want to go for graduate school after your under graduation, then (the prestige and reputation U of T, McGill) would be better. You can also go for internships at other University's like (U of T's PEY, UBC co-op).  McGill also offers an informal internship program which is different from Co-op because it is not mandatory for everyone. So the internship part can be covered at other Universities also. Plus, while choosing a school for Undergraduate studies, i think you should look for other factors too since you will be spending 4 years at that place and will spend probably one of the most important time of your life. Believe me, you do not want to study somewhere for 4 yrs if you hate that place. Think about what kind of city would you like to live in, Urban Downtown (U of T, McGill), Urban outside the city near beaches and mountains (UBC), Semi-urban and plain boring (Waterloo). Think about things like city, weather, social life, different cultural experiences, Student diversity, Class Size, Grade Curving, Good food etc. I would suggest you to think more than JUST placements. You will get jobs from all of them (assuming you don't screw up) 