Should I study what I want to study or what I'm good at?
Most of the answers are tailored for your specific situation, which is a good thing. I'm going to try to do something different by answering in a more generalized sense, and maybe it'll be helpful to the original person asking the question, but maybe it'll be more helpful to everyone else. Before choosing between your natural talents and your natural interests (assuming there's a difference), force yourself to imagine suddenly hating the thing you love. In the OP's case, instead of asking yourself "What if I'm not good enough for physics?," ask yourself, "What if I stop enjoying physics?" Where will that leave you? Now, compare that outcome to the one where you pursued your natural talents as far as they could take you. I'm not telling you which one is correct, I'm asking you to consider where you'd rather be--that's entirely up to you. Here's my basis for posing it in this manner: I spent a lot of time surrounded by grad student life without actually participating in it myself, the result of having friends and significant others while living in a large university town. The struggle I heard over and over was that so many grad students experienced a sort of burn-out where they were brilliant in a certain subject because they were passionate about it. However, by the time that all the cursory work had been done, the prereq's had been taken, and they were stuck with the looming burden of a dissertation to write, the students suddenly realized that they didn't love that subject as much as they thought they did. Or, more likely, they had their fill on that thing they loved and now it's a chore rather than a passion. (If you want a child to stop eating M&Ms for a good while, make him eat a one-pound bag of them.) Six years into specialized study, they found themselves buried in research that felt like it was a drafting of a death certificate for their hopes and dreams. Does that happen to everyone? Of course not. But it could happen to anyone in that position. You're not going to be a student forever. I think all knowledge is a good thing so I'm not going to make objective remarks about what field is more important than others, whether the lucrative fields are more valuable than the comparative lit or fine art degrees. Just don't treat your passion as an itch that needs to be scratched, use it as a compass to point you in the right direction. The thing about compasses is that they always point toward magnetic north, but that doesn't mean you're always supposed to walk toward Canada when you use them. My favorite example of this logic is Umberto Eco. Eco entered college as a deeply religious young Italian man and pursued medieval philosophy and literature. Accordingly, he did his doctoral thesis on Thomas Aquinas. The result of all those years of study, however, was that he was burned out on theology and became an atheist. All those philosophy classes did come in handy, though. His academic career left the medieval period and he became the 20th Century's preeminent pioneer of semiotics. After a couple decades of being a brilliant philosopher of the post-modern age, he returned to his original passion and wrote The Name of the Rose. That novel is an elegy to post-modern philosophy that was, nevertheless, written in the context of a medieval monastery and in the language of Scholasticism. That novel was an international best-seller and launched his career as a successful fiction writer. Lucky bastard got the best of all possible worlds, and he did it by first abandoning his original passion for what he was good at. 