How do I build a profile to get accepted into a star college like Caltech, MIT, Stanford or Berkeley for an MS in CS?
I've been accepted to several graduate programs, all top schools in their respective fields. It can be done. Remember, the zen rule of graduate school: the schools are not going anywhere, you are going somewhere. This will take time, but here's how it can be done. 1- You need time to focus on this. It will be like a part time job, and some days a full time job. If you like watching TV, stop watching TV. If you like playing cricket with your friends on the weekends, stop playing cricket for a year. This is no easy task, you need 110% of your free time's energy and attention. 2- carry a book every day. Read that book. When you're done with that, read another book. Research every potential lab you are interested in, print their publication list, break out a highlighter, and dive into it. Focus on the references section- this will give you a sense of who the collaborators are, other labs you may be interested in, and work you didn't even know you were interested in. This is your new life hobby. 3- Write a great essay. It won't be perfect, but that's not the point. You're going to have a Berkeley/MIT/Stanford grad revise it. 3- save as much of your money as possible, and leave India. You need to spend about a month in the bay area or Boston and know in your gut if this is what you want. Culturally, it is extremely different from India- there are pros and cons. This will be the hardest part of your journey, but this will make your application much easier. While you're at it, study Western attitudes and customs. Become a student of the whole system. Understand at a fundamental level why you want to pursue a PhD, how it will help you attain your life goals, and what is important to you. 4-While you are in these areas, use your time wisely. Remember, every morning, you're not there to have fun. You're there to observe the culture and get a spot at a university *billions* of people would die to have. Plan every hour. Look up local meetups and research your potential labs. Stop by these buildings, talk to people, meet an admissions counselor, and contact a professor. Be cool, professional, and ask a lot of questions. Luckily, you stayed up until midnight for 6 months reading all of those papers, publications, and eminent books in the field, so you're confident you can ask insightful questions. 5- Keep a spreadsheet of all your local contacts. Pick a few graduate students in the department you were comfortable talking to (and hopefully became friends with), and have them review your essay. Ask for insightful feedback. When you are writing your academic letters, follow this format: Dear Prof. ____- -Introduction -Why I'm interested in your lab -Willingness to contribute/collaborate -Contact info -best regards, name I know professors who throw every "Dear Sir/Madam" in the recycle bin. That is an awful greeting in the West- it shows you didn't do your homework. You are forever done using that greeting. 6-Don't be afraid to be yourself. After a month in the bay area, and after a well-planned and executed networking mission, take a break, put together letters of recommendation, review your essay, and submit. If you presented yourself well to the faculty and graduate students, showed commitment to the material, showed you can work hard, you won't be overlooked. This advice is no guarantee you will get into graduate school, but it certainly will increase your odds. 80% of success is just showing up. Updated 8w ago • View Upvotes