Should I study what I want to study or what I'm good at?
A wise MIT student once told me, "Don't confuse what you love with what you're good at." Over this past semester, I was torn between majoring in computer science or business management. Growing up, I loved working with and fixing computers, but I never really went into coding although I had always wanted to. I loved the idea of being a robotics or computer engineer, but learning anything past the basics was really hard and I always found excuses to do something else. Meanwhile, I was starting up little ventures here and there, selling things and joining business clubs. I began reading a lot of business books. This past semester at MIT was particularly rough. I would spend 15-20 hours a week on just one computer science class and would still get the second lowest grade on exams. Then for my business class, I would finish all of my assignments super early and found the material very naturally engaging as it was stuff I read on my free time. I was taking a managerial  psychology class and a new enterprises class and it was super exciting stuff. I considered switching to business because I wanted to stop stressing myself. With computer science, I felt like maybe I was trying to force myself into someone I wasn't meant to be because it was too hard. I have already taken so many business classes at MIT that, if I switched to business now, I could graduate early. Whereas if I stuck with computer science, I would most likely have to stay an extra semester as I'm behind on my requirements (since I've been taking business classes). A few weeks ago I met a banker at the TechHub Boston Launch Party. He  told me he majored in finance because he was good at numbers, although he really wanted to major in engineering. He told me how he regretted his decision since, after he graduated college, he felt he hadn't really learned anything. All of the finance topics were things that came naturally to him and things that he was already learning outside of the classroom. If you're naturally good at something, then you'll naturally find ways to bring it into your life. I'm a good writer, and write a lot on my free time. I'm good at business and leadership, so I naturally seek out that knowledge. I watch recorded Stanford Business School lectures online and am constantly learning about business. On the other hand, computer science is hard for me. Super hard. But I love it. I light up when people talk about computer systems. I love reading about the crazy new technological innovations. And I dream more than anything to be an engineer. To invent things. As much as I want to start companies, at the heart of my ventures is sharing something that I created to make the world a better place. For those reasons, I'm sticking with computer science. Don't major in something just because you're good at it. School is supposed to teach you something you really want to do but aren't necessarily good at. It's supposed to teach you skills that would've been hard to learn otherwise. The answer Anonymous gave below is really good and I suggest you read it, we had very similar experiences. And I suggest you talk to people who majored in what they were good at. More perspectives may help make the decision clearer for you, as it did for me. EDIT: Thank you all for the inspiring upvotes and messages. And thank you all for the insightful discussions taking place in the comments below. There are a few points brought up in the comments that I wanted to include here. Resiliency vs Need for Stability - brought up by Dominic Della Sera. I'm pretty resilient. When I see a failure, I jump at the passion for wanting to do better. Other people cut their losses and do something else, which is fine if they're able to find something else that can make them happy. My situation was "I love doing compsci, but compsci is really hard, so should I do business instead which I'm good at?" I'm sticking with compsci because I really love the material. If it was "I hate compsci, but I feel like I should like this because it can make a lot of money, should I do business instead which I'm good at? In that case I would've switched to business. I love to do this, but will it make money? - brought up by Lui Cartin. This is a tricky one. You need to be happy about what you do, but let's face it: there's a certain amount of money we all have to make to support ourselves and our families. No one can stop you from doing what you love, but you need to make sure you have all your bases covered. I don't know what I love to do yet - brought up by Siddharth Bhattacharya. You don't need to know what you love to do from the start. Take classes and learn different things. Some people already have innate passions for things, while others develop them over what they do the most. And even if you switch down the line, it won't be like you're starting from scratch. You'll still have all the wisdom from your previous endeavor. Updated 28w ago • View Upvotes