Graduate Record Examination (GRE): Apart from good GRE scores, what are the other credentials required to ensure an admission in a good foreign university for an MS program?
Note: You can follow my Quora blog for more info about higher education abroad: https://studyabroadgre.quora.com/ I will be posting more threads in my blog soon. Thanks. GRE is not a big selection criterion for MS programs. The selection of a candidate for MS program is a 2 stage process: Screening process by the admin department: This screening process goes something like, there is a list of cut-off score or threshold values for certain selection criterion. For example, all students with GRE above 310 will be cleared, or all students with CGPA above 8.0/10.0 will be selected etc. This limit is not very strict and is flexible. TOEFL is one such criterion that will fall only and only in this screening process and not evaluated for the next one, unless you are going for TA/RA, in which case they need to evaluate your English language capability (still it will be least importance). Selection process by Adcom: In this process, you will be judged on your GPA, GRE score, SOP, LOR etc and is highly flexible. A student with great acads but not so good GRE can be selected over a student with perfect GRE score and average acads. It depends on your whole application file BUT certain parameters weigh more than the others. Usually the selection criterion goes like this (in descending order): Academic GPA/CGPA/%age as well as ranking in your batch Undergrad university SOP Research ex/Work ex GRE LOR These other factors will vary from case to case: Final Year Project Internship and papers Co/Extra-curricular Prof Letting Problems people might face: Backlogs Year Gap Plagiarism Some people may disagree, but this is what I personally think, seen and experienced. SELECTION CRITERION: 1. Acads are the most important parameters: Your GPA or %age is the prime deciding factor. If you are topper in your batch and have shown outstanding academic performance, the chances are that you will be a preferable candidate for the program. Backlogs will damage your admission chances drastically. Although you can still find cases with a lot of backlogs and people still get admission in the university. Read this those who have low confidence in this area http://www.edulix.com/forum/show... (he had 55 backlogs; read the whole thread/story). 2. Undergrad University: If you belong to one of the top universities in your country, and you have descent acads, then you have good chances of admission. BEWARE, if you are from a top university BUT your acads are weak you will have a disadvantage compared to a student who is from a descent ranking university but high GPA. That's how it goes, 'Be on the top where ever you are', that's something to be learned not just for MS admission process but for life as well. :D 3. Statement of Purpose (SOP): I personally feel that SOP is a big deciding factor in your admission. You can me a lot of different by writing an excellent SOP. Your SOP will say a lot of thing about you silently that a strong profile  will never be able to speak out. SOP tells your attitude, your  ambition, your clarity of thought and your personality. These sometime  overweight excellent profiles. This video will help you realize the importance of a good SOP (UMass Amherst Admission Committee): Also if you want to read more about it: http://www.edulix.com/forum/showthread.php?tid=93859 4. Work/Research ex, GRE and LOR: I will prefer not to rank them in a strict order because they will depend on the type of program you are applying to. If you are applying for a research based program, your research/work ex and LOR will be of higher value than GRE, but if may be it is not a specifically research based MS program, then if is possible that GRE may matter more. A good GRE score will certainly help. Score above 310 is considered okay-okay.... may be descent... 320+ is desirable and good... 330+ is excellent. AWA also matters and 3.0+ is almost like mandatory... 4/4+ is good. Work/research ex is helpful not just during MS application process but also after completing your MS when job hunting. A relevant work ex is recommended and good, but if you have  work ex in a different field than what you are going to study, no promises can be made if it will help. If you are interested in doing some research work and gain some research experience before applying for MS you can apply as RA at IITs under a prof. Here are some details on that: http://www.edulix.com/forum/show... LORs are important mainly for PhD programs. they do add some weight to the application, but only if a prominent professor from a premier institute or a high ranking official from work place writes it. It is also important to send the LOR only using the official university/company mail id of the prof/boss, else although acceptable, they will add ZERO points to application. Finally I will add the uncertainty factor: LUCK. :D Although they say  "The harder I work, the luckier I get." Update: To include all the rest of the factors involved in the admission process. THESE FACTORS WILL VARY FROM CASE TO CASE: 1. Final Year Project (FYP): Check this too: Mihir Gupta's answer to Which kind of project should I do so that I can show it in my resume for MS in US? This is also one of the important deciding factors for admission, especially for one applying for MS with thesis. It will demonstrate your ability to convert your theoretical know-how into practical engineering knowledge. Also if your project is good enough, you can get a paper out of it and publish it. Sometimes, if he admission process involves an interview with a prof who is willing to take you as RA/TA, then the FYP is very important as mos of the interview questions will be from the project. 2. Internships and Papers: Internship that are usually undertaken by B.Tech students in 3rd or 4th year matter only if they project assigned to them is a good one and it they do it from a reputed firm like IISC, DRDO, or some big pvt companies. Here the important thing will also be to work for a longer time as one month's internship won't be of any use. If you work for a minimum 3 months and are also able to impress your boss such that he is willing to give you recommendation, that will be the best case scene. It is also possible to try score internships abroad in a university or a company. They are a big plus for overall profile. Research papers published during the final year project or internship will help those who wish to go for MS with thesis option but not very much for students aiming for MS without thesis (MEngg; 1 yr course). The impact factor of the journal you have published your work in will be considered, but not much as adcom do not expect a high quality research work from an undergrad unless it is a direct PhD application. 3. Co/Extra-curricular: These activities will not offer you any major advantage, but will make your resume/CV look bright and show that you are involved in activities other than acads. If you do not have good acads and bad GRE, then these activities will be of zero importance, on the other hand if you profile is good and you have done some nice activities, then these will provide you an edge over student who has profile similar to yours. 4. Prof-Letting: This is useful only when you think you have good admission chances and that you want to work under a prof as RA/TA under a prof during MS. For this the credentials responsible will differ. Of course acads will still hold importance, but after that will come your work ex, research ex, papers, project and LOR. There is a method required to contact profs of the desired university. You can read all about it in this thread: http://www.edulix.com/forum/show... PROBLEMS PEOPLE MIGHT FACE: 1. Backlogs: Don't feel disappointed if you have had a few backlogs. Although your list of universities will be a bit different compared to the one who had no backlogs, but you still do have a good chance to succeed. For this I will again link you to this guy who had 55 backlogs and still got admit and visa as well. All you need is strong motivation, hard work and will power. http://www.edulix.com/forum/show... Backlog in a core subject, the one you are selecting your specialization for MS will hurt bad, but if it is in an unrelated subject, it will probably not be that bad. 2. Year Gap: If you completed your UG in 2012 and did nothing till June 2013, then it will be called a year gap. If you worked for a major part of that year (6/6+ months) then its not probably not a year gap. Some year gaps are acceptable. Like you took a year off to work in an NGO or may be for (Teach For India) TFI or something like that, then it is acceptable. The other case may be that you were preparing for GATE or any other exam. This will be a negative factor for your profile unless you did great in that exam and that exam somehow added to your profile (like good GATE score is valuable for German universities). The third case can be that you were search for job and by the end you decided to take GRE for MS. This will have really bad effect on your profile, unless you can cover it with something valuable you might have done side by side. 3. Plagiarism: This is kind of an indirect factor that may affect your chances of admit, BUT if found guilty, you may not just receive reject from the university you applied to but also from other universities you are going to apply to. Plagiarism is a serious issue when it comes to higher studies. So my advice will be DO NOT try to copy anything when it come to application file, SOP, research proposal etc. Unrelated: This is my graduate program I completed in 2015: NTU-TUM (TUM Asia) joint MSc (VLSI, Chemical Engg, Aero, Logistics, Power Systems). If you are not interested in going to the US and want to spend less with more chances of scholarship, you can apply here: Mihir Gupta's answer to How is the NTU-TUM joint M.Sc IC Design Programme? PM me if you need help here. Updated 15h ago • View Upvotes • Not for Reproduction • Asked to answer by Suman Goswami