Graduate Record Examination (GRE): Apart from good GRE scores, what are the other credentials required to ensure an admission in a good foreign university for an MS program?
TOEFL will not matter, but GRE does matter for an entry to a top MS program. More importantly, once you achieve something around 167 and above in quant and 160 and above in Verbal, even GRE does not matter. These days a lot of Indian students are applying with GRE scores of 325+, so I do not think GRE will pull you up, unless you get 335+ (but anything less than 315 will pull you down). What matters -- 1) CGPA (higher the CGPA better are your chances. Anything with 9 pointer above will be a good bet). 2) Rank (if your university of college gives you a recognised rank then say your CGPA is 8, but still you are second in class, then it shall help your case). 3) Name of the institute. Better recongized is your institute, better are your chances. For example: names such as IIT, NIT or BITS do hold value. 4) Internships -- If you have internship at IIT or some other good US university, then you have brighter chances of achieving an admission. If you have internships at top multinationals (such as for CS guys microsoft, IBM labs, intel, samsung and so on) then also you can secure a good MS program. Your internship at a startup can also help you, if the work done is good. The main point to understand is at the end of the day, work matters. 5) If you have research papers or some academic awards or grants, then it will help you pass through a good MS program. Publishing researh papers does not mean that a person publishes 10 papers, but the conference or journal is not even recognized. Even if you have a single paper, but from a reputed organization, then it is far better than ten. 6) Contacts with foreign univeristy profesor. If you have any interaction with the professor of the college of your choice, then you have an edge. 7) SOP -- A golden rule, write the truth and not stories. State your achivements and your study plans, group to join and professor to work with. PS: Thanx to Nikhil Prabhu for edits Updated 40w ago • View Upvotes