How do I build a profile to get accepted into a star college like Caltech, MIT, Stanford or Berkeley for an MS in CS?
Let me preface this answer: there's no guarantee you'll get into a top school because the competition is really fierce. I was roundly rejected from Columbia, Yale, and Dartmouth, but was accepted to Stanford. So you need to know that different schools are looking for different things, even top ones, and you need to tailor each application to that. It helps to do a lot of research on the schools you're applying to, particularly what their motto and creed mean and working from there. Virtually everyone that applies to top schools has a near, if not perfect, GPA, high SAT/ACT scores, and leadership roles in extracurricular activities like NHS or student council. So basically, if everyone is the same in terms of qualifications, how do they pick from there? The students that get accepted to top schools aren't just doing these things, in addition, they're creating their own opportunities based on things they're actually passionate about. For example, I started a group that integrated my culture's music and modern dance when I noticed that kids at the local Vietnamese school weren't enjoying learning about their heritage. It doesn't have to be life changing, but you have to take some sort of initiative and show that you're passionate about something outside of having all of these other qualifications, and it helps if you create your own opportunities or seek out obscure ones, instead of utilizing the "easy" ones that everyone else does. So basically, don't do something because you think colleges will like it, do it because you actually like it. One kid got into Stanford because he was passionate about birdwatching and wrote his entire essay about that. So here's the question. What are you interested in, besides getting into a top school? In the end, you'll end up at a school that's a good fit for you. Don't be discouraged if you don't get into a "top" school, no one really cares about your undergraduate degree anyways. I ended up not going to Stanford in favor of a Big 10 state school that gave me a lot more scholarships and financial aid. And in hindsight, I wish that I'd gone to a smaller school where the professors actually gave two shits about the undergraduate students, but I did enjoy a multitude of different opportunities that a large school provides. Good luck! (: 