In optimization, what are some cool examples of reformulation?
Well the question is pretty generic so I'll try to pick my favorite ones. I believe that problems that can be formulated as linear programs are particularly interesting because 1. we have efficient commercial solvers that can solve linear programs with millions of variables and/or constraints; 2. we understand the geometry of polyhedral sets significantly more than other sets because we know linear algebra quite well (maybe algebraic schemes or varieties too but they are very abstract such that it would take a year or two of serious algebra courses to understand what they are trying to say and we are no way close to an efficient commercial solver).  Anyway I'm not going to write down the explicit reformulations but just mention them, here we go. l1 norm is one big example. l1 norm is convex but not linear, not differentiable. It is very useful particularly in computational geometry, machine learning etc.. More generally pointwise supremum of linear functions can be formulated as a linear program. Product of two binary variables (as a constraint) can be reformulated as 3 linear constraints involving the binary variables using McCormick (or Fortet) inequalities. Shortest path between two nodes in a graph (mincut or maxflow problems too) can be solved as a linear program though there might be way more efficient algorithms for these. In fact we can solve Nonnegative Matrix Factorization problem which is a popular in machine learning can be solved using LPs [1206.1270] Factoring nonnegative matrices with linear programs . I might be missing a lot other applications of LPs though. One nice application among others is using duality in SVMs, Page on cmu.edu .Check this out for problems that can be formulated using SDPs Semidefinite Programming. In many SDPs give very good convex relaxations that are otherwise very hard to come up with and this is not just true in mathematical programming community because in the last year I've at least been in many talks about SDP relaxations in various areas of computer science, statistics, applied math etc.. There are piecewise linear approximation techniques that can always be used to write relaxations but better idea is to study structures that occur often and write local optimal relaxations for those for example Page on uiowa.edu . Of course I missed on a lot (sorry about that) but I hope this helps! 