Mathematics: How did these 17 equations change the world?
1 - Pythagoras Theorem   Ancient people spent some time to figure out the length of a hypotenuse. This was way before irrational numbers had been introduced. Pythagoras came with a clever use of mathematics to find the length. But then he and his friends were baffled when he tried to solve  [math]x^2 = 1^2 + 1^2 = 2. [/math]He was after a perfect number as his school was established on the principle that nature was perfect. For me, this is the most astonishing advancement in maths. 2 - Logarithms  Logarithms are pretty useful in representing huge numbers. Calculating orders of numbers was a pretty big deal when there was no computers in the first place. Logarithms made these calculations faster. 3 - Calculus  Or the first principle of derivatives. Where do I even start from? It is everywhere. If you want to calculate the rate of change of something, you just have to use derivatives. Our life is based on rate of changes. Even how an object will move according to the forces acting on it has to do with calculus as Newton's second law is expressed as [math]F = m \frac{dv}{dt}[/math] . It basically says that the resultant force is the product of rate of change of velocity with respect to time and mass. How did it change our lives? Well, I don't know. Because derivatives and integrals didn't exist before Newton. Rate of change was still a thing but I guess people were relying on average rate of change instead of instantaneous rate of change. 4 - Law of Gravity This law is directly derived from Newton's second law. Everything fell into pieces when a mysterious apple fell on Newton's head and Newton thought, ' Wait a minute, what makes this apple accelerate towards my head?' Thanks to this law, we exactly know how much velocity ISS needs to 'float' above the atmosphere. 5 - Square root of -1 Similar to point 1, some mathematicians were so confused when they tried to factorise some expressions. They gave up at some point and had to invent i. But this wasn't enough. It was the genius mathematician, Euler, who represented i  in a cartesian plane. i was nothing more than a rotation on  real and imaginary axes. It is so useful in electricity as impedance of an electrical component depends on real and imaginary parts. Electrical signals cannot be represented without i. Quantum mechanics is a pile of garbage without i. Without these, we don't have electronics we use in every second in our lives You can't have a good sound system without good impedance matching.   6 - I haven't used this one in my life yet. 7 -  Normal Distribution This one is again pretty useful in quantum mechanics. The probability distribution of electrons is a pretty big deal in quantum mechanics. 8 - Wave equation How does a wave propagate with respect to time and distance? If you think about it...the problem is very simple. You go to a beach. You see the waves...and wonder? How do they move? And not only water waves. Heat as well. Have you ever wondered how heat is distributed along a piece of rod as time progresses? It doesn't have to progress with time at all too...If you remove the time component you'll be left with space coordinates which tells you how elasticity works. Civil engineers have to carefully determine how a building will deflect under a specific wind load. Mechanical engineers have to determine the heat distribution of rockets. They are impossible without the wave equation.   9 - Fourier Transforms I think this is useful in analysing discrete data while Laplace transforms are used in continuous data. What comes to a mind when discrete data is mentioned? Binary data! Without binary, we wouldn't have computers! 10 - Navier Stokes Equation This is a type of PDE known as hyperbolic. We also have elliptic and parabolic. A wave equation could be parabolic or elliptic depending on the time component. Hyperbolic equations are very hard to solve numerically as they diverge significantly with even a little time step. Navier-Stokes equation tells us how a flow behaves. It has an analytical solution for simple cases however things get pretty nasty if you try to solve real life problems. 11 - Maxwell equations And then God said, "Let there be the Maxwell equations, and there was light" 12 - Second Law of Entropy Entropy of a system always increases. The disorder of the universe increases. That doesn't make much sense for a layman...The reason why we cannot have very efficient machines is due to this law. I hope that makes more sense. 13 - Relativity This is a pretty big deal in atomic physics. We'll be using nuclear power sooner or later and without this famous formula it would be a disaster. 14 - Schrondiger's Equation This is also a wave equation. It tells us the levels of quantisations of an electron in simple cases. Without the basic knowledge of electron interactions, hadron colliders wouldn't exist I haven't used the rest yet.  EDIT: I've realised that my answer contains some grammatical errors. Please have mercy on me because I got too excited when writing this answer. I will make it more concise when I have time to do so.  