What are some good active blogs of student pursuing CS Major in top tier college?
David Eppstein's 0xDE: graph-theory and algorithms. Suresh Venkatasubramanian's The Geomblog: computational geometry, algorithms, and discussions of academic life. Jeff Erickson's Ernie's 3D Pancakes: computational topology, and community announcements. Neel Krishnaswami's Semantic Domain: programming languages, logic, and formal languages. Joe Fitzsimons's Quantized Thoughts: quantum information and computation, theoretical physics, and community building. Andrej Bauer's Mathematics and Computation: HoTT, logic, category theory, and philosophy of math. András Salamon's Constraints: computational complexity through the lens of constraint satisfaction. Marzio De Biasi's ... nearly 42 ...: computational complexity highlighted through NP-completeness and puzzles. Scott Aaronson's Shtetl-Optimized: computational complexity, with a primary focus on quantum computing, philosophy, humour, and community building. Lev Reyzin's Room for Doubt: theory and practice of machine learning, and academic life. Noam Nisan's Turing's Invisible Hand: computational economics, algorithmic game theory, and community building. Sariel Har-Peled's Vanity of Vanities, all is Vanity: computational geometry, and general social and academic commentary. Shiva Kintali's My Brain is Open: computational complexity, polyhedral combinatorics, algorithms, and graph theory. Artem Kaznatcheev's Theory, Evolution, and Games Group: evolutionary game theory, and algorithmic lens on evolution, learning and philosophy. Hsien-Chih Chang's Finite Playground: bilingual blog on computational complexity, formal languages, and concrete math. Aaron Sterling's Nanoexplanations: distributed computing, chemoinformatics, and general social commentary. Lance Fortnow and Bill Gasarch's Computational Complexity : Computational Complexity and other fun stuff in math and computer science. Emanuele Viola's Thoughts: computational complexity and general commentary -- started Summer 2014. 