Mathematics: How did these 17 equations change the world?
Babylons and Indians and Egyptians were the first ones to realize that "In a right-angled triangle the area of the square on the hypotenuse (the side opposite the right angle) is equal to the sum of the areas of the squares of the other two sides." Of course they knew the practical use of it, but never were able to put it down in the words. And that's what Thales of Miletus did. He arranged the words and found some elementary proof of it. However, the discovery is generally attributed to Pythagoras and his students, who claimed the first ones to give the proofs in early 500 BC. Archimedes, a Mathematician/Physicist/Engineer/Inventor from Syracuse, Italy first developed an idea in early 250 BC that 'What if we could simply write down information given in words just by denoting it an alphabet or a letter?' And that's how it all began. He introduced a small level of algebra and said things like distance, time can be simplified by giving all these quantities letters. A long jump in the timeline now. 17th Century came around and John Napier became star of our movie. Napier, a Scottish Mathematician, started working on Natural Logarithms and first use of decimal numbers which actually did change the world. His work Mirifici Logarithmorum Canonis Descriptio (1614) contained 90+ pages of calculation of natural logarithms (cool heh? He didn't have a scientific calculator.) and 52 pages of explanation on how it works. Napier's Bones is the first use of Decimal Points and how he started it. It's something cool. YouTube it. (It's really fun!) From the use of experimental data, without any use of equations, Johannes Kepler (1600s) was able to identify the trajectories of Earth, Moon, Mars and other planets. As there was no Calculus available at that time, his works were limited to practical data only and included very few theoretical proofs. Just after that, the legendary Hero, whose head got hit by a lot of Apples, rose from the Land, who changed the way we looked at the Science and Math. We call him Issac Newton. Newton, by using the methods of Archimedes, started using notations for different quantities developed extensive theory on how a quantity changes over period of time, called it Differentiation. Inverted it to make Integration and it all began from there. Some Mathematicians today mark the Newton time as the line which divides Mathematics as 'Pre-Newtonian Math' and 'Post-Newtonian Math'. Of course we all know his work in Gravitational Laws. As now Newton gave the base of Calculus to work on, Euler, the actual Badass (as what I call him) came around. Leonhard Euler, a Swiss Mathematician, who is known for his work in Mechanics, Astronomy, Fluid Mechanics, Music Theory etc, started a daring use of Power Series. Power Series, says that almost any function, let it be x, sinx, tanx, x^2+1, etc can be expanded into Infinite Sum of Polynomials. Imagine what you can do if you can write simple exponential into infinite sum like this. It might look a little discouraging to write a simple function into infinite sum, but it actually simplifies a lot of things. He gave something called 'Euler's Identity' which Richard Feynman called 'The most remarkeable formula in Mathematics'. Again, with the use of Calculus, The Wave Theory began. How waves propagated in a single string, fixed at the ends and given motion in the center. D'Alembert gave first wave equation on how a wave will propagate in a string. Now imagine, instead of this one dimensional string, what if we extend this concept to two dimensions? What is two dimension of a line? An Area! So Vibration of a string in one dimension would become Vibration of a Membrane. What about extension of the same concept in 3 Dimensions? Then it will become propagation of a wave in 3D space, i.e, one form of a Navier Stoke Equation! Ok. So now Navier-Stokes gave an equation for Fluids in a field, how molecules behaves, even in turbulent flow. Imagine if I ask you to find out motion of a single molecule in a fluid, how it travels, how it rotates, what forces it creates etc, then how difficult it would be? Too difficult. Navier-Stokes deals with this. It's considered as one of the most difficult equation to solve, which even Mathematicians find it difficult. Computers are too dumb for that, obviously. So what do we do? Is there anyway, by which we can extend a function in simple terms, like Sine or Cosine, as an infinite sum? That would make things easier, as we know very well how to manipulate Sines and Cosines! And that's exactly what Fourier did. Joseph Fourier, a French Mathematicians, found a new way of expressing a function as an infinite sum of sines and cosines, which other mathematicians of the time obviously found ridiculous and quarrelsome. Well, guess what? Fourier turned out to be a badass guy! We still use Fourier Series and Transforms today. Electronics, Circuit Theory, Image Processing, Vibrations, Heat Transfer etc are based on the Fourier Series and/or Transforms. Now, we have transforms like Fourier and Laplace, our work should become simple! But hell No! Particles in Fluid Motions are like a cold turkey Yankee. Nobody can tell where the particle will go, specifically in a turbulent flow. It's something which is being dealt by a Chaos Theory. We all have seen what a Chaos Theory somewhere in a Museum, a Physics lab or on Discovery Channel! Remember this Double Pendulum? Can you predict exactly where the bob will go? That's exactly what a Chaos is. NOTE : I will finish/edit/update the answer soon with remaining Thermodynamics/Relativity/Schrodinger Equations. 