Mathematics: How did these 17 equations change the world?
1) Pythagoras is a foundational piece of mathematics underlying all of geometry.  It's useful in defining the mathematics of the circle and the so-called circular functions or trigonometric functions such as sine and cosine. It's crucial to defining the mathematical concept of distance and underlies the theory of vectors.  Without Pythagoras we don't have surveying and without surveying it's hard to imagine the concept of modern property ownership. 2) As the equation shows, logarithms turn multiplication into addition (and division into subtraction, and exponentiation into multiplication, and roots into division).  Once logarithmic tables had been worked out (a very tedious and laborious task that took years), complex calculations became much simpler.  This in turn made engineering  and science easier and so accelerated the pace of engineering and science throughout the 1700s and 1800s.  My very first 'personal computer' was a slide rule (anyone under the age of 40 might need to look this up on wikipedia :-) ), a 'calculator' that was based on the concept of logarithms and for 100 years before the 70's, the slide rule was the only way engineers did the calculations to design bridges, buildings, dams, airplanes, cars, and so on. 3) Without calculus there is no modern engineering and science.  Period.  Everything that has happened over the past 345 years in the applied sciences (engineering, chemistry, economics, medicine, biology, etc. etc) yes EVERYTHING, is in some way dependent on the mathematics of calculus.  Of all the mathematical concepts on this list, calculus has had, by far, the greatest influence on how we live.  In fact, eleven of the remaining fourteen equations would not be possible without using calculus. 4) Newton's law of gravity (along with the mathematics of calculus which he also invented) changed how we look at the universe.  Before Newton, no one could figure out exactly how the earth and the other planets fit together with the sun.  Various people (Copernicus, Galileo, Kepler, etc.) kept getting closer, but none of them could get it quite right, until Newton and his law of gravity, which explained the motion of planets beautifully and stood the test of time for the next 230 years until Einstein came up with a better theory.  Newton's laws are still good enough to calculate the orbits of satellites and the paths of spaceships - at least until we invent hyperdrive :-). 5) Humans have had to invent new number concepts as they became more sophisticated at attempting to count and measure things.  First there came the concept of negative numbers, then the concept of zero, then the idea of the square root of 2 which can't be expressed as the ratio of two whole numbers, leading to the concept of irrational numbers, and next came the concept of numbers such as pi, which can't be expressed as the solution to polynomial equations (equations that rely on extracting roots to solve the equation), leading to the concept of the transcendental numbers and to the concept of the real numbers.  And eventually this chain of logic led to imaginary numbers defined with the square root of minus 1 because there are equations that can't be solved without this concept.   In fact the equations behind quantum mechanics aren't possible without this concept.  Euler used this idea, combined with calculus, to set up the equations that led to the infinite series that are used to calculate sines and cosines, which in turn lead to ways to accurately calculate a value for pi.  Today the mathematics used in modern electronics have their basis in the concept of the square root of minus one.  And finally, the square root of minus 1 completes the number system.  All of mathematics can now rest on a combination of real and imaginary numbers, no further concept of number is necessary. 6) Euler's formula for polyhedra is important in the study of topology and graph theory, but right now I'm having a hard time finding practical examples of how this has changed the world around us, except maybe the topology of the internet, which, if I'm not mistaken, relies on graph theory. 7) The normal distribution is a key concept in statistics.  A great many naturally occurring phenomena are normally distributed.  The height of human adults is normally distributed for example.  The variation of objects coming off an assembly line are typically normally distributed which becomes an important fact for quality control. Today, topics as diverse as economic theory, epidemiology, pharmaceutical testing and effectiveness, political polling, and many, many more, are based on statistical theories that rely on normal distributions. 8) The wave equation explains vibrations, and a great many phenomena in science and nature result in waves. The equation itself results from the fact that energy can't be created or destroyed, but instead moves through matter in a self-reinforcing way.  Once something starts to vibrate is has energy and this energy distributes throughout the system.  This in turn explains how musical instruments work, how sound waves work.  This is why you have squeaks and rattles in your car.  It also explains how energy can be coupled into a system to make it vibrate.  This is what happened to the Tacoma Narrows Bridge (google it) causing it to collapse.  The wave equation has a great many practical applications in engineering (Electrical, mechanical, civil), and physics. 9) What Fourier did was show that any arbitrary cyclical (ie: continuously repeating) wave form could be built up by adding together sines and cosines of varying amplitudes and frequencies.  Here's a good illustration showing the basic idea: By Lucas V. Barbosa (Own work) [Public domain], via Wikimedia Commons This has great application in modern communications.   The Fourier Transform defines the mathematics that allows us to put many different signals onto one wire, or one radio signal, and to then extract each individual signal at the other end.  This makes it possible to put 250 TV channels onto a single cable.  It makes it possible for one cell tower to communicate with hundreds of different cell phones.  And it makes it possible to squeeze ever greater quantities of information into a single signal, such as a wifi signal, making it possible to stream movies in 4K ultra high definition. 10)  The Navier-Stokes equation defines the mathematics of fluid dynamics.  This has a great many applications, but perhaps the one application that has had the greatest effect on how we live is in the design of airplane wings. These equations define the flow of a fluid (air) around airplane wings.  It's used to calculate the velocities and resulting pressures of the airflow at all points around the wing which in turn is dependent on the shape of the wing.  It's what helps aeronautical engineers design more efficient wings. 11) Maxwell's equations result from the physics of electric fields and magnetic fields.  By combining the electric and magnetic fields into a set of four equations they define the key mathematics behind radio waves of all types, or what scientists and engineers call electro-magnetic radiation.  And when I say radio waves I don't just mean your car radio.  The mathematics applies to all electro-magnetic radiation, including low frequency radio waves, to microwave and radar, to infrared (night vision goggles), to lasers, to visible light, to x-rays and so on.  In other words, all waves that can travel through space at light speed.  We wouldn't be able to design wireless transmission devices without Maxwell's equations.  Radio, TV, radar, cellphones, some forms of medical diagnostic imaging, and a whole lot of other things we take for granted would not have been possible without Maxwell's equations. 12) The second law of thermodynamics is key in understanding all heat engines.  This was one of the important basic ideas behind the industrial revolution, the steam engine, the internal combustion engine, the diesel engine,  the jet engine.  None of these things would be possible without a solid understanding of thermodynamics and the second law in particular. (see further clarifying information below) 13) Relativity.  Atom bombs, black holes, the big bang, the expansion of the universe, the understanding of galaxies, the whole idea of the fabric of space-time and the many awful science fiction movies that these ideas spawned. Need I say more? (also, more clarifying information below) 14) Schrödinger's  equation was a key contribution to the understanding of quantum mechanics. It defines what we call the 'wave equation' that is famously used in the philosophical discussion of  Schrödinger's cat, which exists in both a dead state and an alive state inside a closed box, and we don't know which (dead or alive) until we observe by opening the box, thus 'collapsing' the wave function and determining the fate of the unfortunate cat. Today, all of our semiconductors (transistors, integrated circuits, Intel CPU chips, etc. etc.) rely on the science of quantum mechanics, and (the cat not withstanding) we wouldn't have been able to understand quantum mechanics without Schrödinger's equation.  So thank Mr. Schrödinger for the computer you're using to read this right now. 15) Information theory defines the basics behind how we code and transmit information.  It defines the minimum number of 1's and 0's needed to encode a specific piece of information, and how we differentiate between signal and noise.  It's a key concept behind modern communications. 16) Chaos theory is used to gain greater mathematical insight into weather prediction,  and into unstable systems such as turbulence in fluid flows, instability in finance and economic systems, and so on. 17) Black-Scholes is used to price more exotic financial instruments that are based on more basic underlying instruments.  For example it's used to price stock options that are based on the underlying stock.  Instruments like this are called derivatives because they derive their value from the underlying financial instrument that they're based on.  The modern financial system relies on derivatives - maybe too much so.  It can be argued that the great recession of 2008 was made much worse because of the great many derivative products that were spread throughout the financial world, and it turned out that despite Black-Scholes, these products weren't accurately priced after all (for a lot of reasons), and once bankers and investors realized that they could no longer depend on these prices being accurate panic ensued resulting in a lot of innocent people being hurt financially. Additional: I also like Philip Freeman's answer to this question: Philip. Freeman's answer to Mathematics: How did these 17 equations change the world? Very nicely done. Regarding a comment: Itamar Weisberg has made two excellent comments.  I'll deal with the second first, because it's easiest since I totally agree with him. Einstein's famous E=mc^2 equation was derived from special relativity, which was developed in 1905, and deals with the consequences of the speed of light always being constant, regardless of the relative (constant) motion of the source or the observer. Note that this theory doesn't work if the light source or the observer are in accelerating reference frames.  Einstein later developed his General Theory of Relativity which was published in 1915.  This addressed the problem of accelerating reference frames and brought gravity 'into the equation'.  It's the General Theory of Relativity that underlies the science of cosmology and deals with black holes, the big bang, the expansion of the universe and so on. In answering the question I took the liberty of using the E=mc^2 equation, which everyone has seen somewhere, as being a poster child for all of relativity, erroneously implying that it applied to general relativity as well as special relativity.  Sorry for the confusion, or if I misled someone. And now for his first comment. Itamar points out that some form of steam engine had been around for hundreds of years before the development of thermodynamics, and that the first really practical steam engine was patented by James Watt in 1781, nearly 80 years before the first textbook on thermodynamics was published by William Rankine in 1859.  So when I said steam engines wouldn't be possible without thermodynamics, I was engaging in hyperbole. However, it was early work by James Watt, Sadi Carnot, and others that led to the development of the physics behind thermodynamics.  Their motivation was to better understand exactly how heat was turned into mechanical energy, and how to make the process as efficient as possible. Prior to their work, steam engines were designed based entirely on empirical principles, with no solid scientific foundation. The science of thermodynamics provided the underlying scientific 'why' behind the practical 'how', and put it on a solid mathematical foundation. Once this was understood scientists and engineers could do a much better job of building efficient heat engines. The early practical application of thermodynamics dealt with the science of turning heat into cyclical mechanical energy, but, as Itamar implies in his comment, the second law of thermodynamics, the one that deals with the concept of entropy, goes far beyond the design of heat engines.  It has far reaching implications that go to the fate of the universe, to better understanding black holes, to a theory about the arrow of time, and is even used by some (misguided in my opinion) as an argument for the existence of God. Updated 11h ago • View Upvotes