Mathematics: How did these 17 equations change the world?
Since, there are 17 of them I will give a brief description of each. Pythagoras theorem One of the main reasons why geometry is as important as it is today. It describes the relationship between the sides of a right angle triangle on a flat plane. Quite intuitive and straightforward. Also the only math equation I understood in high school. ​ Logarithmic functions The equation in the picture is one of the most useful applications of logarithms. (Turning multiplication into addition). Makes calculations extremely easy and simplified to compute. John Napier also made common the use of decimal point in arithmetic and math. Calculus Almost everything that you do today in math, physics and/or any other science, some way or the other involves derivatives/integrals. This measures the rate at which a quantity is changing. Published in Newtons infamous 'Principia Mathematica' Law of universal gravitation In my opinion this is one of the greatest equations in science. Newton, in this equation, postulated that all matter in the universe is attracted to all other matter. The equation specifically describes how the force of gravity depends on the mass of each object and the distance between their centres. Square root of -1 From natural numbers, to negative numbers, to fractions, to the real numbers. Anything that can't be expressed in the above realm of numbers falls into the complex number category. i is an imaginary unit that can be written with a real number, defined by the property . One of Eulers greatest spoilers! Polyhedral formula Not very well known but sometimes known as Euler's formula too. It states that the number of vertices V, faces F and edges E in a convex 3-D polyhedron, satisfy V+F-E=2. One greatest example of the polyhedral is the pyramids in Egypt aka Platonic solids. Normal distribution One of the most commonly seen equations. If you have taken any introductory STATS course you'll be familiar with this. It is the general formula for the probability density function of normal distribution. To explain this in simpler words it represents the ubiquitous bell curve in statistics. The mean mu is where the density is the highest and sigma is the standard deviation which indicate the width or the girth of the graph. This is as easy as it gets. Also, in my defence, I was never good at statistics so this is the best I can do! Wave equation If you do particle physics or quantum mechanics, I'm sure you worship this equation. Derived from the wave equation utt= a^2uxx with correct change of variables and simple integration. In extremely simple terms it's a solution to the one dimensional wave equation that models vibration of a string. Fourier tranform It is one of the deepest insights ever made. I probably wouldn't know how to explain it to a 5 year old but I'll try. It is a generalisation of Fourier series. What it does is - Given a smoothie, it finds the recipe by running the smoothie through filters to extract each ingredient. Because recipes are easier to analyse! Navier-stokes equation Just so you know this is THE EQUATION in fluid mechanics. This equation represents the conservation of momentum and is used to predict fluid velocity and its pressure in a given geometry. It says stress on a fluid is equal to the sum of a viscous term + pressure term. Also, you can win a million dollars if you prove 3-D solutions exist for this problem. Good luck! Maxwell's Equations Maxwell's Equations are laws - just like the law of gravity. These equations are rules the universe uses to govern the behaviors of electric and magnetic fields. A flow of electric current will produce a magnetic field. If the current flow varies with time (as in any wave) the magnetic field will also give rise to an electric field. Maxwell's Equations shows that separated charge (positive and negative) gives rise to an electric field - and if this is varying in time as well will give rise to another electric field, further giving rise to a propagating magnetic field. See, not that hard! ​ Second law of thermodynamics A weird equation- some say the S in entropy stands for Sh*t. Anyway, it's a natural process that starts in one equilibrium and ends in another. The weird part about this is it only goes in one direction (irreversible) and entropy only increases or remains constant. Quite counterintuitive and hard to accept. A reason why Boltzmann committed suicide! Relativity Everyone on planet earth knows this equation. Possibly because it's graffitied on New Jerseys subway walls but who cares. What Einstein meant is, quite straightforwardly, that mass is energy, and energy is mass. Forget the c^2 part; that's just a conveniently memorable conversion factor. The important part is E=m. That's it. They're the same thing. Schrodingers equation Describes quantum mechanical behaviour. It's a PDE that describes how the wave function  of a system evolves over time. That's the best I can do! Information Entropy Information entropy is a concept from information theory. It tells how much information there is in an event. In general, the more uncertain or uneven the event is, the more information it will contain. Chaos theory If you have seen Ashton Kutcher's Butterfly Effect you'll understand this better (NOT). This equation defines the rules, or dynamics, of our system: x represents the population at any given time t, and r represents the growth rate. In other words, the population level at any given time is a function of the growth rate parameter and the previous time step’s population level. Black-Scholes Equation This isn’t necessarily all that easy as the formula involves some relatively complex mathematics. However, I think it is possible to get an intuitive understanding of what the various parts of the formula mean. The allows financial professionals to calculate the value of these financial products, based on the properties of the derivative and the underlying asset. Hope you understood them all! 