★Is it possible to convert an HDMI into a coaxial cable?I'd like to play videos from my iPad HDMI cable to a very old TV that only takes coax input
It is certainly possible to convert HDMI to another type of signal.  However, Coax is not a signal.  coax is a type of cable that will carry several different types of signal, all of varying qualities.  The highest quality signal over "coax" is HD-SDI or SD-SDI.  This is a broadcast level digital signal, and can be either HD or SD  Only the most expensive monitors or display devices have an HD-SDI input.  The input is BNC 99.9% of the time.  Another type of more "coax" signal is composite video.  This signal is the yellow connector and is usually an RCA type connector.  Composite video is always standard definition.  Lastly, there is RF.  This signal used to be the lowest quality, and was the standard in TV transmission until the digital changeover in 2009.  This is the Screw type F connector.  Before that time, it was always standard definition.  Since the transition, it can be HD, but must be Digital RF.  In order for an older TV to read Digital RF, it must have a QAM tuner either internally, or externally.  Now comes the HDMI part.  It can be very frustrating to try to convert HDMI to anything because of HDCP compliancy.  HDCP is (very simply defined) Hollywood's way of controlling how their content is displayed.  Every device in an HDMI chain must meet HDCP compliancy.  If even one device is not, the content will not display.  There are several other HDCP issues, which can be found on Extron.com.  Most devices that convert HDMI to something else will not allow movie content in HD to pass.  If you happen to have "ripped" movies, the easiest (though far from cheap) way to convert is with some sort of HD modulator (ZeeVee makes one as well as Contemporary Research). By using this type of device, you are essentially creating your own closed circuit TV system.  Though this may sound cool, it is pretty expensive, and probably not the answer you are looking for.