★How do digital coaxial cables work? Can they transmit video signals?
A cable itself isn't "digital"... that's usually used by marketing people to make you think you're using the wrong cable. Most digital standards these days don't use coaxial cable. One that does is the S/PDIF (Sony/Philips Digital Interface) standard, which uses a 75 ohm coaxial cable with RCA jacks at either end. You can, in fact, use the same kind of cable for analog composite video... in fact, they chose that cable for the digital interface because it was common. But an S/PDIF connection isn't fast enough for video. Another kind of weird digital interconnect is the coaxial version of Ethernet DirecTV uses for their "Genie" media servers. Since you probably already had coaxial wiring in your house, they worked out a version of Ethernet, basically proprietary, for in-home video distribution. Their remote players are really just lightweight network boxes with video decode, and that network is fast enough to serve up four channels of compressed MPEG-4 video at once. You can also send video over Firewire, but that uses twisted-pair cable, not coax. The typical twisted pair, used in nearly every modern digital interconnect (USB, Firewire, HDMI, DVI, etc) uses "differential" signalling. Basically, it sends a signal and its opposite, one on each wire. If you were to add these together, you'd a ground signal. So at the receiver, the inverted signal is once again inverted, and then added to the non-inverted signal, cancelling out pretty much all the noise (the twisting of the two wires ensure they see the same noise along the cable run) and doubling the level of the signal. Microphone cables, those with XLR connectors, also use differential signalling, though they're usually called "balanced" cables in the audio world, due to their being differential with matched impedance. This convention allows fairly weak mic signals to run hundreds of feet without picking up noise. Curiously, the aforementioned S/PDIF connection was a consumerized version of the AES/EBU digital audio interface... which ran over XLR mix cables.