★Physiology: What is cable theory used in the Hodgkin Huxley model? Can it be explained in simplified form?Cable theory is associated with propagation of action potential to find the speed of action potential as used by Hodgkin and Huxley model of nerve impulse propagation.
Cable theory explains how a signal propagates down an insulated conductor. It models the resistance of the wire, the partial energy loss through the insulator, and also the capacitance across the insulator. At a very simple level, the dendrites (input-side fibers) of a neuron can be viewed as miniature coaxial cables. The saline solution inside the cell conducts electricity with high resistance, and the "bilipid" membrane is like the insulator on a wire. Because of this, the electrical properties of the nerve fiber can be modeled with the cable equation. This is what the cable equation circuit looks like at a magnified cross-section of a neural fiber: However in reality, a dendrite, and especially an axon, is not an electrically passive cable, but is actually an active chain of signal amplifiers and repeaters. This is what the Hodgkin-Huxley model -- an enhancement to the cable equation -- attempts to capture. When a neuron "fires", an impulse is generated in the cell body (C), which propagates down the axon (A) to the synapses at the end where it activates other neurons: The signal travels down the axon using a mechanism similar to dominoes falling: At each point in the axon, microscopic molecular doorways (called "sodium channels") on the outside surface of the axon act as signal amplifiers by opening when the propagating impulse approaches. These open doorways let in electrically charged atoms, and behave like the chain of falling dominoes: As the impulse passes down the axons, the doorways close and reset behind it, and the charged atoms need to be pumped back out of the cell using energy. These molecular doorways act like falling and self-resetting dominoes, with the molecular atom pumps consuming the energy of active signal amplification.