★What is the best method for making a RG6 coaxial cable, crimp connections, screw on, or compression?
In order of least to best connection, in my opinion, based on a little bit of experience and a fair bit of recent research, would be Screw-On, Crimp, Compression. Note: Generally speaking, all three connections will complete it's main objective (sending a signal) without issue, without much difference in signal strength, because in a Coaxial cable, the signal is carried in the center copper wire. The 'dielectric' surrounding said copper, and the one or more layers of shielding around that are in place to protect that signal from outside interference. So as long as the bonds to that center conductor are adequate, as is generally the case in ALL these connections, the signal will get through. Where these connections differ is the contact with things like the shielding, providing a better or worse protection from outside elements, and the durability of the hold on the cable. Screw-on is more of a quick-fix option, great for people wanting to get the job done just fine. And that's fine. In most cases it's the easiest option, not requiring much or any tools, but you often loose some of the benefits of the cables shielding, as there is rarely a good bond of the shielding to the metal of the outer part of the connector, transferring any picked up RF interference to a systems Ground line. So - it's quick & easy, but risks of interference. Crimp CAN be just as bad as Screw on if you don't take the steps to expose the shielding and let it bond with the outer metal of the crimping connector. And I am one to say that crimp just looks horrible. It's the bare-minimalist type of work that a cable installer would do (or just a nostalgic trip back to when cable was new and there weren't really other connectors to choose from) to just get the job done. With a good crimped connection, it sure can be tough and stand a bit of hard use over the years, and if faced with installing a lot of cable, it's likely the far cheapest option, but its likely the shielding isn't being given its best case scenario and it just looks god awful. Again, installed "correctly" this connection will do its job well, and save money in bulk. Compression is my favorite option. It's a sturdy connection, arguably just as permanent as a typically crimped connector. One could even argue (and standards would dictate) that bad crimp tools can adversely effect the shape of the dielectric and the distances of the center conductor to the outer shielding, potentially effecting the performance of the cable. Compression fittings are often better at mating with the exposed shielding, with an even pressure on the cable/dielectric, and some even have waterproofing that makes them particularly useful in wet or outdoor environments. They also tend to look great, adding a level of professionalism to your installation. They are even available in BNC and RCA connectors too, so you can really clean up your entire entertainment system with a set of custom cables.