★Which is better for binary classification, SVM or logistic regression?
If you restrict yourself to linear kernels, both SVMs and LR will give almost identical performance and in some cases, LR will beat SVM. If the data is linearly separable in the input space, then LR is usually preferred as it outputs probabilities instead of hard labels and you can fine tune your performance by plotting the ROC curve and figuring out the right threshold. The natural advantage that SVMs have over LRs is the non-linearity obtained via the use of non-linear kernels. If we compare logistic regression with SVMs with non-linear kernels, then SVMs beat LRs hands down. If the data is linearly separable in the input space, then LRs give performance comparable to SVMs, but if the data is non-linearly separable, then LRs gradually worsen depending on how bad the non-linearity is in the data and SVMs win out. (Note: Non-separability does not imply that LRs won't do well. LRs can still do well in certain non-separable cases. I don't want to give the impression that LRs will do well only for separable datasets.) Comparison of LR and SVMs with non-linear kernels is simply unfair, as LR does not have access to the same feature space that SVM does. To that end, scientists have come up with Kernel Logistic Regression (KLR) which enjoys access to kernels the same way SVM does. Look here [1] for a comparison of KLR with SVM. KLR enjoys a lot of advantages that SVM has and additionally brings in a natural notion of label probabilities which SVMs sorely miss (Although people have several work around to get probabilities from SVM, at the end of the day, they are just work arounds). However, KLR has few disadvantages making them not as popular for large scale dataset training. Having said that, scientists have worked on supporting KLR for large scale datasets and there is even software available (supporting multi class classification) [2]. So, given all of the above, who wins? Well, to answer the original question, I am inclined to say SVMs are in general better than LR. However, it might be worthwhile to spend a little time with KLR as well. [1] Page on stanford.edu [2] Matthias W. Seeger - Software    Embed Quote