★How to apply cross-validation to logistic regression?
First, I would ask exactly what you did when you say you repeated the 80% sample 5 times. If you performed random sampling each time, then that is not called cross validation. That is because it is quite possible that the five 80% samples contained very similar sets of data points. The correct way to do 5-fold cross validation is to: Split the data set into 5 equal sized sets. Set aside one of the 5 sets for validation and use the other 4 sets for training. Fit your model and measure the required metrics. Repeat by setting aside a different one of the 5 sets for validation and the other 4 for training. This will give you a total of 5 runs of fitting your model and calculating the metrics. When you have very few data points, you should use "leave-k-out" cross validation rather than "k-fold" cross validation, but they are essentially the same thing. Here is a link to an article on cross validation by Prof. Rob Hyndman, which I found very helpful when I was learning about it: Why every statistician should know about cross-validation Regarding which metrics to use and how to use them: remember that the main purpose of cross validation is to avoid overfitting. Pick your metrics accordingly, and tune your model based on the sum (or average, as you mention) of the metrics across the k runs. One example is: if you run model selection using forward selection based on AIC, calculate the total AIC of each training set over all the k runs for each remaining model attribute before you pick the attribute to add to the model. It is more likely that you are using cross validation just to check your model after you develop it. In this case, you would look at the sum or mean of the performance metric on the k validation sets. It should be noted that the variance of the metric across the k runs is as important as the mean: if there is overfitting, your performance will be high on some samples and poor on other samples. A good model should show similar performance across all the samples. Area under the ROC curve is a fine metric to use in cross validating a logistic regression model, but I would recommend you check the Concordance as well (explained nicely in this page: Interpreting the concordance statistic of a logistic regression model: relation to the variance and odds ratio of a continuous explanatory variable).    Embed Quote