★What is an intuitive explanation of logistic regression coefficients?Can I interpret the coefficients as giving a 'magnitude of importance' to the corresponding predictors?
Two questions: intuitive explanation of logistic regression coefficient, and whether we can interpret the coefficients as giving 'magnitude of importance' to the corresponding predictors. 1. intuitive explanation Suppose we have one explanatory variable X:In logistic regression you have . Recall that represents the probability that Y (independent variable) equals 1. The left hand side of this equation is called the log-odds ratio - it's very important to understand that this ratio rises with . If we exponentiate both the left and right sides, we get the odds-ratio, i.e. . Now, back to the log-odds ratio, if you take the first derivative of that with respect to X, you get  . As long as  , we know that is greater than 1. Therefore,   implies that the odds ratio rises when X increases. I.e. the probability that Y=1 rises when X increases, if . And the probability that Y=1 falls when X increases if . NOTE: if you don't like to work in odds-ratios, you can easily convert the odds ratio to the probability that Y=1: where OR represents the Odds Ratio. 2. On whether we can interpret the coefficients as giving magnitude of importance to corresponding predictors In general, NO. Suppose you have two independent variables X1 and X2, and , and . First, realise these are point estimates: we need to take the standard errors of these estimates into consideration to know whether they are deemed statistically significant. It could be that the lower beta has a much higher significance. Second, you must realise that the coefficent size will depend directly on the units of measurement you use for your X1 and X2 variables. Suppose we are measuring the probability of having a car accident, and X1 represents the amount of alcohol in the blood. If we measure it in liters the coefficient should be thousand times larger than if we measure it in ml. Third: But, there are cases where the coefficients can be compared in the way the question suggests. For instance if both X variables are categorical, and both are found to be statistically significant. My points above simply illustrate that great care has to be taken before such comparisons are done.    Embed Quote