★What is the difference between AT&T DSL and U-verse DSL?
The non-geek answer is: U-Verse is (usually) faster. The geek answer is, of course, more complicated. The original, legacy DSL product is powered by the ADSL protocol. That's a fairly old protocol with a maximum speed of around 8Mbps; AT&T only sells it up to 6Mbps. Unless you live fairly far out of town, your DSL connection will be served out of your town's CO (Central Office), and the highest speed you can get will be dependent on how far you are from the DSLAM (DSL Access Multiplexer--the DSL head-end on the other end of your phone line) at the CO. If you live way out of town, you might be served by a RT (Remote Terminal), which is basically a portable DSLAM in a box somewhere out in your neighborhood. U-Verse DSL is really two separate products. Depending on where you live, you might be able to get "real" U-Verse, which is based on the VDSL2 protocol. You'll know this because the AT&T site will offer you the U-Verse triple play with Internet, voice, and TV. VDSL2 is very fast. It is capable of blazing fast (250Mbps) speeds, although that's only possible if you're practically next door to the DSLAM. Half a mile away from the DSLAM, it can sync at 50Mbps. AT&T sells it at a maximum of 45Mbps if you live close to a DSLAM, known in U-Verse parlance as a VRAD, or Video Ready Access Device, which combines a portable DSLAM with computers that serve to stream your TV signals over your connection. Part of the U-Verse upgrade is that AT&T has been running fiber optics all over U-Verse cities and installing these VRADs in neighborhoods. Theoretically, when the upgrades are complete, the vast majority of people in AT&T U-Verse territory should be within a fairly short distance of a VRAD and thus get good speeds. That's why AT&T is marketing this as "FTTN" (Fiber To The Node)--unlike Verizon's FiOS, the fiber doesn't come all the way to your house, but it gets usually within a half mile or so of you to the "node" (the VRAD), where it's then served to you over a pretty fast VDSL2 connection for that last half mile. If you live in a smaller town or farther out of town but can still get U-Verse, you may only be able to get Internet and voice, and AT&T will then offer to bundle DirecTV with your service. This means you're on "fake" U-Verse powered by the ADSL2+ protocol. ADSL2+ can hit speeds up to 24Mbps. AT&T sells it at a maximum of 12Mbps. Much like the original DSL product, this will usually be served to you from your town's CO or, if you're too distant, from a RT. There aren't any VRADs with this flavor of U-Verse, since there's no video with this product--the ADSL2+ protocol doesn't have enough bandwidth to stream your TV connection over the network, so they don't offer TV service. So, on the surface, it looks like the ADSL2+ variety of U-verse is similar to AT&T's original legacy ADSL product, except that there's one higher speed tier. Not quite. The legacy DSL product uses PPPoEoA, or PPP over Ethernet over ATM. ATM has quite an overhead tax on the datastream, and the most you'll ever see on a 6Mbps DSL line is about 5.2Mbps. The newer fake-U-Verse ADSL2+ product, sometimes referred to as "IPDSL," runs over native IP transport without the ATM overhead. This means you can squeeze a little bit more bandwidth out of a same-speed connection (also, ping times should be marginally lower). That's the theory, anyway. As with all infrastructure changes, some people are complaining that things are worse, but on the whole, U-Verse is a fairly significant upgrade from the legacy ATM-based ADSL product. And with AT&T putting fiber in the neighborhoods, it suddenly becomes much easier to then run fiber to the home itself if competitive or regulatory demands move in that direction.