★Why aren't cellular data technologies (3G, 4G LTE, etc) truly unlimited like Broadband and DSL are?Wouldn't broadband/DSL cost more since they typically reach faster speeds? Why can't there be unlimited Internet for cellphones like wifi hotspots offer? I know Sprint is unlimited but the speeds do not match Broadband/DSL?
Marketing reasons aside (which are plenty), it can be said that it is much harder to offer reliable unlimited plans for wireless than it is for fixed broadband. Fixed broadband is, well, fixed. Each user is connected to a aggregation device - a DSLAM, CMTS, OLT, switch, you name it - which is connected by a fixed amount of bandwidth to the network core. Each aggregation box serves a certain number of customers. If the node is full then a new customer can't be added, unless the node is expanded, or the customer is connected to another node in the neighboorhod. In this way network growth can be managed with a good degree of predictability. With mobile things are not that simple. Customers use bandwidth from the cell tower closer to where they are at a given moment. So you may be connected to a tower where you are the only customer, and you'll have all bandwidth on that tower available to you. But you could be at a crowded place, together with a hundred people, everyone trying to connect to the same cell tower. How can you actually plan for that? Designing the network to work in the worst case scenario for each cell is going to cost way more than making a similar design for fixed broadband. Limited plans don't really solve this problem, as it is something inherent to user mobility. But they make the network a little bit easier to manage, by lowering the expectations, and giving the mobile carrier a better excuse for performance limitations. As I said, that's only part of the story. There are also plenty of marketing reasons. People are willing to give mobile operators something in exchange for the value of mobility. Sound quality and Internet performance are tradeoffs that most customers are happy to accept, at least for now. But as people get used to the technology, I believe people will be less tolerant and will start to expect a higher standard of service.