★Why aren't cellular data technologies (3G, 4G LTE, etc) truly unlimited like Broadband and DSL are?Wouldn't broadband/DSL cost more since they typically reach faster speeds? Why can't there be unlimited Internet for cellphones like wifi hotspots offer? I know Sprint is unlimited but the speeds do not match Broadband/DSL?
Why aren't cellular data technologies (3G, 4G LTE, etc) truly unlimited like Broadband and DSL are? Wireline broadband isn't 'truly unlimited' either.  Comcast has had caps for years, and AT&T has had caps for over a year: http://www.engadget.com/2012/05/... http://gigaom.com/video/att-band... Telecommunications services have always had some sort of limit.  In the days of circuit-switched networks, call routes ("trunk groups") were provisioned so that approximately 1% of calls were 'blocked' (what you may remember as "fast busy") in the busiest hour of the day. (Since the busiest hour usually accounted for 10% of total traffic, this meant that 99.9% of all calls were completed in a 24 hour period.)  This sort of policy results in a network that offers optimum availability, with a minimum of wasted excess capacity - providing enough network capacity to always carry that last 0.01% of traffic would have increased the cost of the network (and your phone bill) by 10%.  It was a lot more cost-effective for everyone if you had to re-dial 1 out of every 1000 calls. In the world of IP connections, calls aren't 'blocked,' but latency becomes a problem if the circuit is operating above 80% of its capacity.  And wireless services can be stressed when there are too many devices connected to a particular antenna / node. But that really doesn't answer your question.  Providers don't offer 'truly unlimited' plans because most of their customers don't need them, and because they would be less profitable for the provider.  That profit hit comes in two ways: lost revenue in overage charges, and the cost of providing additional capacity in the network that earns no additional revenue. In an average month I use about 40% of my wireless plan's 5GB allowance, in part because my phone is on Wifi a great deal of the time.  I use 20-30% of my cable internet allotment.  AT&T says its caps are set at the 95th percentile of its customer base - if that's true, then by definition only the top 5% heaviest users will be hit with overage charges.