★Which DSL modem supports AT&T multiple static IPs?DSL is based on PPPoE links. Which routers handle this and allow for normal use of Static addresses supplied by AT&T? We have a cable modem, and it just acts as a normal network gateway. It doesn't require PPPoE.
Your question isn't very clear, as you talk about different things such as static IPs and PPPoE. I'll try to clarify a few things for you. The first thing is that in broadband access technologies, even when you have a static IP address, it's usually handed out by a dynamic protocol such as PPPoE or DHCP. The system will always give you the same IP address, as it's reserved for you. The reason is that the IP address is not the only thing that they have to provision for you, and doing static provisioning on these platforms goes against the way they're designed to work. They're large scale aggregators and configuring things by hand really makes it hard to manage. Automated tools can help here, but the basic idea still remains. Now for the comparising between DSL, cable modems, DHCP and PPPoE, a whole bunch of stuff and some historical perspective. DSL is not necessarily based on PPPoE links. DSL uses ATM and can used a few different encapsulations options. The most popular options are pure bridging, where you get your address via DHCP, or PPPoE. Each one allocates IP addresses in a different way. PPPoE is more popular than bridging with DHCP for a simple reason: when DSL was first rolled out in the late 1990s, it was more convenient for providers to manage the service using PPPoE, because it used some of the same tools used to manage dial up access. Using PPPoE, the ISP could associate a static IP address with your account using a Radius profile. The same can be done for bridging, but the process is different (and a little bit more laborious). One problem with DHCP for DSL is that the standard DSL modem doesn't have a MAC address, so the ISP needs to track your computer MAC address. It makes things harder to control because this info is not under the ISP control. Also, standard DSL provisioning plaforms don't offer many functionalities and some customization is required to automate these tasks in a scalable way. To compound the situation, many ISPs feared that DSL with fixed IP address would canibalize the sales of their more expensive dedicated IP services. At first, DSL was oriented for residential users, and static IP addresses were not part of the product design. The ISPs that did it charge a little bit more for the static IP address (Note: I don't live in the US and don't know how AT&T does it). Cable providers took a different approach to marketing and technology. They didn't had any competing offer for business users, so it was in their best interest to offer static IP addresses. The technology stack is also completely different. DOCSIS modems support PPPoE, bridging/DHCP, and even routing, but due to the way the technology was deployed, the bridging/DHCP solution was the most popular since the introduction of the technology. Because the technology is more integrated, the DOCSIS standard requires a more powerful provisioning platform and uses DHCP (with BOOTP) to configure the cable modem. It made easier to associate the MAC of the cable modem (which is provided and tracked by the cable company) with the customer's static IP address. So in the end, there are a number of technical and marketing reasons why you can use static IP addresses with your cable modem provider, while you can't with your DSL/PPPoE provider. There's not a single technical barrier strong enough to prevent it, or to make it impossible; it could be made to work, but it depends on marketing decisions, which is probably why you can't do it today.