★What are the likely causes of short interruptions of AT & T DSL service?Or DSL service in general?
The Internet is a highly robust, self repairing network that spans the globe and out into space.  It's the self repairing part that can cause short, intermittent outages. The routing protocols that are used by Internet routers cause to routers to learn and remember all the networks that are directly attached to it, and where to send traffic that is not bound for a local network. Consider a small example: NY <-> DC <-> Orlando. NY knows to send traffic bound for Orlando to DC which will pass it on. What happens if DC disappears? NY sends out a request for anyone that can forward traffic to Orlando. Suppose that LA responds to the request from NY. If NY doesn't get a response from a faster route to Orlando, it will send all its Orlando traffic to LA until DC comes back online. Short interruptions like this happen all the time and we mostly don't notice, because alternate routing is known in advance most of the time and takes over in microseconds. For DSL specifics, DSL is less robust because most of the routing infrastructure is built cheaply and is located in those big green boxes you see on the sides of roads everywhere. Not the little one in front of your house, that's just a wiring connector box. Your cable company uses those, too. DSL also uses the old telephone infrastructure that was designed for voice communications and not high speed digital. The two systems do not get along and you have to use special filters to allow them to coexist on the same wires. Lots of environmental factors can affect DSL. A running microwave oven can take it right out. I was working DSL support once and had a customer who lost his service every day at about 3:00pm for about an hour. Found the problem when it rained one day and his service stayed active, his incoming phone crossed the roof of his porch and sunlight knocked it out every day. He re-routed that wire to be in the shade all day and the problem went away. You have to expect short interruptions with any Internet connection. If you think you are getting too many, look for environmental causes first.