How would a war between the US and China play out?
I already addressed this question in terms of what would happen if the USA attacked China using nuclear weapons. Ian Jackson's answer to If the USA launched a preemptive nuclear strike on China what would Russia do? And a more general look at why the USA cannot wage conventional war with a great power can be found here. Ian Jackson's answer to What would happen if the United States tried to conquer the world? I've also pasted below part of a summary I wrote of the main reason the USA or other major military powers  cannot do this. It's told from a British perspective but the USA would fare little better. Transcript begins. The cost of war has become so horrific that wars between great powers are all but impossible. For example. Britain, still one of the great military powers in the world has ordered 160 typhoons ( fancy fighter planes.)   They have not yet received them all but they have most of them... 140 or so I believe.  The cost per unit is not so bad at a mere  £125 million a pop but the total MOD bill has run to 20 billion. How long would these planes last in a war against another well armed enemy? Well I can tell you this. On the RAF's worst day, March 31 1944, they lost 95 planes! OK, I know, they were different planes, mostly bombers, flying over enemy territory but still, that's a lot of planes shot down in one night. The Battle of Britain lasted from 10 July to 31 October. Britain lost 1547 Aircraft. I always get in trouble for using my terrible maths on Quora, but here goes! The battle lasted 113 days which means that on average the air force lost 13 planes a day. The technical differences between the German and British planes were negligible. The British had the advantage of close refueling, the Germans had numerical superiority from the start. One wonders how all this carried on how the RAF could lose so many planes and still fight one. But you see, Spitfires were quite easy to make, relatively easy to train in and above all they were cheap!  They cost £5000 each which in today's money is about £150,000. OK, that's not cheap, that's quite expensive but it's still a far cry from £125 million! The UK ended up  making  over 20,000 spitfires and we could replace them, almost as quickly as the Germans could shoot them down. I can't even calculate the cost of 20,000 tornado fighters. I know that we can't afford that many. If India and the UK decided to go to war, ( I pick these two because their military strength is roughly equal, I've nothing against India!) Britain would run out of Typhoons in 13 days or so. Possibly sooner. Indian attrition would be at a similar rate. Oh we have other planes, some of lot cheaper than the Typhoons but we'd run out of those soon enough as well. Once the Typhoons are gone, they are gone. We can't build another two dozen just like that. We can't convert a car factory in surrey to start spitting them out like sausages. They take years to build, many different countries contribute to their construction and even if they didn't, we could not afford to keep churning them out. Training pilots would also be difficult, I'm not a pilot of course but I have it on good authority that these planes do not 'fly themselves.' They are very well built machines to be sure but it takes a certain kind of mad-man ( with the greatest of respect,) to fly one. The example of planes can be repeated across the military, ships, tanks; everything but infantry really, is way too expensive. The war would slow and then grind to a halt unless some kind of massive surprise occurred. Any surprise attack ( pretty much impossible anyway,) would be a huge gamble. By the end of 4 weeks of intense fighting India and Britian would both have become third rate military powers with little option but to either sue for peace or resort to WWI tactics. The UK doesn't have the numbers for such a fight and even less of the stomach for it. India has the numbers but all they could do would be to repel British infantry. they couldn't retaliate since all the 'toys' were gone. So you see there is an option for peace. We just need to rid ourselves of poor countries. Because one thing I know about western powers is that they are way too chickenshit to pick on a country their own size. You'd have to be insane to try. For a more nuanced understanding of politics in general, you might want to check out some of my work here at macat.com Macat Analysis. They are currently offering free subscriptions so sign up whilst you can! Updated 10w ago • View Upvotes