Life Advice:  I'm 23 and I still dont know what I want to do in my life.?
First I would reassure you that 23 is “still” very young and many or most people don’t work out what they want to do in their lives until they are much older, if ever. Second, it would be interesting to explore what it is about money that you find to be such an appealing goal. What is behind this desire, what is it that money would give you? Security? Financial independence? The ability to buy nice things? To travel? Freedom to do what you want? It’s important to understand what is behind this goal in order to go about achieving it in an effective way. Valuing the freedom that money gives you is very different to valuing financial security, which in turn is very different to wanting a life of luxury. Of course, the question is: do you need to know what you want in your life? There’s that often-quoted exchange from Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland:   “Would you tell me, please, which way I ought to go from here?” “That depends a good deal on where you want to get to,” said the Cat. “I don’t much care where–” said Alice. “Then it doesn’t matter which way you go,” said the Cat. “–so long as I get SOMEWHERE,” Alice added as an explanation. Do you want to get somewhere specific or are you happy to just enjoy the ride? In fact, most of us do care where we want to get to, and yet we often don’t take the time to clarify where that is. Setting goals will give you a sense of purpose, focus your attention and allow you to direct your (limited) time and energy towards what’s really important, and motivate you to achieve something that is meaningful to you. When you choose the “wrong” goal, and someone else's definition of success, you're inevitably going to be half hearted in your attempts at achieving it, which means you’re likely to fail. And even if you do achieve it, what is the point if you don’t actually care about the result? Or, worse, if the result is detrimental to you in some way? Having the right goals in place is fundamental to successfully achieving them and for that achievement to really contribute to your happiness and life satisfaction. So it might be worth giving a bit thought to what it is you really want, and why... 