What is the meaning of the Ascendant conjunct North Node?
In older tropical (Western) astrology, light was considered as a mechanism by which the planets, somehow, transmitted their influences. Both the Ascendant and the North Node are mathematically derived points and neither represents an actual celestial body emitting (or reflecting) light. This requirement means that at least one of two parts that is related to another must be a planet. "Planet" here includes the Sun and the Moon, as in the Greek the word comes from, the word simply means wanderer and referred to the moving "stars". (Planets were stars too, only unlike the fixed stars, they moved.) In fact, not only points like these are considered to not "cast rays", but the same goes for fixed stars, in spite of them being luminous. This means that for an aspect between two points that do not cast rays to have an influence, it must somehow involve a third point, a planet. This involvement could be via transit or progression or a solar return. It is thus very difficult to state with any certainty much about the conjunction of the points on their own. Still, there is one similarity between the two that might at least narrow down the options when it comes to interpretations. The Ascendant represents the point on the ecliptic that rises above the horizon. Somewhat simplified, the North Node represents the point on the ecliptic where the Moon rises above the ecliptic. (The Sun is involved too, but I don't want to go too technical here and refer to Wikipedia's article on the lunar nodes for a more detailed description.) Remember, the Moon's path is meandering back and forth and only touches the ecliptic twice a month. Anyhowso, this means that both Ascendant and North Node have a symbolism connected with "rising", which by extension connects with keywords like expansion, visibility and gain. In the horoscope of an individual, I've come across the suggestion that the nodal axis and the Ascendent/Descendant-axis being close to one another indicates a person that somehow stands out. If we make that literal, it could be someone very tall or very large, and some justification for making it literal could be given in that the Ascendant is thought to describe a person's appearance. One cannot transfer meanings and interpretations from what they mean in the chart of individuals to what they mean in synastry, but perhaps that idea could provide a reference point to check if it makes sense in actual synastries. Though I said this thing about these points not casting rays, there is something that is a bit of interest with precisely the degrees given here, that I shall mention even if it will only be indirect. There is in tropical astrology something called antiscia and contra-antiscia, and this refers to point with equal distance to the solstitial points. Example: —10 GEM and 20 CAN are both twenty degrees away from 0 CAN. That's antiscia, which is reminiscent of the conjunction. —10 SAG and 20 CAN are in a similar relationship, but 180 degrees off. That's contra-antiscia, which we will liken to the opposition here. Orb is always minimal when dealing with these, no more than a degree. But as it happens, that seems to be what we have here, with Ascendant and North Node in contra-antiscia (one degree off). They still cast no rays, so on their own they are without influence. But, given transits and/or progressions or similar, this means that it will be much easier for bodies that do cast rays to involve the Ascendant and the Descendant and both nodes in some kind of configuration. I would say that it would probably be too complex to easily lend itself to predictions, as here we will have out-of-sign conjunctions happening at the same time, meaning you get some almost-conjunctions that are at the same time almost-oppositions... If that's not enough to give an astrologer a headache, I don't know what would. If the two persons had a relationship a few years ago, I would check what happened when Uranus transited these points (Uranus in late Pisces, early Aries) or when Saturn was in late Virgo, early Libra. Next year or thereabouts will see Jupiter in late Virgo, early Libra, so that might also be of interest here. Mars could also be checked, but I would not bother much with Venus or Mercury transiting, though progressions might be interesting. (However, if the antiscia is a whole degree, that might translate into a year or so in the time it is active, meaning it may be terribly difficult to nail.) Anyhow, as always I will recommend looking at not only one factor but to check if there are several factors active in this configuration at the same time. The Moon is here always a candidate, sweeping the heavens every month, but it really needs to be a lot of pent-up stuff for the Moon to on its own make much of a difference, so unless part of a pattern, I would not accord it any importance. I have spoken not so very much about meaning, which is what the question asks about, but given the antiscia and given this thing with points not casting rays, I will have to say that meaning in this particular example is quite complex—but may also not exist if the configuration is not included in a web of relationships with actual planets. 