What do intelligent people do with their phones?
Roughly in descending order of frequency/time spent: Read the news - I use Newsify hooked up to my Feedly account; I read close to a hundred articles a day (politics from local to international and urban planning/development items, mostly). Read books - I use iBooks, Kindle and Scribd, mostly science fiction and some non-fiction. Research - locations, things I'm curious about, planning events, etc. Words/Chess With Friends - I play with a few good friends down in DC and some relatives (these are pretty much the only games I ever play besides pool IRL). Email - I've been known to reply to work emails in the middle of the night if it's a quick reply. Photography - I've even managed to sell prints of a couple of iPhone photos. Write - I've written a political speech on my phone at a bar, a eulogy for a good friend while on the subway (on my way home from my pool league after finding out he'd passed), and a variety of poetic works. Web site setups/maintenance - I once fixed a web site through SSH on my iPhone while walking between two bars, also did an entire setup (virtual host, database, Drupal download and basic configuration) for a church at the bar across the street. I also send a fair amount of text messages (though as often as not, via Messages on my iMac at work) and make the occasional phone call. ;-) I also end up watching a video or two a week (though more on my tablet at home) and keep a decent music library for the times I've hosted (or helped to host) parties. Basically it's a tool for staying connected to and informed about the larger world around me, with additional productivity uses.  You'll notice that while I do play two games on my phone, it's a tiny fraction of my usage, especially as compared to the average person I see on the subway.  I do not believe in wasting time and would not be caught dead playing Candy Crush or some other mindless crap like that.  Virtually every thing I do has some constructive output, either for myself or for the world around me. Incidentally, I almost always keep my phone in Do Not Disturb mode (with calls from known contacts allowed) unless I'm expecting an important text.  And you will NEVER hear my phone ring - I haven't had it off of silent mode since the first iPhone I got seven years or so ago. 