What are some amazing facts about the Indian Railways?
System behind numbering of trains : On December 20, 2010, IR switched to a system of 5-digit numbers that are supposed to be used for all passenger trains across its system. The first digit In the 5-digit train numbering scheme, the first digit indicates the type of the passenger train, as follows: 0 is for special trains (e.g., summer specials, holiday specials, etc.) 1 is for all long-distance trains, including the Rajdhani, Shatabdi, Jan Sadharan, Sampark Kranti, Garib Rath, Duronto, and other classes. 2 is also for long-distance trains; it is to be used when train numbers starting with 1 are exhausted in any series. 3 is for Kolkata suburban trains. 4 is for suburban trains in Chennai, New Delhi, Secunderabad, and other metropolitan areas. 5 is for passenger trains with conventional coaches 6 is for MEMU trains 7 is for DMU (DEMU) and railcar services. 8 is currently reserved 9 is for Mumbai area suburban trainsSecond and later digits The significance of the second and later digits depends on what the first digit is. Below, the different number series are explained, based on the first digit. 0, 1, 2: In the case of special trains, and long-distance express trains, i.e., trains starting with digits '0', '1', or '2', the remaining 4 digits signify the railway zone and division exactly as in the pre-2011 4-digit scheme. In fact, most 5-digit numbers for long-distance trains as of this writing [4/11] are created simply by prefixing '1' to the former 4-digit codes. See below for an explanation of the 4-digit system. The zonal codes (second digit) are shown below: 0 is for Special trains which generally run during holidays & festive seasons. 1 & 2 is for superfasts, Shatabdi, Jan Shatabdi, and some other classes of trains regardless of zones. For these, the next digit is usually the zone code. 3 is shared by ER and ECR 4 is for NR, NCR and NWR 5 is shared by NER and NFR 6 is for SR and SWR 7 is shared by SCR and SWR 8 is for SER and ECoR 9 is for WR, NWR and WCRFor other classes of trains, the remaining digits are used in a few different ways. 3: For Kolkata suburban trains starting with digit '3', there are two sets of numbers, depending on the zone that operates the services. 30xxx through 37xxx : trains run by ER 38xxx through 39xxx : trains run by SER4: For suburban trains other than in Mumbai and Kolkata, the following conventions apply. 40xxx through 44xxx : Chennai area suburban trains 45xxx through 46xxx : Delhi area suburban trains 47xxx : Secunderabad suburban trains 48xxx through 49xxx : reserved5, 6, 7: For trains starting with '5', '6', and '7', i.e., passenger trains, the second digit determines the zone as for long-distance trains and the third digit determines the division (see above for zones, or see below for a more detaild list with zone and division codes). 9: Mumbai suburban trains use the following system. Up and down directions are generally reflected in the use of odd and even numbers, respectively. 90xxx: WR locals originating from Virar 91xxx: WR locals originating from Vasai Road / Bhayander 92xxx: WR locals originating from Borivali 93xxx: WR locals originating from Malad / Goregaon 94xxx: WR locals originating from Andheri / Bandra / Mumbai Central 95xxx: CR fast locals 96xxx: CR locals going north of Kalyan 97xxx: CR locals on the Harbour line 98xxx: CR locals on the trans-Harbour line 99xxx: CR locals going south of KalyanPlease see the explanation of the 4-digit numbering system in use prior to 2011, to understand the structure of the last 4 digits of 5-digit long-distance train numbers, and for the zone/division number assignment for other classes of trains. Source : [IRFCA] Indian Railways FAQ: Train Numbers If you are an Indain Railways fan,then do join this Indian Railways fan club : [IRFCA] Welcome to IRFCA.org, the home of IRFCA on the internet. World’s highest Railway Bridge being built over Chenab will dwarf Eiffel Tower Touted as the next man-made wonder, the world’s highest rail bridge being built across Chenab riverbed in Reasi district of Jammu and Kashmir will take at least three more years to be functional. Railway officials say the bridge, which is five times higher than Delhi’s Qutub Minar and far taller than the Eiffel Tower in Paris, will be completed by December 2016. The arched structure will connect Baramulla to Jammu via Udhampur-Katra-Qazigund with a travel time of six-and-a-half hours. Currently, it takes exactly double the time – 13 hours – to reach Jammu from Baramulla in northern Kashmir, which is 60km from Srinagar. The construction of the bridge started in 2002 when Atal Bihari Vajpayee was the prime minister. It was stopped in 2008 when the project was announced to be unsafe. However, the construction restarted in 2010, and has now been declared a national project. The bridge is coming up at Salal village in Reasi, which will take three more years to complete. Challenges At a height of 359 metres, the strong wind in the area posed a big threat to the project. “The weather in the region gets worse in no time due to the Himalayan range. At such height, the bridge can lose shape due to strong winds, which is why, we have made a special design for this project,” said B.D. Garg, chief administrative officer of this project in Northern Railway. “This bridge project has been allotted to Afcons India Private Ltd and we have also hired consulting agency from Denmark,” he added. The area is made of limestone, which often causes landslides during rainy season. Keeping this in mind, the bridge is being made in an arched shape. For the entire project, railways have constructed around 250km of approach roads at the approximate cost of Rs 2,000 crore. The most difficult phase of the project now is the construction of the section between Banihal and Katra. Most tunnels on the entire stretch falls in this section. The 1.3km-long bridge is being constructed between Salal A and Salal B stations. It will be able to take the load of 18 train coaches at one time and project officials are using steel girder plates to install it using cable cranes. The steel plates have been procured from the Bhilai plant of Steel Authority of India, while the girders are assembled at a fabrication workshop built adjacent to the bridge. “Each girder plate is eight-metrelong and we have estimated that 161 girders will be required for the purpose,” said Saumendra Roy Chaudhary, GM, Afcon. As the bridge is designed in a curved shape, special arrangements are being made to launch the deck girder. A steel structure is the preferred choice at such locations as it can absorb force without damage. The arch shape, invented by the Romans, requires less material for construction and is easier to repair. Such bridges exist in only about six other countries. Rail link for Katra From April onwards, pilgrimage to Vaishno Devi will be far more convenient. Railway officials say about 30 per cent work of the project has been completed with trial runs on the 25km-long Udhampur-Katra rail section likely to start by the end of next month. The work on Qazigund-Baramulla section has already been completed and is likely to be opened for public in three phases. The first phase of construction of a 66-km-long stretch between Anantnag and Rajwansher has been in use since October 2008. Of the 25km Udhampur-Katra rail section, 11km are being constructed in tunnels with nine major and 29 minor bridges. The project cost has cost Rs 923 crore up to now. The entire undertaking has been allotted to two contractors – Konkan Railway Corporation Ltd and Afcon India Pvt Ltd. Salal Village lacks basic infrastructure. “We have to go to Katra or Jammu travelling four to five hours to see doctors,” said Baldev Singh Nambardaar of Salal. “We want the railways to adopt this village…” Source : World’s highest Railway Bridge being built over Chenab will dwarf Eiffel Towerrailway-bridge-being-built-over-chenab-will-dwarf-the-eiffel-tower/ The project has already given jobs to 500 locals. Updated 32w ago • View Upvotes