Why don't airlines award loyalty points based on dollars spent rather than miles flown?
Virgin America explicitly does this. You earn 5 points per dollar spent. It seems brilliant, right, reward the highest spenders for spending more. It has a number of interesting negatives, however: Casual Virgin flyers (a lot of any airline's customers, but especially one without an especially extensive route network) typically book lower fares and accumulate so few points that they are pretty unlikely to ever have enough to redeem. In this respect, Virgin America is no worse off than Southwest, which is very hard to earn free travel on for the casual traveler. But it also means, Elevate doesn't work as a loyalty program for these people. Virgin takes this both ways, which I will confess you don't have to do. When it's redemption time, the points required is a direct function of the dollar cost of the seat you are looking for. For example, a $110 ticket currently would run me 4605 Elevate points, while a $252 ticket would run me 10,898 Elevate points. What this means is that points are never especially valuable to redeem, since you can never use the typical frequent flyer's game of paying cash when fares are a bit lower and using points when fares are higher. And, yes, it's true that sometimes when fares are high there aren't many frequent-flyer award seats, but their might be some. There will be seats on Virgin America, but their cost will be astronomical in terms of points -- worse than the 2x frequent-flyer awards the major carriers offer that remove the seat caps (e.g. American's AAnytime Awards). Basically, frequent-flyer awards are there to engender loyalty to a particular brand. If there are no realistic ways to earn and redeem them, they do not serve this purpose. I fly both Southwest and Virgin as among my preferred carriers for a lot of reasons; if both canceled their loyalty problems tomorrow, I would not shed a single tear nor even be annoyed. I expect to fly free on Virgin once every few years and on Southwest precisely never. Even post-bankruptcy carriers (e.g United) have come to realize that for the awards to serve their intended purpose, they have to feel both attainable and reasonable. Most of the carriers that come from the "legacy" background award small multipliers on miles earned based on class flown or existing status (I get double miles on American as a Platinum flyer). But the sense that after a half dozen or so flights of decent range, there is a free ticket waiting for everyone is essential to the program's value to the larger population of air travelers. If carriers only wanted to reward their high-dollar flyers, they'd be able to eliminate the rest of the program and do that. Clearly, many of them see residual value in the older approach. And yet some newer carriers quite frankly have the loyalty program as more of a checkbox item than as an important part of the experience. Updated 193w ago • View Upvotes