Hypothetically, if there is intelligent alien life, with the knowledge and means to traverse space and travel to Earth, what would be their reasons for not making contact? (Please read details.)
Some possibilities: 1) Perhaps they have some sort of "prime directive," like in Star Trek, a prohibition against contact with civilizations that have not yet reached some threshold of political and/or technological sophistication.  I see that Robert Frost beat me to that answer.  I find this less likely though, because Roddenberry had a very noble, idealistic, and logical vision - as symbolized by the Vulcans. 2) Extra-terrestrial life may be so different from ours as to make communication impossible or impractical.    However, let's assume they think at least a little bit like we do. In my opinion, the most likely answer is, Earth has nothing that they want.  Perhaps our whole region of the galaxy has nothing of interest to them. In Human history, where very different kinds of peoples who were previously unaware encountered each other on purpose, the reasons were one or a combination of: Economic gain through trade, tribute or conquest, Geo-political motivations to: gain or project power, gain prestige, and/or acquire leverage against another power Religious zealotry We know there are no other inhabitable planets in our immediate vicinity.  So, if extra-terrestrials have the ability to travel to us, their technology is exponentially more advanced.  We're talking even bigger differences than today's technology and the discovery of fire - which is burning organic material for energy which we still do.  They will have moved ridiculously far beyond our conceptions of computing, energy production/usage, and maybe even our conception of physics --- convenient interstellar travel would require some kind of faster-than-light travel or space-time manipulation.  Those are FAR bigger gaps than even those that existed between Native Americans and Europeans in the 16th century.  The Natives had A LOT of resources Europeans wanted from their knowledge of the land, what was on it, under it, their expertise on how to find and use their resources, as well as their labor. What could be gained from contact with humans? At their level, aliens probably don't need the raw materials our planet offers; they've figured out how to provide that more easily.  They certainly don't need any of our technology.  Their technology is probably at a level where they don't need us as slaves.  We're so behind them intellectually that we offer little interesting conversation - it would be like talking to children at best.  If they did contact us, the imbalance in the relationship would quickly degenerate into dependence on our part, again, like children - something that they probably don't want since it would be a drain on their resources, not a gain.  With nothing of value to trade or take from Earth or Humans, there is little likelihood our planet would add to their "empire" if they even think in those terms.  In short, there is nothing to gain. So, the only reason they MIGHT want to talk to us is some sort of religious or philosophical imperative.  Apparently no aliens with missionary impulses have discovered us yet. 