How likely is it that the Aquatic Ape Hypothesis is true?  What are some good arguments for or against it?
All of the following are excerpts a TED talk given by Elaine Morgan: http://www.ted.com/talks/elaine_... I  recommend you watch the above video as she gives an interesting and entertaining lecture.     Naked Skin: Let's look at our naked skin. It's obvious that most of the things we think about that have lost their body hair, mammals without body hair, are aquatic ones, like the dugong, the walrus, the dolphin, the hippopotamus, the manatee. And a couple of wallowers-in-mud like the babirusa. And you're tempted to think, well perhaps, could that be why we are naked? I suggested it and people said, "No no no. I mean, look at the elephant. You've forgotten all about the elephant haven't you?" So back in 1982 I said, "Well perhaps the elephant had an aquatic ancestor." Peals of merry laughter! "That crazy woman. She's off again. She'll say anything won't she?" But by now, everybody agrees that the elephant had an aquatic ancestor. This has come 'round to be that all those naked pachyderms have aquatic ancestors. The last exception was supposed to be the rhinoceros. Last year in Florida they found extinct ancestor of a rhinoceros and said, "Seems to have spent most of its time in the water." So this is a close connection between nakedness and water. As an absolute connection; it only works one way. You can't say all aquatic animals are naked -- because look at the sea otter. But you can say that every animal that has become naked has been conditioned by water, in its own lifetime, or the lifetime of its ancestors. I think this is significant. The only exception is the naked Somalian mole-rat. Which never puts its nose above the surface of the ground.   Bipedality: And take bipedality. Here you can't find any animal to compare it with. Because we're the only animal that walks upright on two legs. But you can say this, all the apes and all the monkeys are capable of walking on two legs, if they want to, for a short time. There is only one circumstance in which they, always, all of them, walk on two legs, and that is when they are wading through water. Do you think that's significant? David Attenborough thinks it's significant. As the possible beginning of our bipedalism.   Human Morphology: Look at the fat layer. We have got, under our skin, a layer of fat, all over. Nothing in the least like that in any other primate. Why should it be there? Well they do know, that if you look at other aquatic mammals, the fat that in most land mammals is deposited inside the body wall, around the kidneys and the intestines and so on, has started to migrate to the outside, and spread out in a layer inside the skin. In the whale it's complete. No fat inside at all, all in blubber outside. We can not avoid the suspicion that in our case it's started to happen. We have got skin lined with this layer. It's the only possible explanation of why humans, if they're very unlucky, can become grossly obese, in a way that would be totally impossible for any other primate, physically impossible. Something very odd, never explained.   And then again, there is the fact that we are streamlined. Trying to imagine a human diver diving into water, hardly makes a splash. Try to imagine a gorilla performing the same maneuver. and you can see that, compared with gorilla, we are halfway to being shaped like a fish. I am trying to suggest that, for 40-odd years, this aquatic idea has been miscategorized as lunatic fringe, and it is not lunatic fringe.   Spoken Language: The question of why we can speak. We can speak. And the gorilla can't speak. Why? Nothing to do with his teeth or his tongue or his lungs or anything like that. It has to do with its conscious control of its breath. You can't even train a gorilla to say "Ah" on request. The only creatures that have got conscious control of their breath are the diving animals and the diving birds. It was an absolute precondition for our being able to speak. 