Why is the order parameter of lipids in the bilayer important?
Along with the radial distribution function and the area per lipid, the order parameter is the 'todo' parameterization of lipids one needs to do to quantify any extreme changes in their order and orientation. For example, set values for the order parameter of the coarse-grained DPPC beads can be established as such [1]: One can directly quantify the level of disruption of different types, for example, looking at the difference between a hydrophobic (left) and charged particle (right): The blue and red lines represent the tailgroups, whereas the black line represents the headgroups, as a function of the distance away from the nanoparticle centre. It is obvious to see that there is a greater fluctuation in the order parameter in the case of the charged particle, as would be expected when interacting with charged headgroup beads, and this result demonstrates the NP's effect on the phase transition of liquid to gel phases at differing temperatures by the local ordering (hydrophobic)/disordering (charged). One can take a much more elaborate picture of the order parameter in a contour-graph like manner, as shown by Gkeka et al [2], where they show a 'snorkeling' effect of anionic charge nanoparticles in bilayers: All the snorkeling effect is showing is the tendency of the ligands on the surface of the nanoparticle to rearrange themselves to maximise interactions between the charged headgroups of the bilayer and the hydrophobic interactions between the tailgroups of the ligand and the DPPC bilayer. By increasing the amount of cholesterol present in the bilayer (from 0 - 50%), they show that the increased ordering of membranes hinders such a 'snorkeling' effect of the nanoparticle and prevents the translocation of the NP through the bilayer, or as more elaborately shown here: (The NP is placed in the centre of the bilayer as part of the weighted-potential free energy sampling simulation - free trajectory translocation was not observed) Also, depending on how you interpret the order parameter results, you can get an indication of other phenomena in a free bilayer, such as flip-flopping. However, this is not a reliable way (from what I know) of measuring the rate of flip-flopping simply due to the timescale of flip-flop events.   ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- [1] J. P. P. Ramahalo, P. Gkeka and L. Sarkisov, "Structure and Phase Transformations of DPPC Lipid Bilayers in the Presence of Nanoparticles: Insights from Coarse-Grained Molecular Dynamics Simulations", Langmuir,  2011, 27, 3723 - 3730. [2] P. Gkeka, P. Angelikopoulos, L. Sarkisov and Z. Cournia, "Membrane Partitioning of Anionic, Ligand-Coated Nanoparticles Is Accompanied by Ligand Snorkeling, Local Disordering, and Cholesterol Depletion", PLoS Comput Biol,  2014, 10 (12), e1003917. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 