Life Advice:  I'm 23 and I still dont know what I want to do in my life.?
The flood of pro-greed propaganda is overwhelming. It is no wonder that you have succumbed. Wealth is great, if you also have good relationships, and don't hurt people on the way. Don't forget that causes produce effects, and they always come back, often in surprising ways. That's experience, not theory. I you want to build wealth, and happiness at the same time, use this. Increasing your human cognitive abilities lets you win more often. There are three main aspects of life hinder optimal use of these abilities. They form the conceptual envelope within which we operate most of the time. When these aspects are not integrated with human cognitive abilities, conflicts form. Those conflicts delay, and/or confuse thought processes. At times those conflicts replace thought processes with primal urges. 1. The attachment to security learned in childhood is very seductive into adulthood. Mama-poppa provided , and made the rules. This causes people to try to find someone to believe in, like they believed in their parents. It is called attachment theory, and sometimes becomes attachment disorder. Politicians, salespeople, preachers, and stockbrokers, are only too glad to oblige. 2. The bodies own needs often dominate mental processes. There are the basic needs like oxygen water, food, shelter. Then there are physiological feedback sensations. The proprioceptive system relates to the skeletal muscles and tells the brain where the parts are. The somatosensory system report on skin sensations. Then we can know how to move them. The interoceptive system deals with internal conditions, that we don’t need to notice when we are healthy. It supports the ability to maintain life. They are so important, that it is easy to forget the mind, and conscience. The exteroceptive system, lets us know what is outside the body. It includes vision, hearing, smell, touch, taste. They are all integrated. All are required for physical survival. It is easy to get caught up in the view that that is all there is. 3. Over 30% of our brain mass is dedicated to visual processing. Yet, the eyes can’t see the connections to all the other beings on this planet, that the brain knows about, and great teachers keep reminding us about. The result is ‘us-vs.-them’ dichotomies, which are exploited, and enhanced, by the self-serving groups listed in 1. These conditions form the intuitive mental framework and are underlain by primal drives. Primal drives are essential. They are sufficient for most animals. They are not sufficient for humans in a civilization attempting to improve life by overcoming bestial behavior. That takes the newer abilities developed by the human species. Very few people know about all three of these sources of confusions, delusions, because their study is split up in many disciplines. It is difficult for scientists to obtain funding to research them, from the view of correcting confusions, delusions. Large-scale control by corporations, governments, and religions might suffer if the knowledge became widespread. Philosophical concepts usually arise from the interaction between these three factors, and language. Yet, these three factors can be incorporated into an understanding that transcends the limitations. After all the non-verifiable assumptions are discarded, these few simple truths remain. 1-The mind-heart-body does better when what is known to be true is the focus. 2-Life is both physical and non-physical. The bag of mostly water is just a bag of mostly water without the intangibles like life, hope, identity, consciousness. 3-Causes produce effects. Sometimes this is not obvious because the time scales between cause and the awareness of effect vary. 4-Everything is always changing. The time scales vary and nothing is constant, yet there is an underlying continuity, like the warp in cloth. The above 4 points were summarized as Nam Myoho Renge Kyo, in Japan, by the monk Nichiren in the 13th century. His version of what people can do to win in life is so high octane that it takes years for most to discard their cynicism, even when they get phenomenal results in their life by reciting the formula -Nam Myoho Renge Kyo. Most find that joining with others, who also have the same goals and observations, enhances the effectiveness, and gets them a big source of potential friends. It’s one thing to be smart and frustrated; it is another to decide to try an extremely effective method of arranging the world to delete the need for frustration. Even though most people feel safer with contemplation than with learning something new, and working toward results, winning is better than frustration. 