I read in a popular science book that an electron disappears in one orbit and appears in another? Is that really true? Is that an example of teleportation?
It's true or not, depending on your viewpoint on the interpretation of quantum mechanics. First of all, electrons don't have perfectly defined positions and velocities, only probabilities to have any particular values for these. So you have a complicated fuzzy description of the atom. Physicists have worked out various useful ways to organize what can be said about what is going on. To give an example that is more familiar, take sound waves. The are also complicated, because the "waves" that we talk about are really composed of air molecules bunched up or spread out in different locations, and these change with time. We can approximate this by saying we have a superimposition of various waves of different frequencies and directions. If we know the amount of each frequency in each direction, we know everything that it is useful to know about the sound, although we may not know other things like temperature, which is a more microscopic description of the same air molecules. Anyway, we can describe the sound in terms of frequencies and directions, but this is just a mathematical trick; what is "real" is the positions and velocities of the molecules. The choice of describing the sound in terms of frequencies or positions is arbitrary, and this is called a choice of representation. Going back to electrons, we are able to describe the probabilities of their states in various ways: 1) Giving the probability to find an electron at a given position, 2) Giving the probability to find an electron travelling at a given momentum (which includes mass, speed and direction), 3) Giving the probability to find an electron with a particular energy. These are called the position, momentum, and energy representations. It can be shown that a description in any of these representations can be perfectly translated into a different representation without any loss of information. Note that when we discuss electrons in this way, we are assuming God-like knowledge of the situation, because no actual measurement can give us the probability of a particular position. A measurement can give only one position. We obtain this knowledge based on a theoretical analysis and measurements of many similar atoms. Saying "electron A is in orbit 1" means that it has a 100% probability to have a particular energy. (Actually there are cases where two different orbits have the same energy, but let's skip over this complication.) If we were to look at the same electron in the position representation we would see that it has non-zero probabilities to be almost anywhere. But we call this an "orbit" for convenience. When an atom emits or absorbs electromagnetic energy, the probabilities for the electrons change. If we look at an electron in the position representation, we can see it tending to be in different places than before. The probabilities slowly change with time. If we look at the energy representation, the probability of being in various orbits slowly changes. The electromagnetic field itself is described in terms of probabilities, so the probability of electromagnetic energy emission or absorption having occurred increases as time passes. We can't say for sure whether it occurred or not. So why do people talk in terms of "jumps"? This description comes from the fact that an measurement of position, momentum, or energy can only result in a single value. So if we measure energy at one time, and then measure it a little later, we might see that it has "jumped" to a new value. Unlike position and momentum which can change by tiny amounts, the energies of the possible orbits have only discrete allowed values. The question of interpretation is as follows: before we measured the energy, there was only a given probability for the electron to be in a particular orbit, but after the measurement it is 100% in a particular orbit. Further evolution continues from the measured value, so it appears that the measurement "changed" the energy. But did it really? The Copenhagen interpretation says that the energy was changed to the value of the measurement. This is a form of "wave function collapse". The probabilities have become a certainty. The many-worlds interpretation says that the probabilities continue unchanged. A particular observer may observe a certain value, but there is only a probability that the observer exists in that state. There is another probability of the observer having seen a different value. The measurement changes the observer, not the observed object. So if you believe in the Copenhagen interpretation, an atom that had a 0.1% probability to be in orbit 1 and a 99.9% percent probability to be in orbit 2, could upon measurement suddenly have a 100% probability to be in orbit 1. You could reasonably call this "teleportation" from orbit 2 to orbit 1. 