I read in a popular science book that an electron disappears in one orbit and appears in another? Is that really true? Is that an example of teleportation?
This is known as a "quantum jump". However, it's not really a "jump" nor is it "teleportation". Microscopic things like electrons don't have a position in the same sense that a macroscopic thing like a chair has a position. They have a wavefunction, which extends over some volume of space. At each point inside that volume, the wavefunction may be used to calculate the probability to detect, or more precisely, to interact with the electron. However, the electron itself doesn't have a position. There is no particular point where we can say the electron is located; it's "everywhere at once". (This is the usual interpretation of quantum mechanics. To interpret the electron as having an actual position would require the introduction of additional non-local hidden variables to quantum mechanics, as done for example in de Broglie-Bohm theory. However, such interpretations are incompatible with relativity and that's why we don't use them.) In an atom, each electron behaves as a wave. More precisely, it's a standing wave; a wave that's not going anywhere (i.e. constant in time). We call these standing waves orbitals. When the electron changes to a different state, the transformation can be imagined as that of a standing wave changing to a different shape. It should not be imagined as a particle changing its position from one particular point to another, neither continuously nor discontinuously. It has no position, and something that does not exist cannot change. So the particle doesn't "teleport" from one point to another because that would mean that it was in one position, disappeared, and then reappeared in another position (i.e. changed its position discontinuously). This is not what happens. The particle wasn't in any particular point, and after the transition it is still not in any particular point, so there's no sense in which it "teleported" from one point to another. Updated 32w ago • View Upvotes