How would a war between the US and China play out?
I'm going to assume from the phrasing of the question that this is a "mano-a-mano" kind of fight where the USA and PRC are the sole beliggerents.   It's something of a foregone conclusion that the United States would win such a conflict.  It's the primary reason why China hasn't invaded Taiwan; if they thought they might win, they wouldn't be scared of us, we'd be scared of them.   Here's the honest truth though:  War with China scares the crap out of me.   China has one of the best funded, largest, and sophisticated armed forces in the world.  They're the world's second largest economy, and while they don't spend a disproportionate amount on their military, it's enough to make them formidable. (1)   I said this since the first time a colleague suggested we fight the Chinese, and every time since:   If we go to war with China, none of us will be marching in the victory parade.   Because we'll be dead.   I didn't want to march in your stupid parade anyway.   For the more bellicose among us, for whom casualties are secondary to the glory of armed conflict, this is kinda the whole point.  We haven't faced an adversary as formidable as China in a dog's age.  In the process, we've forgotten and segregated loss of life from something that everyone knows and experiences to something that a select few know and experience.  We've lost fewer members of the armed forces in the last several wars than any similar conflict.  Our all-volunteer force - while the best in the world - would be dwarfed by the amount of manpower the Chinese could pit against us.  The People's Liberation Army has about 2,285,000 on active duty and the ability to call on an additional 618,588,627(!) personnel.  That's almost twice the population of the USA.   While we have the ability to combat that kind of force in a traditional conflict, the losses we'd suffer would be catastrophic, necessitate a draft, and we'd be far, far north of the number of personnel we lost in World War II (which was a paltry 416,800 military personnel). (2)   It would tank our economy, the Chinese would likely destroy the Best Coast, and maybe even invade depending on how well their navy performs.   If you could just skip this area, I promise we'll be extra careful with Shanghai.   China may only be spending $166,000,000,000 on their military compared to $682,000,000,000 in the United States, but they have several advantages that would make a conflict extremely painful, not least in terms of loss of life.   Imagine a few hundred thousand, if not millions more of these tombstones.   (1) People's Liberation Army (2) http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Wor... (3) List of countries by military expenditures 