What are most hidden websites on Google that few people know?
I'm sure that even the Googlers (people who work at Google) won’t be able to list the following number of Google services. Even Google’s own products page is not listing all their products. (source - Over 101 Google Products And Services You Probably Don't Know) Google Search & it’s features – Google search is the most popular search engine on the Web. AdMob – Monetize and promote your mobile apps with ads. Android – Android is a software stack for mobile devices that includes an operating system , middleware and key applications. Blogger - A free blog publishing tool for easy sharing of your thoughts with the world. Dartr – Dart is a brand new programming language developed by Google. DoubleClick – An ad technology foundation to create, transact, and manage digital advertising for the world’s buyers, creators and sellers. Google.org – Develops technologies to help address global challenges and supports innovative partners through grants, investments and in-kind resources. Google Aardvark* – A social search engine where people answer each other’s questions. Google Account Activity – Get a monthly summary of your account activity across many Google products. Google Ad Planner – A free media planning tool that can help you identify websites your audience is likely to visit so you can make better-informed advertising decisions. Google AdSense – Place contextual Google ads on your site – and earn money. Google AdWords – Advertise online and pay only when people click on your ad. Google Affiliate Network* – Full-service online marketing company specializing in pay-for-performance media. Google Alerts – Google Alerts are email updates of the latest relevant Google results (web, news, etc.) based on your choice of query or topic. Google Analytics (Urchin) – Google Analytics makes it easy to improve your results online. Google Answers* – Answers allows users to get help from researchers with expertise in online searching. Google Apps – Software-as-a-service for business email, information sharing and security. Google App Engine – Run your web applications on Google’s infrastructure. Google Base - Google Base is a place where you can easily submit all types of online and offline content. Google Blog Search – Blog Search is Google search technology focused on blogs. Google Body (Now, Zygote Body) – Google Body is a detailed 3D model of the human body. Google Bookmarks - Google Bookmarks is an online service that lets you save your favorite sites and attach labels and comments. Google Book Search – Search and preview millions of books from libraries and publishers worldwide. Google Browser Size – Simple visual tool to show what percentage of web users can see different areas of a website without needing to scroll. Google Buzz* – Start conversations about the things you find interesting. Share updates, photos , videos and more with your friends. Google Calendar - Keep track of all your life’s important events – birthdays, reunions, little league games, doctor’s appointments – all in one place. Google Cars [NEW!] – A search engine to get quotes for Cars. Google Checkout - Buy from stores across the web and track all your orders and shipping in one place. Google Chrome – A browser that combines a minimal design with sophisticated technology to make the web faster, safer, and easier. Google Chrome Sync – It’s a Google Tool that Syncs your Google Chrome bookmarks across multiple computers. Google Chromebook [NEW!] – A computer from Google designed to help you get things done faster and easier. Google Chromebook Pixel [NEW!] – It’s a laptop that brings together the best in hardware, software, and design to inspire future innovation. Google Chromium – The Chromium projects include Chromium and Chromium OS, the open-source projects behind the Google Chrome browser and Google Chrome OS, respectively. Google Cloud Platform – Enables developers to build, test and deploy applications on Google’s highly-scalable and reliable infrastructure. Google Cloud Print – Google Cloud Print is a new technology that connects your printers to the web. Google Code - Code is for external developers interested in Google related development. Google Contacts [NEW!] – Similar to an online address book, the Contact Manager gives you easy access to the people you want to reach. Google Contact Lens – A smart contact lens project by Google. Google Correlate – Find search patterns that correlate with real-world data. Google Cultural Institute – Cultural Institute brings together millions of artifacts from multiple partners, with the stories that bring them to life, in a virtual museum. Google Currents – A social magazine app by Google. Google Custom Search Engine & Google Subscribed Links – With Google Custom Search Engine and Subscribed Links, you can create a search engine tailored to your needs that lets you create custom search results which users can add to their Google search pages. Google Dashboard – Google Dashboard offers a simple view into the data associated with your Google Account. Google Desktop* - Search your computer as easily as you search the web with Google. Google Developers – To inspire developers everywhere. Google Dictionary – Free online dictionary. Google Directory – The web organized by topic into categories. Google Docs – Free web-based word processor and spreadsheet, which allow you to share and collaborate online. Google Drive [NEW!] – Get 5 GB of Cloud Storage for Free. Google Earth & Google Mars - Offers maps and satellite images for complex or pinpointed regional searches. Google Fast Flip* – Read news fast. Google FeedBurner – Allows bloggers and podcasters to manage their RSS feeds. Google Fiber [NEW!] – Google Fiber is a broadband internet network that starts with a connection speed 100 times faster than today’s broadband. Google Finance – Offers a broad range of information about stocks, mutual funds, and companies. Google Flight Search [NEW!] – Choose your flight from a simple list of results, explore destinations on a map, and find travel dates with the lowest fare with Google Flight Search. Google Fonts – Google Fonts (previously called Google Web Fonts) is an interactive directory of hosted open-source fonts optimized for the web. Google Fusion Tables – Gather, visualize and share your data online. Google Friend Connect* – Instantly awakens and strengthens the community that visits your site by enriching it with social features. Google Gears – A Firefox and Internet Explorer extension that allows to navigate on compatible websites offline and synchronize when going back online. Google Glass [NEW!] – Google’s Project Glass is a research and development program by Google to develop an augmented reality head-mounted display (HMD). Google Go – Go is an expressive, concurrent, garbage-collected programming language. Google Grants – In-kind advertising for non-profit organizations. Google Groups - Where groups of people have discussions about common interests. Google Hangouts [NEW!] – Hangouts bring your conversations to life with photos, emoji, and group video calls for free. Google Helpouts – Connects people who need help with people who can give help over live video. Google Health* - Puts you in charge of your health information. Google Ideas [NEW!] – Google Ideas connect users, experts and engineers to conduct research and seed new technology-driven initiatives. Google Image Search & Similar Images - The most comprehensive image search on the web. Google Search Images allows you to search for images using pictures rather than words. Google In Quotes – Allows you to find quotes from stories linked to Google News. Google Input Tools – Input Tools makes it easy to type in the language you choose, anywhere on the web. Google Keep [NEW!] – Quickly create, access and organize your notes, lists and photos with Keep. Google Knol* - Knol makes it free and easy to create, collaborate on, and publish credible web content. Google Latitude - See where your friends are on a map. Google Lively* – A web-based virtual environment by Google. Google Local Business Center - If you are a business owner Claim your business listing today and let customers find you online! Google Loon [NEW!] – Loon is a network of balloons traveling on the edge of space, designed to connect people in rural and remote areas, help fill coverage gaps, and bring people back online after disasters. Google Mail (Gmail) - Gmail is a new kind of webmail, built on the idea that email can be more intuitive, efficient, and useful. Google Maps & Google Map Maker - Find local businesses, view maps and get driving directions. With Map Maker you can edit the map in more than a hundred countries and watch your edits go into Google Maps. Google Mars – Provides a visible imagery view, like Google Moon, as well as infrared imagery and shaded relief (elevation) of the planet Mars. Google Mobile - Upgrade your phone with free Google products. Google Moderator - A tool that allows distributed communities to submit and vote on questions for talks, presentations and events. Google Moon – See the Moon in 3D. Google Music – Upload your personal music collection and access it instantly on the web or any compatible device without the hassle of wires or syncing. Google Music Timeline – Music Timeline shows genres of music waxing and waning, based on how many Google Play Music users have an artist or album in their music library, and other data (such as album release dates). Google News, News Archive Search & Google News Timeline - Aggregated headlines and a search engine of many of the world’s news sources. News archive search provides an easy way to search and explore historical archives. News Timeline is a web application that organizes information chronologically. Google Nexus [NEW!] – Smartphones and tablets from Google. Google Notebook* (SearchWiki*) - With Google Notebook, you can browse, clip, and organize information from across the web in a single online location that’s accessible from any computer. Google Now – An intelligent personal assistant by Google. Google Offers – Get amazing deals at the best places to eat, shop, and play. Google One Pass* – A service that lets publishers set their own prices and terms for their digital content. Google Pack* – Google Pack is a collection of software tools offered by Google to download in a single archive. Google PageSpeed Insights – Page Speed Online analyzes the content of a web page, then generates suggestions to make that page faster. Google PageSpeed Service [NEW!] – PageSpeed Service makes web pages load faster for your users. Google Patents – Search the full text of the U.S. patent corpus and find patents that interest you. Google Person Finder – Google Person Finder by Google.org helps people reconnect with friends and loved ones in the aftermath of natural and humanitarian disasters. Google Play – Google’s digital application distribution platform for Android and an online electronics and digital media store. Google Plus – Google+ aims to make sharing on the web more like sharing in real life. Google Postini – Google email security and archiving services, powered by Postini, make your existing email system more secure and compliant. Google PowerMeter – Save Energy. Save Money. Make a Difference. Google Product Search (Froogle) - Presents photographs of products and links to the stores that sell them online. Google Profiles – Decide what the world sees when it searches for you. Display the information you care about and make it easy for visitors to get to know you. Google Public DNS – Google Public DNS is a free, global Domain Name System (DNS) resolution service, that you can use as an alternative to your current DNS provider. Google Reader* – Web based feed reader to keep up with blogs and news. Google Related – Google Related is a Chrome Extension that shows you useful, interesting content while you browse the web. Google Scholar – Provides a search of scholarly literature across many disciplines and sources, including theses, books, abstracts and articles. Google Scribe – Google Scribe helps you write better documents. Google Script Converter – Convert text or a webpage. Google Self-driving Car [NEW!] – Google Driverless Car is a project that involves developing technology for autonomous cars. Google Sets* – Automatically create sets of items from a few examples. Google Sites – Google Sites is a free and easy way to create and share web pages. Google SketchUp - Create, modify and share 3D models. Google Sky – Google Sky includes a number of different ways to explore the universe. Google Squared – Takes a category and creates a starter ‘square‘ of information, automatically fetching and organizing facts from across the web. Google Street View – Explore the world at street level. Google Store – Official Google Accessories, Apparel Items, Software, Office Equipment. Google Subscribed Links – Subscribed Links let you create custom search results that users can add to their Google search pages. Google Suggest - As you type your search, Google offers keyword suggestions in real time. Google Sync – Synchronize your mail, calendar and contacts. Google Tag Manager [NEW!]– It lets you add and update your website tags, easily and for free, whenever you want, without bugging the IT folks. Google Takeout – Google Takeout allows you to download a copy of your data stored within Google products. Google Talk* – Chat with family and friends over the Internet for free. Google Tasks – Keep track of what you need to do. Your task list stays up to date no matter how you access it. It’s a simple list that’s with you everywhere you go. Google Think – It’s Google’s source for insights, trends and research in digital marketing. Google Toolbar – Internet Explorer and Firefox Toolbar with Google search. Google Transit – Plan a trip using public transportation. Google Transliteration – Google Transliteration allows you to type phonetically using Roman characters. Google Translate – Free online language translation service instantly translates text and web pages. Google Trends & Google Insights for Search - Compare the world’s interest in your favorite topics. Use Google Insights for Search and see for yourself what the world is searching for. Google TV – Google TV is a new experience that combines TV, the entire web, and apps — as well as a way to search across them all. Take a tour, learn how it works, and find out how to get it. Google URL Shortener – Google URL Shortener at Redirecting is used by Google products to create short URLs that can be easily shared, tweeted, or emailed to friends. Google Ventures – Venture Capital – by Google. Google Video – Search and watch millions of videos indexed from all over the web. Google Voice – Google Voice gives you one number for all your phones, voicemail as easy as email, free US long distance, low rates on international calls, and more. Google Wallet – Save time and money by shopping with Google Wallet — a smart, virtual wallet that stores your payment cards, offers, and more on your phone and online. Google Wave* – Google Wave is a new online communication and collaboration tool. Google Web Designer [NEW!] – Create engaging, interactive HTML5-based designs and motion graphics that can run on any device. Google Web Accelerator – Google Web Accelerator works with your browser to help web pages show up in a snap. Google Web Elements – Google Web Elements allow you to easily add your favorite Google products to your website. Google Web Fonts – Get hundreds of free, open-source fonts optimized for the web (hosted on Google Server). Google Web History - Your web history is stored on Google servers, which means that you can view and manage it from any computer. Google Web Toolkit – Open source set of tools for building and optimizing complex browser-based applications. Google Webmaster Tools - Provides you with detailed reports about your pages’ visibility on Google. Google Website Optimizer – Website Optimizer, Google’s free website testing and optimization tool, allows you to increase the value of your existing websites and traffic without spending a cent. Google WiFi – Google WiFi is a free wireless Internet service that Google is offering to the city of Mountain View. iGoogle – Your personalized Google home page. Jaiku* - Create your own microblog and connect with your friends. Orkut – Social networking site designed to make your social life more active and stimulating. Panoramio – A geolocation-oriented photo sharing website. Picasa - Helps you organize, edit, and share your photos. reCAPTCHA – A captcha system that uses successful decodings to helps digitise books for online use. Schemer [NEW!] – Schemer lets you discover new things to do, share schemes with friends, and make the most of your day. Textcube - Korean blogging platform. Waze [NEW!] – It is the world’s largest community based traffic and navigation app. You can join other drivers in your area who share real-time traffic and road info, saving everyone time and gas money on their daily commute. WebP – A new open-source image format by Google that provides 30% better image compression. WebPageTest – Website Performance and Optimization Test is an open source project developed and supported by Google to test a website’s performance. WebRTC – An open source project that enables web browsers with Real-Time Communications (RTC) capabilities. What Do You Love (WDYL) [NEW!] – Search numerous Google products with one click. Wildfire – Wildfire is a social media marketing software that provides easy-to-use social media tools for pages, messages, ads, promotions, monitoring, analytics, etc. YouTube - Share your videos with friends, family, and the world. MORE 1. Google Ngram Viewer Google's Ngram Viewer lets you search keywords in millions of books over the span of half a millennium, a useful tool for finding trends over time. For power users, the Ngram Viewer also has advanced options, such as searching for particular keywords as specific parts of speech or combining keywords. Just in case you ever wanted to see how big cocaine was in Victorian times, now you can. Screenshot courtesy of Google Ngram Viewer. 2. Google Correlate A part of Google Trends, Google Correlate allows you to look at search trends over time. For example, input "soup" and you'll see a clear increase in searches during the winter months. The more fascinating part of Google Correlate is the Search by Drawing function. Draw a fun graph and Correlate will give you search keywords that best match your graph creation. Screenshot courtesy of Google Correlate. 3. Google Trends Look at trends in hot searches with Google Trends. Browse by date, or look at top searches in different categories with the new Top Chartsfunction. Finally, with the Explore function, input a search term and see how it trended over time and location. You can also now view popular searches in a colorful fullscreen format. Screenshot courtesy of Google Trends. 4. Google Think Insights Home to an abundance of resources, Google Think Insights is a useful tool for entrepreneurs and industry professionals. There are case studies, new findings and tips on how to grow your business, as well as showcases of exemplary projects. Finally, there are also tools for maximizing your site analytics and ad campaigns. A particularly useful collection is how to "Make Your Website Work Across Different Platforms." Screenshot courtesy of Google Think Insights. 5. Google Public Data Explorer Search through databases from around the world, including the World Bank, OECD, Eurostat and the U.S. Census Bureau. After you find what you want, filter through categories to make graphs with the axes you want. Google's Public Data Explorer then displays the data in a line graph, bar graph, scatterplot or on a map. 6. Get Your Business Online Get Your Business Online is Google's initiative to get more local businesses on the web, in an effort to boost the local economy as well as help small businesses grow. The initiative also encourages people to get other businesses online, with an end goal of reaching every local business in America. There are also listings for events and lessons. The free service also includes hosting for one year. Screenshot courtesy of Get Your Business Online. 7. Google Fonts Google Fonts offers open source web fonts for all to use privately or commercially. As of now, there are 629 font families available. Filter fonts by thickness, slant, width and script. Screenshot courtesy of Google Fonts (Source- 14 Google Tools You Didn't Know Existed) 