What are some amazing facts about the Indian Railways?
1. Fastest train in India New Delhi-Bhopal Shatabdi Express is the fastest train in India. The all air-conditioned superfast train clocks a maximum speed of 150km/h on the Faridabad-Agra section. It also has the highest commercial speed - 89.87 km/h- and covers the 704 km New Delhi - Bhopal stretch in 7 hours 50 minutes. 2. Longest, shortest run by a train Vivek Express from Dibrugarh to Kanyakumari travels a distance of 4273 km, making it the longest run in terms of total time and distance in Indian Railways. Shortest run: Scheduled services between Nagpur and Ajni stations situated just 3km from each other – primarily meant for crew to travel from Nagpur station to the workshop at Ajni. 3. Longest non-stop travel/ Trains with most stops Trivandrum - H. Nizamuddin Rajdhani Express travels the 528km stretch between Vadodara and Kota non-stop. In second place is the Mumbai Rajdhani Express that travels nonstop between New Delhi and Kota. The record for maximum number of stops by an Express/Mail train is held by Howrah - Amritsar Express 115 halts, followed by Delhi - Howrah Janata Express 109 halts and Jammu Tawi - Sealdah Express 99 halts. 4. Longest, shortest station names Shortest names: Ib, near Jharsuguda in Odisha and Od, near Anand in Gujarat. Longest name: 'Venkata narasimha raju vari peta' on the Arakkonam-Renigunta section near Chennai. 5. Least punctual train Guwahati-Trivandrum Express is said to be the most unreliable long-distance train in the country. The charted journey time is 65 hours and 5 minutes, but the average delay on a trip is about 10-12 hours. 6. Two stations at same location Srirampur and Belapur are two different stations in Ahmednagar district of Maharashtra which are both at the same location on the railway route but on opposite sides of the track. 7. Most powerful locomotive Electric locomotive WAG-9 used for hauling heavy freight rakes is the most powerful locomotive in Indian Railways' fleet. The 6,350 horsepower beast is homed at Gomoh, Ajni,Lallaguda,Tughlakabad and Bhilai. Modified version of WAG-9 named WAP 7 is IR’s workhouse for high speed passenger service. It is capable of hauling 24 coach trains at speeds ranging between 140 and 160 km per hour. WAP-7 has similar horsepower as that of WAG-9 but comes with modified gear ratios for faster acceleration. 8. Last stations in North-South-East-West direction Northernmost railway station is Baramulla in Jammu and Kashmir. Westernmost is Naliya near Bhuj in Gujarat. Southernmost railway station is Kanyakumari, while the last station on the east of India is Ledo on branch line from Tinsukia. 9. Junction with most number of routes originating from it Mathura junction with 7 routes- Broad Gauge (BG) line to Agra Cantt, BG line to Bharatpur, BG line to Alwar, BG line to Delhi, BG line to Achnera, Metre Gauge (MG) line to Vrindavan and BG line to Hathras, Kasganj. Six route junction – Bhatinda, Rewadi, Muzaffarpur(2B, Muzaffarpur to Chhapra and Muzaffarpur to Darbhanga — U/C), 5B2M – Sabarmati(1B1M to Mehsana, 1B1M to Ahmedabad)*. Five route junctions – 5B – Amritsar, Katni, Jalandhar City, Kanpur Central, Katihar, Moradabad, Rohtak, Patna, Varanasi, Guntakal, Vijayawada 4B2M – Villupuram Junction (1B1M common to Tindivanam).* 4B1M – Lucknow* 4B1N – Gwalior (N-Narrow Gauge) 4B – Barsoi* 3B2M – Bareilly, Dindigul, Dharmavaram, Sitapur* 2B3M – Mehsana* 3N2B – Dabhoi10. Most number of parallel tracks/ Three gauges at one station Seven parallel tracks between Bandra Terminus and Andheri - 10km. Siliguri station on NFR holds the distinction of having three different gauges present. IRCTC the Indian Railways subsidiary Facts IRCTC website was slowest and thousands of people complained but in 2014 it improved. Within a short span of its going online, it had become the largest and the fastest-growing e-commerce website in the Asia-Pacific region, with about six lakh registered users as of 2013. One out of five online users in India visits the Indian Railways site, with almost 12 million unique visitors monthly and majority of the traffic is seen between 10 am to 12 pm.  About 11.57 lakh berths and seats are booked a day, out of which tatkal accounts for 1.71 lakh seats and berths on 2677 trains. Tatkal booking yielded a revenue of Rs. 847 crore during 2011-12.(Ref: Hindu). IRCTC receives a lot of flak for its slow, sluggish performance,server inability, low bandwidth. Currently, it is said to sell about 40-45,000 Tatkal railway tickets between 10 am and 11 am (usually its 10 and 11, because all tickets are sold in one hour – in fact, 45 mins) On an average, Indian Railways website receives over 4.15 lakh online booking daily and over 10 Lakh people Check PNR Status online daily. - See more at: Page on i-facts.info . As a biggest e-commerce portal in India, it made lot of records. On Sep 2,2013, nearly 572,000 tickets booked in a day. On 19 March 2014, nearly 580,000 tickets booked in a day.For Funny Facts Read this Answer Kush Tripathi's answer to What is the most funny or weird scene you have encountered while travelling on Indian Rail? Updated 6w ago • View Upvotes