Life Advice:  I'm 23 and I still dont know what I want to do in my life.?
First things first. Google the following self-assessment tools from the net: 1) Personal Interest Inventory; 2) Career Directions Inventory; You may even want to do a few different ones just for the fun of it. They  are not rocket science, but at least, upon completion, you are likely  to get a rough sense of your interest and career inclinations. With the fresh inputs, then sit down and chart out your compelling, inspiring and overarching long-range goals, broken down into short-term, medium-term, and long-term perspectives, as follows: - what I want to BE; - what I want to DO; - what I want to HAVE; - what I want to IMPROVE; - what I want to CHANGE; While you are doing it,   you may want to consider the following major life dimensions in your life: - academic pursuit; - mental development; - career aspirations; - physical health; - financial wealth; - family relationships (including romance); - social networking; - recreational ventures (including hobbies, interests, sports, vacations, etc.); - spiritual development (including contributions to society, volunteering, etc..); Take your time, as you are thinking about your future. You may end up with several useful ideas in each column. Narrow them down to say 3 to 5, by asking yourself, as you evaluate your goals,: Do I really like or want it? Will I enjoy it when I get it? Am I prepared to do whatever it takes to get it? If Yes for all questions, proceed; if NO, it's a NO GO! Following this evaluation, sort out the goals and objectives into - short-term (12 months); - medium-term (1 to 5 years, roughly) - long-term (beyond 5 years); Upon     completion of reflection, contemplation and introspection, the next logical    step for you is to work out a systematic game plan, whereby  you need    to  translate all your long-range goals and objectives into specific, prioritised and executable tasks which  you must do daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly, and even annually. With the end in mind, comprising startpoint, endpoint and the development path of transition points in between, you  also need to determine: - specific tasks t be accomplished at each transition point til the endpoint; - metrics to  measure   your progress or milestone accomplishments; - accountability, as  some of the tasks  may need to be shared; - resources  that needed go get all the work done; - timeline  for  scheduled completion of each predefined task; For   good measure, you   also   need to explore potential roadblocks or   obstacles that may crop  up    along the Highway of Life as you traverse on it, and come up with a slew strategies to deal with them. In the corporate world, this is called "contingency planning".   All   these strategic and tactical   initiatives will now collectively embody the envisaged   vivid image of your ultimate success achievement, which you are likely to hold in your head, serving as your personal   driving force, to keep you inspired, motivated and focused, while you are in  hot pursuit of your desired   outcomes or cherished dreams. To recap, GOALS, PRIORITIES, and a PLAN,  set your directions and direct your focus on the things that matter to you the most. More importantly, GOALS, PRIORITIES and a PLAN, give you the reasons for getting out of bed quickly every morning, and for staying - and feeling - alive. Last but not least, GOALS, PRIORITIES, and a  PLAN,  are like precise commands preset into the flight plan of a Tomahawk cruise missile, homing onto a predefined long-distance target, to use a military analogy. I have  already   written extensively on goal setting and goal achieving,  including how   to set up an systematic game plan on Quora. You can  search their   archives. 