What does it mean when scientists always refer to symmetry in the universe?
This is an extremely loaded matter, and I will admit I do not fully understand everything about it myself, but I'll try to sketch a clearer picture. There are several kinds of symmetry, you have mirrorsymmetry (I don't know if this is the usual name in English, but it should speak for itself). But you can also have rotational symmetry: if you rotate a globe (or your view), the image stays the same: symmetry. There is also something called translational symmetry: if you move some distance in some direction, the image stays the same. If you define what it means to be symmetric (any kind), in mathmatical terms, you can then see if formulae and theories are symmetric. Take for instance the formula -x^2 +x^4 - Wolfram|Alpha and take a look at the graph. It's quite obvious that this graph is symmetric, if you send [math]x \rightarrow -x [/math] the whole formula and graph stays the same. So this formula could be part of some symmetric theory, as the potential for instance. So lets consider the very simplistic case where we have an object shaped exactly like the above figure. Lets assume there is gravity, and that this object has no friction. And once the ball is on the object, it will not leave (ie. it cannot fly off) We now place a ball somewhere on the object (either the left or right leg), but higher than the middle peak. The ball will start to roll down, eventually it will find the middle peak and start rolling upwards, losing some of the energy. Since it started higher than the middle peak, it will have enough energy to overcome it, so eventually it will roll down on the other side, the up against the other outside. Eventually it will reach its original height (but on the other side of the object. From there it will start to roll down again, and the whole thing will start again. The claim is that this situation is symmetric: the ball will continue to make this movement endlessly, and it if you wait long enough, it will at some point appear in the exact mirror position. However, lets say we place the ball lower: lower than the middle peak. Again, the ball will roll down, start climbing the middle peak, but since it started lower than that peak, it will not have enough energy to get over it. Instead, it will roll backwards into one of the lower region. The thing here, is that in this scenario, the ball will never leave the lower region it started in. Since the other low region does not have a ball (and never will), this situation is not symmetric anymore. This rather simplistic example shows symmetry breaking: despite the fact that the object was symmetric, we managed to break that symmetry and force the whole system in a state that was not symmetric anymore. In this example, I put the ball in a high or low place, but in nature, it can be the temperature, or the magnetic field, or some other parameter that determines where the ball is placed. I won't go into detail much more here, but if, in physics, a symmetry is broken, we are talking about a phase transition (for instance, water to gas). Phase transitions are extremely interesting in physics (and chemistry, I'm sure), because it means that matter can suddenly behave wildly different depending on temperature or another parameter. 