How likely is it that the Aquatic Ape Hypothesis is true?  What are some good arguments for or against it?
For those of you who think Homo Sapiens evolved according to the conventional ‘savannah’ theory, think about this: As a general rule, prey species living in relatively open environments have evolved to run slightly faster than their natural predators.   For the species to survive in the long term, they need to stand a sporting chance of escaping the predator – whether by reaching a burrow, climbing a tree or simply outrunning the predator. If you want to see a savannah adapted primate, I would suggest that a baboon is a much better example than Homo Sapiens. Everything from its body hair to its speed, strength and dentition have evolved to meet the demands of savannah life, and the conventional theorists of human evolution should have to explain why Homo Sapiens differs so radically from the baboon if we evolved in a similar environment and under similar selection pressures. Before someone mentions tool use, try thinking through the following scenario.  Imagine yourself as a proto-hominid venturing down from the trees to adopt a more terrestrial lifestyle (this is conventional theory and I am not disputing the arboreal – terrestrial evolutionary step).  In a more open environment you find yourself vulnerable to predation by big cats.  How much better do you feel facing a hungry lion if I say you could carry a stick?  Being slightly more intelligent than most primates, you can escape the predators, not just by running away, climbing trees, or throwing rocks – but by exercising intelligence in your choice of habitat.  In short, if you don’t like the neighbourhood, you move. The Aquatic Ape Hypothesis proposes that we did exactly that. We moved.  And we look as different as we do from the baboon today because we moved to a very different environment.  An environment where most of our food sources were weaker or slower than we were.  An environment where the existing top predators (seals, birds, most fish) could be included in our food chain.  An environment where, if throwing rocks was our best defence against predators, we were surrounded by as much ammunition as we would ever need.  An environment where stone tools would be the obvious choice.  Yes, it’s a beach. Personally, I think we were followed down to the beach by the big cats, and the predation pressure continued.  Certainly something made it a requirement for our ancestors to live for much of their time not just beside but IN the water for many many generations. I have posted elsewhere a list of some of the evolutionary adaptations that followed.  It is not a complete list, and no single item on it is irrefutable proof of aquatic adaptation in Homo Sapiens.  However, the pattern they represent makes far more sense to me than for example ‘ Homo Sapiens lost body hair in order to keep cool while hunting under the hot African sun’. For completeness and with apologies to those who have seen it already I’ll post the list again here: Human anatomy: - Descended larynx Downward facing nostrils Lack of fur Body posture / bipedalism Subcutaneous fat distribution Human Female Anatomy: - Breasts Hymen Human physical performance:- Slow running speed vs most savannah predators Muscular weakness vs predators or other large primates Neonatal abilities in water Voluntary breath control Human physiology and biochemistry;- Dietary dependence on iodine Importance of fish oils in nutrition and brain development Diving reflex Human archaeology: Hominid / human settlements found close to water sources (ancient lakes / rivers etc.) It is a sad fact that if the Aquatic Ape Hypothesis is true, the archaeological evidence is going to be thin, precisely because fossilization is unlikely to occur on a stony beach.  There may be some supporting archaeological evidence forthcoming from ongoing research into 'shell middens' (see http://archaeology.about.com/od/... for example). However, I for one am pleased to see that the Aquatic Ape Hypothesis is slowly gaining credibility and continues to be discussed. Updated 34w ago • View Upvotes