Life Advice:  I'm 23 and I still dont know what I want to do in my life.?
Hello Mohd, Dreaming about earning lots of money is yes-indeed-normal.  It's also, I think,  a somewhat sad reflection of our society's imbalance - because having 'enough' to live on is essential, but having more than enough typically doesn't bring us greater happiness than people simply have enough. At 23, please think of yourself as at the 'base camp' of your own Mt. Everest.  It may seem to you that 'everyone else' has already figured out what you're still struggling to learn...but in truth you are still early in your journey of learning the skills you need to live the life you want.   Did you know your brain doesn't actually finish developing until you're about 26 or so? So you still have a few years in front of you where your main mission is to allow your brain to complete 'cooking' Everyone's timeline and path to success is individual, so comparing yourself to others generally won't help you too much.  Instead, please remember that every time you take a risk you'll learn - and trying and failing can teach you exactly the lessons you need to learn to succeed in life!  If I'd only known earlier that failures are here to help me learn what I need to learn so that I can build that life I want to have - I'd have invited failure into my life rather than done everything possible to avoid it. These are the life-gifts I've found most valuable so far for facing and overcoming fear: The first gift is for future happiness: What is 'failure-immunity'?  - the lovely step beyond courage where you no longer fear to 'try'. The second is for the inspiration today: What does it feel like to blindly pursue your deepest dreams despite what other people say about you? Know that there are 3 answers to this question (so far):  - and every one of them starts with the word 'Liberating'. This gift is for heart and laughter to overcome life's pain: Harold and Maude (1971) And my story below is for courage - because I've known the deep despair failure and I learned to move past it! Risk. Fail.  Rise and repeat. Grow bold. - Kim Updated 3w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Mohd Nazar Mubeen