How likely is it that the Aquatic Ape Hypothesis is true?  What are some good arguments for or against it?
Under the current scientific consensus, AAH is unlikely to be true. Although we now have solid evidence that human ancestors lived near wetlands and coastlines, migrated by boats, ate a lot of seafood... there's few evidence that they have ever swum/dived frequent enough to produce such semi-aquatic adaptations described in AAH. Say 10-20 years later, things would be different. Scientists are already shifting from a purely terrestrial standpoint, to a mosaic and generalist one that includes both terrestrial and aquatic dimensions. My bet is that AAH will be neither entirely bogus nor entirely true, but part of it will find its place in our scientific knowledge. Here is a poster I presented in the conference "Human Evolution: Past, Present and Future" in London, 2013. It summarizes most anatomical and physiological arguments from AAH/WE. (Also in Wikipedia Common) (Note: AAH is only part of the debate, there're other water-related theories and ideas. I will use "AAH/WE" referring to the Aquatic Ape Hypothesis and Waterside Evolution models) As you can see, there's a whole lot of arguments for AAH/WE, but in my opinion many of them are shaky and extremely speculative. Only a few are "good" enough to be put under scientific scrutiny and enjoy academic success. Good arguments for AAH/WE - Aquatic diet and brain evolution - There's a whole new line of evidence in nutrition, paleoscience and archaeology, that (1) early hominin ancestors (e.g. Australopithecus) lived in wetlands, partly consumed aquatic foods like papyrus sedges and snails, (2) later, Homo ancestors (e.g. Homo erectus, early Homo sapiens) lived near rivers and coastlines, partly consumed fish, shellfish and marine mammal carcasses. The theory goes that (3) the aquatic foods provided a reliable energy source as well as micro-nutrients (DHA, iodine, iron etc) that enabled the gradual expansion of the hominin brain, and modern humans still need them to maintain physical and mental health (DHA added in infant formula, iodized salt). In my opinion this is by far the most compelling group of evidence supporting a more aquatic past (not necessary proving AAH/WE, but in that direction). - Coastal migration - Genetic and archaeological evidence shows that early Homo sapiens left Africa 70k years ago and spread around the world, some by land but more successfully following coastlines and rivers. They hugged the Indian Ocean coasts, crossed SE Asia ocean barriers arriving Australia, and went all around the Pacific Rim down to the tip of South America. They most likely used boats, ate seafood, later invaded inland along rivers and then developed agriculture. That means humans were once extremely ocean-going. Did they swim or dive a lot? We don't know. - Coastal archaeology - Archaeologists investigate coastal sites all over the world and found many Homo species (neanderthals, erectus, early sapiens) used marine resources. Two important recent findings are: (1) Homo erectus used freshwater shells as tools and made the oldest engravings ever found on a shell (this news), (2) the earliest evidence of Homo sapiens modern behavior (ocher use, heat treatment, microlith technology, etc) in South Africa coastal sites (this news). These suggest that coastal environment was likely the origin of human creativity and intelligence, in line with the brain argument above. - Diving physiology - A number of Swedish scientists study the extraordinary diving ability in SE Asia Sea Gypsies, Japanese pearl divers and competitive free divers. What they found is that any human being, from Asian to European, from male to female, from 16 to 60, has the perfect potential to dive freely underwater down to 20m, enabled by our advanced diving reflexes. They also found that children can see clearly underwater after some practice, again unrelated to ethnicity. That means, a physiology suitable for diving exists in all humans. Should this be a product of Darwinian evolution? - Features unique to semi-aquatic existence - Features that are found in semi-aquatic animals, can easily be explained as semi-aquatic adaptations but useless in a terrestrial setting. E.g. oily sebum on your face (best explained as water-proofing agent in water, useless on land), hair growth patterns (roughly follow the water flows during swimming). Bad arguments for AAH/WESome arguments are popular but not very useful. - Poorly supported arguments - E.g. External nose - Although often mentioned, it's rather weak argument. Our nose isn't particularly well adapted to swimming/diving, as someone noted, generally the nostrils cannot be closed. Webbing between toes and fingers - This only occurs in a minority of the population. Tears and sweating - The tear argument has been withdrawn by Elaine Morgan. Sweating... if we can cool down inside water, why need sweating? - Parsimony - Some say AAH is parsimonious because it can explain so many things, but it's also its weakness for including too many things. Good arguments against AAH/WE - No single cause in human evolution - Current knowledge tells us that human evolution is a long process of millions of years, every feature in your body occurred in different times. Bipedal walking came first, then reduction of canine teeth, loss of hair, intelligence... every change in the skeleton, every tiny increase in brain volume, are the results of environmental factors and biological constraints at that time. The original AAH suggested that all human features evolved in a single semi-aquatic phase, which is absolute wrong. (Other WE models do better by taking these current knowledge into account). - Lack of evidence - Despite the above-mentioned favoring points, that doesn't mean AAH is more true by now. They only provide a proper framework for scientists so they can start to ask questions and gather more evidence. There are many missing links -- Is seafood really important compared to land-based hunting/scavenging/gathering? Did human ancestors dive much, and was it sufficient to trigger natural selection? - Hard to be tested - The numerous arguments in AAH are interconnected and hard to be tested individually. They are also vaguely defined. Not that AAH cannot be verified, but it's very difficult. Bad arguments against AAH/WE Since there are many, I've put them into categories. - Overkilling arguments - Some arguments sound logical and witty at first sight, but when you apply the same principle to other models or well accepted knowledge, they will be falsified (overkilled) as well. E.g. "Human ancestors should stand no chance in front of aquatic predators like sharks and crocodiles." The same would be true for big cats and hyenas on savannah, and leopards in forest. Cetaceans and pinnipeds would also face the same problem when they first went aquatic. "Human can swim/dive because we are generalist and can learn to do everything." The same principle will render the Endurance Running hypothesis useless. - Arguments with poor support - Some arguments are based on wrong assumptions, insufficient data, pure speculations, or yet another unproven hypothesis. E.g. "XXX feature is because of endurance running (or your favorite hypothesis here) but not water." I do find the Endurance Running hypothesis reasonable, but since when did it become a scientific fact? Last time I checked, it's no more supported by hard evidence than AAH. "Humans are poor swimmers, and prone to drowning." In fact all extant apes (gibbons, orangutans, gorillas, chimps, humans) are poor swimmers and prone to drowning, because, according to a recent study, Miocene ape ancestors already lost their instinctive swimming (dog paddle) when adapting to the arboreal life. Human seemingly "regained" swimming and diving abilities in some way. "Many semi-aquatic mammals (e.g. sea otters, polar bears) still have fur." Being aquatic is only one factor for fur loss/retention, other factors being body size, habitat temperature, diving habit, etc. Both for and against arguments are incomplete. - AAH is unfalsifiable pseudoscience - One unable to falsify a hypothesis doesn't mean it cannot be falsied in principle. Consider the following possibilities: Human turns out to be poor swimmer/diver compared to other apes. Human swimming/diving is well within our biological and behavioral plasticity, no physical adaptation is needed. Evidence that human ancestors never swam/dived much. Not much supporting fossil/archaeological evidence even if we're able to investigate under the current sea level. So, contrary to popular believe, AAH is perfectly falsifiable. The following is my answer to this original question (now merged): "How and why does the scientific community reject the aquatic ape hypothesis?" The scientific community is divided in their opinion on AAH. - Most scientists in general (biologists, biochemists, etc) find the idea interesting, worth researching, but generally won't mention it in their works. - Most paleoanthropologists / anthropologists, who consider themselves the appropriate experts on human evolution, ignore AAH, ridicule AAH, even though they cannot give good scientific evidence to disprove it. John Hawks's claim that AAH is not parsimonious (mentioned in Zen Faulkes' answer) is a fair one, Henry Gee's insult that "AAH is creationism" is an ugly one. - An increasing number of scientists are now researching on water-related human evolution, not necessary giving credit to AAH, but providing support for a few of its important claims. Related areas like coastal migration theory, coastal and island archaeology, shore-based diet, diving physiology, ethnography of sea gypsies, waterbirth, wading bipedalism... etc. In the long run, the scientific community is witnessing a fade-out of the controversial AAH, and welcoming of a new synthesis that includes many ideas originally from AAH but scrutinized by science. In this sense, the AAH was never rejected. Updated 22w ago • View Upvotes