Is it hard being a transgender parent?
By the time I figured out I was trans, and how deeply it ran, my kids were already adults. My youngest was in her freshman year of college. But being a parent doesn't stop then. What became hard was all of us trying to figure out new dynamics. I was trying to process my own issues and chart my course through transition and beyond. My kids were trying to deal with the shattering of the image they'd held of who I was, their parents getting divorced and each of my kids were at their own crossroads in life as it were. All the adjustments took time. A lot of time. My youngest and I had been pretty darned close and suddenly there was a fairly large distance between us. She was always supportive and accepting, but things were different. More awkward. My oldest had been going through some rough times and along the way had her own first child. I tried to make sure they knew that no matter what I would always be their dad. Neither ever really shared a lot about what they felt, whether they had any anger or not, whether they felt embarrassed or not. There wasn't a lot of conversation, even when I tried to initiate it. I suspect part of that was simply because they didn't know how to articulate their feelings and they didn't want to hurt my feelings. When my grandson was born, I became "Nana". Even now whenever my grandkids are around I am referred to that way. In e-mail and conversations when they aren't around, my oldest refers to me as Krystle. Not Dad. My youngest will now refer to me as Dad when it's just us and her kids are not present. Yet even with the remarkable level of support I have received, there have been times when I've found it hard. At my oldest daughter's wedding, I was treated pretty much like just another guest. My ex and her husband, my son-in-law's parents and my daughter's biological father were all congratulated with the typical, "Congratulations! You must be so proud!" type of sentiments. I don't recall hearing anything of the sort. When my youngest was married, I had to share walking her down the aisle with my ex's husband. I got the first stage, from the waiting area to the start of the actual aisle. he got to walk her down the actual aisle and hand her off to my son-in-law. Don't get me wrong, I don't begrudge her having him as part of the ceremony. He's been part of her life pretty much since a couple of months into my transition. He's been good to both my kids and all the grandkids. But it was still emotionally difficult to not see the realization of the dreams most dads have of their daughter's weddings. No Daddy/Daughter dance for example. Another thing that made being a trans parent harder, is the fact that the process of transitioning is a pretty selfish one. By that I mean it requires a huge amount of focusing your time and energy on the process. It requires putting yourself first to a much higher degree than you would have otherwise. To add even more complexity was my moving almost 1,200 miles away to pursue a different career. Those 5 years living that far away meant missing out on a lot of developments and events in both my kid's lives, as well as the lives of my grandkids. As a result I am not as close to any of them as I wish I was. The biggest thing to bear in mind that no matter how hard it's been for me as a trans parent, it's been no less hard for my kids. Life isn;t just about me and their feelings, difficulties and issues are every bit as important and vital as anything I have had. I don't know if it's harder being a parent who is trans, but I do know it's different and a bit more complex. 