What are some common errors involving the incorrect use of words in the English language?
I would not consider the examples provided with the question to be errors of grammar. They could be considered, in some contexts, to be errors of usage or style. Perhaps the most common grammatical error that involves the misuse of words is the substitution of "its" (a possessive pronoun) for "it's" (a contraction of the indefinite pronoun "it" and the verb "is"). When these two words are confused, the result is a grammatical error because it entails the use of the wrong part of speech. In the case of healthy/healthful and quote/quotation, the first is a pair of adjectives, and the second is a pair of nouns. A grammatical error could occur with the second pair if someone used "quotation" where the verb "to quote" was needed ("I quotationed the Bible" instead of "I quoted the Bible"). In my experience such an error is not likely to be encountered with great frequency, however. Whether one uses healthy or healthful, quote or quotation, or any number of similar pairings (assuming the parts of speech are identical) is a matter of usage and/or style. In such cases, the choice one makes has no impact on the grammar of the sentence. If the grammar is not affected, the "wrong" choice cannot be considered a grammatical error. Because usage and style evolve over time, I am loath to make blanket statements about what is right and wrong. So much depends on context. In a highly formal setting where "traditional" usage is likely to be valued, I would probably argue against the use of "quote" as a noun equivalent of "quotation." In an informal context like Quora and in many other situations, though, I see little to be concerned about. (The Oxford English Dictionary shows that "quote" meaning "quotation" has been seen in print at least since 1885. "Healthy" meaning "conducive to or promoting bodily health"—i.e., the supposed "wrong" use of the word"—has been around since the mid-1500s) The meanings of words shift over time, making English an ever-richer tongue. Rejoice in this! 