I waste a lot of time on Facebook instead of focusing on my goals. What should I do?
Facebook is a dandy tool for keeping in touch with people in your life who, before they invented Facebook, would fade out of your life in a few years. But you have to use it rather than have it use you. How I do that: Keep it down to a half hour in the morning, and maybe a half hour in the evening. My goal is to be able to scroll through it once, and see anything that was posted since the last time I checked in with Facebook, and within a half hour, stop when I reach the point where I left off yesterday. (I sometimes deviate from that and leave Facebook open in a tab while I'm trying to get other work done. But that's how I'm tempted to diddle around on it and let it turn into a time-waster for me.) You might set aside some extra time if you see something you want to respond to, but you want to do this intentionally each time if you make the choice to do it at all. Go through your 'likes' and start 'un-liking' stuff. This is what turned the trick for me as far as getting control of it and making it possible to get all my Facebooking done within a half hour in the morning. I like Hyatt Hotels, for example, but that doesn't mean I need their advertising and promotional material daily in my news feed, so I 'unliked' them, and maybe 300-400 other things. Now, except for Facebook's promoted posts (which, I'm afraid, there is no getting away from), the only stuff that shows up in my news feed is stuff that actually is a contribution to me. (Usually. I don't need a lot of my friends' political rants, especially the right-wing, Obama-hatin' material that some of them are into. But I get opinionated about a lot of things myself, so I suppose it evens out. Or at least, I have no room to complain.) And be judicious in 'liking' new stuff from now on. Even better, go through your likes and even your friends list from time to time and do some weeding out. (There are still people on my friends list who I haven't seen since grade school, who I wasn't all that close to and didn't play and get along all that well with even then, but in my early Facebooking days - prior to 2010 or so -- I'd get a friend request and couldn't think of a not-uncool way to turn it down. There are a few left whose posts aren't too much of a distraction, but most of those have been un-friended . . .) Don't friend people you don't know. (This is a basic privacy and personal safety measure, as well...) I have 152 'friends'. (Name 152 people you know. Not easy? Okay, that's about the upper limit of how long your friends' list needs to be.) Nearly all of these are real friends, not just people I met maybe one time. I don't know how people who have anywhere from 500 to 3000 Facebook 'friends' do anything else other than be on Facebook. 