If you replaced 2 train tracks with a dedicated 2 lane road and ran passenger buses would it be more efficient?
There is no sense in which this can be proven mathematically any more than you could prove it's more efficient for an individual to buy a minivan instead of a motorcycle. The answer depends on the scale of demand and the existing network. Rail has extremely high fixed costs per passenger  so rail is only more efficient than Bus Rapid Transit (BRT) when demand is extremely high, as in New York City. The benefits are also highest when links connect to large existing networks. For example, adding a mile of rail out in Queens connects nearby residents to a massive array of destinations. New York City is atypical, and the academic transportation community overwhelmingly supports Bus Rapid Transit for most cities. Bogota and Curitiba are the famous international examples, where cities built wide, fast transit service for a tiny fraction of the cost of a rail system. In addition to costs, consider that busways can always connect buses to the existing road network, which is always more expansive than the rail network. Also, I would caution against thinking of different types of efficiency. Efficiency is fungible: if your government saves on transit it can buy green vehicles, solar panels, research etc. Back in 1976, the economist Charles Lave showed that the BART system here in San Francisco cost more energy to build than it would save http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubm... One reason most cities build light rail is that federal subsidies target capital spending, and, for BRT, capital expenses are a low share of costs. That's why, for example, Pittsburgh is cutting bus service at the same time it builds a $523 million, 1.2 mile expansion of light rail. Most of the light rail funds were from the federal government. Another reason  is that a lot of transit spending is based on third-party aesthetic preferences rather than achieving mobility or accessibility for actual users. Cities build light rail for the same reasons an impoverished place like Memphis built a massive stadium as its schools continued failing: to feel important. 