Are there best practices to merge products?
As much as possible, your naming choice should reflect your broader product strategy.  IMO, the biggest cost of changing product names is the endless need to (re)explain to customer and prospects and channel partners and sales reps how this new product relates to the old ones…  so your new name should signal this as clearly as possible. Some possibilities, using ProdA as the more successful and ProdB as the shy one:   1. You want to keep/grow the ProdA customer base, and migrate ProdB users over to the new thing.  You’ve thoughtfully included almost all of the ProdA and ProdB features, so migration isn’t excruciatingly painful.  Picking a name ever-so-close to ProdA signals that it is the natural upgrade for ProdA. (ProdA-Plus?  ProdA Pro? NewProdA?) Find something as close as Legal will allow.)   You still need to send an EOL/migration letter to every paid user of ProdB, giving them a clear end-of-support date and free upgrade to NewProdA, along with a how-to-migrate link and a positive spin on any serious issues. If closely named, your customers and channels will naturally guess that NewProdA is the successor to ProdA – and save you 1,000 inquiries over the next year.   2. This is a new beast, not a complete upgrade/replacement for either product.  Repositioned, different top-line benefits, new use case, a fit for only a fraction of the current ProdA and ProdB users.  If so, you’ll want a name with some linguistic distance – NewProdC – so that current customers don't jump to the wrong migration conclusion.  You want them to ask the questions (“So how does NewProdC match up against ProdA?’  “Are you EOL’ing ProdA?” “Should I upgrade, am I entitled to a replacement, will it fit my situation?”).   Critical to note that your migration strategy comes FIRST, and naming afterwards as a reflection of it. You should assume that no one on the planet (except you) will remember the migration details or upgrade feature matrix: you’ll be repeating (and reprinting and re-emailing and retweeting and re-presenting) how this works a lot over the next year.  So I'd recommend spending energy now on making that transition as simple/seamless as possible.  Every customer who gets confused or frustrated may open a support ticket… If you need a multi-step multi-column migration chart and Sheldon Cooper to explain it, the right name is only a sideshow to the bigger conversation. 