How likely is it that the Aquatic Ape Hypothesis is true?  What are some good arguments for or against it?
The AAH is, in very general terms, the idea that protohumans and/or early humans at some point lived at least a semi-aquatic existence and that our evolution was shaped in important ways by one or more periods when our ancestors lived along rivers and shorelines and spent considerable amounts of time on or in the water in pursuit of food. Because of the lack of evidence linking watery habitats to any specific human features, this suggestion was never more than a idea, a possibility, but it fell into considerable disrepute after 1975 because it's leading advocate was a non-scientist, Elaine Morgan, who pushed a fairly extreme version of the idea with a fervor that led her to make a number of false, improbable, or simply unprovable claims, without regard for evidence. Morgan, a TV writer who died a couple of years ago, argued that protohumans or early humans had a period of true aquatic existence, in which our ancestors spent a great deal of their lives swimming and diving, and that this - and this alone - gave rise to many unusual human features, like speech, intelligence, upright stance, hairlessness, the distribution of subcutaneous fat, and our supposedly superior swimming ability. Morgan was passionately convinced that her idea was true and she went far beyond the available evidence in her attempts to persuade the public that she was right. She seemed to feel that this supposed aquatic period was solely responsible for all of the important parts of human evolution, and she took offense when scientists pointed out that evolutionary changes almost never have single causes. She also attacked people who pointed out, quite rightly, that the features that she claimed were the results of a single aquatic episode actually evolved at quite different times. For example, substantial (but not exclusive) bipedalism is at least 4 million - and possibly 6 million - years old, while the evidence from lice genomics indicates that the loss of body fur may be as little as 140,000 years old. Elaine Morgan's willingness to go far beyond what the evidence warranted got her classified, rightly, as a crackpot. That meant that no scientist who wanted to keep his or her professional reputation wanted to be associated with the idea. The problem is that many students and science writers have come away with the idea that the AAH was completely disproven, and that we "know" with high certainty that our ancestors evolved in a dry savanna environment.  And that is just as premature and just as overstated as Morgan's claims were. First, we know now that the African plains were a diverse and oft-changing environment, and that every nomadic animal that evolved there has had to deal with rivers and floods and changing climates. And there is every reason for us to expect that a pack-hunting transitional ape/human would have congregated along rivers and lakes, where there is water and it's easy to catch small animals coming down to drink.  No paleontologist would argue with the idea that hominins would probably have clustered along water sources. Many other predators do the same thing, and this is especially true when the climate is dry. We aren't camels and we don't have any of the typical desert mammal adaptations. Furthermore, we sweat profusely when we get hot, requiring us to drink a lot of water when we are running far or fast or working hard in hot weather. Second, once hominins discovered even the most primitive tools - let's say rock hammers and wooden spears, and MAYBE nets or traps made from plant fibers or branches - the absolute easiest way to obtain high-quality protein would have been from aquatic animals like fish, crabs, and especially shellfish. Mussels and clams don't run away or fight back. All you need to do is find them and smash their shells with a rock, and there are many places where they can be found in amazing abundance if humans haven't already picked them clean. An early hominin species that discovered how to break open shells with rocks would have had a high-quality protein banquet pretty much to itself. It's biggest problem would have been avoiding other predators, especially crocs, but lookouts can always be posted and many smaller streams would have been croc free. Spearing or trapping fish and crabs would have come next. Again, this is simple even with primitive tools, and fish tend to be much safer prey than, say, zebras. A fish trap can be made out of flexible branches, or you can trap an entire stream by pounding a row of sticks vertically into the mud like jail bars. Crabs are even easier to catch. In many places, if you poke a stick through some rotten meat and dangle it near a crab in the water, the crab will latch onto the meat and hold on tight while you flick it out onto land. Even a chimp could do this - if chimps were just a tiny bit smarter, smart enough to figure it out in the first place. It would definitely be something a slightly cleverer primate could learn to do, and most paleontologists will readily admit that this is quite a bit more plausible than a bunch of early hominins hunting gazelles and wildebeest with sticks and rocks. Living on aquatic animals would also explain where proto-humans got the protein and the calories to support the evolution of still-larger brains. As further evidence, we know that early homo sapiens left behind enormous piles of shells, called middens. "Shell middens are found in nearly every coastal area of the world, and have been recognized as the remains of prehistoric peoples for a century."  ("The analysis of shell middens," by Julie K. Stein.) The oldest shell middens known are about 140,000 years old, millions of years after hominins evolved bipedalism. However, older middens tend to be washed away by water, only about 2% of Africa has been explored by fossil hunters, and a considerable part of what was the African coastline several million years ago is now under the ocean. So it is entirely possible that we will eventually find 300,000 year old, or even 3 million year old, middens (or the underwater evidence that they once existed), corresponding to more ancient coastal-dwelling hominins. One strong hint in that direction is that the oldest intentional human art found so far is a shell, a clam-like fossil engraved with a decorative zigzag pattern. The shell and the engraving are both roughly 850,000 years old.  And the shell has a hole that appears to have been drilled into it with a shark's tooth "at exactly at the spot where the adductor muscle attaches to pop it open." [Zigzags on a Shell From Java Are the Oldest Human Engravings] Third, the argument that we are descended from the australopithecines is a lot weaker than most people realize. Australopithecines like Lucy were much smaller than the earliest Homo specimens, with a very different pelvis, and there are other questions about direct descent, especially given that the two genuses apparently overlapped in time for more than half a million years. Lucy's kind could have evolved into H. erectus, but the speed with which extensive changes would have had to happen raises many doubts about Lucy's status as one of our ancestors. Just because the australopithecines are the best candidates in the fossil record right now doesn't really mean much, given how sparse that record is and how little ground has been searched. Our actual ancestor could have branched off much earlier and could have lived "off stage" for millions of years in one of the many areas that were unsuited to fossilization, perhaps along those now-submerged coasts, before expanding back into the areas where the H. erectus fossils have been found. Here's a recent (2014) attempt to sort out our possible ancestors: The Origin of Humans Is Surprisingly Complicated Enlarge that and study it for a bit. Notice the number of gaps and broken branches. The many unconnected clumps are a far cry from the firm black lines that often connect Ardi to Lucy to H. habilis to H. erectus to H.sapiens to modern humans (H.sapiens sapiens) like steps on a ladder, as you see it drawn in far too many textbooks. My  personal favorite, if somewhat long-shot, pick for the closest pre-Homo  human ancestor on that chart is actually Orrorin tugenensis (lower  left), a partly or fully bipedal, unusually long-legged, 5' tall hominin  that lived about 6 million years ago, long before other supposed human  ancestors like the smaller australopithecines. If  Orrorin's offspring migrated to low-lying coastal areas and only  returned to the main fossil-hunting grounds about 2mya, or even more  recently, we'd have no fossils to prove it, only a long, speculative  dotted line from Orrensis to H. habilis or H. erectus or even early H.  sapiens. When you see Lucy's small skeleton drawn to scale beside the much larger H. erectus, that simple, confident ladder of ascent seems especially unlikely: Fig. 1.—The first members of early Homo sapiens are really quite distinct from their australopithecine predecessors and contemporaries. Perhaps the most fundamental dissimilarity, a dramatic size difference, is shown here in this correctly scaled comparison of the reconstructed skeletons of two women. [Adult female Homo erectus, left; "Lucy," an adult Australopithecus afarensis, right; from Population Bottlenecks and Pleistocene Human Evolution] It's not just size.  Lucy has the hominin legs and feet, but so much else is wrong:  compare the two skeletons at the pelvis, lower vertebrae, rib cage, collar bones, sholders, and cranium. Fourth, there is evidence for a substantial period of coastal habitation roughly 150,000 years ago, during which all of our ancestors lived in a relatively small region right on the coast of S. Africa: At some point between 195,000 and 123,000 years ago, the population size of Homo sapiens plummeted, thanks to cold, dry climate conditions that left much of our ancestors' African homeland uninhabitable. Everyone alive today is descended from a group of people from a single region who survived this catastrophe. The southern coast of Africa would have been one of the few spots where humans could survive during this climate crisis because it harbors an abundance of shellfish and edible plants. Excavations of a series of sites in this region have recovered items left behind by what may have been that progenitor population. The discoveries confirm the idea that advanced cognitive abilities evolved earlier than previously thought—and may have played a key role in the survival of the species during tough times. [Scientific American:  When the Sea Saved Humanity; emphasis added] Some genetic research suggests that humanity went through a severe population crash during that time, perhaps down to less than a thousand individuals. Then, when the climate warmed, these survivors - who were essentially modern humans - exploded across Africa and the rest of the world. The evolutionary filter/amplifier created by that kind of a contraction and rapid expansion would have been severe. Any trait acquired earlier that was beneficial to a species living in proximity to water during the period of near-extinction would have been passed on to all of us. This would not qualify as an "aquatic ape" episode, since we're talking about the earliest modern humans, but it could still have given rise to some of our evolutionary oddities and streamlining. It's worth noting, as well, that the oldest shell middens we know of date from 140,000 years ago, right in the middle of this period.  Location? Blombos Cave, in a cliff overlooking the ocean on the southern coast of S. Africa, and other nearby caves. In addition to piles of shells and fish bones, Blombos Cave has been a treasure trove of artifacts, including advanced bone and stone tools, paint pots filled with ocher pigment, and perforated beads carved from shells. To summarize, the idea that an ape somehow learned to swim, dive, and fish, and lived most of its life in the water, and that this supposed experience was the sole cause of that ape evolving into a proto-human is way too simplistic, and some claims by the AAH advocates are just plain wrong. The loss of body hair, in particular, was not a response to living  around water, but to becoming a highly efficient distance runner in hot climates.  Similarly, nostrils  face downward for two reasons.  First, and most important, it's part of  the overall verticalization of the human face, due to upright stance,  the bulge of the frontal brain, and the smaller jaw.  Second, further  verticalization is clearly a fairly recent adaptation to living in colder climates,  requiring longer or deeper noses for heat exchange.  It's particularly noticeable that the wide, round, flaring nostril often found in Africa is the worst suited to keeping water out when submerged.  If our noses were really a product of aquatic evolution, we would have muscular nose flaps to close them when we dive. However, it is quite possible that other human traits were shaped to some extent by one or more periods in which our ancestors lived on the water's edge and got most of their protein and a lot of their calories from shellfish, fish, and other water creatures like crabs. The key point is that there is not enough evidence to argue strongly either for or against this hypothesis, so it remains just a plausible and intriguing idea. Saying more than that would be jumping to conclusions. Updated 35w ago • View Upvotes