How likely is it that the Aquatic Ape Hypothesis is true?  What are some good arguments for or against it?
Beware of labels and people's knee-jerk reactions to them. "It" is called "The Aquatic Ape Hypothesis" for historical reasons but a better label is probably "Waterside Hypotheses of Human Evolution". "It" is not just one idea but several. What they all share is the hypothesis that the odd physical differences between humans and chimpanzees might be best explained by some differential in selection from wading, swimming and diving through water. "Aquatic" is a somewhat loaded term. When used to describe mammals it implies something like a seal or dolphin. Hardy merely asked "Was Man More Aquatic in the Past?" (My emphasis). More movement in water than chimps, is really all that needs to be considered. They are not only concerned with "ape" ancestors of humans but also the evolution of the genus Homo and Homo sapiens in particular. Better labelled and defined... Waterside Hypotheses of Human Evolution: Assert that wading, swimming and diving for food have acted as an agency of selection in the evolution of human beings more than it has in the evolution of our ape cousins both before (and hence causing) the split between these lineages and after. It notes that even very slight levels of selection can still result in profound and rapid phenotypic changes. http://www.River Apes... Coastal People/ So, on this basis, arguments for... 1) Ape-Human Physical Differences. Despite being closer, genetically, to chimpanzees than they are to gorillas, humans have a peculiar set of physical traits that are all consistent with some selection from moving through water more than the ancestors of chimps or gorillas. Here are four major ones and one general point: 1.1 Bipedality. The only scenario in which one can compel an otherwise quadrupedal great ape to move bipedally, with 100% certainty is in waist deep water. This applies to no other mammal. No other model of (early) bipedal origins can argue that and yet the wading hypothesis is still largely sneered at. Later, the undoubted energy efficiency of modern human bipedalism that we see every day from walking on carpets and pavements could only have evolved in similar flat, firm vegetation-free substrates in the natural world. Waterside habitats, such as coastal flats at low tides in Littoral zones are the perfect substrates on which early Homo could have evolved our efficient striding gait. 1.2 Peculiar Body Hair Pattern. Ignoring body hair that is a manifestation of sexual signalling, humans are basically naked except for the scalp. The scenario to which this hair pattern appears to be best adapted is whilst swimming, face down. 1.3 Encephalisation, masticatory reduction & Early Adoption of Stone Tools. These three major aspects of human evolution are more parsimoniously explained in coastal niches. Shellfish are easy to procure and eat with simple pebbles and high in brain nutritients such as Iodine and DHA. 1.4 Voluntary breath control - ideal precursor to speech. Swimming and diving provide an ideal scenario for voluntary breath control to have evolved - the perfect exaptation for speech. 1.5 There are several others. Rather than sneer at them, which is pretty much the only response by the field of palaeoanthropology to date, one might consider that if a population of hominids found themselves in a waterside niche where they were exposed to some (but not much) pressure to wade, swim and dive through water, then such a list of odd traits is exactly what one would predict. Critically, the main argument here is that there is no unique human traits (compared to chimpanzees) which indicates a specialization away from the water's edge. 2) Fossil Evidence. Almost all the fossil evidence of early hominids is consistent with waterside hypotheses. Taphonomic bias shouldn't lead to anti-aquatic bias. Arguments against... 1)  Authority. The ex cathedra view is still largely very hostile to the idea. One only has to read Henry Gee's (a chief editor at Nature) incredibly ignorant outburst (Guardian Blog Aquatic apes are the stuff of creationism, not evolution | Henry Gee) recently to see that. (Scroll down the comments pages to read my unanswered criticism of it.) There are few published papers in the scientific literature that attempt a rejection. Here are the best (including counter-critiques)... 1.1. Roede et al (1991) Amazon.com: Aquatic Ape: Fact or Fiction? (9780285630338): Machteld Roede, etc.: Books (But see Aquatic Ape: Fact of Fiction: Proceedings from the Valkenburg Conference (Roede et al 1991)) 1.2. Langdon (1997) Umbrella hypotheses and parsimony in human evolution: a critique of the Aquatic Ape Hypothesis. (But see LANGDON'S CRITIQUE OF THE AQUATIC APE HYPOTHESIS: NOT THE LAST WORD.) (See also my debate with John Langdon here... Debate with John Langdon) 1.3. Foley & Lahr (2014) The role of "the aquatic" in human evolution: constraining the aquatic ape hypothesis. (But see Waterside Hypotheses of Human Evolution.) 2) Misrepresentation and exaggeration. Proponents have largely moved on from the original "U-Turn" hypothesis (e.g see Was Man More Aquatic in the Past? Fifty Years After Alister Hardy - Waterside Hypotheses of Human Evolution) but people who should know better (such as PZ Myers) still promote old journalistic web sites (Aquatic Ape Theory (AAT): Sink or Swim?) by laymen such as Jim Moore which willfully distort their arguments. The web site is actually little more than an attempted character assassination of Elaine Morgan. (But see Page on riverapes.com). Each to their own, but if one takes care not to exaggerate or misrepresent it, the idea that the remarkable phenotypic differences between humans and the other great apes may be due, at least in part, to a differential in selection from moving through water is entirely plausible, supported by sound evidence and contradicted by nothing. Algis Kuliukas Perth, September 2015 