I waste a lot of time on Facebook instead of focusing on my goals. What should I do?
I have a few questions for you: Are your goals written down or are they simply in your head? Do you cover all the major dimensions in your life? Do you have a systematic game plan in place to put your all goals to work, with the clear image of a startpoint,  endpoint and the developmental path of transition points in between? More precisely, have your translated your goals and objectives into specific, prioritised and executable tasks that you need to accomplish daily, weekly, monthly, quarterly and even annually? Without goals, priorities and a written plan, you are a boat in the ocean, at the mercy of environmental forces and their dyanamics. Goals, priorities and a written plan, keep you inspired, motivated and focus on the things that matter to you the most. To use a military analogy, goals, priorities and a written plan are like precise commands preset into the flight plan of a Tomahawk cruise missile, homing onto a predefined long-distance target. In their absence, there lies your perennial problem of continuing to waste your time on Facebook. I like to show you the way: 1) First and foremost, know exactly  what you want, and why you want, in terms of compelling, inspiring and overarching  long-range goals and objectives: a) what do I want to be? b) what do I want to do? c) what do I want to have? d) what do I want to improve? e) what do I want to change? 2) Identify major life dimensions of your life where you want to develop, in relationship to (1): i) academic pursuits; ii) career aspirations; iii) mental development; iv) physical health; v) financial wealth; vi) family relationships (including romance); vii) social networking; viii) recreational ventures (including hobbies, interests, sports, vacations, etc.); ix) spiritual development (including contributions to society, volunteering, etc.); 3)   Translate all your long-range goals and objectives in (1) and (2) into  specific, prioritised and  executable tasks that you need to accomplish  daily, weekly, monthly,  quarterly and even annually; 4) With the  end in mind as formulated in (1) and (2), develop a systematic game plan   for implementing and executing what you have laid out in (3), in terms   of a startpoint, endpoint and the developmental path of transition   points in between; 5)  Pinpoint specific tasks that you need to accomplish at each transition point till the endpoint in (4); 6) Establish metrics to measure your progress, or milestone accomplishments, in (4); 7)  Assign and allocate personal accountability, as some tasks may need to  be shared, e.g. with your parents or spouse, under the auspices of (4); 8) Identify and marshal resources that are required to get all the work done in (4); [I like to call them the 7 M's: Money; Methods; Men; Machines; Materials; Metrics; and Mojo!] 9) Schedule a timetable for completion of each predefined task, as outlined in (4); 10) Highlight potential problems or challenges that may crop up along the Highway of Life, as you traverse on it; 11) Brainstorm a slew of possible strategies to deal with (10); This is your contingency plan. 12)  Institute some form of system, like a visual Pert Chart, to track,  control and monitor your forward trajectory, as laid out in your  systematic game plan under (4), in conjunction with all the critical  elements of (5) to (11); 13) Follow-up massively and follow-through consistently your systematic game plan; 14) Put in your sweat equity of intense effort and focused execution; 15) Stay focused on your strategic objectives, but remain flexible in your tactical execution; Well, you are on your way! Godspeed! 