What do intelligent people do with their phones?
I really like Mark Toole's answer. Just to add a few more points to his answer: Phone as a brain's external hard disk Apps like evernote allows us to take note of our observation or ideas anywhere. Intelligent people often come up with ideas or get inspiration from a seemingly random observation. It is probably okay to let ideas go, but for some people, these ideas can be developed further in the future. Even if not, the act of taking down the idea often embeds the idea on the brain, and it may be manifested subconsciously in one's work sometime in the future. I write 10 ideas everyday (credit to James Altucher  http://www.jamesaltucher.com/201...) and smartphone allows me to write down or type ideas and access them anywhere. I'd like to add a few points about learning too. Anki Card Anki is extremely useful for remembering things, with its spaced repetition system and notes you can scribble on. I use it to improve my Chinese vocabulary and it works better than simply memorising a list or reading passages. Podcast This is my best discovery in time utilisation. I listen to podcast during commute and when I do menial things that don't allow me to read or and which don't require the use my verbal understanding e. g. 3D CAD-ing, cleaning the house, sewing, showering. Some podcasts have wonderful contents and guests. They can help you learn language too. Personal favourites: the Tim Ferriss Show,  Hardcore History with Dan Carlin, Common Sense with Dan Carlin, On Being, the James Altucher Show,  Slow German with Annik Rubens and Slow Chinese. I use Podcast & Radio Addict. Books Download e-books in PDF or EPUB format (the latter can be read using Google Books for Android users). In order for you to be able to read for a relatively long period of time without bad case of eye strain or sleeping problem, you can download apps like Twilight that reduces the blue light emitted by the phone and allows the phone display to be warmer.  Some people still prefer real books but a smartphone gives you the advantage in terms of size and number of books you can be carrying around anytime. Other points: A new way to work out There are quite a number of apps, free or paid, that can be a decent substitute for a personal trainer. Good thing thing is that they can be good enough to replace your gym routines, allowing you to save your time and money (if you're not particularly in love with the iron). Smartphones in social situations So often said, quite seldom done: it's good to refrain oneself from using smartphone too much during social situations. Responding to our impulses It's also good to realize the reflexive impulse to the social media icons just to scroll down the news feed/timeline, and the reflexive impulse to click a clickbait article. It's okay to want to know how your friends are doing or to check the latest news but often it either makes us feel bad afterwards due to the subconscious or not so subconscious envy, or we spent too much time on these instead of other more pressing things. 