Which part of the spectrum does gold absorb and which part does it reflect? What's the reason for it?
The intuitive answer: At visible wavelengths, an object's color gives information about what wavelengths it reflects.  The fact that gold has a color indicates that it does not reflect all wavelengths equally (most metals appear 'silver' because they reflect all visible wavelengths equally and have surfaces which permit specular reflections).  Gold's specific color indicates that, at the very least, it reflects yellow better than some other colors.  The pictorial answer: Gold has very close to 100% reflectivity above 700nm, substantial reflectivity between 500-700nm, and reduced reflectivity  for wavelengths <500nm.  The visible spectrum is between 400-700nm, and 550 roughly corresponds to green.  Thus, gold reflects yellow and red very well and blue/violet not so  much.  This makes sense, given its color. Reflectance of several metals.  Absorbance is 'opposite' to this (higher reflectivity = lower absorptivity and vis versa) but not numerically.  image source: Page on www.layertec.de The explanation An ideal metal has almost 100% reflectivity at sufficiently long wavelengths (low energy).  This is because delocalized electrons can 'move' fast enough to re-radiate (i.e. reflect) incident radiation within a very thin skin depth if the radiation is not too energetic.  Above a certain frequency or below a certain wavelength (the plasma frequency) metals become less reflective and more transparent.  This is NOT what is happening in the metals above, however. The reflectivity cutoff wavelengths for Cu, Ag, Au, and Al are 115, 138, 138, and 79nm, respectively, outside the x-axis above. At wavelength away from the plasma cutoff, substantial deviations from 100% reflectivity arise because of interband absorption--promoting an electron to a higher (unoccupied) energy by absorbing a photon. In gold (and also copper and silver) this interband absorption results in a dramatic decrease in reflectivity because the electrons originate in a band (3d) with a very high density of states (many electrons get involved) and are promoted to a band which is very broad in energy (transitions are permissible for many absorbed photon energies).  The energy difference between the 3d band and the Fermi level (where the lowest energy unoccupied states lie) varies among different metals, which explains why gold, silver, and copper have different colors.  This distance sets the 'cutoff' energy (or inverse wavelength) where the metal suddenly becomes less reflective. Sketch of reflectivity vs frequency (inverse of wavelength) for an ideal metal.  [math]\nu_1[/math] is the plasma frequency.  Note that the cutoff takes place on the left side of the graph once frequency is converted to wavelength.  Source: Atomistic Theory of the Optical Properties (Optical Properties of Materials) Part 1 Sketch of the type of interband absorption which diminishes reflectivity in gold, silver, and copper below a certain wavelength.  Source:  Mark Fox, Optical properties of Solids, 2nd edition. Oxford University Press (2010) Reference:  Mark Fox, Optical properties of Solids, 2nd edition. Oxford University Press (2010) Updated 26w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Anonymous