What do intelligent people do with their phones?
i love this question. what they do ?? they try to enjoy life by the help of their phones. instead of ignoring society. highly recommend apps listed below. 1. SkyView - star gazing You don't need to be an astronomer to find stars or constellations in the sky, just open SkyView® Free and let it guide you to their location and identify them. SkyView Free is a beautiful and intuitive stargazing app that uses your camera to precisely spot and identify celestial objects in sky, day or night. Find popular constellations as they fade in and out while you scan across the sky, locate planets in our solar system, discover distant galaxies, and witness satellite fly-bys. 2. FlightAware, Flight Tracker. Curious about airplanes that are about to arrive in your country or town ??. Go check it. Free, live flight tracker and flight status app from FlightAware for Android! This app allows you to track the real-time flight status and see the live map flight track of any commercial flight worldwide and general aviation (private, charter, etc) in the United States and Canada. Track by aircraft registration, route, airline, flight number, city pair, or airport code. Tracking data includes complete flight details and full-screen maps with NEXRAD radar overlay. Receive real-time push notification flight alerts, view airport delays, see nearby flights (in the sky overhead), and more! Permission to access your Contacts is used only when you choose to create a flight alert to be sent to another person. We do not store or transmit your contacts list in any other way.   3. Guitar Tuner Feel like you need to know what tune is on right now in the air you are hearing ? try this one !! GuitarTuna is the easiest, fastest and most accurate tuner app in the world! The ultimate tuner for guitar, bass, ukulele and all popular string instruments. GuitarTuna has been downloaded over 20 million times and is used by beginners and experts! Why is it the world’s most popular tuner ever built? 4. GOOGLE MAPS - DONT GET LOST !! Google Maps is probably already on your phone, but as the best free mapping option around it's well worth highlighting. Transit directions, live traffic updates, voice-guided GPS navigation, Street View and more are all included, making this more feature-packed than even most paid options. Importantly it's detailed and accurate too, so you'll never get lost again. 5. MAKE IT REAL - GOOGLE STREET VIEW Explore world landmarks, discover natural wonders, and step inside locations such as museums, arenas, restaurants, and small businesses with Google Street View. Also create photo spheres to add your own Street View experiences. Start with your phone’s camera or add a one–shot spherical camera (like the RICOH THETA S) for easy 360º photography. Then, you can publish to Google Maps to share your photo spheres with the world. Content galleries: • Browse Google’s most popular special collections • Explore all of Street View (including contributions from others) • Review your public profile of published photo spheres • Manage your private photo spheres • Immerse yourself in photo spheres with Cardboard mode Creating and sharing photo spheres: • Use your phone’s camera (no camera accessories required) • Connect to a spherical camera to capture in one tap • Share to Google Maps as immersive photo spheres • Share privately as flat photos 7. GOOGLE EARTH - Observe your own earth. Google Earth for Android enables you to explore the globe with a swipe of your finger. * Fly through 3D cities like London, Tokyo and Rome * Dive in to view the world at street level with integrated Street View * Use the Tour Guide to discover exciting new places to explore * Browse layers like Wikipedia or Photos to learn more about a place * Visit the Maps Gallery to find interesting maps, e.g. plot real-time earthquakes, planes in flight, view hiking trails and more Make sure that you check out the in-app tutorial to learn how to navigate like a pro. Happy exploring! 8. Water Drink Reminder - help you remember what you need Do you drink enough water? Do you always forget to drink water regularly? Do you have a fit body? This App reminds you to drink water every day and tracks your water drinking habits. You only need to enter your current weight and Drinking Water will help you to determine how many water your fit body need everyday. When you have finished drinking a cup of water, you will need to add a cup in the app. Your next cup will be remained. It’s really your personal hydro helper. Benefits of drinking water: * You stay in shape and keep fit, As it’s calorie free * You can clear up your skin * You keep your skin and nails healthy * Hydro your body Features include: * Reminders that will remind you the water you need to drink in the rest of the day * Customized cup and Imperial (oz) or Metric (ml) units * Customized starting and ending time to drink water within a day * Graph and logs of date record * Stay healthy, keep fit and drink enough water! * Sync weight data with Google Fit. Water Drink Reminder uses Facebook as ads provider. Facebook wants to show ads that are relevant to you. For more information, please check https://m.facebook.com/ads/ad_ch.... Water Drink Reminder is very safe software, please contact us if you have any security question.    9. Evernote - to make your notes more than just word. Evernote is the modern workspace that syncs between all of your devices. Work everywhere and stay productive: • Write notes, checklists, and research • Organize web articles, docs, and photos • Discuss your work with others, right within the app --- “When it comes to taking all manner of notes and getting work done, Evernote is an indispensable tool.” – PC Mag --- 100 million people use it to move projects forward: WRITE & ORGANIZE • Stay focused: write in an uncluttered workspace • Get things done: make to-do's and checklists • Attach files: keep Office docs, PDFs, and photos • Get organized: notebooks and tags keep work tidy • Find anything: searchable text in notes and photos DISCUSS & COLLABORATE • Work chat: discuss notes without leaving the app • Work together: share notebooks for team projects • Meeting prep: create agendas and action items YOUR DIGITAL ASSISTANT • Make connections: turn biz cards into contacts • Track expenses: organize receipts, bills & invoices • Plan travel: save research and reservations ACCOMPLISH EVEN MORE WITH EVERNOTE PREMIUM Evernote is free to download and use. Evernote Premium unlocks even more productivity: ★ Offline access - work anywhere, even without a connection ★ More space - get more done with 10 GB of new uploads each month ★ Better search - search inside Office docs and attachments ★ Greater privacy - add a passcode lock on mobile ★ PDF annotation - use shapes and comments to give visual feedback ★ Unlimited business card scans - scan biz cards, save to contacts, and connect on LinkedIn Two subscription levels: 1) Evernote Premium 2) Evernote Plus --- "Use Evernote as the place you put everything...don’t ask yourself which device it’s on—it’s in Evernote" – The New York Times 10. GOOGLE DRIVE - save your documents right away!   Google Drive is a safe place for all your files and puts them within reach from any smartphone, tablet, or computer. Files in Drive – like your videos, photos, and documents – are backed up safely so you can’t lose them. Once there, you can easily invite others to view, edit, or leave comments on any of your files or folders. With Drive, you can: * Safely store your files and access them from anywhere * Search for files by name and content * Easily share files and folders with others * Set access levels others have to view, comment, or edit * Quickly access recent files * See file details and activity * Enable viewing of files offline * Use your device camera to scan in paper documents * Access pictures and videos from Google Photos 11. Run Walk GPS & Calories Burner - help you get healthier. Run, run, run! Take your fitness to the next level and lose weight with the help of the FITAPP GPS running app or just count the calories you burn and stay fit! Do you want...? ★ You want to compare different types of activities (running, walking, jogging) and track your runs via GPS? ★ You are looking for an app which motivates and encourages you losing weight in your diet? ★ You want to know how much calories you burn? ★ You want to improve your physical fitness and health? Perfect! FITAPP is the ideal app for you and it's a 100% FREE GPS running app! FITAPP is your personal fitness coach which includes a health diary. It supports you at many different sports activities such as running or jogging, bicycling, inline skating, mountain biking, walking, cross country skiing and many more. Furthermore it helps you to lose weight, count your calories or to reach your ideal body weight. Via GPS you can easily track your activities, save it in your diary and look it up whenever you’d like to. In contrast to other health or fitness apps FITAPP provides you with an exact location via GPS and saves your battery while you are running, jogging or walking. In addition this fitness app shows you a precise review of the calories you burned, the distance and the pace, while you are running. With FITAPP fitness app you can also compare different types of activities. This feature helps you to track all your activities and runs via GPS and look up how many calories you've burned. You also get a detailed overview of your weight which helps you with your weight loss during a diet. FITAPP is your personal running coach. It accompanies you when you want to improve your health, lose weight, increase your endurance or reach your personal fitness goals. The built in BMI (body mass index) calculator helps you to control your weight loss. With FITAPP you can look up your BMI and check out your ideal body weight. All you have to do is to type in your height and weight and then you will see if you are underweight or overweight. This supports you with your weight loss and helps you to reach your ideal body weight and stay healthy and fit. Another feature of FITAPP is voice feedback which gives you details like distance, the calories you've burned, the current pace and your average pace while you are running, jogging or walking. FITAPP FEATURES YOU'LL LOVE: ★ Record of time, distance and pace ★ Measurement of average and top speed ★ Calories counter ★ Fitness and health diary and statistics of your tracked activities via GPS tracker ★ Voice feedback (calories, distance, current speed, average pace ★ BMI (body mass index) calculator ---------- they do they make their life get easier. hope this help :)    