How would a war between the US and China play out?
Since neither the US or China is suicidal, I'd expect that people would want to keep their fingers off the nuclear button, and it would play out a lot like the Cuban missile crisis or the Suez intervention in 1956.  The two most recent serious conflicts between the US and China were the Third Taiwan Straits crisis in 1995-1996 and the Hainan island incident in 2001.  Another model for what might happen is to look at recent events around Syria in which Assad and Obama were involved in a chess game that Assad seems to have won. So it would be a low-level affair with a lot of saber rattling, with most of the real action happening at the political, economic, and diplomatic levels creating a very complex chess game.  I also don't think it will last very long, before either people deescalate or one side blinks. The worst case scenario would look like the start of World War I.  In that case you would have this diplomatic and military horror movie as events force everyone to escalate despite the fact that no one really wants to.  Then someone miscalculates and we have mushroom clouds. One thing that I *don't* expect to happen is for two navies to just end up in the Pacific shooting at each other.  I do expect that any confrontation between the US and China to be an extremely complicated chess game in which the militaries are just one piece of the game, and not the most important one. One reason I don't think that things will end up in a straight up military shoot out is that China would lose badly in that situation (just as Assad would be a goner if the US just decided to invade Syria), so China would try to make things "complicated" for the US.  If you have a situation in which there is a large fraction of the US public that doesn't think that its worth a war, China wins, so I suspect things are going to be fought with duelling press conferences and talk show appearances rather than (or in addition to) bullets. One thing that makes me think that this is the direction things will go is Syria.  In Iraq, Libya, and Kosovo, you had leaders that did not understand public opinion and the press.  In Syria, Bashir Assad was an eye doctor in London for four years, so he really did understand how to use the media to stay in power.  In China, you have all of these princelings that have gone to US universities so they have enough understanding about how US politics and media works to be able to fight a media war. 