What is it like to work at McKinsey?
There are three things (ex-consultants chuckle here) that jump out to me about working at McKinsey: The clarity of thought and logic. McKinsey thinks of the core of what they do as "problem-solving" (commonly used as a noun, e.g., "we're going to have a problem-solving at 2pm"). Their approach to this (short version) is to break problems down to their constituent parts in a MECE (mutually exclusive, collectively exhaustive) way, figure out which pieces are the most important, allocate time accordingly, conduct analysis to figure out the constituent answers and roll it all back to a big picture conclusion. They have a host of methodologies and techniques to aid in this work, and learning these tools can be quite powerful. After doing this repeatedly for a few years, it embeds itself in your head as an approach to thinking in a clear way. The people are exceptional. The talent is obscene to the point of being a joke. You can't swing a dead cat without hitting an Ivy League graduate. There are Rhodes scholars all over the place. Marathon runners are only notable if they've run over 10. And add to all the brains and accomplishment, they tend to be extremely nice and of course polished. The caveat to this is that in a vat full of overachievers, everyone over delivers even if it's a waste of time. This doesn't really manifest itself in competition with your peers, but you can sure find yourself doing work at 11pm that never sees the light of a client meeting. The work and Firm have a rootlessness about them. In the spirit of two goods and a bad (the preferred McKinsey approach to feedback and improvement), I will end with a critique. There is a transience to the Firm that can be unsettling. You work on a project closely with a team for 3 to 6 months. On Fridays you're in the office, but that's not much time to get to know people. After a project, you go your separate ways, and may or may not ever work together again. Two year tenures at the Firm are pretty common. Part of that is great exit opportunities and part of that is fit and burnout, but it results in a temporary feeling to it all. That said there are worse things than simply taking in the moment while you're there. 