What are some nice, beautiful stories?
We have 100s of business related stories which are all categorised so you can retell them in presentations or at meetings. Here's the link: StoryFinder: Anecdote But here's one from the leaders of Pixar that grabbed me recently which I reckon is a nice, beautiful story. In 1985, Lucasfilm’s cash-hungry Computer Division was under the pump. A then-little-known enterprise called Pixar would soon emerge from the division to become a hugely successful computer animation studio. But in the meantime, company founder George Lucas, creator of the Star Wars saga, had nagging doubts about the profitability of computer-generated movie imagery. Lucas’ concerns were not shared by the two heads of the Computer Division, Ed Catmull and Alvy Ray Smith. The pair had been responsible for some big innovations in computer graphics, particularly in the area of rendering, and they were optimistic that they could turn their animated dreams into a financially rewarding reality. Nonetheless, Lucas decided to appoint a new division president, Doug Norby, to reign the group in, and Norby wasted no time in pressuring Catmull and Smith to lay off employees. Catmull and Smith couldn’t bring themselves to start sacking their colleagues. Instead, Catmull went to Norby and argued that the division needed to remain intact, that cutting up such a potentially valuable entity didn’t make sense. But the new president was having none of it. Norby insisted that he be given a list of names for dismissal. The two heads dug in, ignoring Norby’s demand until, one day, they were given an ultimatum. They were to appear in the president’s office the following morning with a list of names, and that was that. The next day, Catmull and Smith did what Norby had asked them to do. They walked into his office at the appointed time and put a sheet paper on his desk. Two names were written on it: Ed Catmull and Alvy Ray Smith. Norby backed down, and all of the employees of the Computer Division kept their jobs. So grateful were the staff to Catmull and Smith that they all chipped in to buy the two heads and their wives a well-earned night on the town. 