Alternate Histories (Hypothetical Historical Scenarios): What would happen if the US became truly imperialistic?
It's not really a 'what if', invading other countries to take their stuff is something the US has done before. For the sake of refreshing our collective memory.... let's look at Imperialism, America style as it happened in history: 1890, the final liberation of America from the Indians I really could begin from 1776, but it's more snappy to go straight to the end. American soldiers massacre the disarmed Lakota Tribe at Wounded Knee, which included women and children. 20 men are awarded the Medal of Honor for their bravery in action against the enemy. America's centuries long war against the Indians ends. valuables strippled from the corpses would be put on display in Museums as far as England. "I did not know then how much was ended. When I look back now from this high hill of my old age, I can still see the butchered women and children lying heaped and scattered all along the crooked gulch as plain as when I saw them with eyes young. And I can see that something else died there in the bloody mud, and was buried in the blizzard. A people's dream died there. It was a beautiful dream ... the nation's hope is broken and scattered. There is no center any longer, and the sacred tree is dead."-Black Elk (1863–1950); medicine man, Oglala Lakota "There was a woman with an infant in her arms who was killed as she almost touched the flag of truce ... A mother was shot down with her infant; the child not knowing that its mother was dead was still nursing ... The women as they were fleeing with their babies were killed together, shot right through ... and after most all of them had been killed a cry was made that all those who were not killed or wounded should come forth and they would be safe. Little boys ... came out of their places of refuge, and as soon as they came in sight a number of soldiers surrounded them and butchered them there."-American Horse (1840–1908); Chief, Oglala Lakot "General Nelson A. Miles who visited the scene of carnage, following a three day blizzard, estimated that around 300 snow shrouded forms were strewn over the countryside. He also discovered to his horror that helpless children and women with babes in their arms had been chased as far as two miles from the original scene of encounter and cut down without mercy by the troopers. ... Judging by the slaughter on the battlefield it was suggested that the soldiers simply went berserk. For who could explain such a merciless disregard for life? ... As I see it the battle was more or less a matter of spontaneous combustion, sparked by mutual distrust...-Hugh McGinnis; First Battalion, Co. K, Seventh Cavalry 1893, liberation of the Kingdom of Hawaii American immigrants living under the Kingdom of Hawaii decide that they'd much rather be ruled by white folks. These traitorous immigrants then aided US marines straight to the queen of Hawaii and overthrow her. Sneaky gits. 1901, liberation of the Philippines “The Philippines are ours forever.... And just beyond the Philippines are China’s illimitable markets. We will not retreat from either. We will not repudiate our duty in the archipelago. We will not abandon our opportunity in the Orient. We will not renounce our part in the mission of our race, trustee under God, of the civilization of the world.” ...It will be hard for Americans who have not studied them to understand the people.. They are a barbarous race, modified by three centuries of contact with a decadent race.. The Filipino is the South Sea Malay, put through a process of three hundred years of superstition in religion, dishonesty in dealing, disorder in habits of industry, and cruelty, caprice, and corruption in government.. It is barely possible that 1,000 men in all the archipelago are capable of self government in the Anglo-Saxon sense.... They are not capable of self-government.. How could they be? They are Orientals, Malays, instructed by Spaniards in the latter's worst estate.. They know nothing of practical government except as they have witnessed the weak, corrupt, cruel, and capricious rule of Spain.. What magic will anyone employ to dissolve in their minds and characters those impressions of governors and governed which three centuries of misrule has created? What alchemy will change the oriental quality of their blood and set the self-governing currents of the American pouring through their Malay veins? How shall they, in the twinkling of an eye, be exalted to the heights of self-governing peoples which required a thousand years for us to reach, Anglo-Saxon though we are? It is not true that charity begins at home.. Selfishness begins there; but charity begins abroad and ends in its full glory in the home...England's miracle is in Egypt, surpassing the ancient ones of turning rods in serpents because the modern miracles turn serpents into men, desserts into gardens, famine into plenty--England's work in the land of the sphinx has solved its profound riddle, exalted not England only, but all the world by its noble example, and thrilled to the soul every citizen of Great Britain with civic pride in the achievements of the greatest civilizing empire of the world.. "Cast thy bread upon the waters and after many days it shall return to you!" "With what measure ye meet, it shall be meeted to you again." ...Mr. President, this question is deeper than any question of party politics; deeper than any question of the isolated policy of our country even; deeper even than any question of constitutional power.. It is elemental.. It is racial.. God has not been preparing the English-speaking and Teutonic peoples for a thousand years for nothing but vain and idle self-contemplation and self-admiration.. No! He has made us the master organizers of the world to establish system where chaos reigns.. He has given us the spirit of progress to overwhelm the forces of reaction throughout the earth.. He has made us adepts in government that we may administer government among savage and senile peoples.. Were it not for such a force as this the world would relapse into barbarism and night.. And of all our race.. He has marked the American people as His chosen nation to finally lead in the regeneration of the world.. This is the divine mission of America, and it holds for us all the profit, all the glory, all the happiness possible to man.. We are trustees of the world's progress, guardians of its righteous peace.. The judgment of the Master is upon us: "Ye have been faithful over a few things; I will make you ruler over many things." ...Mr. President and Senators, adopt the resolution offered that peace may quickly come and that we may begin our saving, regenerating, and uplifting work.. -US Senator Albert Beveridge on the importance of the Philippines (you can read his whole speech her: UCLA International Institute) Filipino civilians are rounded up into concentration camps. 8,000 Filipinos could be squeezed into a space barely 2 square miles in area. Surrounded by 'free-fire' zones, any Filipino leaving the camp was shot on sight.  Between January and April 1902, 8,350 prisoners of approximately 298,000 died, some camps incurred death rates as high as 20 percent. Men were rounded up for questioning, torture, and summary execution. "Kill everyone over 10 years old"-General Jacob H. Smith “We make everyone get into his house by seven p.m., and we only tell a man once. If he refuses we shoot him. We killed over 300 natives the first night. They tried to set the town on fire. If they fire a shot from the house we burn the house down and every house near it, and shoot the natives, so they are pretty quiet in town now.”-Corporal Sam Gillis “To keep them prisoners would necessitate the placing of the soldiers on short rations, if not starving them. There was nothing to do but kill the Filipinos.”-A letter addressed to Reverend W. H. Walker, by his son, a soldier “Last night one of our boys was found shot and his stomach cut open. Immediately orders were received from General Wheaton to burn the town and kill every native in sight; which was done to a finish. About 1,000 men, women and children were reported killed. I am probably growing hard-hearted, for I am in my glory when I can sight my gun on some dark skin and pull the trigger"-Letter written by US soldier to a newspaper, documented in  Benevolent Assimilation: The American Conquest of the Philippines, 1899–1903 Human experimentation was carried out on the Filipinos. Prisoners were purposefully infected with the plague, or starved of certain nutrients to study their effects. Harvard professor Dr. Richard Strong infects prisoners with cholera to study its effects. There you go, that's what American Imperialism looks like, and we've pretty much kept every bit of blood soaked land gained from those methods. The reasons for these invasions was to expand America's borders and to drive out the influence of others. The Philippines at that time was controlled by Spain, so the US liberated the Filipinos (and Cubans too). Then they liberated the Filipinos from themselves. That furthered the goal of putting America's boot right on Asia. Today, the US has military forces in Japan, Korea, and Taiwan too. It's tough to think up why America today would really want to violently seize any more land though, we already dominate through soft power and trade. Drinking coca cola and eating at McDonalds is already a way to pay tribute to the USA. Updated 107w ago • View Upvotes