Who or what changed the minds of atheists who used to be theists?
1. To me, an explanation is absolutely vital in whatever I believe in. Quotes like these are impressive and inspiring and they've been consistently used by theists. ​ They're good for writing a novel. An awesome one-liner. But to science, the line is meaningless. To me, the line is meaningless. It is beautiful. But it is meaningless. I needed an explanation. When I couldn't find one, I changed. 2. I saw the inconsistency in those who preach religion. People say that God created everything. If God created everything, then he created - well - everything. The good man, the bad man... the rapist... the murderer... everyone. And then people say, that God will take care of the sinners. Doesn't this take away the need for punishment?  If God created the sinners, what right would we have to punish them? 3. I saw that religion was like genes. They are inherited. ​ Why is that a Christian's child remains a Christian? Why is that a Muslim's child remains a Muslim? Why is that a Hindu's child remains a Hindu? If the child researches religion(s) and chooses his religion on his own, then it can very well be considered as his own faith. The 'inheritance' of religion suggests that theists' faith comes from their childhood, when their parents instilled in them the faith. It is very important to understand that what we hear in our childhood, it sticks to us forever. Parents instill an unshakable belief in their children. Try telling your children, "There is no God, son". And he will believe it. Children are malleable. Their brains are molten. It is in those early years that a child makes sense of the world. Childhood indoctrination is a powerful thing. My parents never really stressed on God/Religion (Though they were theists themselves). The consequence was that I was left to find my path on my own and Atheism was the path that I found. 4. Religion(s) are not consistent with scientific theories of evolution of the universe and life. ​ They are simply inconsistent. And what's more? A number of religions preach a number of theories of the origin of the universe and life. What could contribute to such an extreme diversity? Reason? Or is it – imagination? Even scientists differ when it comes to the origin of life and the universe. However, they all have logical reason for believing so. On the other hand, religious reasons arise plainly out of books; written thousands of years ago. 5. I can wash your brain, figuratively. ​ Generation Jihad: Young people 'brainwashed with Al Qaeda propaganda on the internet' Hostage's insight into terrorists' MO: brainwash Western children to take the jihad home How Mumbai's attackers were brainwashed If it's possible to brainwash people on something as cruel as terrorism, is not possible to brainwash people with something as novel as the concept of God [albeit untrue?] Let's go back a 5000 years. There is an isolated town with about 5000 people. A guy starts preaching a new religion. He establish codes and principles and He tells people that he's the 'messenger' of God. Children hear those words. Infants hears those words. For some time, there will be hostility, like it was in the case of Muhammad, The Prophet. Over time, people are simply brainwashed. Do you think Muhammad was - a magician? No, he was only a man. He only used words. When someone preaches something, and when a few people start believing in something, and when they pass it on to their children, religion is born. The first-generation believers may not be so confident in what they believe. But for sure, their children will be sure as hell. In short, when everything about religion seemed like a figment of man's imagination (rather than reason), I decided to come out of it. Initially, there was self-doubt. "What if there was a god?", I'd ask to myself. But then, I kind of settled with atheism. Updated 27w ago • View Upvotes