How should I prepare for a software engineer interview at Facebook?
When I was preparing for mine, the most useful books I reviewed were: Introduction to Algorithms, by Cormen, et al.  (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Int...). This is the standard undergraduate algorithms textbook; it's well worth reading. Algorithms in C, Parts 1-4 and Part 5, by Robert Sedgewick. This was the text I used in my first two CS courses; I reviewed it because it was familiar. You could substitute the equivalent from your intro-to-CS courses here, assuming they cover similar material. Programming Pearls, by Jon Bentley. This is shorter and less pedagogical than the above, but has a lot of clever and inspiring examples. Effective Java, by Joshua Bloch. Facebook doesn't write a lot of Java (I'm on one of the few teams that does use Java), but this is really a book about software engineering and will be useful if you're asked a software-engineering question (which is entirely likely). If you're also interviewing somewhere that does write a lot of Java (say, Google), you will definitely want to read this. Note that you don't need to memorize the material in the textbooks. It's highly unlikely that a FB interviewer is going to ask you to implement a Fibonacci heap or a 2-3-4-tree in an interview. However, knowing what those are and having a general idea of their complexity would serve you well. My colleague Carlos Bueno has a nice post about interview prep: https://www.facebook.com/notes/f... Steve Yegge has a nice blog post about interviewing at Google; much of the material applies to Facebook. http://steve-yegge.blogspot.com/... I highly recommend doing a lot of coding questions in advance. During my prep, I did a lot of the questions I found on http://Glassdoor.com. I highly recommend doing at least some of your prep under circumstances that mimics a live interview -- at a whiteboard, under time pressure, and ideally with a confederate to ask the question. To prep in hard mode, ask him or her to chuckle softly, play mind games with you "Are you sure that's correct? Final answer?", look bored and stare at a cellphone, etc. Ideally, the interviewer is someone you respect, so you'll actually be nervous about doing badly -- so you'll be prepared for that in the live interview. Finally, don't interview with your favorite company first. I would strongly advise against interviewing with places where you'd have no intention of working (it's a waste of everyone's time), but I'd definitely put your favorites later, if only so that you'll have more time to prepare. You'll get better at technical interviews if you do more of them. Good luck! Updated 122w ago • View Upvotes