Conspiracy Theories: Was General George S. Patton assassinated?
George S. Patton died as a result of injuries he suffered in a car accident, not as the result of an assassination. Robert Wilcox's claims are the usual stuff of conspiracy theory: overheated speculation, dark hints at missing evidence, mysterious deaths, obsession with trivia, sly misdirection and a heaping helping of bunkum. Wilcox's theory goes something like this: Patton was assassinated in a joint US OSS (Office of Strategic Services, the precursor of the CIA) - Soviet NKVD operation to eliminate Patton before he returned to the US and made public disclosures that would discredit Dwight D. Eisenhower. Wilcox bases his theory on the testimony of two individuals: Douglas Bazata and Stephen Skubik. The original car accident was intended to kill Patton, when it failed and Patton was on the mend, assassins finished Patton off in the hospital. Douglas Bazata was an OSS agent who as part of Operation Jedburgh parachuted into France before D-Day to carry out sabotage operations. Bazata claimed late in his life that he had been paid $10,000 to assassinate Patton by William Donovan, then the head of the OSS. Bazata said Patton's car cash was arranged and Patton's broken neck was the result of a special assassination gun that fired rubber (or soft metal, accounts vary) bullets. Stephen Skubik was a US Army intelligence officer during the war. Skubik claimed to have uncovered a NKVD plot to assassinate Patton through Ukrainian spies. When Patton survived the car accident, NKVD assassins infiltrated the Heidelberg hospital where Patton was being treated and poisoned him. The problem with Wilcox's melding of Bazata's and Skubik's stories is they don't corroborate each other. Skubik was aware of Bazata's claims but didn't attempt to integrate them into his narrative. In Skubik's opinion, it was a NKVD hit all the way and he saw NKVD infiltrators everywhere, from the driver of the truck involved in the accident, to the reporters in the hospital to the Germans employed in the hospital. Bazata claimed it was an OSS operation. You can obtain Skubik's account here: http://www.skubik.com/SSkubik.html (Note: Skubik's account is mistaken in a number of details and offers little in the way of substantiation of his claims.) Bazata's story is simply implausible: there were two other people in the car with Patton, the driver Horace Woodring and General Hobart Gay, a long time aide to Patton, and it was immediately obvious to all that Patton was paralyzed, including to Patton himself. Bazata does not explain how Patton could be shot after the accident with no one noticing. 