Was Samwise Gamgee the real 'hero' of the Lord of the Rings story?
Thank you Ahad for the A2A! Ernest got it exactly right; there was so much heroism on display from the start to finish of The Lord of the Rings that no one person could possibly be placed head and shoulders above all the others.      You want old-fashioned, sword-swinging epic heroism?  LotR has bucketloads of that.  Aragorn II Elessar, Glorfindel, Théoden, Éomer, Prince Imrahil, Boromir II, Faramir II, Legolas Greenleaf, Gimli ... they all gallantly waded through oceans of enemies with weapons red to the hilts.      How about quiet, humble unheralded heroism?  Where do we start?  Despite being a mere rotund homebody Fredegar "Fatty" Bolger demonstrated Gandalf's adage about hobbits:  "Soft as butter they can be, and yet sometimes as tough as old tree-roots."  How about Farmer Maggot facing down and chasing off a Nazgûl outside of his home?  By himself, after his dog fled.  To help protect a hobbit who'd frequently plundered his mushrooms, and despite a rich offer of gold.  That's grade A heroism.  And Arwen Undómiel becoming a mortal woman out of love for Aragorn ... does it get better than that?  So what made Samwise Gamgee stand out even among such a heroic cast of characters?  Well, he demonstrated just about every possible kind of heroism imaginable, loyalty, friendship, service, nurturing and love over and over again, not only during the quest of the Fellowship of the Ring but even long after the Scouring of the Shire.       It just isn't possible to recount all of the amazing things Sam did in a Quora-length answer.  But to my mind, there is one special heroic act to Samwise's credit that is mostly forgotten, even by devoted Tolkien aficionados, despite its widespread significance throughout the Shire.  It involves Galadriels' gift of the mallorn seedling and boxful of soil from Lothlórien and I beg your pardon for the extensive quote:      "... Sam planted saplings in all the places where specially beautiful or beloved trees had been destroyed, and he put a grain of the precious dust in the soil at the root of each. He went up and down the Shire in this labour; but if he paid special attention to Hobbiton and Bywater no one blamed him. And at the end he found that he still had a little of the dust left; so he went to the Three-Farthing Stone, which is as near the centre of the Shire as no matter, and cast it in the air with his blessing. The little silver nut he planted in the Party Field where the tree had once been; and he wondered what would come of it. All through the winter he remained as patient as he could, and tried to restrain himself from going round constantly to see if anything was happening. Spring surpassed his wildest hopes. His trees began to sprout and grow, as if time was in a hurry and wished to make one year do for twenty. In the Party Field a beautiful young sapling leaped up: it had silver bark and long leaves and burst into golden flowers in April. It was indeed a mallorn, and it was the wonder of the neighbourhood. In after years, as it grew in grace and beauty, it was known far and wide and people would come long journeys to see it: the only mallorn west of the Mountains and east of the Sea, and one of the finest in the world. Altogether 1420 in the Shire was a marvellous year. Not only was there wonderful sunshine and delicious rain, in due times and perfect measure, but there seemed something more: an air of richness and growth, and a gleam of a beauty beyond that of mortal summers that flicker and pass upon this Middle-earth. All the children born or begotten in that year, and there were many, were fair to see and strong, and most of them had a rich golden hair that had before been rare among hobbits. The fruit was so plentiful that young hobbits very nearly bathed in strawberries and cream; and later they sat on the lawns under the plum-trees and ate, until they had made piles of stones like small pyramids or the heaped skulls of a conqueror, and then they moved on. And no one was ill, and everyone was pleased, except those who had to mow the grass. In the Southfarthing the vines were laden, and the yield of ‘leaf’ was astonishing; and everywhere there was so much corn that at Harvest every barn was stuffed. The Northfarthing barley was so fine that the beer of 1420 malt was long remembered and became a byword. Indeed a generation later one might hear an old gaffer in an inn, after a good pint of well-earned ale, put down his mug with a sigh: ‘Ah! that was proper fourteen-twenty, that was!”      All that thanks to Samwise Gamgee's quiet heroism and unselfishness.  A less worthy hobbit might have used Galadriel's gift to fashion his own garden at Bag End into the grandest arboretum in the Shire.  But that wasn't Sam, who in Mordor heroically resisted even the tremendous temptation of Sauron's Ruling Ring:      "... deep down in him lived still unconquered his plain hobbit-sense:  he knew in the core of his heart that he was not large enough to bear such a burden, even if such visions were not a mere cheat to betray him.  The one small garden of a free gardener was all his need and due, not a garden swollen to a realm; his own hands to use, not the hands of others to command."      And that's why we love Sam.      (Sketch by L. M. Rourke at DeviantArt) 