Alternate Histories (Hypothetical Historical Scenarios): What would happen if the US became truly imperialistic?
"This is a forward looking question, not about history." Then it's not alternate history, but future history, as the venerable Robert A. Heinlein would put it. OK then: first, a truly remarkable change in internal politics would have to happen first: the New America Party wins the elections after a particularly bad string of events: financial, ecological and let's add an espectacular terrorist attack, for good measure. The NAP is a populist, demagogical force. Think of a right-wing Huey Long, with a rhetoric eerily similar to our dear Latino-American strongmen, from Velazco to Chávez, but americanized. Let's add some lame slogan: 'putting America back on track', or 'Unity through our ideals', something like that. The defunding or even dismantling of many regulatory bodies kickstart an economic boom that allow the NAP to be reelected easily two more times. The U.S. sees its fastest rate of economic growth in decades. However, Enron-style accouting in several sectors leads to an incoming economic crisis of disastrous magnitude. Knowing their history, a NAP drunk with love of power decides to distract voters with a 'wag the dog' fabricated crisis with... ummm... Venezuela. Venezuela, still limping after the civil unrest of the anti-Maduro coup, and suffering the effects of decades of United Socialist Party's mismanagement, provides the U.S. forces with lot of hot bodies to turn cold after another (now deliberate) 'Remember the Maine' incident. Condemned by many Latin American and European contries, the invasion and conquest of Venezuela goes unimpeded. Venezuela is not Iraq, and while there are several acts of resistance, US military administration of Venezuela actually helps the country, specially after the informal 'take no prisoners' attitude of the occupation authorities about common criminality. The Community of Latin American and Caribbean States has the wisdom to accept what they cannot change, and after a suspension period, allows the new and improved Venezuela to return. And by the way, PDVSA is not more: the rubber-stamping 'Transitional Federal Government of Venezuela' privatizes the company. A Mobil/ConocoPhillips consortium wins the auction, in a very clean process, of course. The new administration of TeleSur sings the praises for the new government and 'our friends from the North', and new Little Venezuelas appear around the United States. Move away tacos, arepas are the new fad! After the succesful Venezuelan adventure (rather cheap at US$170 billions), and hearing rumblings about economical desceleration with a strong chance of recession thanks to an ongoing business investment strike and further reductions of the middle class' purchasing power, it seems time for another adventure. Maybe Africa? Russia is too far away, and it's just a matter to make sure no Chinese investment will be affected. Liberate Cabinda from its Angolan opressors? Sounds good! 