What is it like to work at McKinsey?
When I walked into McKinsey in June 2008, I was on top of the world. I thought I had literally landed my dream job. In a sense, it was true. I worked there at the perfect time in my life and career.  To this day it is still the best two years of my life I have spent working.  But before I got there... Flash back to summer 2006. I was working in my internship when I found out about consulting. I realized quickly - this is what I want to do. Consulting seemed so exciting to me. Getting to learn about different topics in a fast-paced way surrounded by great people. I was incredibly motivated. I applied to the top 100 firms on Vault and 100+ rejections later, I ended up going back to work for GE. I had underestimated how much work and preparation it really took to crush the interview and land one of those coveted jobs. I even saved the rejection letter I got in 2006: October 2006 Dear Paul, Thank you for your interest in McKinsey & Company and your patience in awaiting our reply. Unfortunately, we regret that we are unable to extend an interview to you at this time. Our team’s decision was a difficult one given the strength of our applicant pool and the limited number of positions available. In the event that our hiring needs change, we will get in touch with you directly On behalf of McKinsey & Company’s recruiting team, we wish you every success in your career. All the best, XXX Recruiting Manager McKinsey & Company I didn't lose sight of my goal.  After six months I started applying again.  I found a posting of a job in the knowledge network, as a research analyst in the operations practice.  I had worked in manufacturing and was fascinated with the lean methodology.  It was a perfect match for me. So why did I love McKinsey so much?  SIX reasons: 1. I gained an understanding of what "high performance" really meant - and I liked it: I had always been proud of the work I had done in the past but working at McKinsey changed the way I thought about creating something great.  Through a healthy obsession (though some may argue otherwise) with logic, structure and communication combined with iteration in teams of great people, I was always impressed with the result of the work I did at McKinsey.  It was far better than anything I had done before.  It has raised the bar for my own work and has served me well since. 2. I was surrounded by peers who did not see limits, but saw tough problems to be solved - As I've gotten older, I seem to be increasingly surrounded by people who tell me why something cannot be done. To me, this is not an impressive skill.  There are always 100 reasons why something cannot be done.  While at McKinsey, I was surrounded by people that were hopeful and saw the world as something they wanted to help improve.  When faced with a tough problem, I was surrounded by peers who would endlessly problem solve new ways of thinking about a problem or new ways to look at information.  This may have been a factor of the relatively low age of most people, but I think it is inherent to the culture of the firm as well.  It was fun. 3. I wasn't the smarted person in the room, but I still held my own - I remember one project where I was working with a Rhodes Scholar who was a consultant and also happened to be a practicing surgeon on the side of consulting (not joking!).  To say there were some impressive people would be an understatement.  But there are also many more people who are not the next world leaders (and I mean that in the best way).  While there, I found people did not pay much attention to where you went to school or what you did in your past.  Everyone was treated as an equal and judged based on the quality of their ideas and thoughtfulness you brought to problem solving.  There is a cultural value of "the obligation to dissent" which I found to be terrifying at first (when Partners are asking you what you think on your first week), but wildly impressive after (I have not had many jobs where the leaders consistently as - "what do you think?"). 4. Great mentors who believed in me - I had three different managers and a research team leader that were absolutely incredible.  Whether they were a product of a system that knows how to develop people or they were just inspiring leaders (I think a bit of both) - the best thing they all did was give me space to learn, make mistakes, ask questions and develop.  Looking back, my work product wasn't the best, but they trusted me 100% and helped me build an incredible amount of confidence.    I've realized that this is 90% of leading - finding good people and trusting them.  I owe a lot to these people and was lucky to have these experiences 5. A sense of gratitude - While I was at McKinsey, I searched Harvard in the internal database and found 1000 employees that had some affiliation with the school.  I searched University of Connecticut (my school) and found six.  This made me incredibly grateful to have the opportunity to work there.  I wanted to do the most with it.  It was also the second job after a big corporate job that I wasn't a fan of.  Some things that others complained about I only saw as minor issues. 6. "NAKC" - I worked at NAKC aka the North American Knowledge Center.  Mckinsey started really investing in its knowledge network (much earlier than most other companies) and had an open and collaborative space in Boston.  It was a collection of a lot of young (and all young at heart) researchers who also came from schools that didn't typically have a shot working at McKinsey in the past.  That office and the collection of inspiring people is by far the best environment I have ever been a part of. 