What is it like to work at McKinsey?
I am a McKinsey alum, I worked 3 yrs as Associate and an Engagement Manager.  I left because consulting wasn't my long term plan, but I loved my time at McKinsey. This perspective is my own based on my experience.   McKinsey is intellectually intense  The term "drinking from fire hose" doesn’t do it justice.  Specifically the expectations of what you will learn and what you need to produce.  I attended Harvard College and Stanford Business School which had high expectations and steep learning curves, but McKinsey expected more of me.   The support systems are equally strong. There is always someone to ask for help (and people expect it) documents about how to do something, elearning courses as well as significant and effective onboard training.  There is a good (at times brutal) feedback culture.  But as soon as you learn something, you get another challenge. McKinsey has very high expectations.  For example; Day 1 I had to: get to the client (mining company 500 miles away), set up interviews, develop hypothesis of why costs are overrun, map out spending plans vis-a-vis different mines, and be ready to lead team discussion on findings with slide deck at end of day.  I could barely spell client’s name, knew nothing about industry, and had no data.  It never seemed to slow down, I always felt I was going to fail but somehow didn’t.  I credit the support networks.  I developed more in those 3 yrs than I ever had. You have to love solving problems  The most important key to survival at McKinsey, what gets you up in the AM and stay up in the PM, is a desire to solve problems using data, collaboration and rigorous, structured thinking.   Problems I faced ranged from 'how can U.S. food aid abroad be more effective in alleviating poverty' to 'how can a logistics firm reduce cycle time of deliveries.’    To those who say consultants generate answers and then walk away, yes sometimes.  In my experience, 95% of my time was spent on implementing ideas and working with clients to change how and what they did.  I gather most consultants will tell you the same.    And this "problem solving" happens without clients too.  McKinsey has a tremendous focus on building knowledge; the firm runs non-client projects which research and publish content crucial for policy debates and business decisions.  I think the investment in research and expertise is what distinguishes it from other top consulting firms.    McKinsey prioritizes client services  After problem solving, clients are the most important factor in the work.  There is constant questioning if what we are doing is best for the client. Clients are involved heavily in the work McKinsey does and we are stationed at the client for 4 sometimes 5 days a week.  Many people think McKinsey people are workaholic masochists.  Some are. But the long hours and high travel are more because McKinsey is beholden to clients, on their time, and because we compete with other consulting firms that are spectacular.  It is tough, but it makes sense, usually.   I will say, however, there is a devotion to the integrity of "problem solving" that can push the work to absurd levels.  Work more and get to better answer?  100% of the time answer will be "yes".  Except sometimes more work is just more work.  Like many large firms, there is bureaucracy  It is a large institution.  To be efficient many things are standardized. For example; there is a McKinsey language - terms such as 'distinctive', 'feedback', 'syndicate', 'toolkit', 'MECE' are used in a way understood by McKinsey consultants, possibly not anyone else.  There is standardized way to talk to clients, make PP decks, lead, manage, give feedback, get feedback, be a mentor.  These were helpful at first, especially nice to have standard language/practices when you are working with new people.  Then it started to feel stale and then stifling.  The "McKinsey Way" is a process, culture and a mentality. It works, but for more independent-minded people, it can be tough to feel like you always need to conform. McKinsey a challenging, intense place full of amazing individuals and opportunities and even if you decide not to stay for long (most people don’t), it is hard to regret doing it. Updated 104w ago • View Upvotes