Dominique Ansel (NYC bakery): What is it like to obtain and eat a cronut?
Obtaining it: My girlfriend brought it to my bedside. I injured my knee and was in a lot of pain and the cronut was a moment of bliss. She knew someone who knew Dominique Ansel, the creator of the cronut, and Dominique had put two aside for them. We live in a connected world. Cronuts are really difficult to get and people normally wait in line in the early morning for a few hours to get one. Supply is really limited, but supposedly, Dominique Ansel is working to take cronuts nationwide[2], so they may be more available in the future. Eating it: I was skeptical at first. I had tried the "Crumbnut" which is an attempt by Crumbs Bakery to create something similar to the cronut. I remember thinking the "Crumbnut" was pretty unremarkable. I believe we each had one or two bites and then threw it away. I think that horrible knockoff first helped me appreciate how awesome the original was. The cronut was nothing short of incredible. Each bite was so unbelievably delicious. Our flavor was salted "Salted Dulce de Leche." You can see the incredible topping and the filling. Some people just know how to combine flavors in an interesting way. Of course the textures here were really interesting as well. It's worth noting that the cronut has a different flavor every month, so some people may have tried something different than I did. One distinctive feature of the cronut is its many layers. That type of texture and inner airy-ness is a delight to taste. The other really cool thing is that within some of the layers, there were various fillings or toppings. It's really an intricate pastry, and it takes a long time to produce, apparently up to three days.[2] Although it tastes more like a donut, it does taste somewhat like a croissant as well. It's a distinctive pastry. On the outside, it looked like : When we bit into it, it looked like: One thing I didn't realize is that the genius behind the cronut is actually a genius in general, and there are tons of other things at this bakery worth getting. We got the DKA and the Coconut Lychee Pavlova. Both were absolutely sensational. The DKA is an interesting croissant inspired sweet treat that really stands on its own merits. The menu describes it as "DKA (“Dominique’s Kouign Amann”) Tender, flaky, croissant-like dough with a caramelized crunchy crust" After a bite: Here's the coconut lychee pavlova. 3 unique tastes combined. Meringue on top, coconut creme and lychee jelly inside. So good! After a bite :) Here are all three. [1] All pics taken by me or someone close to me. [2]  Cronut™ 101 | Dominique Ansel Bakery Updated 116w ago • View Upvotes • Not for Reproduction