Who or what changed the minds of atheists who used to be theists?
Online arguments.  No really!  It worked for me! But not alone of course. I've kind of answered this question several times, so read: Steve McKerracher's answer to If you are atheist, have you actually read the entire Bible before dismissing it? Steve McKerracher's answer to What are examples of defining moments that led a person to adopt atheism? This question is a bit more specific though, so I'll address that. There were three factors that came together at the same time over about a two year period for me. 1)  A hobby interest in the mind.  I was unemployed during this time, I spent much of it indulging my hobby interest in the mind.  It was motivated because about 5 years previous, I had a part-time job as a personal trainer, I had to choose between it and my full-time job, and even though my full-time job paid better, the only reason I didn't choose personal training full-time, was because I felt I wasn't truly helping anyone. Sure, you can teach some better form, some good exercises, provide some motivation, but I realized that the people that were really out of shape, needed some form of therapy to reverse the root causes that had lead to the weight gain. So I had started reading about psychology and then hypnotherapy.  It was through this that I started to understand bias, and its effects, not only on other people, but how the most dangerous effects are on ourselves, and we are typically blind to it!  We see it in other people, but are blind to it ourselves. 2)  A hobby interest in statistics and math. I wanted to learn how to play advanced Blackjack, and was interested in numbers.  In learning, I learned a lot about statistics, and not trusting your feelings.  The math is ALWAYS more reliable then feelings!  The math even says that with all the billions of people who have gambled, there WILL be people who win more often by playing incorrectly, and people who lose consistently playing perfectly. Regardless, your best odds are certainly playing the math.  Learning this I was amazed at all the gamblers superstitions I was exposed to at the Casino, and I started to see how religious superstitions are caused by the same psychological motivators, and explained by statistics in the same way.   3)  Online debates! And the final stroke, was my tendency to get into online debates!  After 20 years as a Christian, I knew the Bible and apologism so well I really thought I could handle anyone. As time went on through I started losing ground.  My Christian faith was based on the Bible.  I believed it was an inerrant divine message from outside of space or time, and as such, our greatest evidence for God and Christianity. It took over a year, but finally I had to concede YECreationism.  I came to understand the only way it was possible, was if God created everything as a LIE, to look like it was billions of years older.  And my God wasn't a liar. But that's ok, we can interpret the "days" in Genesis as "age", its still inerrant. The biggest single blow to my faith, was when I had to admit that Noah's flood, and the Exodus, couldn't possibly have happened as described.  I maintained for awhile that there was truth there and the errors were only a matter of scale and exaggeration, but while my front was strong, the cracks in my faith were severe. Because the Bible was no longer inerrant.  If God could inspire His Word to Mankind, He could also keep it inerrant.  If scribes could make mistakes, and exaggerate, then it wasn't being inspired by God. As the cracks widened, my other "evidences" started to crumble with them. My favorites were the prophecies.  They proved the Bible originated from outside time and space!!!  Right?... Chuck Misler added up all the probabilities of all the New Testament prophecies being fulfilled, and came up with a number of one in the number of atoms in the universe times the number of seconds in history!   That has to make it a statistical certainty right? But then I started to understand statistics.  I realized that if you add up a lot of bad evidence, you don't build an ironclad statistical certainty.... you wind up with a pile of bad evidence.   No matter how much bad evidence there is, it isn't equal a single piece of good evidence. And all the prophecies WERE bad evidence.   They were thirdhand.  First they were supposedly fulfilled by people who already knew about the prophecies... these people studied the "law and the prophets" obsessively.  Talk about self-fulfilling prophecies.  Josephus documented that the land was rife with would be Messiah's and Rebel leaders during this time, because the land was expecting Daniel's specific prophecy for a messiah at that specific time. And then we couldn't document that any of them had even been fulfilled either, they were all written by third parties long after the fact, often reinterpreting something as a prophecy that had never been considered a prophecy before.  And this was obvious as some of them were even based on a flawed translation from the original Hebrew to the Greek. This was all pointed out to me in online debate.  Including answers to all the typical apologist assertions, such as fine-tuning, Kalim, Pascal's, etc. But it wasn't until I finally faced my bias that my faith finally crumbled.   Through mental discipline I managed to at least temporarily disable it, and then faced the argument with an objective mind, willing to fall on either side, based on where ever the evidence and reasoning led me. From this perspective, I couldn't find a single logical reason TO believe in God.   So I stopped believing in God.  Ever since I have been challenging Theists to provide a single objective reason to believe in God, and maintaining the mental and emotional willingness to go back, given sound reasoning to do so. But nobody has come even remotely close.  I've had debates spanning many months here on Quora, from people of all backgrounds, including one with a guy with a Masters in Christian Apologetics. Nobody has come close to giving a reasonable reason to believe in God, let alone buy into all the claims of any particular religion. 