Who or what changed the minds of atheists who used to be theists?
I remember it like it was yesterday. I wasn't a very religious kid. I went to church with my grand parents when I lived with them (we'd stay there between deployments, while my dad tried to find us new housing wherever he was stationed.) I went for the McDonalds trip at the end. Church bored me silly. We'd got to church on X-Mas Eve just to open one present. Bribery was a huge part of my religious upbringing. When I went through Communion, I got Sonic the Hedgehog 3 for the Sega Genesis. Worth it. After coming back from Germany-after my dad's second deployment there-he was stationed in Fort Campbell, Kentucky. Let's just say there's a different kind of religion practiced here. They're aggressively Protestant and deeply entrenched. In a military base's schools, you get exposed to a lot more, have to be more tolerant of different religions and races. A lot of the southerners around Dover, Tennessee, where I went to high school, were far less exposed, and far more ardent in their conviction because of it. Religion isn't something you do quietly. It's a very public thing, and it's only gotten worse since I moved here. But imagine coming from a rather fickle religious background-where it was always there, but aside from the important holidays and service on Sunday, it didn't affect your life. Then you come here. Where God apparently can't help but meddle in the minutiae of everybody's life. Where "speaking in tongues" and convulsing on the ground during church isn't seen as strange. It's everywhere. I live sandwiched between two churches, and I don't think you can drive more than four or five miles down pretty much any major road without passing one. Even our voting for the presidential elections in 2012 was done in a church. A Pentecostal church is right across the street from my high school, and next to one of the entrance driveways is this sign: It wasn't the outwardness of religion here that got me, though. Honestly, it was the hypocrisy. Everybody here seemed to have such conviction, such fervor, such certainty... and they did drugs, stole, had sex, and in general were just as bad as everybody was everywhere else I had been. Except when you mix that behavior with the "only God can judge me" hubris... it's nauseating. There was a girl (who I admit, I kind of had a crush on), who would smack people-viciously-if they said "God damn". This same girl had a pregnancy scare at the age of 15, and was shortly after pulled out of school. Never knew what happened to her. I could give anecdotes all day long, and I'm not blaming the religion... but when you see people with such zeal who act so reprehensibly... it makes you start questioning things. When they use God as a shield and as ammunition, you want to know if they're right. So I made that fateful, fatal mistake that forever evaporated my always shallow pool of faith... I read the Bible. Because nothing is as good at countering self-righteous Christians. Incidentally, few things are as good at ridding yourself of religious belief. When did I become an atheist? It was a long process, and I'm not sure if there was any one moment. I now realize my upbringing worked like a vaccine. I was introduced to a weak and feeble-in fact, a moribund version of Christianity that just inoculated me against exposure to more virulent strains. Then I moved south of the Mason-Dixon line and saw how saturated religiosity didn't make people better, it just made them more obnoxious when they inevitably claimed to be better despite the faults. Finally, I read the Bible for myself, instead of letting a priest tell me the "good" parts. Anyways, way off track, but that's the background.  One night I was hanging out with my friend from high school (still a friend to this day, and an atheist, too, who was far more indoctrinated than I was), standing on my parent's driveway and looking at the night sky. I just blurted it out. "You know, I don't think there's a God." It felt like a big deal, because I never said it out loud to anybody before. He wasn't too surprised-we'd been friends for two years by then, and had discussed how decidedly unChristian most of peers acted. I had no intellectual rigor behind my suspicion at that time-my atheism, in good Catholic fashion, was something that just didn't matter in everyday life at the time. It wasn't until my mid-twenties, halfway through college, that I started paying more attention to the arguments. What really entrenched my lack of belief more than Dawkins, Hitchens, or any of the myriad of Youtube personalities was simply reading the Illiad and the Odyssey, and realizing how similar they seemed to the Bible in many ways. As for the aftermath... well, there wasn't any, really. I didn't talk about it, because my family didn't talk about that stuff. It wasn't important. It wasn't until much later (near the end of my time in college) that I tested the waters... only to find out that my dad considered himself a "secular humanist". My mom still considers herself Catholic, but she seems to be more of a deist who is "culturally Catholic". She wants to believe something is out there, but she's never read the Bible, hasn't been to church in about 15 years (at least, as far as I know), and doesn't really give half a crap about the Pope. Religion was never foisted upon me in any overly invasive way, at least, not compared to some people, and my parents never talked religion or politics with me until I was well past being an adult. My atheist girlfriend have a fine time without God. My atheist friend from highschool is coming over to hang out on Monday, and he's bringing his "agnostic" wife with him. Anyways, sorry for boring everybody with a big long story that really has no punch. Not everybody becomes an atheist through some form of trauma. Sometimes you just kind of reason it out for yourself. 