What are some good short stories?
The Fearless Warrior In the early hours of a warm winter sun when light once again overcomes darkness, the master gives his student the sword of the greatest warrior who ever lived. MASTER: This my child is the sword of the greatest warrior of the times past. The warrior is now dust but not the sword. He who possesses the wisdom of this sword is freed from the ravages of life. STUDENT: Oh Master! I do not know if I am worthy of this honor. I will however do my best to earn this metal. I will become the fearless warrior! MASTER: In time you will, but always remember "those who master it give it away and those who don't, keep it forever". The student thanks the master for the sword and walks away to become the master of his universe. He trains day and night, mastering every move with every stance. He becomes faster than the fastest, brighter than the brightest and stronger than strongest. Confident in his training he returns.    STUDENT: Master! I have mastered the sword. I have attained the unattainable. The sword has become my friend. I am now fearless! MASTER: If you say so, fetch me a bucket of water from the eastern foothills of the Himalayas and I will believe you are, what you say you are. STUDENT: I will go right away master. The student reaches the eastern foothills only to find it guarded by the fiercest bandits known to man. He immediately takes out his sword and the battle begins. Defeated at dusk, the student returns. MASTER: Where is the water my child? STUDENT: Another chance master! They were many! I was not prepared, but now I am! I have the sword, I am truly fearless! MASTER: Try again at dawn. The student tries again and is defeated again. Another chance, another try, another defeat. The student persists but the outcome always remains the same. Disgusted, broken and disappointed he returns. STUDENT: This is all a lie master! The sword has failed me! The greatest sword in the world is no match to those bandits! Here, I give it back! MASTER: Who told you that you possessed the greatest sword in the world my child? STUDENT: You did! Master. MASTER: I see. You did not understand. I gave you the sword of the "greatest warrior" of the times past not the "greatest sword". STUDENT: I do not understand! MASTER: Go fetch me a bucket of water without the sword and you shall have the wisdom you seek. STUDENT: Without the sword? They will kill me! I must have a weapon master! MASTER: Aren't you fearless? STUDENT: I am master! MASTER: Then take a leap of faith. And so the student arrives for the last time at the eastern foothills of the Himalayas. Armless, hopeless but courageous, he looks across the valley to meet his end. His eyes widen with disbelief. The foothills are empty! Not a single bandit in sight! Confused, amazed and overjoyed he quickly fills the bucket with water and returns.    STUDENT: What a coincidence Master! The foothills were empty! I did not need the sword! MASTER: There are no coincidences my child. Only lessons. You see the bandits were a manifestation of your fears. The sword will teach you to be the fastest, the strongest and the brightest warrior in the world, but to become the fearless warrior you must let go of the sword itself. As long as you rely on the sword you are bounded by fear. Never fear what will become of you, depend on no one. For only in the moment when you reject all help, are you truly freed. The greatness is in the warrior not the sword my child. The sword is merely the lesson. Water is your goal. Today you have defeated fear. The wisdom is now yours.  STUDENT: I understand master. The whole point of existence is to have no fear. The greatest sword is no sword. The warrior is always powerful than the weapon. As long as I held on to the weapon I was afraid but when I let go I became fearless. Fear is a choice and so long as we choose not to be afraid our path will always be clear like the water we wish to seek!   And so the student became the fearless warrior and the master of his universe. He no longer needed the sword for he knew that those who master it give it away and those who don’t keep it forever. For more short stories, you can follow The Protagonist Updated 49w ago • View Upvotes • Not for Reproduction