What are some good short stories?
Taken from an earlier post of mine: Can you take a day off to read? (on Reader's paradise) Books are loved all over. Trilogies are made into movies. Epic fantasy series spawn a multitude of fan fictions and command a enviable following. Poems are memorized and recited at social gatherings. Short stories, however, are largely ignored. But that is, by no means, proof that they are of any "lesser" literary value. In fact, the well-written short stories are as insightful, scary, romantic and moving as their other literary cousins. Here are 42 short stories (thanks Mr. Adams!) you can read in 1 full day (of course, assuming no breaks). But even with 40-60 minutes a day, you can finish these 100 stories in less than a month (links are in the title itself). So can you take a day off from your busy schedule? Science fiction All you zombies - Robert A. Heinlein (4.5 stars) Probably the most convoluted and complex of all time travel stories, All you zombies is a masterpiece that has been lauded for its originality and the sheer mind boggling complexity of its plot. The last question - Isaac Asimov (5 stars) The best work of the best sci-fi writer that ever lived. The last question was asked for the first time, half in jest, on May 21, 2061, at a time when humanity first stepped into the light. The question came about as a result of a five dollar bet over highballs Asimov takes one simple, fundamental question and weaves a story around it - as story spanning billions of years, the vastness of the universe and the hyperspace. The narrative is captivating, enchanting and fast paced. There is a continued sense of awe throughout as the story nears completion. And then, in a single closing statement, Asimov pulls offs a stunner. *Since "The last question" is rated 5 stars, no other story will be. A sound of thunder - Ray Bradbury (3.5 stars) 2055. Time machines. Safaris to the past - humans going back millions of years to hunt exotic animals including dinosaurs. Every moment is carefully planned to avoid making even the slightest change to the future. Or is it? Butterfly effect! They are made out of meat - Terry Bisson (3.5 stars) We are not alone. But we might never know that. And there's a reason why. 2BR02B - Kurt Vonnegut (4 stars) The story of a utopia. Of mankind's most lusted after ambitions come true. And mankind's most dreaded horrors too. A painter, a father, a doctor, triplets, a woman with a strange job, drupelets and the Happy Hooligan. Vonnegut's dark "paradise" leaves much to be desired and pondered and answered. The Nothing Equation - Tom Godwin (4 stars) The space ships were miracles of power and precision; the men who manned them, rich in endurance and courage. Every detail had been checked and double checked; every detail except— THE NOTHING EQUATION. An observation bubble at the edge of our galaxy. One man to oversee it surrounded by vast legions of nothingness. The first commits suicide, the second goes insane. Now there is a third. I have no mouth, and I must scream - Harlan Ellison (4.5 stars) What begins off as another post-apocalyptic world story, where a sentient, all-powerful machine has annihilated humanity, gradually builds up to be a terrifying, what-if tale. 5 survivors of the end of humanity must endure against an immensely powerful and vengeful machine. And there's no way out. There is just the 5 of them and an eternity of pain and torture. As long as you wish - John O'Keefe (3 stars) A coin with a paradoxical statement on both sides: THE STATEMENT ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS COIN IS FALSE. A Professor of Philosophy. A strange discovery. A hidden message. The yellow wallpaper - Charlotte Perkins Gilman (4 stars) A husband and wife move to a mansion temporarily, something that is grand but suspiciously cheap. The wife believes she is sick and has an eerie feeling about their new home. The husband, however, doesn't. And then there's the room and it's yellow, shabby wallpaper. There is something definitely wrong with it. No moving parts - Murray F. Yaco (3.5 stars) The story of a time far ahead in the future where everything works perfectly. Human intervention is no longer needed to maintain or fix things. But everything's changing now. That light will be flashing with more and more frequency in the months to come. But not just to signal trouble in space. If I were a superstitious man, I’d think that the age of the perfect machine is about to be superseded by the age of the perfect failure—mechanical failures that can’t be explained on any level. I really believe, childishly, that the mechanics and motions of the galaxy may turn themselves upside down just to snap man out of his apathy and give him some work to do.” The Veldt - Ray Bradbury (3.5 stars) A wonderful story of a utopia. Of a happy family. Of a time when the human civilization has advanced so much that everything you want is done by machines at the slightest thought. A story that explores the question of "How far can you go mechanizing things before you are redundant?" Fantasy A very old man with enormous wings - Gabriel Garcia Marquez (3 stars) A normal family with a normal backyard. An unexpected visitor. Is it a bird? Is it a moth? Is it a fairy? The various facets of life Signs and symbols - Vladimir Nabokov (3.5 stars) An old couple. A sickly child in the hospital. Referential mania. 3 calls from a wrong number. Lorry Raja - Madhuri Vijay (4 stars)  The story of a poor, wretched family, working in the iron mines, told through the eyes of the 2nd son, Lorry Raja is sure to stir up a lot of emotions in the reader. The plot is simple, the characters simpler still. And yet, the feeling it evokes isn't some thing that can be explained easily. The necklace - Guy de Maupassant (4.5 stars) “Of all the words of mice and men, the saddest are, "It might have been.” ― Kurt VonnegutA simple couple. A simple life. A wife that yearns for a more exciting life. A party invitation. A borrowed necklace. A wonderful night. A life changed forever. "The necklace" is one of the best stories of love, support, yearnings, strength and regrets. The ending leaves one with an entangle of emotions, most significant of which is a sense of unfairness. Silver Water - Amy Bloom (3 stars) Told from the first person perspective of Violet, Silver Water is a tale of her elder, mentally unstable sister Rose. The story weaves through a, though lightly comic at times, gritty and realistic narrative of having to deal with and adjusting with a family member suffering from acute Schizophrenia. If you were a dinosaur, my love - Rachel Swirsky (3.5 stars) The first person narrative of a woman who wishes her fiancée was a dinosaur and then weaves a fictional world around it - a world of dinosaur operas and weddings. A tale that will leave you chuckling, pondering and going back to re-read the story. Life, Philosophy and religion The Egg - Andy Weir (4 stars) You were on your way home when you died. It was a card accident. Nothing particularly remarkable, but fatal nonetheless. So begins a tale that spans religion, belief, life, death, afterlife, and reincarnation. Taking a leaf out of Asimov's book, The Egg builds up to a wonderful climax. And delivers. Three questions - Leo Tolstoy (4 stars) In this story, Tolstoy addresses 3 fundamental questions, which since then have been passed down as life lessons and parables. And all the earth a grave - C.C. MacApp (3 stars) There's nothing wrong with dying—it just hasn't ever had the proper sales pitch! You can sell everything if only you know how to. Even death. A brilliant satire on the current media industry and the wave of consumerism that has engulfed the world. The snows of Kilimanjaro - Ernest Hemingway (3.5 stars) A writer. A festing wound. A re-living of regrets, of opportunities passed up, of chances not taken. The slow approach of death, like the night, creeping and inevitable interspersed with a melange of memories, good and bad. To build a fire - Jack London (4 stars) A man and a dog hiking through the snow covered trails of the Yukon in Canada on a day that they shouldn't be. It is "too cold to be travelling along" but the man persists. To defeat the cold, he would need to start a fire. A fire that would be the difference between life and death. The curious case of Benjamin Buttons - F Scott Fitzgerald (4 stars) We have all seen the box office hit starring Brad Pitt in the titular role but there is an eerily, haunting quality to Fitzgerald's writing that makes the experience even more wonderful. The story of a man who starts off as a old man when born and slowly ages backward, turning into a middle aged man, a teenager, a kid, an infant and finally an embryo is fascinating. It is a concept that has always had people wonder and Scott does a great deal of justice to it. The last leaf - O Henry (4 stars) A woman, dying of pneumonia pegs her life to the last leaves on an ivy vine. Bereft of all hope, she plans to take her final breath as the last leaf falls. But will it? Will she? A story about hope. About struggles and finding the strength inside. A story of finding something to live for. We have been told numerous times that appearances can be deceptive. Nothing reinforces the notion more than this masterpiece by O' Henry. An occurrence at Owl Creek bridge - Ambrose Bierce (3.5 stars) The scene opens with a condemned man being hanged on the bridge. Like everyone else on a death sentence, his whole life flashes in front of him. His only wish is to somehow escape the hanging, fall into the river and swim away to safety and his family. That is when the rope snaps. The hunger artist - Franz Kafka (3.5 stars) The story of a man with an unusual occupation - a hunger artist. Someone who fasts for days on end to amuse the world and its spectators. The story is a clever satire on the world where the talented yet trivialized people spend their entire lives in search for a fragment of glory, a single word of appreciation, a small part of the acknowledgment they truly deserve. The one who walks away from Omelas - Ursula K LeGuin (3.5 stars) A city that is the perfect description of a middle-age utopia with its beautiful people, its skilled artists, its bright festivals, its everlasting intellectual orgy of joy. A terrible secret revealed. A compromise that had to be struck. A price that had to be paid. The School - Donald Barthelme (3 stars) 30 orange trees planet by 30 kids of a class all dead. Soon followed by the snakes. And the herbs. And the fishes. Death creeps nearer each day. But everything is not as dreaded as you think. There is still hope somewhere out there. Or is it? Horror/Thriller The lottery - Shirley Jackson (4 stars) A village. 300 people. A charged morning. A lottery. A winner. A twist. A face in the dark - Ruskin Bond (3.5 stars) From Mr. Bond, comes another story set in the backdrop of the hills and valleys of Shimla. The story of a boarding school and its brave headmaster. A story that brings out all of your primal fears. A story with the basic elements of horror - the dark of the night, the eeriness of the howling winds, a strange sighting and a twist ending. In the penal colony - Franz Kafka (4 stars) In a fast-paced story that slowly reveals, in the true sense of an actual horror movie, its various twists and turns and its arsenal of fear, Kafka manages to scare the reader and at the same time fill them with a certain amount of sympathy for the devil and bewilderment at the actual happenings in the story. A traveler is invited to be the witness to a sentencing - a seemingly, outdated custom that tortures the guilty for hours before killing them. He must pass a judgement on it. What would it be? Man From the South - Roald Dahl (4 stars) "A fine evening," he said. "They are all evenings fine here in Jamaica." In this brilliantly crafted tale of a bet between an old man and a young one, things suddenly take a turn for the grim. The pacing of the story is fantastic and keeps you hooked till the end. And the ending - another twist in the devil's tale. The tell-tale heart - Edgar Allan Poe (4 stars) From the master of mystery, comes a tale worthy of his praise. The first person confession of a madman who murdered an old man and then describes it to the reader in vivid detail to prove his sanity. The story is eerie - you have the constant feeling of being watched because of the 'unreliable narrative' and the fact that the lunatic addresses the audience directly. A good man is hard to find - Flannery O'Connor (3 stars) A normal family. Mother, father, kids, grandmother. A routine family vacation. A little detour to find something exciting. An accident and a deadly encounter. The face on the wall  - E. V. Lucas (3.5 stars) A group of people discussing the supernatural. An outsider with a real narrative. Three extraordinary things about the story. The open window - Hector Hugh Munro (Saki) (3 stars) A man with a nervous condition visits an old lady on the behest of his sister to calm his nerves. While waiting for her, he engages in conversation with her niece and tale goes grim. Comedy The secret life of Walter Mitty - James Thurber (3 stars) Made into a motion picture starring Ben Stiller, The secret life of Walter Mitty is a comical narrative of a man who's blurred the lines between reality day-dreaming. Weaving through multiple episodes of real life and fantasy, it is a wonderfully paced story that will leave you chuckling at the end. Cookies - Douglas Adams (3.5 stars) A train journey. 2 strangers. And a packet of cookies. The nose - Nikolai Gogol (3.5 stars) A barber wakes up one day and finds a nose in his roll. Another gentleman wakes up and finds his nose gone. However absurd, or improbable, this may seem, it does happen. (Or does it?). Gogol again displays a knack for weaving stories out of the pure bizarre and sprinkle it with his signature flavor of comedy. Romance About love - Anton Chekhov (4 stars) What is love? Is it rational? Can it be defined scientifically or diagnosed medically? Why do people fall in love? Why, sometimes, do they fall for someone who is their exact opposite? What is it about love that leaves even the strongest of people completely hapless? Is it fine to love someone who is already with another person? Is it fine to profess your love to them knowing well that it could disrupt their perfectly peaceful existence? All these and a multitude of other questions are answered in this beautifully crafted tale by the master himself. A girl I knew - JD Salinger (4 stars) I saw a girl standing on it, completely submerged in the pool of autumn twilight. She wasn't doing a thing that I could see, except standing there leaning on the balcony railing, holding the universe together. The way the profile of her face and body refracted in the soupy twilight made me feel a little drunk. A story that is not as much about love as it is about losing it. The story of a man who flunks college and is sent to Europe to master his trade, is advised against socializing much and falling in love, but who inadvertently manages to do just the opposite. A classic love story of romance, of the first jitters of love, of moving away, of writing letters. A wonderful love piece with a few splotches of some grime here and there. Selkie stories are for losers - Sofia Samatar (3.5 stars) A weird tale of love and loss. With just a pinch of folklore and fantasy. While you are jumping from one narrative to another, you feel like being shaken intensely without being allowed the time to understand what exactly is going on. But once the dust settles, you can see the whole picture. Updated 24w ago • View Upvotes