What is your favorite local dish that includes cheese?
For a local dish (Tucson, AZ, USA) it has to be Mexican. We are a little over 100 miles from the Mexico border. Now as to my favorite local dish that involves cheese that one is easy. Cheese Enchiladas. Vegetable oil 2 dozen corn tortillas 28-ounce can Las Palmas red enchilada sauce 4 cups grated jack and/or sharp cheddar cheese Sliced black olives Sliced green onions 1/2-1 small yellow or white onion diced Chili or cayenne powder 1 tomato diced. Shredded lettuce In a wide saucepan, heat 1/2 inch of vegetable oil. Soften tortillas in oil for a few seconds (do not brown or crisp at all) and drain on paper towels. After tortillas are done you can lightly saute and brown the diced onion. Grease two 9×13-inch baking dishes. To assemble, place a small handful of cheese in the center of each tortilla and add a little diced onion and a dash of chili powder. Then roll and place seam side down in the greased baking dish. Pour sauce over tops of rolled tortillas. Sprinkle remaining cheese as well as olives and onions over top. Bake in a preheated 350F oven until heated through and cheese is melted. Serve with Spanish rice, beans, salsa, lettuce, tomato and sliced avocado. My second favorite local food with cheese is a Mexican fast food staple and so evil. Carne Asada Fries Picture perfect example! This fast food is a m̶o̶n̶s̶t̶r̶o̶s̶i̶t̶y̶  delicacy that can be found anywhere in the American South-West and West and even up to the other side of Texas. So first they start with thin cut home fries cooked in scorching hot oil. Then a mixture of cheddar and Montery jack cheese sprinkled liberally on top while they are still hot. Then heaping amounts of Carne Asada (marinated grilled beef steak slices) The meat is marinated by rubbing with salt or with spice rubs such as lemon and pepper or garlic salt and lime before being cooked on a grill. It is then thinly sliced into little bite sized bits. In fast food places after dicing up the Carne Asada they often let it marinate in a heated pan until a new batch is needed so all the juices and spices get time to mingle and permeate the beef. It comes out so very tender. More cheese is added to the top of the hot Carne Asada. I prefer to have fresh guacamole and sour cream on top. A nice dollop of each on separate sides or separate corners. Then a good amount of Pico de Gallo also known as Salsa Fresca (literally Fresh sauce) is topped onto the middle. This is made fresh from chopped tomato, white onion, and chilis ( jalapeños or serranos), lime juice and fresh cilantro.I cannot tell you how amazing this is but it is sooooooo bad for you. Good for a once in awhile treat though. A good batch of the stuff might well be over a pound of food and at least half to 2/3rds of that is the cheese, sour cream, guacamole, salsa and beef. Often this is served up to go in a large square take out container a foot square lined with wax paper. My third and last favorite local food with cheese is... Cheese and Chicken Quesadillas First a brief discussion about flour tortillas... These are not flour tortillas... No matter how much they look like them or what the packaging says. I know what you are thinking and reading in the picture but bear with me... This is a tortilla... Hand made goodness. Look at that picture real close. Click above and look at this full size. You can see the pixie dust that makes it so good. I am not kidding! If you can't feel that light almost invisible powdery texture it is not a real tortilla. It prolly rolled off a factory somewhere and tastes more like flavorless bread than a tortilla. A good tortilla is lightly flaky but moist and soft with subtle hints of saltiness that linger on that fine dust of fried flour from the cooking process. Also those little pockets of air trapped during cooking serve a vital purpose for flavor and consistency. They should be there! Those kind of tortillas you get from Mission are soft but rubbery, flavorless and stale. They often taste like lightly sweet and salty cardboard. Okay so if you don't have a tortilla factory to make them for you or your supermarket does not get frsh deliveries every few days like mine does then make them at home. Heres a great page on how to make them! > Homemade Flour Tortillas Okay so after you made the universe and then your tortillas from scratch the rest is easy... I put a tiny dab of real butter on one side of the tortilla and lay it that side down in the pan. Add your Cheese, thinly sliced previously cooked chicken bits a dash of spice like cayenne pepper or Tajín (seasoning), a little more cheese to weld the other side and a second tortilla again with a tiny dab of butter outside in the middle. When the tortilla browns and crispens flip and cook until the other side is lightly crisp too. Serve with sour cream, Guacamole and Salsa Fresca. See also.. Ariel Williams' answer to Food: What are the top U.S. Regional foods to taste before you die? 