Which is a better place to live: Mumbai or Bangalore?
Awesome..! I stayed in Bangalore for 2 years and moved to Mumbai from Bangalore. fro last 19 months i'm living in Mumbai. Main differences i feel are, Weather conditions: Bangalore is pretty cool, even in mid summer (Between April - June) max temperature does not exceed 39-40 degrees and in all other seasons temperatures lie below 30 which is just so awesome. Where as in Mumbai, Its always sweaty, humid because of its coastal line and especially in summer its even worse. In Rainy season depending on the location where u live, u might experience difficulty in travelling because of water blockages on roads and i feel everywhere in India this is the Most common problem during rains. Transportation: I must say this, Mumbai has the best transportation facility when compared to entire India. Comparatively travelling 30-40 kms in any other city in India in any means of transportation might take you more than 2 hrs at least. But in Mumbai it will not take  more than an hour. And local transport(autos and taxis) In my entire 19 months of stay in Mumbai, I never came across an auto wala or taxi wala saying 'NO' when i wanted to travel some where. You name the place, they will drop you there and its always as per the meter rates. I'm 100 % sure, This was never a case in Bangalore. (in my experience) Auto walas in Bangalore will just loot your pockets. Night Life: "Mumbai is the city that never sleeps". And even at late nights you can see a lot of people hanging out on roads with friends and family. You can find 'Chai wala' on the streets selling chai late nights.I'm sure u wont get this in Bangalore. Housing: Renting an Apartment is pretty costly in Mumbai when compared to Bangalore also most rental apartments in Mumabi are very small in size (square feet) and there are many reasons for this. Food: I being a south indian(Basically from Hyderabad) prefer to have south indian. Its not difficult to find south indian food in Mumbai But its costly when compared. Street food here are mostly 'pav' based (Bread) which was a bit difficult for me during initial days. Not i got used to 'pav bhaji' , 'wada pav', 'Bhajia pav' e.t.c...,   This is just my personal view and experiences. I Hope it helps. 