Why should I avoid asking a bad question on Quora?
Hmm.... You know, I think Quora has ..... Hold on a sec, there's the phone. • • • • Dayaam dude, you really have asked a sensitive question! I just got a call from....no, I got a better idea, I recorded it...hold on...ahh...here, here it is: Recorded Transcript [start]   "Hello?" "Please hold for to The Duchess of Quoarage". "YOU SNIVELING MORON. You were about to write,'It depends...something', weren't you?". "Good morning your Ladyship. Let me say that it is a great honor to....". "DON'T GIVE ME THAT, YOU SNOTTY-FACED HEAP OF PARROT DROPPINGS! You were going to equivocate, were you not?" "Well yes, your Ladyship. Isn't that Quora's policy? You know BNBR and all of that?  I believe the relevant statute number is RU486. It reads in part: ...in regards to questions that seem to have come from the Mad Hatter: such questions are to be granted equal status with any other question, regardless of how mind boggling they may be, if said questions stay within the BNBR guidelines" "SHUT YOUR FESTERING GOB, YOU TIT! YOUR TYPE MAKES ME PUKE! YOU VACUOUS TOFFEE-NOSED MALODOROUS PERVERT!!!  Do you think I am one of those milquetoast Quoran lackeys who believes in elves and can't we all get along? ARE YOU DAFT? I am The Duchess of Quoarage. You know what that means. Would you like another tour of Castle Quora?" "No your Ladyship. I'm sorry. Please...anything...I'll do anything, just don't send me back to..to.... oh the horror. I'm, I'm...begging you. " "Shut your sniveling trap, fool. Listen and listen well. You answer that question with even a smidgin of equivocation and I will personally give you your next tour of the catacombs. "Yes, your Ladyship. NO equivocation. I will answer that: writers of questions of no merit should be rounded up and terrible things should be done to them with a feather. Is there any special phrase I could add that would please your Ladyship?" "Hmm... [softly, as if thinking to herself] ... tar and feather, scalping, fed to the jackals, banish to Yahoo... [more clearly] No, you'll think of something. You had better not fail me". " Yes your Ladyship, I will do as... Hello?  Hello? She hung up". Recorded Transcript [end] --- So there you have it. There is Quora policy and then there is Quora practice. Trust me, learn from my errors. Don't write dumb questions. Just because you can write a question, doesn't mean you should. Good luck. apologies to python fans. 