Which is a better place to live: Mumbai or Bangalore?
It depends on what your priorities are: What are your career plans? Bangalore has a lot of IT companies and e-commerce startups. And then there're the consulting and finance firms. If you're planning to stay in one of these 4 sectors, basically, if your dream company happens to be in Bangalore, good for you. Mumbai is much more diverse in that matter. I was in Bangalore for 2.5 years but the kind of companies I was interested in weren't there in Bangalore. So I moved to Mumbai for better career prospects. Though I feel settling down here will leave me impoverished. Housing: The advantage of Bangalore is that it's circular, unlike Mumbai. So you have the option of staying close to your office. Unlike Mumbai where houses near commercial complexes are pretty expensive. As for rents, I was paying 24k for a 3bhk in Koramangala, Bangalore and I'm paying the same amount for a 1bhk in Andheri East. You get the idea? Commute: Bangalore has the worst traffic scene and public transport isn't that good either. But then, 5 months in Mumbai and I'm yet to board the local train. Nor am I planning to use it in the near future. I am not cut out for it. I and a lot of people I know commute by taxis. The bottomline: having own vehicle helps, in both cities. Bangalore has an advantage that tenants also have parking spaces, unlike many societies in Mumbai. Lifestyle: Both have malls, both have multiplexes, both have lots of things to do. Bangalore doesn't have beaches and Bollywood. But how often did you sit on Marine Drive or visit Nariman Point? If your answer to this question is yes, well you'll miss that in Bangalore. Otherwise, you wouldn't miss out on much. In fact you can actually manage to have a posh lifestyle in Bangalore. I was playing golf there and here in Mumbai, I'm back to living the life of a common man, sharing cabs to save Rs. 60. Law & Order and Safety for Women: Yes and yes. This despite the fact that Bangalore is sort of the trafficking hub of Karnataka. But it's not like a woman can be molested or raped in the busiest road at peak hours. But then we have Kamathipura in Mumbai too. Overall, both cities are safe for women and children. I've often driven late at night or insanely early in the morning, and felt safe. People are great here, they won't leer at women even when they're wearing shorts. Water/power supply: If you live in a good gated community, they'll guarantee 24x7 water and power supply. But if you're planning to rent an individual's house, you'll have to check the scenario. They depend on the locality.If you have turned into a true blue Mumbaikar, then you may not like Bangalore for the lack of its night life and for it not being Mumbai. Otherwise, it offers everything which make life liveable. Updated 36w ago • View Upvotes