What are some examples of no bake cakes recipe?
No-bake Creamy Peanut Butter Pie Ingredients For the crust: • 8 Ounce Oreo cookies, crushed into fine crumbs • Pinch of salt • 4 Tablespoon unsalted butter, melted • 4 Ounce semisweet chocolate chips • 1/2 Cup heavy cream • 1/4 Cup chopped peanuts For the filling: • 1 Cup heavy cream • 8 Ounce cream cheese • 1 Cup creamy peanut butter • 1 Cup powdered sugar • 14 oz Can/Jar sweetened condensed milk • 1 Teaspoon vanilla extract • 1 Teaspoon lemon juice To finish: • 1/3 Cup semisweet chocolate chips • 1 Teaspoon vegetable shortening Preparation Step 1 In a medium bowl, combine the Oreo crumbs, pinch of salt and melted butter, tossing with a fork until the crumbs are all evenly moistened. Press into the bottom and about 1-inch up the sides of a 9-inch springform pan. Place in the freezer for 10 minutes. Step 2 While crust is in the freezer, place the 4 ounces of chocolate chips into a small bowl. In a small saucepan set over medium-high heat, bring the ½ cup of heavy cream to a full boil. Pour over the chocolate chips, let it sit a minute, and then stir gently with a rubber spatula until completely smooth and glossy. Pour over the bottom of the crust, tilting the pan or using an offset spatula to ensure it covers the entire bottom. Sprinkle with the chopped peanuts. Place pan in the refrigerator while you prepare the filling. Step 3 Using an electric mixer with a whisk attachment, whip the 1 cup of heavy cream on medium-high speed until stiff peaks form. Transfer the whipped cream to a medium bowl and place in the refrigerator until ready to use. Step 4 Again using an electric mixer, this time with a paddle attachment (or regular beaters if using a hand mixer), cream together the peanut butter and cream cheese on medium speed until light and fluffy. Reduce the speed to low and gradually add the powdered sugar. Once it is all added, scrape the sides of the bowl and beat on medium speed for about 30 seconds to completely incorporate. Add the sweetened condensed milk, vanilla extract and lemon juice and beat at medium speed until everything is completely combined and smooth. Step 5 Using a rubber spatula, stir in about 1/3 of the whipped cream to lighten the mixture. Very gently, fold in the remaining whipped cream until no streaks of whipped cream remain. Pour the filling into the prepared crust. Step 6 In a microwave on 50% power, melt the 1/3 cup of chocolate chips with the shortening in 30 second bursts, stirring after each one, until the chocolate is completely melted and smooth. Using a spoon or pastry bag, drizzle the melted chocolate over the top of the pie filling. Step 7 Refrigerate for at least 3 hours (or overnight) before serving. Store leftovers in the refrigerator. 