What are some of the witty remarks made by the commentators during a cricket match?
These are some  commentary masterpieces by Harsha Bhogle: Chris Gayle was demolishing the opposition during the IPL. Every other ball had to be brought back from the fence. Harsha: "6 and 4 seems to have become the new Binary Code for this man." In a match against England, R Ashwin came to bat and started playing unconventional cricket shots, about which Harsha Bhogle commented: "Ashwin has just played 3 shots that no father will ever teach to his child." Michael Atherton: It is England but India has more support in the stadium, and the pitch is completely assisting your spinners. Says a lot about our hospitality, right? Harsha Bhogle: Well, we let you rule our nation for so many years. I believe that's the least you can do for us. Harsha Bhogle: India doesn't have a set fast bowling attack, *describes each bowler* and Pravin Kumar has vanished! Sunil Gavaskar: Vanished or banished? Harsha Bhogle: "If you're from Bengal, both mean the same, actually he has vanished." Harsha Bhogle, during a KKR-RCB match in IPL 2013: "Running is going to be interesting here, because AB de Villiers is a hare between the wickets and Chris Gayle does it only because the law requires him to go across to the other end." Harsha: If you talk to Sachin about cricket for say 20 to 30 minutes, you'll often end up saying to yourself, "Shit, I thought I knew enough about cricket." About comparing Sunil Gavaskar and Sachin Tendulkar, "As India's economy changed, Tendulkar is a product of a new economy whereas Gavaskar was a product of a licensed, socialism driven economy. He batted like he had bank deposits whereas Tendulkar bats like he's playing on the equity markets." Rajat Bhatia was bowling gently, Harsha quipped: "Any bowler has 3 pace variations - fast,medium and slow. But Rajat Bhatia has - slow, slower and slowest!" This one from KKR vs. KXIP when Shakib Ul Hasan was bowling dead slow,"Even the shadow would go faster than the ball." India's 9th wicket fell, the No.11, Narendra Hirwani is walking out to bat. Ian Chappell asked Harsha if Hirwani could bat. Harsha says: "If you make a team with all the No.11s of all the teams, Hirwani would still come at No.11 in the line up." An Australian fielder dropped a simple catch. Harsha:"I tell you what, these are the most difficult catches to drop!" In the second ODI against Pakistan, Harsha was talking about solidity in Indian batting when he said, "Ajinkya Rahane is making a career out of being on the bench. Just like software engineers being hired for bench, I think Rahane is being hired for the bench!" In a match between India and South Africa, umpire Rudi Koertzen was caught on camera sporting a rare smile. Harsha commented, "The last time Rudi Koerzten smiled, there was peace in west Asia." Harsha was hosting the ICC Awards before the T20 World Cup and he called on Jonty Rhodes to present an award. As Jonty began climbing down the stairs, Harsha commented: ‘It's pretty unusual to see Jonty walk down the stairs, I thought he might slide down them!’ When Sachin once got out to an easy off-spinner, Harsha commented: "Oh what a shame. It was reminiscent of a soldier who survived the war when all the bullets were flying by his nose and then got run over by a bicycle in his native town." It was at the Champions Trophy 2013 final India vs. England, when Bresnan was run-out. Harsha commented, "Oh dear, there was not even a quarter of a single." In the same match, on just next ball Stuart Broad took a tight single. Harsha commented: "England are redefining the meaning of single.” During an India vs. Australia test match in Chennai when Ashwin joined Dhoni at the crease, Harsha: "Dhoni is extremely quick between the wickets, and Ashwin, let us just say he has other skills." After India chased down 350 against Australia for the second time in the ODI series that recently concluded, Bhogle said: "Australia would think that with 350 on the board, 9 times out of 10 they'd win the game; unfortunately they're discovering the 10th too often." In the first Test between India and West Indies at the Eden Gardens, when Sachin Tendulkar got Shane Shillingford LBW in the first innings, Bhogle came up with this gem: "Long before Nigel Llong gave that out, 50000 people in the crowd did." Source: '6 and 4 seem to have become the new binary code for Chris Gayle': 20 wittiest pieces of cricket commentary by Harsha Bhogle 