Which is a better place to live: Mumbai or Bangalore?
You can decide to live based on the kind of work you do and whichever city offers you better career prospects. I am from Bangalore and I have visited Mumbai and I loved it. But after reading few answers to this question, felt like Bangalore’s positives were being sidelined to glorify Mumbai. Hence writing this answer. It’s like comparing Sachin Tendulkar with Virat Kohli. Just because Virat is performing well, you cannot compare him with Sachin’s achievements and start judging his performance. Sachin is the best cricketer India has produced and everyone loves his achievements. Virat is trying to achieve the same. In this process, highlighting Virat’s weakness or mistakes and comparing it with Sachin’s ability is not a right way to measure Virat’s ability. Same thing applies here. Mumbai has been a big city since many centuries and its advantage of having a port made it a commercial hub. Also British turned it into a city way back in 17th century. “In 1687, the English East India Company transferred its headquarters from Surat to Bombay. The city eventually became the headquarters of the Bombay Presidency. Following the transfer, Bombay was placed at the head of all the Company's establishments in India. From 1782 onwards, the city was reshaped with large-scale civil engineering projects aimed at merging all the seven islands into a single amalgamated mass. This project, known as Hornby Vellard, was completed by 1784. In 1817, the British East India Company underMountstuart Elphinstone defeated Baji Rao II, the last of the Maratha Peshwa in the Battle of Khadki. Following his defeat, almost the whole of the Deccan came under British suzerainty, and was incorporated into the Bombay Presidency. The success of the British campaign in the Deccan marked the liberation of Bombay from all attacks by native powers. Mumbai is India's largest city (by population) and is the financial and commercial capital of the country as it generates 6.16% of the total GDP. It serves as an economic hub of India, contributing 10% of factory employment, 25% of industrial output, 33% of income tax collections, 60% of customs duty collections, 20% of central excise tax collections, 40% of India's foreign trade and ₹4000 crore(US$600 million) in corporate taxes.” – Source: Wikipedia On the other hand, Bangalore actually started being developed as city only from late 19th century. “In the 19th century, Bangalore essentially became a twin city, with the "pētē", whose residents were predominantly Kannadigas and the cantonment created by the British.[46] Throughout the 19th century, the Cantonment gradually expanded and acquired a distinct cultural and political salience as it was governed directly by the British and was known as the Civil and Military Station of Bangalore. While it remained in the princely territory of Mysore, Cantonment had a large military presence and a cosmopolitan civilian population that came from outside the princely state of Mysore, including British and Anglo-Indians army officers.” “Bangalore was the fastest-growing Indian metropolis after New Delhi between 1991 and 2001, with a growth rate of 38% during the decade.” “Bangalore's ₹523 billion (US$7.8 billion) economy (2006–07 Net District Income) makes it one of the major economic centres in India,[134] with the value of city's exports totaling ₹432 billion (US$6.4 billion) in 2004–05.[135] With an economic growth of 10.3%, Bangalore is the second fastest-growing major metropolis in India, and is also the country's fourth largest fast-moving consumer goods (FMCG) market, Forbes considers Bangalore one of "The Next Decade's Fastest-Growing Cities". With a per capita income of ₹74709 (US$1,100) in 2006–07, the city is the third largest hub for high-net-worth individuals and is home to over 10,000-dollar millionaires and about 60,000 super-rich people who have an investment surplus of ₹45 million (US$671,850) and₹5 million (US$74,700) respectively.” – Source: Wikipedia So, it’s obvious that Mumbai will be having unfair advantage if compared to Bangalore in most of the areas as mentioned in other answers. Since, Bangalore’s negatives is highlighted in other top upvoted answers, I would like to show the other positive side of Bangalore through below images. We are the silicon valley of India. When every other traditional businesses were already established and looking for metro cities for establishment, Bangalore made the right moves after IT revolution. It grabbed the opportunity to place itself as the leader in the country in IT field. Same applies to Bio technology, nano technology as well. Transport Totally agree Bangalore is a loser here if compared. Mumbai has local trains which Bangalore lacks. It’s cheap and convenient to all kinds of people. It’s sad that Bangalore missed out on having a commuter rail. Metro cannot replace it for sure. A local train is cost effective and most efficient form of transport. However, the metro planned is planned well to cover almost all of the areas. Check out the below map. Due to lack of local trains, local city bus transport is pretty good compared to any other city and it has won numerous awards. It has many complaints but again every city’s transport services has complaints. Power Until the current Congress government came which ignored the economic factors, Bangalore used to have 24/7 power supply in almost all the areas. Eateries The number of street food stalls and number of varieties available is far less compared to Mumbai but a person who has grown up in Bangalore surely knows where the best chats are available in the city. Most migrants stay in outskirts near IT parks and doesn’t care to explore actual Bangalore and stereotype Bangalore in negative shade. However, if you are a foodie, you sure won’t be disappointed. Parks Garden city of India Bangalore. Three huge parks in the city limits. Cubbon park Lal Bagh JP Park Plus lakes like Sankey Tank Ulsoor Lake Shopping destinations like these Swanky Airport. Yes, we have one. Future -> Brighter Bangalore’s now the 2nd best funded startup hub in the world, outside the US. Source: https://www.techinasia.com/banga... Bengaluru is 12th among top 20 tech-rich cities. http://www.thehindu.com/news/nat... Bengaluru tops among state capitals in Swachh ranking http://timesofindia.indiatimes.c... Finally, I would like to end with a proverb as an answer to this question. “beauty lies in the eyes of the beholder” 