What are some good short stories?
The Moon Word Count - 2004 Time to read [math]\approx[/math] 8 min. Author - Anirudh Anupama. “Varun, I know the food is very tasty, but you need to eat it patiently beta. You may choke up if you eat with such haste,” said Varun’s mother. “Yeah Amma. The food is indeed very tasty. I want to finish it soon before all the citizens of Gumnaamganj come and snatch it away from me,” Varun remarked notoriously looking at his dinner, an onion with supper in the aluminium bowl. “Whatever it is, it is food beta. We should be thankful to Lord Shiva that he has blessed us with food tonight. Don’t comment on it and finish it calmly,” Amma said in a serious tone to Varun. Varun finished his dinner, washed the bowl, picked his books and wore his rubber slippers. He was about to leave when Amma called him, “Beta listen, if today those police officers bother you, just walk away  quietly. We cannot afford to fight with them; we are not looking for  troubles.” “Hmm,” mumbled Varun and left to study. Varun used to study in the night with his friend Naina, under the street lights near the IT Park. Naina belonged to an upper middle class family and used to attend the most  popular school in the town. She used to update him with the syllabus  that she learnt in the school every day. Varun used to jot down all the points carefully. Later, all the night till dawn, Varun used to sit there and read about all these points and make notes of his  own. All the stationary he had was either borrowed from his friends or  gifted from the seniors of his friends. Most of the times he would  peacefully read and no one bothered him apart from few stray dogs and  the police on patrolling. One of them used to say bluntly, “Ae  bastard go home. You are never going to be anything, you filthy roach.  For all we know that if there is a burglary in this area, it will be on  you; you will be the prime suspect then.” Varun couldn’t read in home; there was no electricity supply. He was afraid to read under the lantern. Amma had warned him, “You might ruin your eyes by doing that Varun. We can’t afford a good day meal, how can I afford the spectacles and the pay for the doctor?” Varun had already accepted this poverty and had no complaints for his mother.  His father had passed away when he was a small kid due to cancer and in  order to meet the expenses of everyday life, he used to work at the  Town Central Library. His job was to sort and arrange the books for the  librarian. He used to get 30 bucks for this job every month. On the  other hand, Amma used to wash clothes and utensils for in few officers’ houses and earned Rs. 60 per month. Both, Amma and Varun, were content with whatever less they had and stayed peacefully in the small hut at the outskirts of Gumnaamganj with no complaints. It was Varun’s  dream to study and become a big officer someday, like those, in the  houses of whom his mother used to work. This is the reason why, inspite  of not going to school, Varun kept himself updated with the academics that the students of his age  should know. Instead, he was few years ahead of the other kids. He had  an excellent command over his languages, especially English. He was  impeccable in literature as he worked at the library and read in the  free time; his general knowledge was unbeatable. He could solve a higher  secondary school Math or Physics problem more effectively, leaving  others astonished. ‘State Level Essay Competition… Prize – Rs. 100… Last Date – 30th Aug. 1959…’ Varun read the newspaper cutting Naina had brought him one night. “You should definitely participate, Var. You will win for sure,” Naina exclaimed with a charm in her brown eyes. “I don’t know Nai. It is state level, I don’t think I stand a chance,” Varun muttered in a low voice. “Var,  you are going to participate. Look, the theme is brilliant. ‘What will  you do if you get all the money of this world?’ I think you should  definitely give it a shot. All the time you keep on saying that, “If I  get money, I'll do this… When I’ll become rich, I'll do that… Now is  your chance, Phod de; Phad de,” she added. Varun had a fortnight and many different ideas for writing the essay. He  scratched his head for two weeks. During this period, he rarely visited  home. His mother had started worrying for him, “Whether has he started  drugs? Whether is he falling in the wrong company? Lord Shiva, please look after my child. Don’t let him spoil like his father.” A month later, when the competition results came out, Naina came running to Varun. “You won. You won. You won. Varrrrr… You won,” she screamed this all along the road and jumped like a little girl waving the newspaper she was holding like flag. Varun had tears in his eyes, he couldn’t say anything. The MLA of the town, who had organised the competition, felicitated him and appreciated his essay, ‘The Moon’, before the whole Gumnaamganj. “Even  the Chief Minister of the state liked this boy’s essay. He was touched  and had tears in his eyes. His PA narrated CM's reaction while handing  this envelope with Rs. 200 in it. The extra 100 bucks came from the CM  himself,” He handed over the envelope to Varun. “Amma this is for you. This is reason why I had been staying out, for completing the essay,” Varun placed the envelope in Amma’s hands and kissed it. “But Beta, what will I do with all these money? You take it. Buy more books for you to read,” Amma returned the envelope. “Amma, Diwali is next week. You buy yourself a nice saree. Pay all the debts we have at the grocery shop. I don’t like the way the owner talks and stares at you. All your sarees are either torn away or old. Please buy yourself 3-4 good quality sarees,” Varun returned the envelope to Amma. Amma had tears in her eyes, she couldn’t say anything. “But beta, tell me what the essay was about? All the people of Gumnaamganj talk so much about it. I want to hear it from you,”Amma put aside all the work she had and grabbed Varun in her arms. “Amma, not now. I want to go to study. I will tell you sometimes later,” Varun ran away hurriedly. For the next few weeks he kept on avoiding Amma, as he felt it too awkward to read the content to her. Amma’s curiosity to understand the essay increased day by day with Varun’s  odd behaviour. Hence, few days later, while working in one of the  officer’s house, she took the newspaper cutting to the officer’s wife  and asked her if she could read and explain her the essay. The lady  started reading the content while Amma was doing the chores. After an hour, when Amma was done with her work and was leaving, the officer’s wife stopped her.  She returned her the piece of paper, and sat her down to explain the  essay. She said with wet eyes, “Amma,  your son is a gifted writer. He is extremely talented and a  lion-hearted person. In his essay, ‘The Moon’, he is saying that if he  gets the money of the whole world, he will buy the moon. He will break  it into many small pieces and distribute it amongst all the kids of this  world, who want to study in the ‘dark’ like him. He says that he can’t  study under the lantern as all Ammas scold their Varuns; they are afraid Varuns will ruin their eyes. He writes how he is not able to study late night  due to the patrolling team and stray dogs. He is worried in his essay  that how will he break this dead lock: he has no time and money to get a  formal education-he is trying to study on his own, but can’t, due to  certain circumstances-this will again result in poor job-leading to poor  income-in turn leading to poverty-giving him less room to educate his  children-Repeat. He, therefore, wants to give a piece of moon to every  child like him so that they can work during the day to support their  families and study in the ‘dark’ with no worries. He says very  beautifully that, ‘I don’t want any poor kid to adjust with ‘dark’ness  actually. They will have sun during the day and a private moon in the  night to bring light in their otherwise light deficient lives. They can  see the road to success more clearly then; they can break the dead  lock.” Amma was speechless. She just thanked the lady, took the paper, folded it and tucked it in her saree at the waist and left the house. She had the 200 bucks with her while  she was returning home via the grocery shop to pay all debts and buy  vegetables, wheat and rice for the month. After the mini shopping, some  100 rupees were still left with her. She thought of something and went  to the electricity board office. She knew someone there, some high  ranking officer. She used to work at his house few years ago and  remembered his words, "Amma,  you are a hard working woman and I really appreciate that. Whenever you  get any troubles with electricity connection or bills just come to me. I  will surely try to solve it." She  went and sat outside his cabin on the floor. While he was locking his  cabin after the day, he noticed her near the water cooler. “Amma is it you?” he asked surprisingly. “Yes Sahab.  I have some important work with you. Actually, I am here to ask a  favour from you.” She said this to him in a very humble voice and  explained the whole incidence while showing him the essay. He read the essay and was touched. He really felt for the boy and asked, “What can I do for you Amma?” “I  have Rs. 100, can you please give me electricity connection? Not full, I  can't afford that, but just enough to light a bulb and a fan,” her  illiteracy and poverty was speaking for her. The officer chuckled. He was amused by the talent of the boy and passion of the lady to promote his learning. “Amma take this money with you and be assured. I will make sure you get a  ‘full’ electricity connection by tomorrow evening. Don’t worry about the  bill, I will sponsor it,” said the officer in an assuring tone. Amma fell into the officer’s legs and started weeping. The officer could  barely hear her thanking him in the squeaky voice of her sobbing. He  lifted her with her arms and asked her to leave with a smile. When Varun returned home after work the following day, he had his dinner and  exchanged a few words with his mother about the day according to the  tradition. After the dinner, when he was about to leave for studying,  his mother called him, “Varun, beta I have got something for you.” “Amma I had told you not to. I had asked you to buy new sarees and nothing for me,” grunted Varun. Amma switched on the bulb. She was wearing a very pretty pure cotton saree. Varun had never seen her mother in such attire. “God she looks so beautiful,” Varun thought to himself, “Wait a second, we have light in our house?” “Wha? Whe? Ho? Wh?W?H?W?H?” Varun had many questions popping up in his head. “Beta, I am not rich enough to buy all the pieces. May be when you become a big officer, you buy the rest. But on this day of Diwali, all I can give you is your piece of ‘THE MOON’.” I gamble with words at Spiels of my Quill. 