What are some good short stories?
I would like to put in a mention for some quintessentially English writers of short stories. First, two stories by Saki, (real name H. H. Munro), The Lumber Room and Tobermory. The Lumber Room is a work of revenge; the story of an intelligent child turning the tables on a tyrannical aunt (Munro had an unhappy childhood and always sided with the underdog). The protagonist of Tobermory is the cat belonging to the Sir Wilfred and Lady Blemley, hosts of a house-party that includes Dr. Cornelius Appin, who announces one afternoon that he has succeeded in teaching Tobermory to speak perfect English. This is greeted by general dismay by his fellow-guests and hosts. Tobermory appears and proves the assertion correct; conversing as a cat might with perfect manners but an utter lack of consideration for anyone else’s feelings. The scene in the drawing room at afternoon tea where the assembled house-party reacts to Tobermory’s newly-acquired skill is masterly: “What do you think of human intelligence?” asked Mavis Pennington lamely. “Of whose intelligence in particular?” asked Tobermory coldly. “Oh, well, mine, for instance”, said Mavis with a feeble laugh. “You put me in an embarrassing position”, said Tobermory, whose tone and attitude certainly did not suggest a shred of embarrassment. “When your inclusion in this house-party was suggested Sir Wilfred protested that you were the most brainless woman of his acquaintance, and that there was a wide distinction between hospitality and the care of the feeble-minded. Lady Blemley replied that your lack of brain-power was the precise quality that had earned you your invitation, as you were the only person she could think of who might be idiotic enough to buy their old car. You know, the one they call “the Envy of Sisyphus” because it goes quite nicely up-hill if you push it.” Lady Blemley’s protestations would have had greater effect is she had not casually suggested to Mavis only that morning that the car is question would be just the thing for her down at her Devonshire home. Saki, like Oscar Wilde (author), is a brilliant stylist. His stories are comedies of manners but always with a dark side. His stories delve into what happens when the order of things is reversed, when authority is overturned and everything isn’t as it seems, all within a very conventional society. P.G. Wodehouse is seen more as a novelist but many of his best works are short stories. We first encounter Jeeves and Wooster in Carry on, Jeeves, a collection of short stories, each a showcase for concise writing, intricate plot-lines and brilliant dialogue. The scene where Wooster and Jeeves first meet paints an immediate picture of both characters: I shall always remember the morning he came. It so happened that the night before I had been present at a rather cheery supper, and I was feeling pretty rocky. On top of this I was trying to read a book Florence Craye had given me. She had been one of the house-party at Easeby, and two or three days before I left we had got engaged. I was due back at the end of the week, and I knew she would expect me to have finished the book by then. You see, she was particularly keen on boosting me up a bit nearer her own plane of intellect. She was a girl with a wonderful profile, but steeped to the gills in serious purpose. I can’t give you a better idea of the way things stood than by telling you that the book she’d given me to read was called Types of Ethical Theory¸ and when I opened it at random I struck a page beginning: The postulate of common understanding involved in speech is certainly co-extensive, in the obligation it carries, with the social organism of which the language is the instrument, and the ends of which it is an effort to subserve. All perfectly true, no doubt; but not the sort of thing to spring on a lad with a morning head. I was doing my best to skim though this bright little volume when the bell rang. I crawled off the sofa and opened the door. A kind of darkish, respectful Johnnie stood without. ‘I was sent by the agency, sir,’ he said. ‘I was given to understand that you required a valet.’ I’d have preferred an undertaker; but I told him to stagger in, and he floated noiselessly through the doorway like a healing zephyr. Updated 218w ago • View Upvotes