What are some nice, beautiful stories?
Little Miracles In December 1963 I was eight years old. That was the winter I received my very first miracle. My mother had been pacing back and forth through the old rundown house we rented near the warehouse district in town. I could hear the stress in her voice and see the weariness in her face as she asked my older sister what she should do.. She had been waiting for our father to come home with money for food and coal. We all had waited. Maybe there would be enough to get the electric back on too. My sister was only thirteen years old but it wasn't unusual for our Mom to ask what we thought about this and that. Honestly, the things she included us in were not the types of things children were normally involved with. I knew she was ready to cry so I took my five year old brother and our one year old sister upstairs to our bedroom so they wouldn't get upset and cry, seeing Mom lose control. We had a new baby brother, two months old now, but Mom was holding him close to keep him warm. Wearing our winter coats, my younger brother and I scraped our names in the frost on our window with our fingernails and watched our breath freeze onto the glass. That's when we heard a car turn onto our street and start to roll slowly down the hill and come to a stop in front of our house. We didn't recognize the 58' Burgundy Buick with the chrome windshield visor and matching grill that looked like a frown. We could see a man and a woman in the front seat and a second couple in the back. The rear door opened and we could hear loud laughter pouring out of it along with our Dad. I quietly walked down the hall to the top of the stairs and listened as my mom told him she was worried something had happened to him. She had been looking for him for days. My mother murmured something I couldn't make out and then I heard him say," What money? I came to change my shirt." My mother asked, What did you do with it?" It was a timid fearful questioning. She knew he drank it. We all knew where it went. Mom had sent us out in the snow to the bars the night before to see if we could see him thru the door but we hadn't been able to find him this time. With an injured tone Mom asked who the woman in the car was. He fumbled for an excuse saying it was so and so's wife but we all knew better. He was heading for the stairs so I ducked back into my room. I heard his dresser drawers opening and closing and then I heard his footsteps on the stairway going back down. We heard him say he'd get some money somehow and that he would be back later. The front door slammed. From the window we saw him climb back into the Buick and watched it pull away. That night we ate pears for supper that my dad brought home from somewhere the month before. There were a few good ones left and we just cut out the soft spots on the ones that weren't so good. Later that night the temperature dropped suddenly outside and we were afraid the water pipes might freeze and break if we didn't get the house heated soon. My big sister produced fifty cents from babysitting money she had earned and offered it to my Mom. We had to make a decision. Take the fifty cents and buy a quart of milk and a loaf of bread or take our sled to the coal yard and buy a bag of coal. It was up to us. We decided to go to Rose Fuel Company and bring home a bag of coal. (CONTD) My sister and I bundled up against the winter night and got our sled and a bushel basket from the old garage behind the house. Sis pulled the sled down the Frances St. hill while I followed behind on the snow covered sidewalk. My teeth began to chatter even before we turned onto Madison street at the next corner. My sister wanted me to hurry up. I was walking along pretty slowly, looking into the warm houses with beautiful Christmas trees and happy families inside just wearing shirtsleeves or sweaters. I wished it could be that way for us. My sister just wanted me to stop daydreaming and get moving. We followed the brick street to the entrance of the coal yard where the big gates were locked for the night. Under the streetlight, stood a big steel box. It looked to me like a gigantic soda machine. My sister got out her two quarters and put them into the slot. She turned a big knob that would release a 10lb. bag of coal that should then slide down the chute and out of the opening. Nothing came out. My sister panicked. She banged on the side of the machine and tried the knob again. Nothing. She turned her cold red face to me and asked,"Danny,what are we going to do?" We had just given up our last fifty cents for a bag of coal that wasn't there and we couldn't get the milk and bread either. I remember that we held each other under that streetlight in the swirling wind and snow for a long long time, crying our hearts out. My sister wiped her eyes and said, "We'd better go home now." I saw her bend over and pick up a piece of coal from the ground. I saw one and picked it up and put it in the basket too. She moved the snow with the side of her foot and revealed more black pieces just under the surface in the driveway by the big gates. "Here's one", I exclaimed. Our spirits burned brighter and brighter as we found another piece here and a big chunk over there until our bushel basket was filled to the top. We had picked up much more coal that had fallen off the delivery trucks than we would have ever gotten for half a dollar. My sister swore and kicked the machine once more out of frustration and out spilled six shiny quarters. I don't remember how long the coal lasted or what we did with the $1.50, but I do remember that night often and with great fondness. This is a true story. It is what keeps me humbled and ever grateful for all things that come my way. We never complained that we didn't get all the gifts we wanted. We treasure the gifts we have ... Each other. Live with Hope, recognise your gifts and be good to one another. 