Which are the 10 songs that should be in everyone's playlist right now?
You can trust me for these songs : 1. Alvida (From the movie Metro, an awesome composition by Pritam and sung by K.K.) : This song you should always have if you have been hurt by someone. This has a different level of music and is my lifetime favorite. 2. Dil ibaadat (Movie Tum Mile, composed by Pritam and sung by K.K.) : If you are deeply in love with someone, you should have it. 3.  Zara Si dil me de jagah tu (Jannat, Pritam and K.K. again) : Will give you the guts to propose anyone, anywhere. 4. Aashayein (Movie : Iqbal, Composers: Salim - Suleimaan, Singer: K.K. again) This song will never let you feel down. An enthusiastic song, this is a must in your playlist. 5. Tum hi ho (Movie : Aashiqui 2, Composer: Mithoon, Singer: Arijit Singh) A beautiful composition by Mithoon and a magnum-opus for Arijit, this song is a must in playlist. 6. Dil Chahta hai (Movie: Dil Chahta hai, Composer: Shankar-Ehsaan-Loy, Singer: Shankar Mahadevan) You go out with your friends, this song you should have to listen and cherish memories. 7. Kahin toh hogi wo (Movie: Jaane tu yaa jaane naa, Composer: A.R.Rehman, Singer: Rashid Ali) A beautiful composition by Rehman Sir, this song will mesmerize you beyond limits. 8. Tu mujhe soch kabhi (Movie: Zindagi tere naam, Composer: Sajid Wajid, Singer: K.K.) This song is one of my favorites and I want to emphasize you for this personal choice of mine. You'll not be in this world for the 5 minutes of this song. 9. Yun hi (Movie: Tanu weds Manu, Composer: Krsna, Singer: Mohit Chauhan): No words for the superb lyrics of the song, this one is another feather on Mohit's hat. A must, must listen. 10. Husnaa (Album: Coke Studio, Singer: Piyush Mishra, Composer: Hitesh Sonik) A perfect blend of awesome lyrics, awesome composition and awesome singing. Prefer watching video too. There are so many. Somehow I could put into preference. I am a big K.K. fan so you will see many K.K. songs, but trust me, you ought to have those in your list. Enjoy! 