What are some cool words used in your language, with their meaning?
My native language is Hindi. निर्वाण / Nirvana: The ultimate state of bliss, detachment and enlightenment. गगनचुम्बी / Gagan-chumbi (literally, "sky-kissing"): To refer to anything insanely tall or lofty. लौहपथगामिनी / lauhpathgamini: (literally, "the one who walks on iron rails"): Hindi for trains. हुंकार / Hunkaar: Hindi for battle-cry. Although it has a far more powerful connotation. A battle cry feels like a shriek at best. Hunkaar is like the roaring of a dozen lions against the background of three score drums. It is a bellowing that will make even the bravest enemies piss their breeches. दर्षनाभिलाषी/ (darshan-abhilashi): Someone who desires (abilasha) to get a meeting (darshan) with someone else. Mostly used in the context of devotees wanting to have a glance of their God. Or for people desiring an audience with the king. Hindi is derived from Sanskrit. So I will also list one word from Sanskrit which is simply mind-boggling. From: Longest words निरन्तरान्धकारिता-दिगन्तर-कन्दलदमन्द-सुधारस-बिन्दु-सान्द्रतर-घनाघन-वृन्द-सन्देहकर-स्यन्दमान-मकरन्द-बिन्दु-बन्धुरतर-माकन्द-तरु-कुल-तल्प-कल्प-मृदुल-सिकता-जाल-जटिल-मूल-तल-मरुवक-मिलदलघु-लघु-लय-कलित-रमणीय-पानीय-शालिका-बालिका-करार-विन्द-गलन्तिका-गलदेला-लवङ्ग-पाटल-घनसार-कस्तूरिकातिसौरभ-मेदुर-लघुतर-मधुर-शीतलतर-सलिलधारा-निराकरिष्णु-तदीय-विमल-विलोचन-मयूख-रेखापसारित-पिपासायास-पथिक-लोकान् In IAST transliteration: nirantarāndhakāritā-digantara-kandaladamanda-sudhārasa-bindu-sāndratara-ghanāghana-vr̥nda-sandehakara-syandamāna-makaranda-bindu-bandhuratara-mākanda-taru-kula-talpa-kalpa-mr̥dula-sikatā-jāla-jaṭila-mūla-tala-maruvaka-miladalaghu-laghu-laya-kalita-ramaṇīya-pānīya-śālikā-bālikā-karāra-vinda-galantikā-galadelā-lavaṅga-pāṭala-ghanasāra-kastūrikātisaurabha-medura-laghutara-madhura-śītalatara-saliladhārā-nirākariṣṇu-tadīya-vimala-vilocana-mayūkha-rekhāpasārita-pipāsāyāsa-pathika-lokān from the Varadāmbikā Pariṇaya Campū Each hyphen separates every individual word this word is composed of. The approximate meaning of this word is: "In it, the distress, caused by thirst, to travellers, was alleviated by clusters of rays of the bright eyes of the girls; the rays that were shaming the currents of light, sweet and cold water charged with the strong fragrance of cardamom, clove, saffron, camphor and musk and flowing out of the pitchers (held in) the lotus-like hands of maidens (seated in) the beautiful water-sheds, made of the thick roots of vetiver mixed with marjoram, (and built near) the foot, covered with heaps of couch-like soft sand, of the clusters of newly sprouting mango trees, which constantly darkened the intermediate space of the quarters, and which looked all the more charming on account of the trickling drops of the floral juice, which thus caused the delusion of a row of thick rainy clouds, densely filled with abundant nectar." 