★What types of people choose to live in Palo Alto over San Francisco?
My wife and I grew up in Palo Alto and we also lived in San Francisco for a couple of years (in the Mission) after graduating from college. We moved back down to the Peninsula (Mountain View, then Menlo Park) for many of the reasons identified by the other posters: More space for the same amount of money, reduced commute, and slightly warmer weather. A fair number of people I knew from growing up have also moved back to the Peninsula, which I think would have surprised me as a teenager because we used to think that Palo Alto was a pretty dead place (and relative to SF it probably still is), but I think now it makes sense given the level of economic growth and vitality in the area. At various times we have considered whether we would move back to San Francisco. There are definitely many things that we miss (coffee bars, bookstores, demographic diversity, more public events, great restaurants). On the other hand, raising a family in SF would likely involve many challenges. On a cost per square foot basis, SF is likely to be more expensive. Also, while I don't agree that SF does not have any great public schools, the reality is that the amount of time and energy parents likely need to invest in making sure that their children attend great schools is likely to be significant (as is the financial cost of private schools as an alternative). Even if one were to able to secure a place for children in a highly regarded SF public school (e.g. Lowell), the demographics of that school would be very different from a public school in PA. There are many, many brilliant, hard-working students in SF public schools, but many, if not most, come from lower-middle or working class families. In my experience, this has both pros and cons. On the one hand, young people who haven't grown up with all of the advantages in life (as many PA kids do, myself included) are often very hard-working and ambitious. On the other hand, their life experience and worldview is often a bit more limited than the culture of the "elite" classes, which underlies a lot of the social and professional interactions between people at the higher levels of business and professional services are less likely to be second nature to a young person in SF public schools (it was an adjustment even for me as a PA kid when I attended a private university where most of my classmates had attended prep schools). I think each family weighs these kinds of factors differently, but I think they are important things to be conscious of. I think the last thing I would say is that Palo Alto has also changed a fair bit from when I was growing up there in the '80s and '90s. I remember my neighbors at the time included a Catholic school principal, a left-wing engineer who worked at Lockheed, and a Stanford professor married to a documentary filmmaker. Over the years, I think the city has gotten a bit more homogenous due to the rapid growth of Silicon Valley. It seems nowadays in PA you are much more likely to be living among tech investors, successful entrepreneurs, senior businesspeople at tech companies, investment bankers, and corporate lawyers, all of whom are likely to be connected in some significant way to the tech/startup/VC scene. I think the result can feel somewhat like a giant echo-chamber at times (I feel that I can say this as a corporate lawyer married to a product manager at a startup!). Overall, I think it's terrific that the area has done so well lately but at times I do miss aspects of Palo Alto that have faded somewhat.    Embed Quote