★What are the best examples of the law of unintended consequences in action?These could be from any arena -- politics, business, economics, science, startups, etc. -- but should be actual, real-life examples, not hypotheticals.  See Unintended consequences if this is not a familiar concept already.
This is a fascinating example; especially so, as it concerns the two Koreas. The World Festival of Youth and Students is an international cultural-exchange event, organized by a left-wing youth organisation. Its 13th edition was held in 1989, hosted by North Korea. Due to political considerations, South Korea banned all South Koreans from participating in the festival. But Lim Su-kyung, a hard-line South Korean communist activist (who was then in college), illegally crossed the border to partcipate in the event. Soon enough, she toured across the country, speaking against the South Korean government. ​ This attracted the attention of Kim Il-Sung [The Eternal President of N. Korea], who was overjoyed at having a South Korean willing to criticise her home country. Su-kyung was nicknamed as the "Flower of Reunification" (통일의 꽃,)  and became a popular figure in North Korea. Eventually, she was arrested on her return to South Korea. This arrest was broadcasted on North Korean television and Su-kyung was cast as a martyr. ​ Unfortunately, for Kim Il-Sung, this propaganda move rebounded. Now, the unintended consequences. The stories spreading in North Korea, until then, was that South Korea was ignorant, starved, and poverty-filled, and that they were controlled by a military dictatorship. For this reason, teams were secretly sent from the North  • to chronicle Su-kyung in South Korea, the aftermath of her arrest, and • to show the supposedly devastated state of the South. The common North Koreans expected Lim to die in prison. But they were surprised when it turned out that Lim's family were living in their own apartment. (In North Korea, also the family members of a political prisoner would be incarcerated.) More shocking was that Lim, who was classified a political dissident, received a proper trial, represented by a lawyer, and in the end handed a short jail sentence (which was further reduced due to good behavior). The North Koreans expected a death sentence to be given to her straight away, for opposing the government (as was the norm in the North). ​ The commoners in North Korea were more shocked, when they realized through the videos that the South was, in fact, more luxurious and friendly (due to the cars, buildings, etc., they saw in the videos broadcasted on national television). Lim's fashionable clothing (women wearing jeans, etc.) also contributed to this. Due to this mega-backfired propaganda, the number of defectors and escapees from North to South Korea increased a whole lot after 1989. The North Korean government realized their mistake, and pulled anything that concerned Lim Su-kyong; nonetheless, the damage was already done. Sources: Page on 78.129.108, Lim Su-kyung, 13th World Festival of Youth and Students    Embed Quote