★What's the most feasible way to reduce traffic congestion in Los Angeles?I'd love the place otherwise.
I am by no means an expert, but I would think a number of things could significantly reduce traffic in the region. Congestion Pricing Making people internalize the external cost associated with driving a car. When you drive, you not only pollute the air, but cause wear and tear on the road and contribute to congestion. A form of Pigovian Tax, congestion pricing makes people pay for the costs they impose by charging them for using the roads (usually only for major highways). Ideally, the amount charged would vary depending on traffic. This would encourage people to drive at off-peak hours, which would in effect "smooth out" the traffic over the course of the day. The County recently initiated an experiment in this type of policy; it converted the High Occupancy Vehicle lanes into High Occupancy Tolls lanes on two sections of major freeways. These lanes are free for anyone driving a in a vehicle with 3 or more people, but charge a toll on the rest. This means that single occupancy vehicles can drive in the lanes if they are willing to pay for the congestion they cause. The amount of the toll is determined by the level of congestion. Metro says the toll will be adjusted such that traffic never dips below 45 MPH. The first of the sections has already opened, and the second is set to do so early next year. Hopefully this experiment will eventually evolve into full-fledged congestion pricing. Increased Density, Sustainable Planning Traffic gets so terrible during rush hour in Los Angeles because of its expansive sprawl; owing mostly to geography, the city developed horizontally instead of vertically. This means that many people have to drive long distances to work, causing congestion. However, it seems that Los Angeles has finally reached the end of its outward growth. With little land left within reasonable distance of the city, the metropolitan area has started to add density. In addition, the county has begun to encourage sustainable development. Changes in zoning codes are allowing for increased density within certain mixed-use and commercial districts (e.g. Downtown, Hollywood, Culver City, Santa Monica, Century City). This will encourage people to "live where they work and play," reducing the amount of time spent on the road. However, this will likely only slow the increase in congestion, as the suburbs and exurbs are unlikely to see a sustained decrease in population Better Transportation Infrastructure As these "nodes" increase in density, it is important to connect them with good public transportation. The county has already begun its effort to upgrade the public transit system. In 2008, the county voted to impose a 1/2 cent excise tax that would go towards transportation infrastructure. A large chunk of this money is dedicated to expanding the Metro Rail system. Eventually, most of the major commercial and residential areas will be connected, giving an alternative to the freeways. There are some politics that I won't get into here that will decide how long it takes to actually get all of the rail lines done, but Metro has already made some good progress. Unfortunately, increased public transportation will probably also not decrease congestion significantly. They will, however, provide a nicer way to get around. Technological Progress More advanced traffic control systems could help reduce congestion on surface streets. Synchronizing lights, for example, could decrease the stop-and-start nature of traffic. The self-driving-car, however, will be far more important. Google already has built a number of these, and it is only a matter of time before they are introduced into the market. Self driving cars will eventually be able to communicate with not only each other, but also the road itself (provided we invest in "smart roads"). Cars would be able to drive very close together at very high speeds, which would greatly increase the capacity of the roads.  Hopefully this, combined with congestion pricing, will not only slow the increase in, but actually reduce traffic in Los Angeles    Embed Quote