★Is metro really a need for Kochi and will it be profiable and add to the already worst traffic congestion?
Lets start off with the team that is constructing the Kochi Metro for us. E Sreedharan and Delhi Metro Rail Corporation This team has been responsible for the outstanding success of the Delhi Metro  Delhi Metro is one of the few metro systems in the world having an  operational profit from the first day. In 2007, the Delhi Metro claimed  to be one of only five metro systems in the world that operated at a  profit without government subsidies. That being said the scenario at Delhi is very different from that at Kochi. Kochi is tier II city. In fact it is the first tier II city to be granted a metro. Our population is just a fraction of the bigger cities like Delhi, Mumbai etc. If we just want to reduce traffic congestion today we just have add a few new roads and widen the existing ones by far the cheaper and simpler option. But how long will that solution last? The aim of building the metro is not for today but for the future. Lets look at the Delhi Metro once more what has it done for the city Decline in traffic : "At the toll plaza, on the expressway, there's a decline of at  least 15,000 vehicles a day. This has also resulted into the less  congestion at two more traffic bottlenecks in Gurgaon after the toll  plaza — Shankar Chowk and IFFCO Chowk." Although a few new bottle necks have been created by the metro the reduction in traffic is far more. Significant reduction in air pollution : "Reduction in the levels of nitrogen dioxide and carbon monoxide. Given  that both nitrogen dioxide and carbon monoxide are important vehicular  emissions, our initial findings suggest that the Delhi Metro has  encouraged people to switch from private to public mode of travel  resulting in positive effects on air quality in the city. " Creation of jobs : While I have no facts to back me up here, it seems quite obvious that the metro has created a fair share of employment for the people. If you have been to Bangalore you will know how badly the city needs the metro rail. Bangalore has arguably the best city bus network in the country (What makes Bangalore Metropolitan Transport Corporation (BMTC) the best public bus provider in India?) but even this falls significantly short of the demand. Construction of the Bangalore metro has begun and will shortly cause massive bottlenecks in the city. This is the ideal time to build the metro at Kochi as the pains of construction is not as much as it will be when the need arises. True it will not start off with the profits of the Delhi metro but it will undoubtedly be profitable to the city and help reduce the traffic congestion. Sources : Metro has reduced traffic congestion - Hindustan Times Did the Metro help reduce air pollution in Delhi? Delhi Metro Delhi Metro making Rs 2-cr operational profit per day: Sreedharan Kochi Metro Rail Ltd. | Kochi Metro    Embed Quote