★Will driver-less cars reduce traffic congestion?
Maybe in a very limited way if the most rosy and delusional predictions of silicon valley types come true, but its unlikely. Let me introduce to you a number: 11.4 This is a number overlooked by the vast majority of silicon valley types that think they can do with autos what they did with the internet or cell phones. 11.4 is the average age of a car or light truck on the road today in the U.S. which is currently the largest car market. A car is not a cell phone that costs a few hundred bucks where the actual cost can be obstructed. A car costs thousands of dollars and is a significant investment. This investment has two lives minimum. First to the owner that bought it new and then to the subsequent owners that buy it used. Take for example Hybrids which have been on sale now for more than 15 years here. They clearly have a niche, but only a niche. Self driving cars will likely face the same outcome. Of the ten best selling vehicles in the U.S. not one is a hybrid. The list consists of five gas powered cars and five light trucks. Hybrid technology actually provides something people would want: increased gas mileage. The problem is they cost more, a lot more. On the low end a Civic is a better value for tight budgets and further up gas mileage is less of a concern making either the Camry or Altima a more logical choice. There is a 6k difference between the Civic and its comparable hybrid version, that's not a small amount. Self driving cars are likely going to meet the same fate. Older people who can afford them won't trust them or find them luxurious enough as cars, and younger people more open to the technology won't be able to afford them. Due to limited adoption, the very high likelihood of non-standard systems (BMW using a different system than Chevy) that can't link together, the fact that even under the best circumstances it will be a niche product with few on the road at any given time it would seem to me that it would have little if any effect on traffic patterns. Now if somehow these types of cars became the norm, say more the 50% of the cars on the road AND they all used the same system with supported infrastructure there maybe some nominal changes. That said though the worst traffic is caused by a large number of cars going on the road at peak times all at once. This will not change no matter who is or is not driving, so where it matters it won't make any difference. Frankly silicon valley types are overly bullish on this tech which is not surprising. As time has gone on tech-centric folks have gotten more and more out of touch with what actual people will spend money on and why. Further the vast majority of customers are not going to fall in love with a new product like this and others. Take for example wearables, tech firms have spent years successfully selling people on cellphones that replaces things like watches....and now all of a sudden we need a "smart" watch? Please. Surely they will have a niche. Probably is the SoCal area close to the logic distortion bubble. The rest of the country is going to be a hard sell, especially in places with actual weather. Outside of the U.S. where even automatic transmissions are looked down on things will be even dimmer. As personal transport I don't see it, but I DO think there is a usage for it: Hotel/Airport Shuttles and Taxis. If I were in the self driving car business, that's where I would focus. Combine it with a service like Uber you would have a very disruptive product. Its not going to take over the world, but you won't care....you will be sipping a martini on your own private island.    Embed Quote