★Do drivers who keep extremely huge gaps between their car and the car in front of them in heavy, very slow stop-and-go traffic cause the congested traffic to be worse?
They aren't making traffic worse, they act as a buffer / low pass filter on the traffic waves and improve flow to make it less turbulent, thus making it more efficient. Only if it's excessively and consistently large of a gap (i.e. follows all the traffic wave patterns and doesn't smooth out speeds at all) does it become a problem. Nobody really drives like this though unless they are severely distracted. Most of the slowdown and inefficiency in traffic comes from the traffic waves and the resulting flow disruptions, not the relative density of traffic. By improving flow these drivers allow the average speed to be higher. You can have everyone going 60mph and following at 6 car lengths, and the same amount of cars will get thorough as when you have 10mph traffic following at 1 car length. By keeping a decent-sized gap (which will vary in traffic), drivers also avoid two of the largest traffic-inducing situations: Rear-end crashes from following too closely, and sticky merge situations, where a driver tries to merge but has to force their way in and often bring traffic to a standstill. Drivers who zoom up to fill every gap, follow at 1 car length, cut people off in the next lane then slam on the brakes to a stop at the next disturbance are making the traffic worse. If you're worried about people merging in front of you and slowing you down - those aggressive drivers tend to move to another lane soon anyway, and any loss is pretty minimal. It is the reason for having variable speed limits as well - the system is essentially setting an 'average' pace for drivers to follow. I wouldn't recommend being as extreme in trying to single-handedly fix entire traffic jams, but this website does a good job of explaining in everyday terms how traffic waves create jams: http://trafficwaves.org/ A graphic from the above linked site on how a standing traffic wave can be created by any disturbance (accident, lane change, abrupt braking) and continually impact traffic flow for many hours to co There is also extensive academic research on traffic flow - example The Inhomogeneous Kinematic Wave Traffic Flow Model as a Resonant Nonlinear System: http://transci.highwire.org/cont... and a good flow explanation in Derek Harkness's answer does a good job of explaining this    Embed Quote