★Aerospace and Aeronautical Engineering: Why don't we have vertical take off (VTOL) pods to reduce traffic congestion?I went to the Hiller Aviation museum and saw these vertical take-off pods that were about 4 ft in diameter and were prototyped in the 1950s. Why aren't these more widely commercialized today?
One of the major advantages of aerial travel is that it can be done via a straight line. The difference between two places is least when you connect them via a straight line. While it may be an advantage it is also a major headache. As there are no roads aircrafts can fly in all directions. That means that maintaining horizontal separation between traffic is extremely difficult. The only way to prevent mid air collisions is to maintain vertical separation between aircrafts. It means that of a helicopter (helos usually prefer low altitudes) flies at 1500 feet then another helo flying in the general vicinity would be kept at 2000 feet. The vertical separation gets more and more difficult to maintain as the number of aircrafts requesting similar altitudes increases beyond a point. With this in mind most aviation experts back larger aircrafts to fly more and more people in the same plane and reduce the number of take offs and landings( aerial version of car pooling I guess). Most of world's major airport are already overburdened with traffic. Unlike roads or railway tracks, building new airports won't reduce the traffic burden much as the airspace would still need to be shared. In the method you suggest you seem to want thousands of people flying similar altitudes (little or no vertical separation) With every human being one flying aircraft. Considering the fact that even the most advanced airports in the world have a lot of trouble accommodating more than 50 aircrafts at a time, thousands of individual flying pods would result it utter chaos. It would lead to hundreds of air collisions everyday  with nearly zero survival rate. Unlike cars which move in a predefined direction and the separation required is mere seconds, aircrafts need extremely high separations. The standard horizontal separation is about 15 minutes. Even f technology improves I doubt if it can be brought down to mere seconds, especially considering the fact that the fliers would be amatures, not professional pilots. Also, most industrial towns have low visibility due to smog ( fog caused by smoke precipitates) which result in low visibilty. Now even us pilots have a hard time in blinding low visibility. I can't even imagine what would happen if ill trained amatures would try it. Three dimensional maneuvering of a vehicle isn't half as easy as you think. Zero visibility can make you lose not just your directions but even vertical sense. Good luck flying a pod when you can't figure out which way the sky and ground are. The problem is more common than you think. Unlike two dimensional transport in the ground or at sea, three dimensional travel must be ( in my personal opinion) restricted to dedicated professionals trained at the highest level. ( I am not being rude and arrogant on purpose, just speaking my mind.) I am not saying it can't be done, I just think it's a little too futuristic for now. I don't think we would see anything of the sort for the next two or three decades at least. It's fun to fly without an aircraft but I think that there are lot of factors to be considered. Changes in aviation happen very slowly as safety procedures need to be one step ahead of the technology at all points of time. A man has made a jetpack but noone is buying any. It's still just a novelty as there is virtually no practical use for it right now. It's a dream and I hope to see pods flying around in my lifetime. Lets just hope it happens. Note : Even though my answer may seem a little discouraging, yet I just concede this is one of the more interesting questions I have come across in recent times in Quora. Source : I am a pilot. Also I made and flew an aircraft last year for the RedBull Flugtag, took 2nd runner up prize so I am all for innovation, as long as safety isn't compromised. 1m ago    Embed Quote