★Is it right time to make strict rules to minimize vehicles in India to reduce traffic congestion?
People talk about rules and regulations but I don't get what's the use of these rules if nobody follow them! Like for example dowry is against law, but what happens in actual? Everybody knows. I bet you've also broken traffic laws at one point or another.. c'mon that's no surprise!  If people here become more disciplined and practical, use public transport in case they are travelling alone, that'd help a lot! I often see big cars outside malls, or even local markets with only ONE person sitting inside 'em..it makes me cringe. People here are pathetic in case of how to behave when on road.  It's the duty of the people who are on road, not the government solely. In other countries, even the politicians take public transport every now and then. But in India, it becomes a matter of one's status if one travels via public transport! How about taking a bicycle when travelling shorter distances, it's good for your health and for city's traffic as well! Carpooling is also another way to reduce traffic on road especially during peak hours, it also reduce your fuel, travel costs. It's a way where multiple people can travel in one car and share their car journey having a common work destination. If you're a daily office worker, it's a great way for you to get to and from your work.  You also are relieved of your stress as each person can take turns while driving. In this technological era, cell phone apps can also be used as a way to determine which routes are the most congested, so as to signal drivers to change routes on the basis of the information. Building highways/motorways/flyovers/ bus-lanes, but then the real problem is the utter disregard for rules and other drivers. Everyone thinks selfishly, trying to get to wherever they want as quickly as possible by breaking the rules. To conclude, I'd say it all comes down to the people themselves. If everyone does their bit, it'd save a lot of time and trouble for others on the road!    Embed Quote