★Is it right time to make strict rules to minimize vehicles in India to reduce traffic congestion?
No.It is a very wrong time to make strict rules to minimize vehicles in India to reduce traffic congestion. There is an index to measure number of vehicles per 1000 population.And India stands much below in this ranking with vehicle penetration number as low as 18(per 1000 population) which is quite low as compared to her neighboring countries Pakistan and Sri Lanka. Source- List of countries by vehicles per capita Though India is one of the largest growing passenger vehicle markets in the world but still we lag behind if we compare the penetration number. But, as Balaji Viswanathan sir mentioned the clustering of people in particular cities like Delhi and Mumbai is one of the major challenges. One of my friends once said this sad but real fact: In metropolitan cities,four members from the same family would go out taking their personal cars and get struck in the same traffic.After returning home they debate about the growing crowd and traffic issues. Lets look at some of the solutions: 1.Uneven distribution of resources,opportunities led to forming of the population cluster in particular regions already mentioned in the other answer.So its high time to look to develop and built planned cities. 2.Population control has always been a topic of discussion.We need to remember that population is never equivalent to human resource.Once population gets controlled,issues related to this would settle down rapidly,given proper planning is done towards development. 3.Use of public transport, car-pooling is an efficient way to reduce traffic issues. 4.Few people follow lane driving,cooperate on roads,obey traffic rules.This has become one of the biggest reasons causing traffic congestion.So,people should be given driving training at certified institutions.Driving license issue must be made stringent.Traffic rules must be made strict and fines compulsory. 5.Government is taking necessary steps to reduce some traffic congestion by formulating laws like-Vehicles above 10 years(diesel) and 15 years(petrol) in Delhi are banned. Source-  http://www.thehindu.com/news/cities/Delhi/ngt-bans-over-10-year-old-diesel-vehicles-in-delhi/article7077509.ece This would help in multiple ways.It will reduce congestion,pollution level and create some hope for currently dull auto sector to rise when people buy new vehicles. Putting restrictions on buying,running or manufacturing vehicles would no way help Indian Auto Industries and also the consumers at a time when our PM has introduced 'Make In India'' scheme. So both people and Government play an important roles in reducing the growing traffic congestion. For,government it requires long term development plan and execution time. But if we start to follow certain rules,habit from now then situation will be great from the next moment.    Embed Quote