★What types of people choose to live in Palo Alto over San Francisco?
As a long time Palo Alto resident who has worked in S.F., I thought I'd give you some of my impressions:   You don't come to Palo Alto for the bars - Palo Alto is almost a dry town. With the exception of Reposada, a bar that will lay you out flat with their margaritas, it's actually hard to find a place that will serve you a stiff drink...  And if you are not a sporty, Stanford-y looking type you can forget about even getting in.   (OK, that last comment is not completely fair, anyone can physically walk into the bars down here, but you will just get a weird vibe from all the sporty, Stanford-y looking patrons if you have so much as a nose ring)   You don't come to Palo Alto for the theater - Unless you happen to think that Dr. Seuss is an avant garde playwright you are not going to be happy with the string of children's theaters that adorn Palo Alto. I look lovingly back on the year I managed to make all the opening nights at the S.F. Opera.  But now that I have kids the highlight of my year was seeing the Princess and the Frog production that swept through Palo Alto recently.   You come here for the schools, which are actually a let down - You justify the $1,000 per square foot housing to yourself with the notion that the public school system somehow makes up for it. But after 7 years in the Palo Alto school district I am still waiting for the wow. My kid still gets beat up at recess and the teachers say "Oh, I don't know what happened."  He actually came home missing a tooth one day and nobody had any idea how that came to pass. The class ratio is still "a whole lot of students to one teacher", so your child is not getting a lot of individual attention.   You come here to mingle with the social climbers - This is the only logical conclusion I've found after my 7 years in Palo Alto. I have never seen so much social climbing in one place in my life. When the first question a new acquaintance asks is "What part of town do you live in" you know there is some kind of social ladder in place (and you are most likely on the bottom rung of it).   You do get a yard - As much as I complain about Palo Alto, I love my enormous, grass filled yard.  I wish I could explain the joys of building a tree fort, throwing a ball with your kids and hanging out on the patio.  Once your life gets redirected toward your kids you really need to get one of these.    Embed Quote