★What types of people choose to live in Palo Alto over San Francisco?
It's the Noise, or rather, it's the quiet: I'm from Palo Alto (the old one, pre-silicon valley), but live in SF. NOISE can make a huge difference in stress levels. I don't even notice the noise, constant groan and squeal of buses, churning of cars going by, jackhammers, under my window shouting and barking and laughing and fighting--24/7 noise. Then I stay a weekend in PA and am amazed at how my train of thought gets going smoothly again. Designed for Privacy and quiet quiet:  Even the urban design and the architecture of the houses contribute to a feeling of more individual space, enclosure, protection from the hub -bub whether lounging or lunching. Eichler- style houses sit walled off from big street noise within the inner folds of  almost painfully quiet neighborhoods protected from big street noise by tree and hedge walls, behind lawns, their contents veiled in hijabs made of steeped up siding, only small higher up windows, peep out; no front porch and veranda self-exposure, but sliding glass giving to private back yards, surrounded by ivy covered fences, more shock-absorbing trees and tall, thick hedges. BUT THIS QUIET?  In old Palo Alto we roller skated, hit tennis balls against closed garage doors, rode bikes with playing cards in wheel spokes, played ball in the street.  On weekends, neighbors mowed lawns, barbecued, puttered in the whirring wood shops, washed cars in their driveways, sat out on their lawns visiting each other... Today it seems like part of Palo Alto is retired and at the YMCA, part is shuttling between school, soccer, and computer labs, and the other part is commuting south to work in these massive tech compounds. No one is home. No one is home weekends either: more organized sports, Kaplan classes, ballet lessons, day trips, parks, beach. But when it rains? Where do the kids and the parents and the old people go when it rains in Palo Alto? I imagine they retreat to "the casbah" of their hijab-wearing Eichlers to wood paneled cubicles called bedrooms and either study to get into Stanford, study because they are already in Stanford, or prepare lectures or lab reports for their jobs there.. I don't honestly know. Sometimes I think Palo Alto is populated by pods, its soul snatched away, just the bodies still riding around neatly in bike lanes and decorating outdoor cafes in expensive suburban shopping malls, which is where the take-out barbecue is and the bulletin boards of cell phone numbers for all the leaf blowers, lawn mowers, housecleaners, tutors, nannies, and contractors it takes to keep those cul-de-sacs and mini-labyrinthes going along quietly.....    Embed Quote