★Do drivers who keep extremely huge gaps between their car and the car in front of them in heavy, very slow stop-and-go traffic cause the congested traffic to be worse?
Does a driver who keeps a small gap between their car and the car in front of them in heavy stop-and-go traffic realize that they are causing the congested traffic to be worse? The secret to high capacity traffic flows is smoothness. Drivers often drive too close to the car in front, causing them to frequently brake and accelerate harshly. Following cars will overcompensate for the harsh braking, causing the traffic to actually stop. A stopped car is harder to start moving again than a slowed car is to speed up slightly. This causes the waves of stop-and-go traffic that you are complaining about. This video shows how stop start waves flow backwards along the highway. If the cars are spaced correctly, with larger, but not overly large gaps, then the traffic flow will continue. The gaps will smooth out any minor misjudgements in speed and prevent the harsh braking and accelerating that causes the stop-start waves. Thus everyone will get home faster and there will be fewer accidents too. I studied Civil Engineering and worked in transport management. The traffic flow to speed is not linear. It is quadratic, and makes an n-shaped parabolic curve. For any given flow rate there are two ideal speeds: a slow speed with close spacing and a fast speed with larger spacing. Travelling with spacing outside of the ideal, either too close or too far apart, will reduce flow away from the maximum. Too far apart wastes space but too close causes the stop-start issue described above. Graph source: http://ops.fhwa.dot.gov/publicat... Have you ever driven along a road at speed, only to find a queue of traffic going slow, but when you get through the queue you find there was nothing there to hold you up? What's happening here is that you started in the fast speed flow. At some point someone swerved, braked sharply or were just driving too close, and that triggered a switch from the high speed flow state to the low speed flow state. When you reach the front of the queue you can re-enter the high speed state. It is something similar to water going over a weir (a dam, to Americans) in a river. The flow rate before, on and after the weir is exactly the same but the speed of the water and the depth of the water changes from a low speed state to a high speed state. The change can be clearly seen as a turbulent section just downstream from the weir. Image source: http://www.jfccivilengineer.com/... Image source: http://www.cap-az.com/operations... Interesting video talks through the advantages of leaving a gap: He is probably leaving a bigger gap in this video than really necessary but I guess the video is made to illustrate a point rather than be perfect.    Embed Quote