★Is it right time to make strict rules to minimize vehicles in India to reduce traffic congestion?
How do you minimize vehicles? Almost all our vehicles run full and packed - meaning they are super-efficient in their transportation. Indians make use of every inch of the road and there is not much gains to be had from moving to public transportation. Short of banning people from moving around, there is no way to reduce vehicles. Actually, vehicle traffic will only keep increasing as our economic activity grows. So, what's the solution? Create more cities and more roads. Why should 1 crore people cluster around Delhi or Mumbai? Because, there are not many metropolitan cities around. North and central India depends heavily on New Delhi as there is no other metropolitan center in the region.  Think of a pipe through which you want to transport water. If the pipe is not carrying enough water, you typically need to get bigger or more pipes. We should create 100s of new cities around the country that can take the load off our premier cities. During the colonial rule, India developed new cities such as New Delhi, Madras, Bombay and Calcutta that became the new centers of their regions. They eclipsed older towns by bringing cutting edge ideas of their era. There were also many second-tier planned cities like Jamshedpur. Since independence how many new metropolitan cities have we built for the additional 80 crore people we added to the population? There have been only a couple of new cities - Chandigarh, Bhubaneswar and Navi Mumbai - and none of them major metropolitan centers. How can we house 80 crore (800 million) more people with all their increased needs with just a couple of new cities? We cannot. That means we are constantly adding more people to our existing cities. A century ago Madras used to look like this - with broad roads and stellar infrastructure. There was enough space for everyone due to this new infrastructure. Now, it is like this drastically decayed unable to carry the heavy load imposed by this new population pouring in. Build massive, new, modern new cities. That's the only way out of this problem.    Embed Quote