★Is it right time to make strict rules to minimize vehicles in India to reduce traffic congestion?
Edit Note: Some of the answers to this question, including the one by Balaji Viswanathan seem to be proposing solutions to reducing congestion in the existing Indian Cities. While the merits of these solutions can and should be debated, my take is that making existing systems more efficient (by creating rules and guidelines to be followed) is imperative.  Of course we need better public transport, Of course we need to reduce the load on our existing cities, but at the same time we also need enforceable rules and regulations to streamline existing systems. My original answer below: A big, loud Yes. I'm glad that people are finally asking such questions, its a step in the right direction, as the common man is atleast giving the issue some thought. We're already a few years to late, but the situation is getting critical now. I'll try and elaborate on some things that need to be done to make these "rules" work for the people, rather than against them: The first thing that needs to be done in my opinion is to rationalize the parking system and start charging market rates for parking, and making sure that people using public land to park are heavily penalized. This will immediately free up an extra lane on most roads. (as well as restore parks to the citizens to be used as recreational spaces rather than parking lots!) Next, the larger cities must work on a congestion fee to charge private vehicles before they can be allowed to enter congested city center areas. This must be supplemented by good public transport and walkability within this zone, as well as by excellent parking infrastructure along its periphery for people coming in from suburbs or areas not connected by public transport (Pricing of this peripheral parking must be at market cost, but must be synchronized with the congestion fee levied to enter the city-centre so that people are not tempted to simply pay the congestion fee and drive in) In parallel to the above two, a alternate transport system must be developed, ideally this should be a healthy mix of Metro's, BRT Corridors, well monitored Taxi/Autorickshaw services  and Non Motorized Corridors. Cycle lanes should be created along major roads, as well as along axis's where there is currently no road (and a major road is undesirable due to environmental and space constraints). Last mile connectivity (from home/office to the nearest transport hub) must be significantly improved, primarily by making streets walkable.    Embed Quote