★Are the sky rocketing housing prices and increasingly congested traffic and public transport in Singapore a result of poor urban planning?
The issue wrt property pricing & traffic are not necessarily connected with Urban planning. In fact, property pricing and congestion are largely due to 2 distinct issues and perhaps also due to vocal discontent. Congestion: - Population increase: the local birth rate is declining in SG. Also with aging population combined with affluence, there is a shortage of labour across various levels. The govt realized this and decided to increase the influx of immigrants (from specific racial countries) in order to stay competitive & racial balance. However, statistically, most of the immigrants were in the lower-wage category. Most of these "workers" use public transport & lower income housing. Which has created some pressure on HDB rentals. Extra Note on Vocal Discontent: Liberal immigration seemed like a sound policy until election time, where older generations voiced their discontent from rising prices which was attributed against immigration and population rise rather than general inflation plaguing entire Asia and most parts of the world (e.g.: oil price). Property Pricing: - Wealth Management: Given the SG's political and economical stability, it is a country of choice for many super rich (famously Eduardo Severin) particularly from China, Indonesia, Thailand, Philippines, Malaysia and now India to base their wealth management out of Singapore. Part of the wealth management is property investment. Given attractive rental yields and currency security, most prefer to invest in properties (note plural, not singular). This has largely led to 2 outcomes: 1) significantly new number of uber-chic property development (one developer has property decked out by designer Hermes-first of its kind in the world); 2) Preference towards higher end development rather than for the ave Singaporean. Most of the new development rentals start around SGD$12,000/month which is salary of entire ave Singaporean family. This is fair capitalism at work. The govt cannot control the quality focus of the development, however, it has come in strongly to curb property speculators and also non-Singaporean buyers who invest in multiple properties--This has nothing to do with URBAN PLANNING.    Embed Quote