★Will driver-less cars reduce traffic congestion?
Probably, once all cars are driver-less. On highways, the obvious advantage will be no more backups caused by humans who don't know how to merge (which would seem to be most of them), and humans who do stupid stuff when they are in the wrong lane to make their exits. A long time ago I heard a traffic guy postulate that there are people who's response to heavy traffic is to drive more slowly. They can't help it. The more cars that are around them, the more they are getting passed, the slower they go. It's a fear response, and may be related to the car/driver size problem - a small person driving a large car is the worst possible combination for driving in traffic. But the theory was that these people are the reason for backups that have no apparent cause. That would go away. And no more people slowing down to see what's going on when cars are on the side of the road. Construction wouldn't cause as many problems, since the cars would know what was ahead and change lanes appropriately well in advance, instead of waiting until they have to stop and then cutting into the next lane. Surface street traffic is amazingly complex. It would probably make a great source of randomness. Sandia said the traffic in Atlanta is the most complicated thing they ever tried to model - so complicated they couldn't do it. Driver-less cars will take a lot of that randomness out of the equation. Right now, every driver in every city is at the mercy of girls with great asses walking down sidewalks, homeless guys with a funny signs,  people who just needs to grab something real quick but can't find a parking spot. Driver-less cars solve all of that, and more. They don't get distracted, and they just drop their passengers off and move on instead of double parking. Plus they don't end up texting or playing with the radio when the light turns green, and they will be much better at making left turns across traffic than humans are. They will remove a lot of that randomness from the traffic equation. So they will not only reduce congestion by being better and more attentive drivers than humans, they'll make it a lot easier to solve traffic problems through engineering because they'll make it a lot easier to identify and address those problems. So that's the good news. The bad news is just about everyone answering this question will be dead by the time it happens. It's going to take a long time for driver-less cars to completely displace human drivers.    Embed Quote