★Will driver-less cars reduce traffic congestion?
In the short term, freeway robocars will increase traffic congestion. Toyota is the first automaker to admit to deleterious short-term impacts of driver-less vehicles. States Ken Laberteaux, Toyota Senior Principal Scientist, privately owned robocars that enable magazine reading and texting while sitting in the driver seat on freeways will induce sprawl (building new homes with long commutes far from jobs), increasing the amount of driving. “U.S. history shows that anytime you make driving easier, there seems to be this inexhaustible desire to live further from things,” (Business Week, July 21). From the transportation planning planning discipline, this is a well understood phenomenon that can be expected for robocar market penetration from 0 to 15%. At some higher level of market penetration, freeway robocars are expected to be able to from “trains” connected by “electronic tow bars” (this is also called “platooning”) where cars safely drive bumper to bumper to reduce freeway traffic congestion.  While a major US metropolitan area  has yet to run a four-step travel demand forecasting model (Transportation forecasting) envisioning 10% private robocar penetration on freeways, transportation planning theory predicts that more robo-commuters will be willing to brave peak commute hour (while they blithely read a magazine), inducing more traffic congestion. Hence, commuters who can afford a luxury self-driving sedan benefit while the majority of poorer commuters driving legacy vehicles suffer a degraded commute. Given that US metropolitan planning organizations are just beginning to grapple with “robocar induced-demand impacts,” mitigation strategies have yet to be proposed. Most mitigations will not be popular with robodrivers. One strategy might be to require private robocars to have two people in the car in order to enable freeway autonomous driving. In the medium term, RoboTaxi systems offer the promise of achieving “carsharing benefit:” each car share vehicle eliminates 10 private autos, and each car share member drives 45% less than the average American.    Embed Quote