★Will driver-less cars reduce traffic congestion?
I don’t think there is a correct yes or no answer to this question. Simply too many bold assumptions would have to be made to even begin to answer the question accurately. Are all cars driverless? What does the built environment look like? How dense are cities? How important is to get from place to place? And maybe most importantly, how expensive is it to use an automated car per mile and per hour? The reason these assumptions are all needed is because the term “congestion” doesn’t really address what actual people care about. Actual people care about how quickly, cheaply, reliably, and comfortably they can get to a variety of destinations. Yes, people find navigating congestion stressful, but for the most part a 30 minute commute without traffic is still worse than a 25 minute commute with traffic. Thus, even though the latter commute is more congested it is strictly speaking preferable than the uncongested commute. Automated cars, especially when they become affordable and widespread, will radically change the ways people can and choose to move about the city. These changes will almost certainly be for the better. But these changes may or may not reduce congestion. The biggest change I suspect will occur in the automated car paradigm is that ride share services will become the normal means of moving longer distances (> 1.5 miles) within a city. This is because with basically $0 labor costs and no parking costs they will be extremely competitive with personal automobiles. If such a system is implemented, it may include demand based pricing to optimize profits and minimize peak hour congestion. Under this scenario, the automated car paradigm would surely have reduced congestion. But an alternative scenario seems more plausible to me. People may not be willing to pay very much to avoid congestion because they can read a book, paint their nails or do whatever it is that people 40 years from now will do in their spare time while being driven to their destination. Under this scenario, any efficiency gains from a superior driving technology could get more than wiped out by people’s greatly increased willingness to sit through 20 minutes of congestion. Taking that alternative a step further, considering that congestion is not nearly as pressing a concern anymore as well as other cultural forces seemingly already in work, auto-oriented roadway design may be deemed extremely archaic. We may choose as a society to devote much less space to cars in the future and our cities may be much denser. This would likely result in increased congestion. Of course, in the long run the technology of automated cars would probably mitigate some of those space constraints. Early on, I think automated cars will have little effect on congestion because their overly cautious behavior will roughly cancel out their pro-social behavior. But in the long run automated cars should be more efficient in terms of getting more vehicles through a given roadway as their pro-social behavior outweighs any efficiency loses from cautious behavior. But that wouldn’t necessarily mean congestion would be reduced. Congestion is based on how many people choose to use the road, as well as how readily vehicles can move through it. Empirically, when highways are expanded congestion returns to its pre-expansion level within a decade. A similar result could happen with the efficiency gains of automated cars. I definitely think that automated cars will enhance the mobility of people in cities by an order of magnitude by making it easier, cheaper and less space intensive to use a car. But I have little idea as to whether congestion will be greater or less than what we see today. That’s a question of psychology and politics far too complex to readily answer.    Embed Quote