Which of the following is a better syllabus: ICSE or CBSE?
The major differences between CBSE & ICSE: Medium of Instruction: CBSE approves both English and Hindi language as the medium of instructions, ICSE does not recommend Hindi. Regular and Private Candidates: CBSE is affiliated to a large number of schools all over India. The board allows both regular candidates, who study in CBSE schools, as well as private candidates from non-affiliated schools to appear in the exams. Contrary to this, ICSE does not allow a candidate who has not been studying in an ICSE affiliated school to appear for the exams. Board Recognition: CBSE is recognized by Indian government and ICSE is not. Although the certificates provided by both of them are globally valid, yet CBSE has a better footing in the subcontinent than ICSE. CISCE is now recognized by many foreign education systems as equivalent to senior examination or high school. Curriculum/Course Content: The syllabus prepared by CBSE is more suitable for qualifying in various entrance examinations, including the medical and engineering professional exams. The syllabus of ICSE is more detailed and requires the student to remember a lot. CBSE is comparatively easier than ICSE. Both CBSE and ICSE (CISCE) have slightly different focus in terms of course content. CBSE is extremely focused on science and maths with a lot of attention paid to the application of knowledge. CISCE (ICSE) on the other hand is more balanced with equal focus on language, arts and science. Assessments: One more point of distinction between the two boards is the evaluation and assessment of students. In ICSE, internal assessments are vital and practical tests are aggregated with the overall scores. ICSE lays more emphasis on lab work. Also, a career in English Literature or Language is best suited for ICSE students. Teaching Methodology: With the changing times both the boards are aiming for active learning. CBSE and ICSE (CISCE) prescribe a certain teaching approach and both have undergone significant change over the past 10 years. The focus has majorly increased on learning through experience and experimentation rather than through one-way teaching. In India most of the parents are unsatisfied with the standards of education provided by CBSE. They feel that the learning and grooming process needs to be more thorough in CBSE when compared to what ICSE offers. ICSE includes the detailed study of subjects and an edge over English literature and language and is more flexible in nature. Both the boards are recognized by colleges/universities in India. However, the CBSE curriculum doesn’t provide students academic luxuries. ICSE board has a lot of combinations to offer to students- such as computer science, environmental science and even interior design in a lot of schools. In a city like Delhi, the tutors who can help students with the CBSE syllabus are more accessible whereas in the case of ICSE, it is a lot tougher due to a low number of schools following this board. On the other hand, in cities such as Mumbai, Kolkata and Bangalore, ICSE tutors are in abundance. For instance, the Mumbai ICSE board is more prevalent in schools than their local Maharashtra SSC board. In terms of prevalence, CBSE board is easier to find when you move to a new place. However, in various states of India ICSE is given the first preference whereas CBSE is recognised in most of the schools. To conclude, both have their pros and cons and form an extremely vital part of the Indian Education System. 