Is the NCERT enough to score decent marks in the CBSE 12th maths?
Top Tips to Score highest Marks in 12th board exam for students of 12th class, surely this gonna help a lot to many students who wish to be successful in there future with great result & to be in competitive or merit list for colleges cut off. Students always want to know that ‘How to get Top marks in 12 board exams’ and be topper in the whole class. Top Tips to Score Highest Marks:- 1. Always feel Positive 2. Plan well for studying 3. Time management is important 4. Answer sheet should be neat & clean 5. Review your answers after completing the exam The night before the exam is very much crucial for your exam and your exams performance pretty much dependent upon that. you must not cram before the exams to follow or you should just take review for each topics you feel important or less confident. never think of cramming too much before the exam It will mix your topics and also make to feel low in confidence for the exams. Never try to read anything or to study or cram just before the exam time even if your friends ask you for the topic he miss or leave during preparation of exams. close your book 1 hour before the exam starts and feel relaxed and worry free and full of self confidence before the exam. For great score, you should have fully subjective knowledge and apart from that - you’ll have to study further more at your own. Zigya believes in Question Based Learning where each topic of a subject is approached through breaking it down into questions, whose answers are then provided. While it is easy for someone with a limited understanding of how the platform works, to pass this off as an answer key of NCERT books, if one delves a little deeper one would find that the whole process has been engineered to ensure that children become self reliant through getting answers to their questions, anywhere, anytime, and also build a high self-esteem by knowing answers to the questions amongst a peer group. Here at Zigya you can get C.B.S.E books of math, science and other subjects with textbooks questions, Zigya questions along with answers. 