With 6 months for board exams, how should a class 12 student aiming for 95% spend his day?
First of all, DON'T PANIC!! My answer contains 2 aspects that a JEE aspirant has to keep in mind. 1.The Studies My advice to you would be to spend the 2 months' time that is november and december studying primarily focusing on JEE with some time on boards. At this point of time the ratio of time given should be 80:20(JEE:Boards). From January onwards you'll have to revert your focus to boards. Follow what your tution teachers tell you to. They generally give out good advice for boards as they have been observing what has been happening for quite a lot of time. In january, go for 40:60. in february, go for 20:80. Now boards are important. Even though it is unclear yet that if board marks would be used for calculating Mains ranks, it can help you greatly in increasing your JEE mains score. It gives you that extra push of 40-60(may be greater) marks due to topics like semiconductors, chemistry in daily life etc. which are not covered in coaching. 2. The OTHER aspect Forget the CGPAs, the ranks that you used to get. Its good that you know that you have in it you to excel. But forget the competition for now. You have lost quite a chunk of your time due to your health problems. I feel for you. But now you have to get over this fact. And get over it really quick. "Now after all this, I always feel like what if I don't get a good % because I have a excuse to give to my parents, teachers: Poor Health". What excuse will you give to yourselves? Imagine the scene after 6 months. You have given your Boards, JEE Mains,Advanced etc. Now you know within yourselves, that you could and should have studied in the period when you were busy complaining. That feeling will eat you up from inside and remain with you forever if don't buckle up now! Our teacher once said to us-"Put enough efforts in your preparations so that at the end of the exams, you don't look back and say-'Man! I could have done better.'" 6 months is a good if not great amount of time to score 95+ in boards and this target is very realistic. Some advices I'd give: 1. Minimize social media.(Even Quora :P) 2. Never group study. Absolutely never! 3. Be true to yourself. Not even you parents, not the teachers, not your peers but to yourself. 4.  Don't give up! And the prospect of getting a good rank was good enough motivation for me. 