Is the NCERT enough to score decent marks in the CBSE 12th maths?
The best way to score 100% in PCM CBSE Boards is to prepare to the fullest. I'll tell you every step in every subject : English : You must understand the story perfectly. Do not have 2-3 meanings for a poem. The best book to follow is Oxford Communicative English for Class XII. Follow this book and I guarantee there won't be any regrets. Don't forget to collect the Supplementary material (Complimentary) regarding novel . Develop your vocabulary and maintain a clean, legible handwriting. ​ ​ Maths : The best way is to prepare from RD Sharma. Learn the concept and practice as many questions you can. I've done my math from this. The maths paper this Year 14-15 is the hardest one in the last 10 years and yet I've done quite well because of these books. Physics : All I can tell you is to be through with NCERT and there will be no question out of NCERT. Do all of the intext and exercise questions. Additional exercises helps you get additional marks.  Do not forget the Supplementary material given by NCERT. There will be definite questions from it. But since you are from Informatics Practices batch, it'll be very easy for you. I'm from Informatics Practices batch too. Chemistry : This is the one subject I am very poor at. Prepare thoroughly from NCERT is all I can say. Informatics Practices : Finally to my favorite subject. No concept ( command ) will be out of NCERT. Practise doing new programs using old concepts. Try to write program in the most efficient way ( Short and Serves the purpose ). Do not forget to learn about e-commerce, e-governance and e-education. One question is definite. My IP teacher is a GOD. Literally. He taught me in the best way any person can ever teach. Mr.Raghu Srinu ( thanks a lot sir). My story is about being deceived by bad friendsand then realising about exam in the last week of February when my board exams started in March. I didn't do any bad. I scored 94% with the help of these good books which I mentioned above with just one (literally one dude) week of preparation. I literally studied for 6 hours just before the exam ( IP ) and scored 99 (Lost 1 mark because of silly addition mistake) . Don't do this because my IP teacher is GOD. English -97, Maths- 91, Physics - 94, and the worst Chemistry just 89. Chem sucks !! Lol ! Unlike me don't do a 1 week preparation for your Boards and you are bound to Excellence my friend. Work hard . All the Best !!! Extra free tip : To score well in practicals , keep buttering your lab assistant. :P 