Are there any tips and tricks I can use in my standard 12 physics practicals?
As exams approach, all Class 12th students are most likely busy in preparations, but have you studied for your practical exams? An essential part of the CBSE final examinations, the 30 marks worth practical exam is often overlooked and ignored. Do you know all your theorems, laws of motion and numericals, do you know all the experiments and viva answers in  your Physics Class 12 syllabus? Here are some tips! Physics practical syllabus: Two experiments one from each section 8+8 Marks Practical record (experiments & activities) 6 Marks Project 3 Marks Viva on experiments & project 5 Marks SECTION A: Experiments: 1. To find resistance of a given wire using metre bridge and hence determine the specific resistance of its material. 2. To determine resistance per cm of a given wire by plotting a graph of potential difference versus current. 3. To verify the laws of combination (series/parallel) of resistances using a metre bridge. 4. To compare the emf of two given primary cells using potentiometer. 5. To determine the internal resistance of given primary cell using potentiometer. 6. To determine resistance of a galvanometer by half-deflection method and to find its figure of merit. 7. To convert the given galvanometer (of known resistance and figure of merit) into an ammeter and voltmeter of desired range and to verify the same. 8. To find the frequency of the a.c. mains with a sonometer. SECTION B: Experiments: 1. To find the value of v for different values of u in case of a concave mirror and to find the focal length. 2. To find the focal length of a convex mirror, using a convex lens. 3. To find the focal length of a convex lens by plotting graphs between u and v or between 1/u and 1/v. 4. To find the focal length of a concave lens, using a convex lens. 5. To determine angle of minimum deviation for a given prism by plotting a graph between angle of incidence and angle of deviation. 6. To determine refractive index of a glass slab using a travelling microscope. 7. To find refractive index of a liquid by using (i) concave mirror, (ii) convex lens and plane mirror. 8. To draw the I-V characteristic curve of a p-n junction in forward bias and reverse bias. 9. To draw the characteristic curve of a zener diode and to determine its reverse break down voltage. 10. To study the characteristic of a common - emitter npn or pnp transistor and to find out the values of current and voltage gains. Tips: - Study the theory behind the experiment thoroughly. - Graphs are an important part of Physics practical exams, understand and practice the graphs you will need to know for any given experiment. - Revise your practical notes. - Visualize and draw rough diagrams for the experiments to prepare. - Each experiment is based on a principle of physics; it's essential to know which principle is used behind which experiment respectively. - The principles and methodology is often asked during viva voice, so you should know the basics of the experiment. - During the experiment remain calm and document the entire procedure you follow. - If there is any doubt or confusion regarding an experiment, clear your doubts with your teacher. - Important experiments are also available online in video format for quick revision. Good Luck :) 