Does studying electric engineering require a lot of math?
Yes.  But you need to understand more what the math does than actually be able to do the math by hand. For instance, take circuit design.  For linear circuits, it's a bunch of linear algebra, and depending on your application may involve complex numbers and/or differential equations.  Do you need to actually be able to solve them by hand?  In class, sure, but in practice, I have never had to crack out even a 2x2 matrix for a circuit, solve a differential equation or use the imaginary j.  (In EE, the imaginary unit is j since i is already taken as the standard variable name for electric current). But knowing what all those things do has been enormously helpful.  Knowing that the differential equation means an RC/RL circuit is going to have a decay behavior in time, with the length of said decay being related to the sizes of R, C or L gives me a great perspective in figuring out how to best use circuits like that for timing.  That same behavior means it works as a frequency filter when dealing with steady-state AC analysis. Knowing general semi-quantitative (minimal math) rules about how series and parallel circuits work gives me a lot of perspective in how electricity transfers from one circuit component to the next, and I can use that to decide what to put in front of different components. A major, major super-de-dupter math thing comes up in RF circuits.  This lovely little chart is called a Smith Chart, and its use transforms some incredibly intensive math involving a partial differential equation into a set of rules on how doing things to an RF circuit makes the response move around. Every one of the circles on there is derived from some real fun math relating reflection amplitude and phase angle to various components of load impedance and transmission line distance.  You draw even more circles on there when you start dealing with RF amplifiers and oscillators.  I happen to know the math, but it's not really necessary to know how all of these circles show up, just how to use them.  It turns crazy math into a set of rules about how to move around on a chart. Another super-de-dupter math thing comes in the form of a pole-zero diagram, used in signal processing, filter design and control systems. What do all these things mean? They're a handy graphical way to either analyze or design a control or circuit response.  It condenses LaPlace transform math into a chart that you can just drop points on to come up with a response.  Learn a few rules about how the system responds when you drop poles and zeros, and design of a control system or filter gets a lot easier, with the grinding aspects of the math all gone. 