How can I score more than 95% in my upcoming class 12 CBSE board exam in PCMB subjects?
For physics- I scored 97 in physics this year, so here is some advice from my side. Physics paper is usually tougher as compared to chemistry and math because it has more practical based questions. So, you really need to have a good hold over the concepts. For maximum efficiency I would suggest you to follow the following steps in the same order. 1. Do each and every derivation thoroughly. Don't just mug them up, understand them. Practice all the diagrams involved so that you're prepared to simply print the answer on the sheet. They are very scoring. So make sure you know every derivation. 2. Make a list of all the formulas that you come across and revise them everyday. It'll do wonders for you. 3. Don't start with ncert questions. They are relatively tougher and don't come very often. Instead buy Arihant/Together and do all the previous year questions honestly. Understand the concepts behind each and every answer. And don't just do them once. Do them at least 5-7 times. It'll make you every confident and help you answer majority of questions. 4. Now start with the sample papers. Collect sample papers of the last 10 years and do all questions. Give special emphasis on the samples of last 3 year. 4. Now if you still have some energy left then start with NCERT. First do the solved examples only. They are more likely to come for the exam. Then the back questions. And NOT ALL of them. Only a few selected ones which are on the easier side. Chemistry- Stick to NCERT for everything. Physical is easy, practice numericals (specially NCERT questions)  learn definitions and the read NCERT word to word. Organic, something people fear. Don't fear it. Make a list of all the important reactions you come across and revise them daily! Names of the compounds, reagents and everything. Learn them by heart. Practice as many questions as you can. Refer to previous year and sample paper questions. Redo them until you're absolutely sure of them. Understand and then learn, will benefit you a lot. Make sure you know all the name reactions, it'll fetch you 3-4 marks easily. Make sure that you do all the NCERT questions thoroughly, be it examples or back exercise questions. Chemistry exam is usually simple and direct. So don't worry much. Don't miss the last chapters, they are very scoring if done properly. And pdf blocks. Do NCERT religiously! Every line is important. Try to answer all questions in the language used in NCERT, specially for reasoning questions. Maths- Very easy. Stick to NCERT. Do the questions againg and again. Make sure your calculus is strong. Practice! Practice! See the previous question papers and sample papers. Common for all- Time your self and make sure you're not spending extra time on any questions. Like you get 2.57 minutes for each mark (180/70)-in phy and chem. So time your answers accordingly. The time you save in theoretical questions is the time you spend for practical questions. Try to make your answer sheet a presentable as possible. And always do the questions you are confident first. Break the order of you wish to. And yes! The practicals! They are your sure shot 29-30 marks! Don't lose them at all. Complete your file, do experiments properly and prepare for viva. I hope this helps. All the best. Updated 25w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Suraj Koul