I have only a month left for my 12th HSC Board Examinations, how I can study efficiently to score well in the exams?
Most of us do not give attention to details and procedure when teachers are demonstrating the practical experiments in class. It is really necessary to redo the experiments before you attempt you exams . CBSE PRACTICALS is a YouTube channel which will surely help you out. All the CBSE Practical Videos for Class 11/12 Chemistry and Physics are available on this channel. You may Subscribe the channel and visit the playlist through the links below :) prepare well for board exams :) Class 11 Physics Practical Experiments - Class 11 Physics Practical Experiments - Class 12 Chemistry Practical Experiments- Visit - YouTube Channel CBSE Practicals Helping students study well and save time ,check out our reviews - Section A 1. To determine resistance per cm of a given wire by plotting a graph for potential difference versus current (Ohm's Law) Ohm's Law Experiment Class 12 CBSE Physics . 2. To find resistance of a given wire using meter bridge and hence determine the resistivity (specific resistance) of its material. :- To verify the laws of combination (series/parallel) of resistances using a metre bridge 3. To verify the laws of combination (series) of resistances using a meter bridge. :- To verify the laws of combination (series/parallel) of resistances using a metre bridge 4. To verify the laws of combination (parallel) of resistances using a meter bridge. :- To verify the laws of combination (series/parallel) of resistances using a metre bridge 5. To compare the EMF of two given primary cells using potentiometer. :- To compare the emf of two given primary cells using potentiometer 6. To determine the internal resistance of given primary cell using potentiometer. :- To determine the internal resistance of given primary cell using potentiometer. 7. To determine resistance of a galvanometer by half-deflection method and to find its figure of merit. :- To determine resistance of a GALVANOMETER by half-deflection method and to find its figure of merit. 8. To convert the given galvanometer (of known resistance and figure of merit) into a voltmeter of desired range and to verify the same. To convert Galvanometer into an ammeter and voltmeter of known resistance 9. To convert the given galvanometer (of known resistance and figure of merit) into an ammeter of desired range and to verify the same. To convert Galvanometer into an ammeter and voltmeter of known resistance 10. To find the frequency of AC mains with a sonometer. :- To find the frequency of the a.c. mains with a sonometer. Section B :- 1. To find the value of v for different values of u in case of a concave mirror and to find the focal length. :- Focal Length of a Concave Mirror Experiment Class 12 CBSE 2. To find the focal length of a convex mirror, using a convex lens. :- To find the focal length of a convex mirror, using a convex lens 3. To find the focal length of a convex lens by plotting graphs between u and v or between 1/u and 1/v. :- To find the focal length of a convex lens by plotting graphs between u and v or between l/u and l/v 4. To find the focal length of a concave lens, using a convex lens. To find the focal length of a concave lens, using a convex lens. 5. To determine angle of minimum deviation for a given prism by plotting a graph between angle of incidence and angle of deviation. :- Class XII Physics Lab Angle of Minimum Deviation Prism Experiment 6. To determine refractive index of a glass slab using a travelling microscope. Travelling Microscope : Refractive Index of Glass Slab CBSE Class 12 7. To find refractive index of a liquid by using convex lens and plane mirror. :- To find refractive index of a liquid by using a convex lens and plane mirror. 8. To draw the I-V characteristic curve for a p-n junction in forward bias and reverse bias. :- To draw the I-V characteristic curve of a p-n junction in forward bias and reverse bias 9. To draw the characteristic curve of a zener diode and to determine its reverse break down voltage. Zener Diode Characteristic Curve and Break Down Voltage 10. To study the characteristic of a common - emitter npn or pnp transistor and to find out the values of current and voltage gains. YouTube ﻿ 