How do I get 95% in boards studying during 2 months? If one has not started preparing, are 2 months enough for class 12th boards?
- my result: 96.6%- Depends on your level of preparation by now. Whatever may it be,you can do much much more,2 months are good enough. CBSE is extremely easy. 1. For Physics, focus on NCERT and past year papers. Derivations are very important. You have to practice derivations. Just churn out every single line of NCERT and understand and practise it. Read,understand and write till you can derive the equations/theorems from scratch. 2. For Chemistry, Focus only and only on NCERT.For chapters like surface chemistry,p block, polymers, everyday life and stuff like that you really need to know every single detail of the chapter. There must not be a single line you missed out while studying. Yet, some parts would require knowing which is not in NCERT like in solid state, structures of ionic compounds is not given in detail (rock salt, zinc blende); yet, CBSE has asked it many times. So, past year papers are of great help to practice. Also making notes for chemistry is extremely helpful and i cannot stress this more. I scored 100/100 in chemistry and i hope this adds some credibility to my answer 3. For Maths, you need to know beyond NCERT to score well. R.D sharma is more than sufficient. Also, don't forget past year papers. 4. For physical education: Aman Aloon's answer to Is it tough to score marks in class 12 CBSE physical education exam? - My background: prepared properly for a month or so. Became used to pulling all nighters for 2-3 days in a row and then slept. I never slept the day before paper and just went straight to the center after studying.Though, it was really painful and i do not recommend that madness , madness of realising i have wasted evrything till now. I didnt gave Preboards as i was afraid i would not be able to even score 60-70%. Was pretty much helpless at that time and i remember i was surfing details of Improvement exam 4 hours before the physics paper. Yet,i scored 96.6%. Maybe i wrote this negative about myself as i started having negative self image after all this as i wasted everything and disappointed everyone. But, you can click wonders if you start with proper focus,dedication and commitment. All the best. Updated 1w ago • View Upvotes