What are some good books to give to a 10 year old?
My personal Top 3 for the dreamy Indian kid: The Arabian Nights : Tales of 1001 Nights (Volume - 1), Volume - 2 and Volume - 3. Every night for three years the vengeful King Shahriyar sleeps with a different virgin, executing her the next morning. To end this brutal pattern and to save her own life, the vizier's daughter, Shahrazad, begins to tell the king stories of adventure, love, riches and wonder – tales of mystical lands peopled with princes and hunchbacks, the Angel of Death and magical spirits, tales of the voyages of Sindbad, of Ali Baba outwitting a band of forty thieves and of jinnis trapped in rings and in lamps. The sequence of stories will last 1,001 nights. The Story of the Thousand Nights and a Night is perhaps one of the most influential pieces of Islamic Literature in modern times. Having been adapted into movies, cartoon animations, TV shows and comic book media they are far reaching in their scope and quite enriching in their depth of magic realism. Much of Salman Rushdie's storytelling technique was molded by this series of stories. In fact, Rushdie's very own Haroun And The Sea Of Stories and Luka and the Fire of Life are excellent novels for the 10 year old. Tigers for Dinner : Tall Tales by Jim Corbett's Khansama (Ruskin Bond) Thus starts Mehmouds stories about working as khansama, or cook, for the great shikari Jim Corbett. As deft with his stories as he is with koftas, lamb chops, pies and milkshakes, Mehmoud has a tall tale for every occasion. From wrestling with a cobra in his bed, being carried away into the river by a muggermuch, to when a tiger came looking for the cook, these stories leave little Ruskin spellbound. Join Mehmoud in the kitchen as he cooks up one delectable meal after another, and gobble down his delicious stories of man-eating tigers, incompetent maharajas, missing kitchen boys and haunted pillows, all brought vividly to life by Sunaina Coelhos captivating illustrations. Ruskin Bond has been the quintessential Indian storyteller for the pre-adolescent youth. Although his entire Bibliography can be recommended without a moment of hesitation, I have chosen this particular book for the beautiful illustrations by Sunaina Coelho and the distinctive currylike narrative style of the book, which epitomises the Indian penchant for hyperbole and exaggeration. Somehow, I believe that this particular book would strike a chord with the present generation of kids who are spending less and less time with their parents and talking more and more with the domestic help. Swami And Friends (R. K. Narayan) Swami And Friends narrates the story of ten-year-old Swaminathan, who is known to his friends and family as Swami. In this book, R. K. Narayan takes readers through Swami’s experiences and adventures in the fictional village of Malgudi. Swami studies in the Albert Mission School, which is a British-established institution that is dedicated to spreading Christianity and English Literature. His family comprises five people, his mother, his sibling, his authoritarian father, of whom he’s rather afraid, and a grandmother who happens to be Swami’s only confidant and comforter at home. As the book begins, readers are introduced to Swami’s closest pals, Rajam and Mani, two boys of disparate natures. Mani is a crude and naive simpleton, and his friendship is something that Swami cherishes. Rajam, who all the boys stand in awe of, is unlike the rest of the boys in every respect, from his attire to his mannerisms. He represents the upper middle class section of the society, with his fur cap and stylish coat. The novel is staged in the pre-Independence period, and R.K. Narayan brings out the dangerous combination of naivety and patriotism through Swami and his peers. Overwhelmed by the spirit of nationalism during the 1930s, Swami begins to protest, and is expelled from school. Dejected with the turn of events in his life and the pressure from his father, Swami runs away from home, far from his troubles. The book traces his life through such turbulence, marking the simplicity of Swami’s affections and relationships. The perfect children's spin off of Narayan's Malgudi Days, this book would perhaps be the single defining epitome of Indian Children's Fiction in English. Paired with Shankar Nag's TV Adaptation [Follow link to watch online] this book offers an excellent summer escape with a 10 year old friend to an imaginary homeland lost in time. I sincerely hope your kids find a space for their imagination to populate, and thus satisfied seek out other such worlds hidden in the pages of eternal literature. 