Can somebody give me tips to perform well in CBSE XII boards exams and score 90+? I have nearly scored 55-60% in my pre boards.
Yes for Sure it's not a tough job either but requires self motivation, bit of self analysis and smart work. Scoring good marks in boards includes series of steps that must be followed. The tips or guidelines I am giving you are seem to be harder to follow andtime consuming but believe me Time Management is important for boards and if you do it wisely you will have edge over others... Begin it right NOW !!! Before you begin self motivate your self that- "it's boards and I have to do it...." Follow these steps- Step 1 - Self analysis and expert guidance Begin your analysis with your pre-bords. Go through the mistakes that you have made in pre-boards and ask your respective subject teacher to guide you how can you score better in it (they will guide you for sure). Ask you respective subject teacher about the chapters which contains max. weightage and particularly in English ask your teacher to tell the format of answering the questions and how to prepare question answers of the Novel ( If it's there). Step 2 - Begin your studies with NCERT and the books that your school follows in teaching other subjects and your class notes (or the tutuion one) Firstly study your class notes & other notes that you had prepared (for Physics,Chem., english ,etc.) you must have complete command over them. Once done its time to go through NCERT books of each subject (Importantly of chemistry,maths). I would rather say solve each and every question (even examples) of Physics,Chemistry, Maths. Talking about how to tackle each of the subject you can do do the following things - Chemistry -  Class notes first and NCERT must , clarify the concepts as much as you can. In organic prepare short notes of named chemical reactions and reaction mechanism. Kinetics,Electrochemistry,P-block and Coordination Chemistry contains a good weightage. For practicing previous year questions and self analysis go through Xam Idea . It's a good book. Mathematics -  Practice, Practice and Practice ... The more you do the better you become. NCERT must be solved completely at least twice ( I had Done it 3 times) Probability will have a question of 6 marks for sure. Area under the curve , Integration , A.O.D., Matrix Multiplication are important topics. Physics -  Derivations are important . Formulas must be on tips better make notes of them. Modern physics is quite scoring, Optics derivation and formulas,Magnetism formulas and Electrostats Covers almost 70%  Physics. Go for Xam Idea if want to analyse your self. English - Study one chapter daily and understand it completely ( rather prefer it to study before going for sleep but do it for sure). If want to follow any book go for B.B.C. Compacta it has short notes and enough problem sets to do. Do them honestly and as guided. Make your own notes. They are the best and confirm their accuracy from BBC. While solving paper do it in a order of  in the allotted time Literature. (30-45 min.) Novel Section(45 min.) Writing (1 hr.) Reading . (30-40 min.) Since, answering those questions which you know will increase your marks and confidence. Manage time it's must many student doesn't do it and miss on of the question or even the sections too. Since it's almost 40 days left for boards begin your preparations right now... Small time management can easily make it possible. To know the progress Every weekend give paper of at least 2 subjects in a real time board situation of 3 hr. and no other distraction.They are the moral boosters. Go through previous 5 year papers to get an idea that questions pattern and their levels. "During paper don't ever think what will be the performance of other student and never ever get nervous if answer is out of approach keep it for the time when all other questions are done...... " At the end always perform for 100+ and give the best of you can be calm , cool and confident .... Success will be yours.. ALL THE BEST !!!!!!! 