I want to prepare for my 12th class, my 11 is not good enough and almost wasted 7 months of 12. How can I prepare to score 85%+ marks in 12 board CBSE?
Regarding this question ,u r the only answer . here the only policy to get success is "hard work along with smart work is the key to success". if u just passed 11th with any percentage (that doesn't matters for 12th class seriously other than the basics) and has promised urself  to achieve some good %  u really need to make day and night a same thing ,Here are some tips for ur aid: 1.  Health is wealth-      In 12th u need to care of ur health first ,so eat fresh and nutritive food avoid junk food .Secondly rest and sleep at time- get proper sleep and relax when necessary.You may either study late in night or early in morning according to your convenience and time of highest concentration. It doesn't matter how much u sleep just sleep well.thirdly, practice meditation and exercises to increase ur concentration and mental focus .Believe me it works every time. 2.  Schooltime is the best time-    Its true. The knowledge that u get in school covers almost everything of 80% u need.So ,firstly be mentally active in ur class lectures. U have to take interest in all of ur subjects and especially in those which had dropped ur % in11.Secondly, Clear ur doubts and quarries as soon as possible. Heap of these problems may degenerate ur interest and retard u mentally so clear them with the help of ur teachers ,friends or the INTERNET facility. 3.  Follow the Revision cycle strictly-    A revision cycle consists of 3-4 periodic revisions such as first just after the end of ur class. It is a fast process  and covers only main Concepts,   secondly after reaching home whenever u set for study it is a slow process and may take place many times as u required. Thirdly, in morning when u do study or in school bus or when u reach school. The fourth time is on weekend ,for me it was Wednesday and the Sundays. 4.  Planning is everything-     The most important thing in planning is time management . time is limited so even don't think of wasting it any how .every second of study make u more near to ur goal. Now its up to u how far u can utilise ur free time like   a.revise in bus       b.make chits of formulas,reactions, steps of process in ur pocket and revise them whenever possible.          c.create nicknames of many daily life things (they may be  nonliving or living things) according to u that u want to remember.          d.carry books everywhere u go may be it standing in a line,waiting  for ur school bus or class teacher etc.that u know better. 5.   Should coaching be taken?-       It is Very expected and obvious question that comes in hearing .In my advise following the above tips fulfills urs this need.Always remember that self study is the best form of study .so self study done at home according to u is  always better than coaching of 2-3 hours making u a great loss of energy,money and most above all ur time. But therefore also if u want to still  join the coaching  for betterment - its a good thing but make sure that u have consulted ur subject teacher ur elders and guider for a detailed counselling. 6.   Prepare for competition-     If  u want to prepare for ur desirous competition exam along with 12th , it may prove a plus point for u. For it  u will really need to make the sweat come out. Firstly start preparing from problems that had came in past exams and have a link  from concepts of ur  textbook. Secondly, work on ur speed to solve the given problem in least time as possible. Thirdly, solve a no. Of sample papers for gaining confidence. U should have a meeting with the experienced people  for the  same. See here I'm not discouraging u ,but I as well as expert advises only to focus in ur 12th marksheet as u can prepare for these exams after ur12th maybe by dropping a year or so through coaching etc. But 12th is going to happen only once in ur life so no risk can be taken AT ANY COST. Hope these tips will help u somehow and will be a part of ur bright future\U0001f31e\U0001f31e\U0001f64b\U0001f64c\U0001f64c\U0001f64b thank u for reading with sincerity. Your suggestion, complaints and quarries are always entertained Thank u Quora 