I am in class 12th now. How should I prepare to do good in Boards?
Always feel Positive:-Positive attitude is the key to solve many of the problem which you face in your life, During exam time this is an important feature to have in you for success & Crack the your exams with blushing colors. Attitude is the main for all the students because it reflects your personality as well as your confidence or self confidence we always makes you at the top of everything whether It is for exams or interviews or for your Life. Positive attitude will make you through to the door of success and make you feel full of self confidence. Plan well for studying:-You must make an schedule for your studies followed by strict implementation of that schedule. make that schedule dealing with days or even with hours when your exams are really closed or it is high time for you in exam. You should must Interact with your teachers for the important topics or topics which needs more hardwork or time then any other topic. use last year exam papers Or sample papers for the proper schedule of your study. you may also take help of your friends which you think can help you in an particular topic and make Imply that in your schedule too. You must study more or gave more interaction to that topics which you feel you are not that up to mark ior which your teachers recommended you to study more . you should study that topics 1st during your exams high time preparation. What to do night before the exam:-The night before the exam is very much crucial for your exam and your exams performance pretty much dependent upon that. you must not cram before the exams to follow or you should just take review for each topics you feel important or less confident. never think of cramming too much before the exam It will mix your topics and also make to feel low in confidence for the exams. You should sleep as soon as possible to make your brain as well as body to relax a bit and to be well prepared for the exams. as our brain too need a rest to be fresh and remember well for the exam. Time Before the exam:-never try to read anything or to study or cram just before the exam time even if your friends ask you for the topic he miss or leave during preparation of exams. close your book 1 hour before the exam starts and feel relaxed and worry free and full of self confidence before the exam. Also get up early in the morning and take another review of the important topics and make your self filled with confidence as confidence is the main key to score well. If you need to buy any books online or need notes, you can check out prozo. 