I have to make a working model for physics for class 12 CBSE. How do I go about it?
You should take a look at this site- Do-it-Yourself Kits for Physics Investigatory Projects. It has some pretty fantastic projects that are not only easy to understand and assemble but also very informative and insightful. They also provide a booklet which can be directly submitted (after making some alterations, of course) for the Board Practical evaluation. I had purchased the 'Joule Thief (Inductor, Series RCL)' Project Kit, because it involved clear cut concepts from the unit 'Alternating Current'. It contained a CD as well which was basically a visual instruction manual- helped A LOT. We were reluctant, at first, about ordering this kit and had concerns about whether it would be accepted at all or not, but apparently it's not such a big deal. You'd be surprised by the number of students who turned up with these kits! So yeah, I'd suggest you to purchase one of these. It saves a lot of time and effort and honestly, it's a great buy anyway. Helped me understand concepts of AC very well. Extra Tip: 1. The examiner will ask you to demonstrate the project if it's a working one, so do make sure that all your bulbs are lighting and all the connections are well-fitted before going in. In case your project does not work at the time of your viva and project presentation (Happened with my friend), don't panic! Just say, very politely, "I'm afraid there are some technical issues here; however I'm well aware of the project and I think I will be able to explain the works even without it", and shoot! 2. Which brings me to my second point- Understand your project so well that you're able to communicate about it. They will ask many questions about your project so you have to know it as if you created it. (They ask questions like, "So how is this idea productive in our day-to-day life?" Which was a surprise to me but I managed to answer somehow :P) Also, Have a summary of your project prepared. It should be of maximum 4 mins. You have to be crisp and clear. Your summary should be less about the project and more about the concepts involved and how the project works because of that concept. 3. Apart from the regular viva questions, Practice ray and circuit diagrams very well. Memorise them so that you can draw them quickly and correctly. There were many students in my batch who were asked to draw one of the many ray/circuit diagrams during their viva. 4. Learn the working principle behind every instrument you come across during your 12th grade. 5. Lastly and very importantly, be very polite. Answer their questions calmly and gracefully. Do NOT counter-comment them. They give away marks easily on the basis of how you conduct yourself. All the best! Updated 32w ago • View Upvotes