Which books should I refer for scoring 95+ in cbse class 12 boards?
I guided and educated my son to get 94% in CBSE 10th and 89% in 12th. If I had started my efforts early and if he had followed my guidance completely, he would have got 97% in 10th and 92% in 12th. My tips below will help any student at any level in increasing their percentage significantly, from 90% to 95%, from 80% to 90%, from 60% to 80%, or from 40% to 60%.   The good books are well-known and easily available. As an example, R S Agrawal and R D Sharma are popular for Math. So I will not talk about those. Two highlights are given below.   For Economics, majority of guide books are repetitive and confusing. Avoid fat books. The syllabus is limited, so a slim book is sufficient. I found such a book, can’t recall the name right now. Also, I compiled precise notes from multiple books. I can share my notes at request.   For previous years’ exam papers, Oswaal is the best. They publish previous papers in many forms – unsolved, solved, by chapter, etc. For mock papers, Pariksha and ‘Together With’ are good. Internet has a lot of material on formulas, summaries, and mock papers. A Google search will give you many leads. But the good books or material alone are not sufficient. What is more important is a strategy to maximize the gain (marks) from all your efforts. From strategy comes out a plan, which you need to follow diligently. Some tips are given below.   1. Be Realistic and Methodical There is no magic. Results are proportional to effort. Do not rely on smartness or instincts. Follow a method with all steps. For any learning, ask experts. Do not fall prey to fashion or style, like studying very late at night, or studying with music.   2. Exam Room Simulation Estimate your marks in exam-like conditions. Create the atmosphere of exam – similar table and chair, similar answer book, same time limit, etc. This will ensure that your exam performance will not be affected by any surprise factors. This will also optimize your question sequence and speed.   3. Learn from History Study the papers from last 10 years. Try to solve as many as possible. Find out frequent questions. Separate the easy and difficult questions for each chapter. Make a list of trick questions.   4. Know Your Readiness At any given time, you should know how many marks you will get if you had to right the exam today. This is not equal to your school percentage. The good schools (like NPS, DPS) are conservative in internal marking. So add 10-15% to internal percentage. For the best estimate, solve previous or mock papers, and get examined by a teacher or senior.   5. Check and Validate Don’t jump into writing. Read the paper completely, select favorite question in multiple choices, decide the sequence of answering, then start. After each question, make sure that you have answered all portions. For numerical questions, check your final value and don’t forget the unit. For high mark numerical questions, find out a way to validate your final value.   5. Divide and Conquer Divide all chapters into Easy and Difficult. Everybody’s comfort level is different, so you need to do it strictly by your comfort, not by popular opinion. Also divide all chapters into Scoring and Non-Scoring. This depends on the total marks from a chapter, given in exam pattern. Now cross these two divisions to get 4 categories. Based on the expected gains and extra effort, the priority of chapter preparation is as follows: 1) Easy and Scoring, 2) Easy and Non-Scoring, 3) Difficult and Scoring, 4) Difficult and Non-Scoring. This will focus your efforts on maximum gains. For long questions, find shorter methods or tricks.   6. Make Good Impression From the first page of answer book, create an impression that your answers are great. Impression does not mean cosmetics but quality. This has 4 elements – Satyam, Shivam, Sundaram, Vishesh   Satyam = Truth (Facts + Precision) Write ‘to the point’. Don’t ramble or repeat. Stick to facts, only once. Shivam = Benefit (Summary + Impact) When there are too many points in an answer, write the more important points or summary. In medium or long answers, always mention the conclusion. This is more effective than the laundry list of all facts.   Sundaram = Beauty (Organization + Attraction) Write the points or steps in a logical sequence. Use proper margins, spacing, and paragraphs. Create a heading wherever possible. Avoid excessive underlining and colors.   Vishesh = Special (Unique) This is applicable to non-science subjects, such as languages and humanities. Do you have a point which is different from others? Such points will get you extra marks.   Best of luck! 