I am in class 12th now. How should I prepare to do good in Boards?
First and foremost don't worry,if you are regular with your studies, have clear basics and a good grasp over the concepts and work hard, you will surely do well in boards. Now coming to the subject wise strategies: Physics: NCERTs are a must read for boards.Practice all the examples in between the chapters.Do the questions of back exercise selectively after consulting with your teacher since all questions are not worth doing but at least look once at every question and concept in NCERT. For CBSE, you may use books like Pradeep for conceptual question practice and numericals. Focus on conceptual and numericals as they may be tricky. Practice the derivations and ensure that you take down the tiny points mentioned by the teacher such as fleming's rules, laws, assumptions etc. so that you don't lose even half marks in derivations. Chemistry: NCERT must be learnt from cover to cover and it is more than enough for CBSE. If you are weak in physical or organic and need extra practice then may refer to OP Tandon. Biology: NCERT has more facts than you think on first reading of the chapter. Focus and learn all the diagrams and the unseen facts written in the diagram description. Even the vaguest diagram may be asked in some form or another SS do not leave anything. Do not even think about going outside the NCERT. It will be a waste of your time. You may practice sample papers at the year's end along with NCERT .Mathematics: NCERT again. :P Master the questions of the book thoroughly . Use books like together with, xam idea etc. to practice previous year questions. You may not do all the questions from R.D.Sharma Since some may be related to concepts of jee which are not required in CBSE.English: The textbooks and the novels must be read properly. Make notes from the novel beforehand to save your time later on. To be honest you will do fine even if you start with English one week before the other exams but don't take the risk for the final boards and prepare entire English course once thoroughly during the preboards. This is about tackling class 12 in general and last minute preparation need practice of sample papers, as much as suitable to you for you to ace the exam. For any follow ups or other queries feel free to ask in the comments below. :) 