I am in class 12th right now. About 6 months left for the class 12th board exam for 2016. How should I prepare from today in order to get above 95%? What should I study for PCM?
Hi Vishesh, thanks for asking me to answer your query. These marks are quite important because you are going to quote in every other document for lifetime! So yes, make it worthy! Well you will have to focus more on studies. This can be done as follows: A) You have to give up various things: 1. Mobile 2. Television 3. Any sort of Internet 4. Computers, Laptops, Gaming Devices 5. Any other thing which is a sort of "Time-pass" and takes up lot of your time of the day. B) Divide your day, plan your day in advance. Plan your studies, fix your time for studies. MEASURE everyday how much hours you studied, keep a track of it, it keeps you motivated. Don't plan your studies beyond a week. But for one week, plan it on Paper. C) Divide your day into different Sessions. Whatever time you have, give the best study time to your worst subject! Plan your studies well. Divide each day into sessions. You should study each subject everyday or each subject atleast alternate days, this will reduce your time required for revision. D) This doesn't mean you don't enjoy life! You now have to fix a time of day, when you feel like a retarded person! E) Now this time usually 2 hours on average, you can put one of your hobbies or less-intrusive, non-addictive time pass. This may include: 1. Reading, Writing 2. Dancing, Singing 3. A particular Television show (which shouldn't be a series) 4. Hanging out (non-intrusive) 5. Anything you think appropriate Peace of mind is most important to increase your study hours. I have myself studied 15 effective hours a day by this method for a good stretch of period and therefore, it is recommended to do the same. F) Just do this for 7 days. Your target is 7 days. On 8th day you will automatically be used to. If you do it for a stretch of month, you will have mastered your nerves by then! It's like a Coffee addiction, which has to be taken at fixed time, similarly you can get addicted to good habits as well! G) Another thing is you should go into "dumb mode". Yes complete Silence, no talking, no chit-chatting, no random talks. Only important talks and that too in most simple and shortest manner! This will help you in concentration! H) Today's study today. Don't postpone anything that was planned for today to tomorrow, if you did it even for once, all your plan will go haywire. I) Don't forget to solve papers. Atleast 2 papers of each subject must be solved. If possible, solve the past papers. Solving last 3 years papers would help you a lot. J) Presentation is very important. So you should improve your presentation significantly if you had not considered it important earlier. K) Maintain your health, control your food, sleep well. Good luck! 