I want to prepare for my 12th class, my 11 is not good enough and almost wasted 7 months of 12. How can I prepare to score 85%+ marks in 12 board CBSE?
Although the question was asked in October 2014, someone asked me answer it today. In the 12th board exam of CBSE, the questions aren't asked from the syllabus of Class 11. So you shouldn't be worrying "much" about your Class 11 not being good enough. This however doesn't means that you should completely ignore Class 11. In certain subjects like Physics, Maths, Accountancy, a strong understanding of the syllabus of Class 11 is required. About the time, to score "good" marks in the board exam, 5-6 months of study is sufficient. If you study, say 4-5 hours everyday (including coaching classes and self study) for, say 5 months, ~85% shouldn't be a difficult goal.  Individual preferences regarding the timings of studies vary. Since you do not have a strong hold on the syllabus of Class 11, more labour is required. Your objective should be to devote maximum time for studies, without compromising with other activities, for example watching TV. Do NOT try to study 15 hours a day. Sleep is very important, and you need at least 8 hours of sleep. If you are a science student, either Mathematics or Biology, you should avoid studying books meant for engineering/medical entrance examinations. The only textbooks you should be reading are the NCERTs. If you need a different book, select one which is meant only for CBSE 12. I do not know your subjects, but I could give a piece of advice about English. Most of the students would ignore this subject for other main subjects. You should try not to. The Reading and Writing sections would decide your marks in the paper, and these are the most ignored topics. Since you would not have enough time for revision, you should give at least half an hour everyday for the purpose. In the end, people, others and I, can only give advices. What you will do would eventually decide your performance. Give your best. You'll be proud you did. One more thing, do not get stressed. It won't help you. 