Is the NCERT enough to score decent marks in the CBSE 12th maths?
Do JEE Main and CBSE preparation together: For PCM: 1. NCERT for all subjects, including exercises. 2. NCERT Exemplar problems. 3. Past years' CBSE questions of topics you find difficult (10 years); practice answering short and to the point; underline key points (where you expect marks, basically :P). Box-in and label (--Ans.) beside answers in numericals. Don't forget units wherever applicable. 4. JEE Main/AIEEE past questions (30+ years) 5. One external book per subject of JEE Main level; suggestion: HC Verma for Physics. (I have no idea about Chem & Math books at this level, I directly did JEE Advanced books in these). 6. Optional: An external book for CBSE level: usually not required unless you are very weak in the subject. Try common books like Comprehensive, Prakash, etc. (consult school teachers). 7. For solutions to NCERT problems, use the internet or books like Xam Idea or Together With. 8. Timed practice of last 5 years question papers of CBSE Maths and JEE Main, and any CBSE subject that you find difficult to solve fast. Try to replicate exam conditions eg. the time of day, and someone to give you time warnings. 9. Take JEE Main mock tests of a successful coaching centre. 10. Do CBSE practicals seriously. 11. The non-Physics-specific points in the following answer I just wrote should help you with studying methods and exam hacks: my answer to "How can I get marks in jee mains physics?" For English Core/Hindi Core: (I had English, be advised) 1. Do not ignore it. Even if you have a 6th subject, its marks is compulsorily included in your aggregate. 2. Follow the class, wherever you learn it. 3. Memorize the texts in a pointwise fashion, and memorize the poems exactly (almost exactly will do if content is unaffected). 4. Memorize explanations that you didn't understand on your own in a pointwise fashion; if you understood them yourself you will remember them anyway. 5. Practice expressing any idea in your own words without taking help of your native tongue as an intermediary: this will not only help in the language section but, combined with 3 & 4, will enable you to memorize only points and flesh out the answer in the exam hall. 6. Practice the format of the things in the language section well. Practice the shit out of note-making and summary, since these require extreme self-control of expression and shortening of phrases to words ie. vocabulary! 7. Try to think of wordcount while writing and stick to it in the first attempt. Also, underline! (same as PCM, it's kind of a 'give marks here' marker :P) 8. For the elements in the language section, read real-life samples, eg. real-life news articles, letters and speeches of famous people, real advertisements, etc. 9. Feel free to ignore the Class XI literature syllabus, but remember that language syllabus has related skills, so don't be in complete darkness about the Class XI language portion. 10. Try to do well in internal tests like Listening Skill, etc. 11. In study breaks, read good fiction (or non-fiction like biographies by good authors). It will be entertaining while also developing language skills! If you are not a regular reader, try other works of authors on your syllabus as a starting point. Newspapers are another good source, and as a bonus they keep you in touch with the real world during the whirlwind times of exam prep. For 5th subject: Follow same steps as PCM, ommitting JEE-relevant steps, of course. Once again, don't ignore it in the frenzy of JEE prep; in this case don't ignore Class XI, since it will almost surely be linked. (In case of Bio, CompSc and Eco, I can assure you that it is). For 6th subject: Usually there won't be an NCERT book; pick a book and learn it up for theory. Do practicals seriously. Don't ignore it since it augments CBSE score. To summarize: 1. NCERT + NCERT Exemplar + 1 JEE Main book + 1 CBSE book (optional) + Question banks + Help/solutions book for PCM 2. Same except JEE Main part, for 5th subject 3. Class participation, practice, memorization of texts and explanations, study of real-life examples for English/Hindi 4. Timed practice and mock tests 5. Take internals and practicals seriously 6. Follow study methods in given link for JEE Main prep 7. Mug up 6th subject. The suffering is worth it. The best method to get 95% above in aggregate is to get 95% above in all subjects. Keep this as your goal. Do not think of making up low marks in one subject with another, it is too risky! Take care of your health, and be over-punctual. Check with official syllabus of AISSCE and supplement it with extra sources (online or offline) if the NCERT book is not up-to-date (this is very common!). Similarly check official syllabus of JEE Main and ensure knowledge of everything on it. Good luck! I don't know your intentions about JEE Advanced, but I'm including a short section on it below. Also do attempt state JEEs. They increase your chances. In case you have Bio as your 5th subject, make a try for medical JEEs and AIPMT as a backup. AIPMT prep basically involves switching M & B (5th subject) in the above points. JEE Advanced: I'm not elaborating on this one since your question is CBSE-focussed, but in short: 1. If you are sure that your Main score will allow you to sit for this, only then explicitly prepare for this beforehand. Else, concentrate on Main while setting apart some time to do harder problems from one book per subject. Suggestions: Irodov for Physics, OP Tandon for Physical and Inorganic Chemistry, Himangshu Pandey for Organic Chemistry. In Maths, question banks form the crux of your prep. 2. Even if you prep early, do one book per subject followed by question banks. 3. Do mock tests of a well-rated coaching centre; if possible join classes in one. 4. If sure of getting to sit for it, concentrate more on getting good rank in Advanced and just ensure qualifying marks in Main and decent marks in Boards. 5. Conceptual study is a must. 6. Check with official syllabus! 