Progressivism: Are American progressives categorically socialists?
Progressivism is a political ideology based on the idea of reform, and refining political and social structures to adapt to the problems of the day - so the meaning does change with the times. Today, it's predominantly fiscally conservative, socially liberal, and demanding responsibility from those in government and industry that are perceived to have been instrumental in damaging both. It's politically centrist (however, the US generally skews to the political right, so to people in the US, it may seem left-of-center). Socialism is a little harder to define for persons in the US as it's distinct from communism, but Americans tend to confuse or equate the two. Soviet Russia was communist, Norway is (democratic) socialist. Socialism covers a pretty broad range, but it in the most general sense it is an economic ideology that supports state, public, common, or cooperative ownership of some enterprises. Examples in the US are the US Postal Service, the National Park Service, police forces, fire fighters, etc. The ideology asserts that certain goods are services are a public good and that the state should engage in the production and distribution of them. Just about all modern political ideologies accept the idea of socialism to one degree or another. With regard to socialism, "progressives" are pretty close to "republicans" and "democrats" on the spectrum. Communism more or less does away with the notion of personal property and makes all production and distribution of services the job of the state, with the hope that doing so would create a classless society and all persons would be equal. Necessarily the model requires exerting political, economic, and social control and centralizing the distribution. In Europe, for example, socialized medicine is fairly common. The rationale is that everyone is likely to require healthcare at some point, healthy persons are more productive, and universal coverage makes implementation of public health initiatives, such stemming communicable disease, much easier. The programs tend to require elevated levels of taxation in order to fund them, and elective services often require co-payment, but the burden on the individual is generally about 30% of what people in the US pay for the same care - and it eliminates restrictions on choice of doctor or institution since all are covered under the national plan. Cost-savings are achieved by removing overhead and profit margins from the administration of care, reduced paperwork burdens, and economies of scale. The biggest down-side is that there tends to be less availability of experimental treatments, and malpractice awards are lower.    Embed Quote 