Quora: Should the answers on Quora be categorized into experts' opinion and laymans' opinion?
No. They shouldn't be categorised. For the simple reason that people are far more complex than their positions, their bios and the labels they're given. If we had the classification of expert vs. layman, I'd miss out on many of my favourite Quorans other interests and how knowledgeable they are outside of what they chose to pursue as a career. For example, I wouldn't find out: About Robert Frost's love for movies and cinema. He really is a cinephile, second only to, maybe Mark Hughes. About David S. Rose massive fascination with history and love/curation of first edition books. About Garrick Saito fascinstion with food, different cultures/cuisines and how great he is at cooking (he has recipes that involve 12 hours of prep. Check out his Ramen Noodles one). About James Altucher's love for stand-up comedy, podcasts, mastery. And how he like all of us, has to deal with serious stage-fright everytime you has a public engagement. About what a great father Sanjay Sabnani is to his daughters. Without clipping their wings. And how tries to inject humour into everything or how he's mastered dealing with people, and even teenagers. About how profoundly empathetic Quora User is. Or how much she loves language, calligraphy and psychology. About how humble and talented Oliver Emberton is not just as a graphic designer/programmer but as a storyteller as well. I'd miss out on his love for travelling, Hans Zimmer among other things. That Marc Bodnick likes hiphop in general and Biggie in particular. ...Really there are too many fascinating Quorans and not enough time, I could go on forever. My point is: Imagine how much we'd miss if alk these wonderful people were restricted to their fields. It also helps with fostering a sense of community here. You can't learn these things anywhere else. Not on Wikipedia. Not from Yahoo Answers. Not from Google. All these details, I'd miss out on, if Quora isn't the way it is. Reiterating what another user said, Quora is the closest thing to a Democracy on the Internet. There is no one right answer, there's always another way. And that is part of Quora's charm.    Embed Quote 