Relative to the smallest and largest objects in the universe, is there a categorically middle-sized object in the universe?
Problem 1.  There is no clear reason to assume that the geometric mean is The Answer.  Why not take the arithmetic mean?   In this case, the answer is half the size of the universe; i.e., a hell of a lot bigger.  Then, why not use some other mathematical function, there are lots - actually an infinite number - to choose from.  Each function has its size "bias" relative to any other function we might choose. The  powers of ten notation used by scientists was chosen partly from our 10 fingered biology, partly historically.  Adding exponential notation is useful for handling big number ranges, and is easier to write, say and think, for humans at least.  It isn't a  fundamental out-there property of the universe, it's a human device.  The universe doesn't have a powers of ten tape measure, we made that bit up.  Out there is just stuff operating at it's own scales.  So, the geometric means answer is just that: the mean size of the universe in the human exponential number convention.  This is nothing fundamental/categorical about this choice but it's still interesting to humans, especially to humans who understand to the exponential number system. Problem 2.  At present we don't know how big the Universe is.  We presume it is bigger than the observable universe but we don't know how much bigger: 2x, 100x, 10000000x, a gazillon times?  None of the accepted current equations of physics or observations give us much help.  Our pleistocene plains-of-africa intuitions are not much use either.  The whole universe might be bigger than the observed universe in the ratio of the observable universe width to the Planck Length!  That makes it even more seriously big, as if it weren't already.  In this speculative case, the geometric-mean-middle-sized object in the universe could actually be our whole observable universe.  Sweet!  Assuming anisotropy and that terrestrial life is not privileged, this would be a lot some other sentient beings' observable universe too.  Nice! But we don't know.  Also, the observable universe was once a lot smaller (thought we weren't actually around to observe it) and it is growing at an astronomical rate (and we may not be around to see that) so when we say the observable universe we mean observable now-ish.  One second on, it is about 600,000,000 metres more.  After another ten billion years....    Embed Quote Updated 24 Nov. 672 views.