Quora: Should the answers on Quora be categorized into experts' opinion and laymans' opinion?
Well, depends a lot upon the "opinion" concerned. Actually, depends totally on the opinion concerned. Here in Quora, questions and answers can be, Informative. Example, How was the ISS built? In these questions, one would be inclined to have the answers categorized by "expert" and "layman" opinion. But, then comes the issue - how would you define an "expert" and how would you define a "layman"? In certain cases, it is quite evident. In the example, an "expert" would be someone who has or had firsthand experience with the building of the ISS. So, automatically, our eyes go towards anyone from NASA answering it. This is somehow implemented by the short bio on different topics beside the name. You now know, who is an "expert". But, what happens if the question is of a more general kind? Suppose, the question, What is the best algorithm ever? Now, who exactly is an "expert" on algorithms? How do we decide it? Let's consider programmers working at elite companies around the world. Even that would comprise of thousands of users, and thousand others arguing that the answer is not "satisfactory". This creates a problem. How to segregate "experts" and "laymen" in cases of general questions? Experienced. Example, How does it feel to get fired from your job suddenly? Again we have the same problem. We can define "experts" as people have "experienced" the situation portrayed in the question and "laymen" as those who haven't. But, then how would Quora keep track of that statistic? It's not like we have a way to verify if the OP actually had lost his/her job or not. So, we have to rely on the OP's honestly. Moreover, if they haven't really experienced it, I don't think anyone would venture an answer to questions like this. Another example, of an experienced based question whose answers have no way of being segregated as "expert" and "layman" opinion. What does it feel like to have a Quora power user follow you for the first time? Opinionated. Now here comes our main issue. It's an opinion based question. Each and everyone has the right to an individual opinion. The upvote count marks the number of people in solidarity with the opinion. But, how exactly would someone segregate "experts" and "opinions" here? Sadly enough. Quora does it. Sorry, Quora doesn't. We do. We see a big name expressing an opinion on something and we automatically jump to the upvote button, regardless of how much we actually are in favor of the opinion. I guess, this is the culture war Annie Wang's answer is trying to explain. Experts have few answers on their topic of expertise, while a generalist might be quite popular. In essence, a popular generalist wins instead of a niched expert. All is great as long as the questions are informative, or experience based. Sure, experts should have an upper hand in those fields. But, when it comes to opinionated answers, being an expert doesn't always warrant a great opinion. It may, but, it also, may not. It's just like being a computer science engineer doesn't mean that my opinions on Apple products will be final and binding. In this case, I would much rather prefer a layman who has been using it for a decade or so. So, yet again, we fail to implement the segregation effectively. Advisory. This part is relatively easy. Advice on technical things, should be segregated. For example, to the question How important is it to have prior experience before founding a startup?, I would rather have seek the advice of someone who is already a success at building a startup, rather than a layman. However, to relationship advice, and life philosophy questions, it's kind of the "whatever floats your boat" scenario. You like an "expert's" opinion, take it. You like an "layman's" opinion, go with it. No point segregating them. Rhetorical. Well, these are the questions that spoil Quora. Sure, it brings about a fun element to the site. Sure, it gives a feel of "social media" to it. But, I have a sinking feeling, with the excess of questions like this, that this will be the doom of Quora, and the main  reason why some experts choose to quit. I mean, who would want an expert's opinion on this? What is the worst response to 'I love you'?    Embed Quote 