Does categorization form the basis of knowledge?
I've got an engineer's, more than a philosopher's perspective on this interesting question. In brief:  For certain purposes, for certain types of knowledge,  categorization is handy.  But I'd not say it forms a "basis" of knowledge. Categories are more about modeling (representation) than about knowledge.  In this guise, categories are one strategy for creating a useful and conventional relationship between knowledge and information. The classic view - I think we have Aristotle to thank for this useful  principle? - is that categories represent distinctions in the properties of objects in the world. They describe and refer to things. Another view altogether: Categorization is a strategy for organizing access to certain types of knowledge.  One function of categories is to create the bins we traverse in order to get to information (that is organized by fairly arbitrary, but conventional criteria).  Remember the early days of Yahoo, before indexed search engines?  It was a big topic tree.  Now that we have Google, for instance, we don't need to browse through a topic hierarchy to find documents; we just use a few keywords and get directly there.  So those categories are no longer needed.  David Weinberger gets into this topic about how technologies change the way we think, search, and organize, in Everything Is Miscellaneous. There are different "types" of knowledge (here we go, dividing them up into categories in different ways, in order to talk about them for particular purposes, but in "the wild" they are mixed).  A common distinction is: Explicit Knowledge (can be represented using categories and models) vs. Implicit Knowledge, Tacit Knowledge, Context Some other useful distinctions are: Individual / Personal Knowledge vs. Social / Collective Knowledge The point of making all these distinctions is that, for the main part, categories are useful for representing explicit, social knowledge, and don't play a practical role in the other types. For more than you probably want to know about knowledge, including many proposed types (and the fact that we don't really agree on what it is or what we can do with it) see Surfacing the Philosophical Assumptions of KM Frameworks Exploring the Knowledge Landscape    Embed Quote 