Quora: Should the answers on Quora be categorized into experts' opinion and laymans' opinion?
In a way, they already are, but it could be better. In order to answer this question, I want to talk a little about a few words: opinion, knowledge, expertise, and experience. A problematic thing mentioned in the question is the combination of the words Quora and opinion.  Let's look at a few dictionary definitions of the word opinion: A view or judgement formed about something, not necessarily based on fact or knowledge Belief stronger than impression and less strong than positive knowledge A statement of advice by an expert on a professional matter The attitude that you have toward something, especially your thoughts about how good it is The word clearly has multiple contexts.  The challenge for users of Quora is to determine which contexts are appropriate for Quora.  What does Quora say on the matter?  If we click on our name at the top of the screen and then at the bottom of the menu list that drops down click on 'About', we can go to the page where Quora defines themselves (yes, I agree it makes no sense that Quora hides their 'About' page in a menu that is supposed to focus on the specific user).  On that 'About' page, Quora states: Quora's mission is to share and grow the world's knowledge. Let's look a little closer at that page: Quora's text is pretty explicit and emphasized through repetition.  They want Quora to be about knowledge. knowledge - facts, information, and skills acquired by a person through experience or education; the theoretical or practical understanding of a subject. That means that the only definition of opinion that really fits Quora's mission is the third on the above list: A statement of advice by an expert on a professional matter However, there is irony in that 'About' page.  The Quora text is all about knowledge, yet the illustrating questions solicit opinion more than fact.  Looking at my feed, at this moment, four out of the first ten questions are soliciting opinion and six are soliciting knowledge.  Recently Quora made an attempt to reduce the personal opinion content that they call 'survey questions' by changing the noun used in a question.  So, a question like Do you like orange juice?  was changed to Do people like orange juice? because supposedly that would change the way people answered the question. Still confused?  Me too.  Let's look at another bit of text used on Quora's 'About' page, and that's a bit of text that ties back to the heart of your question.  It appears twice on the screen: "get real answers from people with first hand experience" and "get answers from real people with first-hand experience." Ignore that they make two different grammatical errors with the adjective firsthand (first-hand is an adverb and first hand isn't a word).  These words are the magic of Quora that separates it from Yahoo! Answers. At Yahoo! Answers, any yahoo can and will answer your question.  But Quora is designed such that if one has a question about ebola, there are virologists that can answer it and if one has a question about movies, there are screenwriters that can answer it and if one has a question about physics, there are physicists that can answer it. But note that Quora chose the word experience, not expertise.  There is no requirement to have a Ph.D to answer a question, just a requirement to have experience.  This is because there are many topics for which expertise is not well defined.  There isn't (yet) a degree in "knowing everything about Game of Thrones".  An academic in her office at Harvard won't necessarily have a more interesting insight to the events on the ground in the Ukraine than someone that actually lives there. So, after this long meandering, I return to your question of: Should the answers on Quora be categorized into experts' opinion and layman's opinion? and want to mentally tweak it a little to be: Should the answers on Quora be categorized into those coming from people with experience or expertise in the topic and those that do not have experience or expertise in the topic. I've mentally removed the word opinion.  That isn't to say I think there should not be questions that solicit opinions, I just think answerers need to distinguish between questions that are soliciting knowledge and questions that are soliciting opinion.  And I want answerers to be able to qualify their eligibility to answer a question by identifying their expertise and/or experience. For example, I like the question "What is your favorite Stephen King novel?  Why?"  It's a great question to crowdsource data about King's books that I can use to either better understand the author's appeal or to seek out a book to read on my next flight.  It is soliciting opinion - but there is still experience required.  I don't want to see answers from people that have not read any of Stephen King's books.  In fact, I think that anyone that has not read any of Stephen King's books and answers the question anyway should have their account deactivated. Quora recently made an adjustment to their topic bios policy to help here. They want topic bios to be helpful to readers by providing a reason why this person is qualified to answer this question.  So, for the above example, if I saw an answer that began with this header: I have some level of confidence that the answer is worth reading.  This Margaret White person is declaring some level of expertise and experience with the books of Stephen King.  To increase that confidence a bit more, Quora has a feature called Recognized Topic Biographies. That feature, unfortunately, hasn't been given the level of attention it deserves, by Quora.  They started it, put some effort into an initial population and then appear to have abandoned it, so at this stage, it's only really helpful in a selection of academic disciplines.  What it does is shows you the topic bio of the people that have voted an answer up (if their topic bio fits one of the small set of academic disciplines and professions they've added to their list).  So, for example, if you answer a physics question and it shows that the first names in the up vote list are all doctorates in physics, it's fairly safe to say the answer has been vetted. In summary, there are mechanisms in place that do indicate presence or absence of expertise, but what I think would improve Quora is the following: Users should stop and consider whether they have experience or expertise that will enable them to bring something new to the answers, before answering a question.  If they don't, they shouldn't answer. Users should carefully read a question to determine whether it is soliciting opinions or knowledge.  They should not answer questions seeking knowledge with their opinion. Users should resist providing unfounded expertise. Quora should put more effort into helping identify topics in which specific users have experience and/or expertise.  I would like to see a system where users could be nominated by a number of other users as reputable, knowledgeable sources for a specific topic - kind of like LinkedIn endorsements.  For example, Quora should register Sunil Kumar Gopal as a recommended source for Game of Thrones knowledge. Quora should investigate how to illustrate experience and/or expertise in multiple topics that come together for specific questions. Quora should enable users to have greater control over their A2A topics, such that they can freely volunteer to answer topics for which they have expertise, but can use credit prices to reduce the A2As for topics in which they don't feel like they are the best qualified candidates to answer.    Embed Quote 