Quora: Should the answers on Quora be categorized into experts' opinion and laymans' opinion?
"We are living in a age of experience based learning." I had read these lines in one of Marc Bodnick's answer on why he doesn't recommend a doctorate. When a leading figure of this site believes that experience is the best teacher, then I hope you understand why this is a bad idea. It is true. I read most of the answers here and a common line of argument I found in the ones against this was that experience can teach you enough to answer questions concerning what you have been through.    For example, I or Dev can answer questions on JEE preparations, books etc though none of us are career counsellors, Niharika can answer questions on weight loss really well though she is no medical supervisor, some active debater could answer questions on debating though he isn't a scholar.  There can be innumerable examples of such answers on Quora, where a recovered drug addict could offer better insight than a drug expert, or a jail inmate could tell you more about the environment there than a person in charge etc. Yeah maybe the categorization of answers into - experience based and opinions, could make a little sense but then it may make the site a little disorganized. Imagine opening a question and then shuffling between categories to read answers. I think the answer ranking algorithm does a fairly good job. You can find most of the good answers on the top. Sometimes just sometimes someone might end up writing an answer much much better than someone who has experience or who is an expert on a particular topic. Balaji sir writes a great deal of answers on regional and political policies etc some of which are better than those of political experts or people who have experience. This is just because he reads. Someone could offer more insight on a certain speech once he reads it than a person who actually attended and heard the speech. So even the categorization I mentioned doesn't exactly make a lot of sense. So in short. No, what you are suggesting shouldn't be done. It's a step backwards. Thanks for the A2A Ketan !    Embed Quote 