Does categorization form the basis of knowledge?
If you're a Kantian, the answer is simple: yes. There is no perception outside of the primordial categories; they give needed structure to the chaotic welter of stimuli the world presents, from which we can derive the knowledge needed to navigate that world. But If you're not a Kantian, and we're not necessarily talking about "primordial" categorization, the relationship is trickier than that. Using the traditional but serviceable "justified true belief" definition of knowledge, their relationship seems less unidirectional than "foundation and structure". Prior knowledge informs/determines the categories posited/supposed. The categories, however, serve to ease further inferences (about categorical items themselves or the structure as a whole). The more robust inferences may then become knowledge after testing. So, categorization has a "practical" aspect that knowledge doesn't seem to have; it's tool-like in that it's useful for management and inference generation, results of which may be leveraged to grow knowledge. But besides inference driving, there are also truly "pragmatic" dimensions to categorization: intention and context. Categories chosen or supposed derive from both the knowledge you have and the use the categorization is serving: are they intended to drive inferences, prime select inferences, manage/tame the information, communicate the conventional boundaries of the domain, etc? But context also impacts categorization. For example, an advancing dog may be a new pal in one context but a threat in a different one. Finally, if you're into "reliablist" epistemology, categories can also have a normative aspect in relation to knowledge. A categorization scheme that leads to an increase in knowledge (say, through better inference derivation or manageable structuring) or tends to cleanly transfer knowledge without too much destruction of other knowledge is better – more "epistemically virtuous" – than one that doesn't do this. If it doesn't, that scheme should be thrown out and another posited or derived from the appropriate body of knowledge. So from the perspective of a UX designer like me, several conclusions can be drawn. 1. Categorization is a tool for inference generation, navigation, and management: it parses existing knowledge but in such a way that structural knowledge is gained and can be leveraged. 2. Categorization communicates beyond its explicit subject matter. The content of the communication depends on the intention of categorizer and the context of "use". 3. Some schemes are objectively better than others, given the pragmatic considerations above. Categorization schemes driving inferences and allowing navigation should ideally lead to the overall growth of the knowledge upon which they are based and into which they feed or at least communicate that knowledge with as little distortion as possible. Hope that at least sort of addressed your initial question.    Embed Quote 