Is the question, "Are Mormons Christians?", a normative one or merely one of categorization?
It's almost always normative, and almost always used as an attempt to exclude Mormons from being Christian. Mormons themselves claim to be Christian, and so have no need of this question. Those few who might ask about this from a categorization perspective (coming from an external POV, perhaps with academic interest) but without a normative need might ask this differently, such as "why do Mormons claim to be Christian while non-Mormons deny this?" Finding non-normative answers to this question can be difficult, as the answers to "what does it mean to be Christian" or "is x-group Christian?" are necessarily couched in doctrinal norms. The problem then becomes "whose norms do you choose, and on what basis?" From a purely biblical POV (the most doctrinally authoritative source), it's easy to argue that no major modern sect is "truly" Christian, since the doctrines and practices differ so widely (despite claims to the contrary, no major sect today practices the communalism of Jesus' disciples or the form and rigidity of Pauline worship, for example). No one wants that, so all give some allowance for being within some unknown normative bounds, even where they disagree (for the most part: this is why some conservative Protestants maintain even today that Catholics are not Christian). Ultimately, it would seem that, normative as it is, any sect that would claim Christian status must be able to explain how it is they adhere to various biblical doctrinal points, such as the resurrection and atonement of Jesus. Most have little issue with this and have similar explanations (outside of a few outliers like the Unification Church for example). Most modern Christians -- even those claiming to hew exactly to the Bible -- are quick to throw in historical Tradition (often capital-T, even for non-Catholics) as a source of authority equal or nearly equal to biblical scripture. This is the second great source of normative belief and practice; the problem is it ultimately has no support other than "we've always done it this way," which flies in the face of apostolic Christianity, biblical authority, and the inspiration claimed by ancient prophets and apostles. This objection is brushed aside with the presumed weight of two millennia of practice, despite the fact that many current Christian sects are themselves only a few hundred years old (and in their early days were also seen as non-normative and heterodox). The real source, I believe, of the discomfort of seeing Mormons as Christians is that LDS theology relies only partly on Tradition, and sees fit to either bolster it or toss it out as needed, claiming instead revelation and inspiration as the final source of authority. This is much the same claim that the Catholic church makes (and on the same stage, in the sense of "catholic" = "universal"), but with greater emphasis on current revelation than on historical Tradition.    Embed Quote 