Are psychopaths categorically incapable of empathy?
If someone can think of how to "have empathy" (in actions towards others) or "not have empathy" (in actions towards others) and still chooses "have empathy" and not only when there is some reward involved but because they have chosen to accord others with some amount of "respect" then that should be considered even more valueable and good than someone who can't imagine how to "not have empathy" in that sense. I forget where I saw it but I read something about heroic people having some similarities to psychopaths. Psychopaths also tend towards more risk-taking. Hence a psychopath could choose to take risks for the sake of helping others and become someone who behaves selflessly by choice. This sort of dichotomy between the potential for great good and great evil and the conflict between these choices is reflected throughout human literature and film. Though there is also the phenomenon of neuroplasticity, that is the brain changes. Perhaps if a person chooses empathy like if you were to choose to practice an instrument or choose to try to get in an exercise routine it would eventually become automatic because you'd be so used to it. Perhaps that correlates with activation or cell growth in the areas of the brain related to empathy. Regardless of if it does or not all that matters is that it works. Neurologists tend to write about findings in neurology as though they proved it (empathy, happiness, or any given subject) couldn't possibly happen any other way, but then the only way they could know that is if they tested everybody. All they can really do is identify how the brain TENDS to be in relation with some feeling or behavior. There may be people whose brains look one way but who don't behave, think, or feel like people normally would if their brains looked that way, because humans do not have all-powerful abilities to observe what physically goes on in the brain and because anything we observe has to be done with our senses or instruments we never will.    Embed Quote 