What was the reaction of your parents when you told them that you are a gay/lesbian?
I never told them.  My brother did. Well, my step-mom claims that she suspected for a while.  She was born and raised in Cleveland and her best friend growing up was gay (even back then, which says a lot).  She just doesn't care about this kind of thing.  For her it's all very, "Meh.  Don't forget to pick up a gallon of milk for me on the way over." For my dad, a country-boy raised in a very conservative, Christian community, it was very challenging.  I work VERY hard to understand his paradigm (even if he doesn't or cannot reciprocate the same).  This man really believes that either I suffered some kind of trauma (at his hands or others) that made me gay; that I chose this (perhaps to rebel) or that it could be changed with some kind of [barbaric] therapy.  I'm told that the whole period of this "revelation" occurred at almost the exact same time my sister had to inform my parents that she was pregnant (with her long-time boyfriend, engaged to be married) out of wedlock.  Not in high school.  Not from a stranger.  But with the guy she was already engaged to.  Nevertheless, it destroyed him.  He lives in some mutant universe where this was a bad thing (despite him having gotten his high-school sweetheart pregnant IN HIGH SCHOOL; despite his elder brother cheating for ages on his wife; despite his own father being a serial philanderer; despite BOTH of his parents conceiving their firstborn while they were married to their other, first spouses).  It was his daughter and he has that ye olde timey† idea that daughters should be pure.  But, pertaining to my situation, It was very hard for him.  This was a thing that in his time was shameful and to be kept hidden, and all of that changed in his lifetime and now EVERYBODY would know his son was "a queer".   The world he felt worked right:  where there was an order ("established by god"), was destroyed right in front of his eyes.  And he just never understood why and how it happened. He is probably (and certainly was)  battling some kind of shame.  This is a man who was raised on the belief that "if you have a pecker between your legs, you play ball and chase skirts; it's what men do."  There's simply no debating this with him.  It's really hard to negotiate a path through that kind of solipsism.  It's rooted in the same fundamental mental construct that allows terrorists to do horrible things and shirk it off (which is not comparing the two things, themselves:  terrorism and homophobia are very different).  That is:  once we believe that God has demanded or permitted a thing (hatred, discrimination, murder, etc.) we can compartmentalize that prejudice into a box that absolves us of guilt. My dad operates on some notion that "God would never allow you to be born gay," (just like that same God would never allow -- say -- a baby to be born crack addicted or deformed or some other legitimately horrible thing).  Sure, but this minor difference, God would NEVER allow that, but all that other shit, he is perfectly fine with!)  But, because he thinks that it's a choice (either in overt decision to be gay or as a result of choosing NOT to seek some kind of therapy to become straight), he can legitimize his homophobia in a way as, "You are choosing this, so it's your fault."  Which is not to say that my dad is really hostile towards me.  He's not.  We talk regularly and have a fantastic relationship.  But like many things with human beings, we can have two, opposing emotional sentiments simultaneously.  I don't think he'll ever reconcile this dichotomy.  It's not his skillset.  He'll just keep each of these things in a box on separate sides of his brain.  And, frankly, I'm fine with that. †Yes, I'm pronouncing the thorn as a "y" not a "th".  I like the sound of "yee oldie timey". 