What are the advantages and disadvantages of being too nice to people?
Lots of people here say that 'being nice' is bad. No. It's not bad, never has been. The way society approaches nice people, is bad. Moreoever, the way these nice people deal with this vicious society, exacerbates the problem. But never has the root cause been being too nice itself. So what is society doing to nice people, and what can nice people do to protect themselves? Disadvantages People perceive you as weak. The general feeling in society is that if someone is too nice, that's a sign of weakness. A sign of desperation, if you may. While it is true, that many hurt people hide behind a facade of niceness, that's not the norm. Being nice is a character trait, a rare one at that, where more and more friendships are becoming less selfless and more selfish. In general, I've noticed 4 out of the 5 new friendships I make end within a month, because the other party perceives me as weak, and starts taking advantage of that, whether intentionally or unintentionally. However, for me, I managed to end it; because fortunately for me, I'm not weak, and if anything, stronger than 90% of the people who resort to emotional abuse.  That isn't the general case. A lot of 'too nice' people get trapped in a toxic friendship, refusing to believe that the feeling of insecurity mired in the friendship comes from the other side, even if partly; choosing to 'fix themselves' instead. How to fix this? The 'stop being too nice' advice doesn't work. We're nice because we want to be nice. We can't stop. What you can do is learn is : -How to detect when you're in a toxic/insecure friendship. -How to end it.   Easier written than done. For me to be able to develop the skill to emotionally detach myself the moment my own feelings are at risk took years of experience and hurt feelings. But if you're getting hurt anywho, then how about you use those wounds to build yourself a set of armor? You'll eventually find someone who appreciates you and will work to keep you. Which brings us to the second point, Being taken for granted. There are plenty of great examples here of how people want what they can't get, which is why, once they 'get you', (Since nice people don't beat around the bush and play 'hard to get', which in itself is 'not nice'.); they'll move around to the next thing they can't get. However, the answers I've seen somehow places the blame on the 'too nice' person. As if it's HIS/HER fault that the other person is treating friends as a commodity, not people. Friends aren't the newest iPhone. If you're being treated like an iPhone, jump ship.  Sometimes, I immediately build walls when I see people treating their existing friends like an iPhone, when they decide they want to try out the newer version, being me. If that's how they treat their existing friends, I shouldn't expect to be treated differently. So to avoid being taken for granted, /DON'T/ play hard to get. Not only is that mean, but it also has an equal chance of ruining a potential friendship. Just observe your new friend. Is he loyal to his old friends? Does he treat them like an outdated operating system when a new friend comes around? The answer to these questions will let you know what to expect from him, and raise warning flags as to not get emotionally attached. But what can you do to protect yourself? Thinking about others is what we nice people do, but think about yourself first. As much as we like to think of ourselves as altruistic, no one is truly and fully altruistic. In return for our niceness, we want people to be nice to us too. If you want to approach the world with a 'too nice' mentality, make sure you go there with a full set of armor. No one will have mercy on an unprotected sheep, which is the sad state of our society today. So put your trusting side away and choose your friends wisely. Be nice to all people, but don't trust them. Most of the time, niceness and trust go hand in hand, which is wrong. You need to protect your trust with vicious jealousy, and withdraw it from a friend at the slightest injury. Don't be willy nilly with your trust. That is how you avoid getting hurt as a nice person. What hurts the most is when a 'friend' breaks your trust. So only hand it to people who have shown themselves reliable in the small gestures a friendship is built around, over an extended period of time. Actually expect things from your friend. One recurrent thing that I've seen is that nice people don't expect their friends to return invitations, hang out, or dedicate time for them. These are /basic/ components of friendship, not inconveniences. If you notice your friend can't make time for you, then he's not your friend, and/or just taking you for granted. Being nicer, or waiting won't change anything. Your greatest weapon against these type of people is yourself. The fact that they take you for granted doesn't mean they don't enjoy your presence. If you take that away from them when they abuse it, not only will you teach them a lesson, but you'll save yourself the trouble. However, when you choose to hide yourself from a person, and stop sacrificing yourself to him, that decision is irreversible. Don't give in to your nice side in this case, and choose to go back; no matter the circumstances; because that'll make you look weaker and actually make things worse. Advantages Friends and acquaintances alike will want to be around you. Being nice is a gem in society, and people strive to be around them. However, our society has shown itself to be unappreciative of nice things, so one second they'll want to be around you, another... just read the disadvantages section again. (Generally speaking.) You'll feel good. Let's be honest. We're nice for ourselves. It makes us feel good, and ultimately, that's what matters. You'll be a go-to person in time of need. However, make sure that whoever comes to you isn't just there for your assistance before throwing you away like a dirty towel. That doesn't mean you shouldn't help them, it just means you shouldn't expect them to be thankful enough to grow a friendship with you. 