Why does Israel have a negative image across the Middle East?
How do you know »almost all of the Middle East despises Israel?« It's like speaking of the proverbial »Arab street« as if such a "street" existed.             In reality Arabs in the Middle East have been known to harbour and express a range of feelings towards Israel. While officially and publicly the majority is against it, in private the reception runs the whole gamut from envy at Israel's obvious technological and developmental capabilities, to outright hate, that people who for the last couple of centuries were a bookish and mercantile minority that the Arabs could live with, all of a sudden, in the space of some 50 years, become dominant enough to carve out their own nominally secular state in the region.             In "principle" Arabs do not hate Jews individually, but as the stronger collective body/ state which suppresses the »healthy« Arab nationalism by all means necessary for its, the enemy's, long-term survival. That's elaboration enough? The following was meant as a comment to Mohammad Lafi's answer. Not that it's been downvoted, I post it here as a continuation to my answer to it. ?What? occupation? Throughout the ages there was always a predominantly religious Jewish population in what Arabs called (and not always, quite recently)  Palestine, and the Jews Eretz Israel, Judea and Samaria. In modern times Jews began immigrating in slightly higher than earlier numbers following the 1905 Russian pogroms, and (indirectly and in lesser numbers) due to the Dreyfus Affair.             In 1917 the British established in the Balfour Declaration a National Home for the Jews in then-British Protectorate of Palestine. As far as I understand their intentions, they did it partly to retain a foothold in the Middle East, AND because they could not find a trustworthy-enough talking partner among the Arabs (who "speaketh with forked tongue"). Within less than a decade this policy backfired. That was your »land of palestine [that] had Jews, Christians, and Muslims living together in perfect harmony« (emphasis mine). Perhaps you don't know enough history of the region you're so keen to opine on. Here's a start courtesy of Google: Arab riots in Palestine Updated 122w ago • View Upvotes