What are some of the best ways to become extremely smart?
"The problem is that at a lot of big companies, process becomes a substitute for thinking. You're encouraged  to behave like a little gear in a complex machine. " - Elon Musk The way you approach and think about life can turn yourself into a extremely smart person. Here are my two cents: Reason from first principles rather than by analogy Elon Musk once said in an interview with Kevin Rose [1]: “I think it’s important to reason from first principles rather than by analogy. The normal way we conduct our lives is we reason by analogy. [With analogy] we are doing this because it’s like something else that was done, or it is like what other people are doing. [With first principles] you boil things down to the most fundamental truths…and then reason up from there.” In other words, "first principles" thinking allows you to create innovative and novel solutions, instead of just focusing on small improvements. Tesla, SpaceX, Uber, AirBnB, Google, Ford, and many other successful businesses followed that path. Don't just add a nice new feature onto something that already exists. Look at the root of the problem, at its basics, and figure out how you can completely change the rules of the game.  Be an Explorer If you always go to the same places and engage with the same people, it will be hard for you to look at things with a different perspective. Smart people are usually very adaptive. They can find themselves in several different situations and know how to handle most of them wisely. When I was deciding which university to do my Masters, one in special grabbed my attention. It wasn't specifically because of the name of the university, its professors or the courses. What struck me was that in their previous year 40 out of 50 students were from different nationalities. Again, forty out of fifty. Can you imagine how it was to take decisions when you had a French, Canadian, Turk, Russian, Chinese and Peruvian discussing about a problem? In the beginning it was like hell. Each culture would come with a different kind of reasoning. But it was exactly this kind of diversity that helps you grow much faster. Today, when someone have a different or opposing idea, I don't turn my defensive mode on anymore. I get curious instead. I ask them questions to understand better their point of view. Be Skeptical There's one anecdote from Nassim Taleb's book, the Black Swan, that exemplifies exactly what I mean here [2]. It starts with Taleb asking a question to 2 guys; Fat Tony who is regarded as a man who lives by his wits, and Dr. John, who is regarded as a man of science and logical thinking. The question is: "Assume a fair coin is flipped 99 times, and each time it comes up heads. What are the odds that the 100th flip would also come up heads?" Dr. John says that the odds are not affected by the previous outcomes so the odds must still be 50:50. Fat Tony says that the odds of the coin coming up heads 99 times in a row are so low that the initial assumption that the coin had a 50:50 chance of coming up heads is most likely incorrect. "The coin gotta be loaded. It can't be a fair game. We should always remember that life is more complex than it seems. If something works today, it doesn't mean it will work tomorrow. Don't accept the first answer as the right one. Be open to new possibilities. Be skeptical. Especially when you have an important decision to make. If you want more from me If you'd like to understand better how to apply the first principles, I share a few examples at Smartlab. Sources and Links: [1] -Kevin Rose interview with Elon Musk: [2] - Ludic fallacy 