What is the craziest experience you've had when a prospective groom/bride had come to see you for the first time (before the wedding)?
There seem to be a lot of girls having very embarrassing/crazy experience. This is one from a guy's perspective. I am an engineer from a reputable college in the country and earn a good salary. This story is when I was spending some time with my parents and went to the ancestral home which is on the outskirts of the city. PART 1. My grandmother's sister's daughter had apparently decided to play the role of the ambush match maker. She invited some other people that she knew who had a daughter and were interested in... well... matchmaking. She comes in along with these people (two guys, father and the brother of the prospective bride). The father looks like a nice humble guy, the brother looks as if I just killed his buffalo in road rage. Despite the shock and awe strategy by which those people are introduced, "These are Mr. X Y and Z Y, who are looking for nice guys to wed their daughter W Y. Sam tum inse mil lo (meet these people)". I get up shake their hands, avoid getting a fracture after I shake a hand with Z, and then sit down again. These people sit down and start telling about their families, which based on the time they went on about it seemed that they went back to the 1800s with family history. They ask me about my family, I mumble something about what my mom and dad do and where my brother is studying and stop. They seemed expectant that I would go on, and an awkward silence ensues where I try to look everywhere except the murderous gaze of Z and the shiny expectant look of X. Luckily, my knight in shining armour bursts in, my mother (she knew that I was not going to think about marriage till atleast 3 years in my career), and tells me to go lend a hand to dad and I take the cue from there and Exit right. Mom comes back after an hour or so and says she did all she could but could not avoid going to their place for dinner tonight. So we are going to dinner to some people who know that I  do not want to marry now, and who have forced us to come to dinner...which brings us to PART 2. This might get a bit hilarious but stay with me. We go to their house, they greet us as if they have known us for generations ( back since the 1800s) and seat us. All the women sit at a lower elevation than the men, they stare at my mom when she sits in the normal seat.  I get to meet the girl W, and her mom whom I will call Mom(W). She is quite good looking, but she just speaks too much and too senselessly. The acute observers will note that I have tried very much to not call her dumb, but that is exactly how she seemed. She talked about her career as if it is the most important thing in the world to her, yet at the same time her mother assures that she will leave college "when" she is married. Then W starts talking about how banal life is not being in the city and how much she misses her "frands" and tells me that she has friends among guys and bewares me of getting rid of all my girl"frands" once we marry(snickering all the time). This she does in probably one breath. She also discusses some politics which was as if she personally knew Mayawati (yes, her). I am just sitting there dumbstruck. Her parents urge my parents out of the room  to "let them talk". Me and my parents exchange a glance, which both reassures me saying this isn't going anywhere, and irritates me as they are enjoying getting me into this mess. They leave to go outside to walk the orchard and I am sitting alone with the girl who is sitting on a stool infront of me, so that I have to look downwards to meet her eye. Her mother comes in saying that girl and guy should not be left alone and to ignore her and talk as if she wasn't there(as if we were going to make babies then and there during their orchard walk). At the same time she takes out a shareefa (ramphal, custard apple) and starts scooping it with a spoon and feeding me forcefully saying I look weak. How am I supposed to ignore a grown ass woman standing on my side, forcefeeding me custard apple, and then, talk to a girl I am not really interested in who is not even sitting at eye level. I do not know if you can imagine the hilarity of the whole scene, but inside me somewhere I thought if I became a director someday, I might be able to capture it in a movie. I do not know if you know what a custard apple is, but it is a fruit, full of sweet sticky jelly substance sticking on hard black seeds. a custard apple so basically when you eat custard apple, you need some place to spit the hard seeds out, as you do not want those to come out... from the other end. Now here I am sitting in the living room, being force fed custard apple spoonfuls, being questioned by this girl about my career choices, ( Apparently, I should've worked in an IT company, btw, not the mining company I currently work in), my mouth is FULL to BURSTING POINT with the fruit pips. I am attempting to answer and I am attempting to tell her mom to stop but am fabulously failing at either. She suddenly stops and asks, "Have you had girlfrands?", the suddenness of her question and the inquisitive impertinence of the girl, makes the answer burst out of me... literally. I start to answer and the fruit pips that my mouth is full of, shoot out of my mouth and hit her on the eye, based on the reaction, quite painfully. Here I am trying to mumble my apologies all the while these seeds alternating between dribbling and spitting out of me. I will include an illustration ( forgive my MS Paint (lack of) skills). Now after this her mom rushes over to her and starts to look at her eye, she is whimpering loudly, her brother comes in looking to pull some heads off, preferably mine, her father comes in along with my mom and dad. I say sorry, shake her fathers hand and exit the house. On the way back, my dad tells me that if he laughs anymore he would have a heart attack. Anyway, thankfully currently I am out of the whole marriage cycle for now, because I am out of the country. Phew. Updated 28w ago • View Upvotes