What are the advantages and disadvantages of being too nice to people?
Advantages: You become a people's person. People like being with you and you have a lot of friends to hang out with. You have a lot of contacts at a lot of places and it can help you at times.I can only think of two advantages and way more disadvantages. Disadvantages: People take the leeway of not caring about your emotions:Until the second year of my college, I was too nice to all my friends, and the repercussions of that have not at all been nice. Since you never have a rebuttal for any mean thing a person says, you're taken for granted. Humorously, people may end up deriding your emotions without caring an ounce for your feelings. They know that you will never feel bad, or maybe because you never show that you feel bad, they might end up saying something which is fine to their ears, but may scar you. There're a few people who have commented something pretty demeaning about my physical features in a way so casual that I didn't have a clue as to what I should say. There are a million mean things that I could have said, but I didn't want to stoop to their level. That's the saintly thing to do, but it is not very satisfactory. Time and again, you would think of it and wish you had retaliated. But you're too nice. You let it go. Damn it. 2. Your clobber is taken for granted: I live in a hostel. During exam time, I often go home to study. My college and home are in the same city. Once, during end-term exams, I came back to find that a lot of my accessories were misplaced  and some, missing. I was flabbergasted ! A distant friend had taken the liberty to use or rather misuse them. Sigh. When you people give too much freedom, you let them walk all over you. This time, I summoned all the courage in the world to confront the person. It is the right thing to do and you will have to speak for yourself someday. 3. People can easily woo your opinions: It is difficult to say no. The level of craftiness is so high in so many people, that they will ensure you work as their bondsman without them having ever to thank you. You hate doing it, but you can't say no. You want to produce a guttural sound and exclaim, "No! No!No!" but all that your throat produces is, "Umm. Ok.". That sucks. Don't be too nice. Speak up for yourself. I think that pretty much sums it up. Don't be swayed by people's dominance. Place your foot down and stop being extra nice to everyone. Trust me, neither you deserve this nor they. 