What are the advantages and disadvantages of being too nice to people?
This answer was originally answered to the question: Why do nice guys get friend-zoned? Do you know why retail outlets don't give heavy discounts all the time? I mean.. if you think rationally, they can, right? After all, it's not like they are making losses by putting it on sale. In fact, their gross profits increase 2x-3x during that sale period. So, why don't they run a sale all the time? Why don't they just make their customers happy all-year-long? Wouldn't that be nice? Well, if they adapt such a strategy, here's what would actually happen: Firstly, since the store has taken the finiteness of the discount out of the equation, you'll lose that sense of urgency. You'll feel that you can walk right into the store anytime you want and be treated with great discounts. So, you'll never try that store first. You'll probably roam around a thousand other fancy places, trying out expensive and classy things, before finally coming to that nice store. That's one of the reasons why nice stores finish last. Secondly, you'll start misreading the price of products for their actual face value. You'll take the discounted price for granted. And that behavior will get automatic with time. Thirdly, your mind will start mitigating the brand image of that nice little store. Everyone likes being challenged, and when something's so easy to get, it kind of loses its value. Your love for Ferrari maybe due to it's ultra-sleek design and performance, but the irresistible factor is that million-dollar chase. Everyone wants to have what others cannot have. And if you make it too easy by being nice, you're only devaluing yourself. Fourthly, the store loses its charm factor by making their behavior very predictable. You'll never be excited to read that you're getting 40% discount. Even if that went to 60%. The store's promotional campaigns fail to impress you, because, after all, there's nothing more they can offer than what they're already giving away. Lastly, when the discounts stay up for a long time, the store would just become invisible to you. Now, you may argue that you're sensible, and you would always buy products that provide good value-for-money, and so you'll stick to that store. Well, probably. But, then, you're sticking to the store, not because you appreciate their brand value, but because they're providing something you really want. As long as that store keeps doing it, you're their #1 fan. The day the store drops the shoe and tells that okay, discounts only for customers who avail for a very expensive lifetime membership, you'll freak out. And switch to a better store. So, being nice is not such a good strategy for that store, after all. I know you probably feel for the store by now, and you want to know how they can win their customers back. I know the most instinctive reaction to this is that well, the store should stop being nice. After all, what's it gaining? Well, I won't say stop being nice. I would rather say start being selectively nice. If you're that store, here's how you should play along... You've to give limited period offers. [*Offer valid till stock last] Tell them that you're up for grabs, but they better hurry up. The treats aren't going to be around forever. Always focus on increasing your brand value. There's a reason why Apple is so admired as a brand, because it invests in itself. It doesn't focus on making its devices cheaper or readily available; rather, it focuses on making their products better and premium. They make their customers proud. Don't win customers through marketing strategy. Win them through product strategy. Don't spend time impressing them with the features of your product. Allow them to discover it themselves. Even if your store is not good enough, pretend it is. Fake it. It's okay if you don't sell enough, but don't sell yourself short. Always give your customers a choice to walk away. Never be pushy or clingy. If they think some other brand store is cooler than yours, well, good for them. Focus on increasing your profits and reach. Always have a goal and work towards achieving it. If it means not giving enough discounts, so be it. Work more on yourself, and you're guaranteed to make the customer happy. Well, eventually. I hope you now understand why nice stores don't earn enough, even if they deserve it. It's because they choose not to. It's as simple as that. Make a different choice, now, and you'll be amazed by where you land up. Updated 51w ago • View Upvotes • Not for Reproduction