What are some of the best ways to become extremely smart?
The short answer? Look dumb. Most bodybuilders start weightlifting because they felt inadequate about their bodies. They were too skinny or too overweight. These “deficiencies” drove them to achieve. And then they hit the gym looking completely out of place. The best athletes seek out the best competition to improve their skills. Completely dominating their competition does nothing but wax their ego so they’re constantly on the lookout for a challenge. And sometimes they get waxed. There is no way around it. To be smart you’ll have to be willing to look dumb. The best way to look dumb? Surround yourself with people smarter than you.  As long as they respect your boundaries, you don’t have anything to be intimidated of. Acknowledge you’re not on their level and commit to taking the steps to get to their level and you will never feel inadequate. Some of their jokes will fly over your head and you’re not going to win many arguments, hell you probably won’t even talk much. But over time you’ll figure it out and you might even beat them at their games. They say that you are the average of the 5 people you spend the most time with. And if you’re at the bottom, the only way you can go is up. The second-best way to look dumb? Experiment. A lot. Take what you learn and put it in action. Reading and absorbing knowledge might make you more knowledgeable, but you can always tell who actually has experience behind what they are saying and who is regurgitating information. There is no substitute for actually doing. It’s the only way you can learn the minute details that toe the line between success and failure. And there’s going to be a lot of failure. But it’s no big deal because from each failure, you gain invaluable experience (and maybe some funny stories). The third-best way to look dumb is to find a mentor. Somebody who is invested in your growth and would like to see you prosper. You can go to them with the questions you have, but most importantly, you’ll get a close-up look at how they work. Success is a byproduct of character and habits and being able to observe them allows you an opportunity to figure out what separates them from you. ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ If you want more answers like these, feel free to check out my blog at livegoodbegood.com and What The Golden State Warriors Can Teach Your Startup About Winning Updated 10w ago • View Upvotes