How do you think the concept of God came into existence?
I'll try to give a general summary of how I understand different religions come up with their own concepts of God 1. We kept on searching for explanations of the unknown We people tend to find explanations for things that we don't understand. A good example for this is Thor, whom the Norse thought caused thunder. Thor: God of Thunder Because at that time they had no technology or knowledge  to understand these things, they just accepted the myths. 2. Human ego and 3. Fear of death, sickness, suffering and other harmful things, and longing for beneficial things. Humans are egotistical creatures; We have a strong sense/idea of the word "I". One thing that people find hard to accept is the thought that once you die, your life just ends there; You, as an individual, would just cease to exist. And that your very existence is irrelevant to the universe. Given that people found it hard to accept that they had nowhere to go to after they die, we found comfort in believing that there is a paradise that we would go to after death (heaven/hell), or that our spirits would still be recycled (reincarnation). We formed ideas / concepts which tend to punish harmful things, and reward good things (e.g. how you go to heaven/hell) 4. The Platonic way of thinking. Since all the things that we see around us have some sort of imperfections or differences, (e.g. every human being may have differences, a circular plate may not be as perfect of a circle as it seems when you measure it) Plato's philosophy suggested that there must be a "world of ideas", where the perfect things existed. The perfect man, the perfect circle, the perfect horse, where all the things around us are based upon; Where the perfect "molds" exist. And every thing around us is just a crude copy of that perfect "mold". The perfect idea of a horse vs the real horses Notice how Gods are the epitome of perfection? (e.g. Qualities of the Christian God: omnipotent, omnipresent, omniscient) I'd just like to share a notable quote for this from Osho: Now, to think of God as a person is just your imagination. The God of the Chinese has a Chinese face, and the God of the Negroes has a Negro face, and certainly the God of the Jews must have a Jewish nose; it can’t be otherwise. And if horses think about God, their God will be a horse. So this is just projection; giving personality to God is your projection. 5. The Aristotelian way of thinking. The Aristotelian philosophy introduced hierarchies and classification. We learned to differentiate things (e.g. living-things, non-living things, reptiles, fish, man) and we learned to put them into hierarchies based on what they can and cannot do (e.g. man is higher than animals because we rationalize, animals are higher than plants because they are sensient beings, plants are higher than... you get the idea) So when we now have hierarchies, what goes above man? We have control over animals, but who else has control of us, and the things that we cannot control (such as nature)? You guessed it: God. 6. Humans are excellent in recognizing patterns and relating things/events Humans have evolved to be excellent in recognizing patterns (not just in visual patterns but also in events; someone already provided a more detailed explanation for this, so I need not expound). Religions usually exploit this human quality for their so-called proofs. Human pattern recognition: See the face? Example would be when some tribes offer sacrifices, and a drought seemed to be over after that. They'd normally relate those two totally unrelated events as God's will. Another would be the so-called fulfilled prophecies, wherein religions claim that some events are related to their vague prophecies (which of course are just subjective to interpretations) Summary: There would be always things that we don't understand, and we feel the need to find some sort of explanation. We form our concepts of these explanations based on our own biases of what's good and bad, our own environment and our own experiences; in short, our "ego". Because of our "ego", we tend to classify and put things into hierarchies, and we pass our shortcomings, or those things that we can't control / explain (e.g. death, sickness, nature) to another "higher being". These "higher being(s)" may be personified as perfection of some/all qualities or someone or something which has control over things that we cannot control (e.g. omniscient, omnipresent, Gods of Hate, Love, Thunder, Sea, Death) The so-called proofs of these "higher beings" are further fed by humans' natural tendency to find patterns / relations to unrelated things / events. Updated 115w ago • View Upvotes