Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS): Why are people joining ISIS?
Well, the answer is complex. However, I will try to be concise, and use simple terms. I divided my explanation into two parts: My own thoughts about the subject (as an immigrant from Islamic culture) The findings of many studies in France on young jihadists (over 700 young people). First Part.   My thoughts.    As a Moroccan, it always frightened me to see people who look like me, are from the same Islamic background, sometimes the same socio-economical background, commit such atrocities. I thought deeply about it. My conclusion is that these people project all the responsibility of their suffering on society (or the west) + they want to give meaning for their life + Religious dogmatism. Unfortunately, dogmatism stems from religion -in this case Islam. A dogmatic person thinks that she/he has the truth, and that everybody else is "wrong". Maybe what prevents me personally from this cancer is that I usually acknowledge my responsibility when bad things happen, instead of blaming other entities. But more importantly, I do not consider myself as a truth holder but as an eternal truth seeker.   Lastly, it seems to me that Islam is somehow responsible. Nowadays, there is a huge need for reform. But this is another -long & controversial- subject.   Second Part.     Studies.  briefly The first striking finding is that the people who joined ISIS are from diverse religious backgrounds (converted Jews, convert Christians, and ancient atheists), they are men and women, educated and non-educated, and many were just recently converted to Islam (almost 25% in France) !! According to studies done in France, they all share the same problem [1][2]:  Identity crisis. They feel alienated. A remedy that actually works is, guess what? Yes, ISIS. Other psychological studies have shown that deep down these jihadists "hate themselves" and that this wave of radicalization is a reaction for the contempt felt by this population in form of revenge [3]. Here some scientists gave the example of Nazism and resentment felt by the German population toward the rest of Europe. In another study [4],  sum up all possible causes: On the vicious circle. There is also the risk of an infernal spiral. After terrorist attacks, people may blame the Islamic community. This can result in more segregation, discrimination and marginalization, which in turn might increase the probability of youth radicalization. In fact, this have been theorised also by terrorist organizations (e.g. al Qaeda, daesh). So one should think twice before simply "blaming" all the Islamic community. Reference [1] Dounia Bouzar. CANAL+ [2] Gilles kepel.  [3] Gerard HADAD, dans la main droite de dieu (in the right hand of god). [4] "Radicalization of Youth as a Growing Concern for Counter-Terrorism Policy" by Margarita Bizina and David H. Gray (2014) PS: For the sake of simplicity, I have omitted many details and listed the more frequently cited causes.  I hope it clarifies the issue. Updated 9w ago • View Upvotes