Do most atheists believe that Jesus existed?
I have no idea whether or not Jesus existed, but to be totally honest, I really don't see why it matters. Even if I accept that there was a wandering self-proclaimed Jewish prophet called Jesus who inspired the Christian faith, that wouldn't mean I'd believe any of the supernatural claims attributed to him, nor would it mean that I'd accept that he provides a good example of moral or practical conduct. Look at it this way - the only accounts we have of the existence of Jesus date from at least a generation after he's said to have died, and even then these earliest accounts are all derived from writings explicitly intended to promote Christian ideology; all of the earliest non-Christian accounts only record what early Christians believed, not what actually happened. We simply don't have any unbiased account (or any other demonstrable evidence) relating to the actual life of Jesus, so there's simply no way to determine whether or not such a person existed. I don't say this to suggest that he didn't exist - I'm perfectly happy accepting that there probably was an actual person at the root of Christian beliefs - but we simply don't have any way to conclusively confirm or deny this, so the only honest answer we can give is that we don't know. By contrast tho, we have loads of historical documentation from many different sources which attest to the life of Muhammad, the founder of Islam. His life and works are very well recorded even by non-Islamic sources, including many direct records dated within the period of his rule, even from his contemporary opponents, so there's no real question about whether or not Mohammad actually existed. Yet even though I have no reason at all to doubt that Mohammad was a real person, I still completely reject him as any kind of moral authority, because I place too much value on actually understanding morality to be willing to subvert my understanding in favour of the often immoral authoritarian pronouncements attributed to Mohammad. And the same goes for Jesus - I don't actually care whether or not Jesus existed; all I care about is the blatantly authoritarian subjugation of morality which the Jesus story promotes, and I reject that immoral ideology irrespective of whether or not he actually existed. 