Kashmir: What's the story of the Kashmiri Pandits?
As is expected, some of the answers here employ the wilful obfuscation characteristic of Islamist sympathizers. Arguments on the lines of: "It was all planned", "Indian government did it", "intricate affair" ... the usual balderdash and conspiracy theories that one comes to expect of their ilk. The reality behind the ethnic cleansing of Kashmiri Pandits is something like this: Kashmiri society became increasingly politically Islamized in the late 80s. This was partly a result of the Afghan Jihad and the copious resources that the Americans (and to some extent Saudis) pumped into Pakistan - which was completely under General Zia's control at the time - and much of which was funnelled to support Pakistan's proxies in Kashmir. This was also the time when many of the training camps in Northern Punjab and PoK were set-up and run by veterans of the Afghan Jihad against the Soviets. Obviously the Americans knew about it, but didn't give a shit as long as their interests in Afghanistan were met. The infiltration into the Valley and strengthening of the hardline Islamist extremist fringe (backed by pakistan) within the Valley's muslims put the Kashmiri Pandits in an alarmingly difficult position. Kashmiri Pandits were never more than 3-4% of the population of the Valley, but were over-represented in the cultural and educational spheres and the bureaucracy. Eventhough Kashmiri Pandits were traditionally Nehruvian in their political stance and steeped in Kashmiri culture, they were seen as Indian agents and even Kafirs by the Muslim extremists. Hit lists by the early Jihadi tanzeems featuring Kashmiri Pandit names were commonplace (I recall some names from my childhood as JKLF, Allah Tigers, Harkat al-Mujahideen whose hit-lists I have seen personally). Some of the Pandit names on these lists were related to Police or Defence Forces, but many were Judges, Doctors, Professors, Surgeons (including one of my own relatives), Civil Servants etc. People should realize that the common Muslims of the Valley did not bear grudges against the Pandits - and there are many stories of how close the ties were between Pandit and Muslim families. However, the trouble is that the social equilibrium of any society (and Kashmir is no exception) can be easily damaged if extremist voices are left unchecked. The type of people who joined the Jihadi tanzeems in Kashmir in the late 80s and early 90s were the local ruffians, largely umemployed and easy to sway into some grandiose-sounding religio-political rhetoric. Many of them found complete sanction of their narrow-minded views from the cash-rich Islamist ideologues backed by Pakistan. But there were some genuine hard-working middle class boys too, who joined the fray thinking of it as some sort of revolutionary duty. There were some I knew personally as they were my Dad's students at Kashmir University. They were lovely guys who treated me like their own younger kid brother, taught me to ski and play cricket and protected me from bullies at school. All these guys went to train in the militant training camps in Pakistan, came back as militants and many died horrible deaths. The society was so polarized that even my school-mates, 7-8 year old kids at my school in Srinagar were saying stuff that makes me sick to the core when I remember it. Obviously the kids, being kids, didn't quite realize what they were saying - nor did I grasp the full import of what was being said - but it tells you the type of rhetoric even little kids weren't spared from at home, which they were parroting in the school. I was called an "Indian dog" in my school bus and asked to "go away, leave Kashmir". My friends told me songs of the "mujahideen" who were going to come to Kashmir and sweep away the Indian Army. I was too little to know who the "mujahideen" were, but it clearly left an impression that something wasn't right. Many kids played make-believe games, where they pretended to keep rifle magazines in their pockets. Many senior kids started harassing the teachers to declare Friday (in addition to Saturday & Sunday) as a school holiday. Muslim kids used to ask others not to clap when a non-muslim got the school prize or stood first in class etc. We weren't safe even in our homes. Many of the mosques became rallying points for local radicals and all kinds of political sloganeering from the loud-speakers was rife. The temple in our locality and a school right next to it were torched by a crowd in front of our eyes. Pitched battles with the Police was a common sight - the stone pelters didn't even spare our school bus many times. Local youth used to come knocking late at night time asking for my Dad's snow boots, warm sweaters, rain coat etc and threaten him if he didn't comply - these were obviously needed to cross the LoC to Pakistani training camps. It was in the early 1990 that things became so serious that some of my Dad's students strongly advised him to leave - as his name was doing the rounds for the next hit hist. It was then that the penny dropped for my dad and he decided to leave - out of consideration for his children's lives than his own. The day my family left Srinagar remains forever etched in my memory. It was 4th of February, 1990. And I saw a bomb blast right in front of my eyes - an entire bus was blown to smithereens near Lal Chowk. Many Pandit families were gathered there, all about to leave their homeland for reasons very similar to ours. Thankfully the bus, which was empty, took most of the impact of the blast. I do not know if the blast was meant to kill us or not, what I do know is that I survived narrowly that day. -- I do not want the Indians (irrespective of their religion) reading this to think that Kashmiri muslims are inhuman or hateful people. Or that they did not suffer in the ensuing conflict - many young lives were lost and many families shattered in those days. The Indian Para-military forces fought pitched battles with militants and many innocent people lost their lives in the cross-fire. The J&K police was very high-handed and committed a lot of atrocities. Illegal detentions and torture of militants and innocent civilians alike was common. But none of that negates the fact that the Kashmiri Pandits were ethnically cleansed. Terms like genocide or holocaust are clearly exaggerated claims. Yet the reality remains that the majority of the Kashmiri Muslim society remained mute spectators when the minorities were hounded out. There was no backlash by the Muslim civil society of Kashmir, no famed Kashmiriyat on display as the debate became completely hijacked by the right-wing Islamist elements. As an Indian (and especially as a Hindu) the most important lesson I draw from my experience is to always take the side of the underdog, because nobody took my side when I was at the receiving end. Majoritarianism is tyrannical - I am saying this from personal experience and I would never wish it upon any Indian Muslim or Sikh or Christian kid to feel what I felt. My heart goes out for the Gujarati Muslims who were killed by the mobs in the name of Hindutva during the 2002 riots - I can feel their fear for their lives and their homes viscerally. It may sound terribly cliched, but the only durable way to ensure such incidents are never repeated is to strengthen our democratic institutions and see Indians of other faiths/communities as Indians first, because we are all in it together. Updated 6w ago • View Upvotes • Not for Reproduction