How do you think the concept of God came into existence?
Well, since I was not there when "they" invented the God, so not sure about the reasons which prevailed at that time but here's my thought (slightly in line with what few fellows already expressed): 1. Fear of "unknown": Until you know something to extent you feel comfortable, there will be some element of fear, uneasiness and that feeling get exaggerated when you hear about an entity who is without any known face or shape or proof or visibility equipped with supernatural powers. Now some "smart" people see an opportunity in such situations and start claiming that they know "more" than any other normal human being about this entity and also know how to "please" this entity to get something in return. Such smart people tasted huge success with the venture and later we called it "Religion". 2. Because people are fools: Not all but majority of them are no differ or better than "herd of sheep". You need such people to keep in check, to make them work for you, to feel superiority, to boost your ego and blah blah. Since they can't make them understand logically, how do you confuse them to extent they start treating you as someone special or holy grail? Hope you got the idea. 3. In early time, the king and queens created such hoopla of this trend and placed themselves near/close to this entity, making (or forcing) people to worship them. With time, whole new species flourished with this idea to keep general public busy in unproductive, useless, fear inducting practices. The advantage of his exercise was that general public either remain busy in earning  their living or in activities pleasing the God and his "official" representatives.   Over the time, such community built lots of religious places declaring them holy/divine area and urge "fools" to donate their hard earned money/items. It's such a painful site where thousands litres of fresh milk being poured on stones while in corner, poor children dying due to poverty/malnutrition. I can keep writing but at the end, this only make me sad instead of making any positive vibe or improving something. I sincerely hope people will start realising this fraud and start enjoying life. 