Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS): Why are people joining ISIS?
Back when I was younger, it always pissed me off that Morocco was not a wealthy nation (still kind of does). Morocco was once a feared and respected Empire. But now in 2015, we're nothing. The once great imperial cities of Fes & Marrakesh are nothing more than relics for tourists to gawk at. The once dominant Moroccan military is composed of uneducated rabble led by Generals who are more interested in stealing their troop's paychecks than they are in being an effective military force. So I asked myself: What the hell happened? We practically had a head start over the Europeans but now we're behind by at least a century. And that's how I became a Baathist. It made so much sense! Morocco's problem was a corrupt leadership. While the average Moroccan earns $300 monthly, the King spends $1 million daily on his expenses. He even sends his luxury sports car to Spain for repairs (paid for by the taxpayer of course). According to Michel Aflaq (founder of Baathism), what Morocco needs is a violent revolution to overthrow the privileged and corrupt elite and replace them with the Baathist party which would forcefully modernize Morocco and turn it into a modern secular republic. The Baathist party would then advocate Arab unification and unite the Arabs under this Secular Baathist nation. The Baathist dream, uniting all of these nations into one state! Source: The Arab/Muslim World | Jewish Virtual Library If the Baathists had a rebellion in Morocco, there's no doubt in my mind that I would have gone to fight even though I was just a dopey 16 year old in New York. Baathism is a political reactionary movement that explains the issues Arabs have and what we should do to solve them. And to many Muslims who live in corrupt and impoverished societies, these political movements provide solace and comfort. That's why people join ISIS.  ISIS is the opposite of Baathism. ISIS believes Secularism & Democracy can never work and what Muslims need is a Theocratic Monarchy. Many Muslims agree with ISIS. They think Secular Democracy will never work and what Muslims need is a caliphate. Some Muslims believe this so much that they go to Syria to join ISIS. It's true that ISIS is influenced by Islam, but it's influenced more by the Umayyad & Abbasid Caliphates than it is influenced by the Prophet Mohammed. I provided my experiences as an ardent Baathist to explain what goes on in the mind of a Muslim who wants to join ISIS. I came to the conclusion that Muslims need Secularism and Democracy in the form of Baathism. ISIS came to the conclusion that Muslims need a Caliphate. That's why people are joining ISIS. Updated 11w ago • View Upvotes