What is feminism according to Hinduism?
Hinduism is probably the only major religion which already places the feminine very high, at least theoretically, and by its very nature, would accommodate Feminism, even the most radical versions of it. There are two reasons for it: 1. Hinduism, at its core, is essentially Egalitarian It is only in Hinduism that the Supreme Being is not Masculine. Bramha(not to be confused with Brahmaa-the manifestation as Creator) is genderless - referred to as Tat (It), rather than Sa (He). Hence the manifestation of Bramha may be in any form - feminine or masculine. When it comes to Bramha's manifestation, the Feminine manifestation is always the Power or Shakti. The Masculine manifestation is the Aadhar or the vessel for the Power. From this stems the concept of Gods and Goddesses as consorts. Rudrani is Shiva's power to destroy. Lakshmi is Vishnu's power to sustain. Swaha is Agni's power to burn. Sans the Power, the Vessel is nothing. Hence, the mantra goes 'Om Adharashaktai Namaha'. One cannot be imagined without the other. Few other religions have as prominent a cult of the Mother Goddess as Hinduism does. One needs to read the 'Chandi' to realize how powerfully is the image of Durga painted - she is the source and the culmination of the strengths of all Gods. Hinduism has been hugely accepting of women's presence in the spiritual sphere. A woman can be, and has been (there are several historical instances) a spiritual leader, a sage, a scholar, a ruler, and what you will. The act of lovemaking is celebrated, the life of a householder is upheld as an essential part of life, motherhood is respected beyond divinity, and in Kamakshya Pith, menstruation is the biggest occasion for worship. However, it goes without saying that, like almost all other religions,  Hinduism has taken its shape in a patriarchal society, so many tenets and practices, especially the later developments and corruptions are often highly sexist. But  what comes to the rescue of the modern Feminist is the other factor given below: 2. Hinduism celebrates multiplicity of perspectives Few other religions of the world accommodate such polar opposites of opinions and yet keep them united under the same banner. So there are people who say there is only one Existence in the cosmos (Advaityabaad) and those who say the number of Gods exceed count. Animal sacrifice coexists with strictest non-violence. Even atheism is a part of Hinduism. So if today someone says that I am a Hindu but I refuse to follow the sexist rituals of Hindu weddings, religious ceremonies, and social order, it only becomes his/her unique strand of Hinduism. There is a school of women priests in West Bengal and they do perform pujas in community festivals. Many are doing away with wedding symbols, and problematic rituals. And the good part is no one Book claims to speak the last word. So violating a Book is not a capital crime . Your belief just becomes a new way of finding the Bramha. Theoretically, Hinduism opposes nothing - for everything that can exist is by the Divine Will (leela), and every path leads to the same destination. Practically, it is far more accommodating of dissenting voices and alternate opinions than most other religions - so it is likely to be a home for new thoughts, especially a viewpoint that professes the same egalitarianism that Hindu sages spoke of thousands of years ago. 