Why do some people feel terrible about Jews?
My answer assumes you refer to antisemitism; else you may safely ignore it. First, be forearmed that I have no axe to grind - you can count on me as an 'honest broker.'  I am not Jewish, although there was one Jewish man back in my family tree around the 14th century.  The only personal biases of which I am aware, are primarily in favor of Jewish people and culture.  I have many friends and three of my five best friends are Jewish. Methinks you pose a difficult question to answer, inasmuch as it appears to require 'peeling back the layers of an onion' to get near the core. History Historically, antisemitism goes back at least to the times that followed Christ and the birth of Christianity.  Several of the Crusades were as much to recapture the Holy Land from the Jews as from the Muslims. Shakespeare, reflecting political sentiments of his time, cast at least one of his villains (Shylock) as a cruel Jewish moneylender (loan shark) in the play, The Merchant of Venice.  You may recall Shylock's attempt to extract 'his pound of flesh' in place of a debt unpaid, and the hero's famous line: "You may have your pound of flesh, never any drop of blood." Actually, in Shakespeare's time, no Jews had been legally present in England for several hundred years (since the Edict of Expulsion in 1290). Jews were simply rumored or reputed to engage in usury, which was forbidden to Christians by law. Jews were thus a perfectly conspicuous target for any playwright, defenseless since they were conveniently absent.  This resembles a company where a person who has left gets blamed for every problem. Jewish People as Scapegoats Stepping back to the Crucifixion, the early Christian Church ironically blamed the Jews for the murder of the Savior.  However, it was actually the Romans who crucified Jesus; moreover, Jesus himself was a Jew! Scapegoating has never made much sense to me, but it's an all-too-common theme peppering human history.  I was first introduced to the whole concept, befuddled though I was by it at the time, by reading in English class a 1948 short story called The Lottery by Shirley Jackson.  You can read it in pdf form here: Page on middlebury.edu (just 7 pages). Perhaps scapegoating is form of psychological displacement, which occurs at a group rather than individual level.  Displacement is a defense mechanism: ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Displacement is the redirecting of thoughts feelings and impulses directed at one person or object, but taken out upon another person or object. People often use displacement when they cannot express their feelings in a safe manner to the person(s) they are directed at. The classic example is the man who gets angry at his boss, but can’t express his anger to his boss for fear of being fired. He instead comes home and kicks the dog or starts an argument with his wife. The man is redirecting his anger from his boss to his dog or wife. Naturally, this is a pretty ineffective defense mechanism, because while the anger finds a route for expression, it’s misapplication to other harmless people or objects will cause additional problems for most people. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Consider Hitler's scapegoating of the Jews.  It might well have been sourced by the overbearing poverty that had been crushing Germany since the end of WW I.  As part of the Armistice signed during surrender, Germany submitted to heavy war reparations (repayments) to other European countries that left the German nation mired deep in hopeless debt. The Jewish people as a whole, likely seemed to the German people to suffer less than the average German.  As other respondents have observed, Jewish culture tends to foster financial prosperity as well as significant political influence.  Jews owned a proportion of wealth and influence that exceeded the proportion of their population in Germany by a significant measure.  Jews thereby became a rather obvious target for anyone looking to redirect the energy of hopelessness, powerlessness and injured German pride into the kind of hatred that could unbind them from their financial chains. Conveniently at the time, Malthusian notions of overpopulation and ideals of 'genetic purification' (elimination of 'defective genes' from the gene pool) were popular theories in the scientific community.  It would be many years yet before geneticists realized that the truest measure of the strength of any species' gene pool is its diversity. I once asked a friend if he thought there could ever be another Holocaust, or a war on a global scale like WW II.  He replied, "There will be another WW II, when once again in the world, there is that much hate." Consequences The above description of displacement suggests that scapegoating inevitably gets into trouble, whoever indulges in it.  Consider again Hitler's Germany. By about midway through WW II, Jewish scientists had been leaving for refuge abroad en masse for years (since at least 1933, just before the time Hitler became Chancellor).  These included many of the brightest nuclear physicists of the day.  By 1944, more than 133,000 German Jewish émigrés had moved to America – many of them highly skilled and educated. Some were even Nobel Prize winners and renowned intellectuals like Albert Einstein in physics, and Otto Loewi and Max Bergmann in chemistry. Immediately and during the decades that followed, the annual rate of patents in America in fields popular among Jewish scientists rose 31% (see study here: Jewish émigrés who fled Nazi Germany revolutionized U.S. science and technology, Stanford economist says).  The Manhattan project employed several prominent German Jewish scientists, as did later space programs. The value of German Jewish émigrés is consistent with statistics which demonstrate the proportion of Nobel Prizes awarded to Jewish scientists historically exceeds the proportion of Jews in the world population by magnitudes. In effect, it was Hitler electing to use such a valuable portion of German human capital for scapegoats, that most likely cost Germany the War by letting America be first to build the atom bomb.  In hindsight, Hitler will most likely be remembered by history as a blundering fool and a colossal idiot.  At least from the standpoint of his Emotional Intelligence. Will we Learn from History? God, I hope so.  Otherwise we will get to repeat the class.  Anyone eager to go through cataclysm again? 