What is the craziest experience you've had when a prospective groom/bride had come to see you for the first time (before the wedding)?
Being a display item at an Indian Arranged Marriage arena has been an extremely humbling experience , bordering to disappointment. Getting rejected hurts lesser with each day. Its a big league game. Everybody is carrying a check list ; just one strike against and you are out. I started with interesting, intelligent,good looking & chivalrous and have come down to not a creep,not bossy and not an idiot. But none the less I am having my share of laugh, awe & bewilderment. I am adding them here as I meet people. There is an obscure facebook page Arranged Marriage Chronicles I found it hilarious. It is almost my situation. Incidence 1 My eyes have a blue tint in sclera (the white part of eye ball , it is bluish because it is thin , not a good thing). I was supposed to meet guy at a local coffee outlet. Conversation starts : Guy : Whoa ! Are you wearing contact lens ? Me : What ? No. I have an eye sight of 6/6. *repenting statement as the guy is wearing glasses* Guy : Oh ! Well they appeared bluish. Me : That is sclera. Contact lens are worn at ... umm... iris. This was followed by an awkward silence & staring in blank for 10 min. I was tad put off by this awkward ice-breaker but laughed my heart out after the meeting was over. Incidence 2 We meet at a crepé outlet. Guy : I guess you are a vegetarian. Me : Yes Guy goes and fetches something I have not eaten before. Guy (playing prank): Oh sorry ! I forgot that you are vegan & got chicken crepés. Me (pointing to red circle at box of serving) : they are actually chicken crepés. Guy (with a flushed look) : OMG ! I am so sorry, they were supposed to be mushroom ones. Me : Yeah ! The prank is on you.*hearty laugh* EDIT  1 Following are experiences of virtual meet for arranged marriage The Indian arranged marriage has advanced in technology. It is akin to buying mobile phone. You get to mobile comparing sites, fill in details-OS, screen size, budget to zero down on a model. Indian Arranged Marriage is making use of similar algorithms. You register to match making website, fill in your criteria and voilà you get bride of your dreams. Its like finding two people of opposite sex of similar interests , caste & expecting them to love each other. Incidence 3 My batch mate of 6 years sent me an interest at a matrimonial website. When I messaged him at FB to confirm if he is the person who has sent me interest at the matrimonial website (you can have preference to hide your name there) , he backed out. He said that his father manages the account and coincidently he stumbled upon my profile (Among thousands of profiles ! ) and sent an interest. He messaged a day after to ask what I feel about him , since his father has any ways sent an interest. I replied - SAY SORRY TO YOUR FATHER. He un-friended me in no time. What a chicken ! Incidence 4 This has to be the most embarrassing incidence ever. My mother has an extended family. Her cousins are settled in various countries and hence I meet my cousins once in 10 or so years (that too in marriages) I got an interest at a matrimonial website (with hidden name to worsen the situation) , the guy was of my age but the face looked somewhat familiar. His place of ancestral origin was same as of my mother's so I got bit curious. I liked the profile but chose not to reply (Thanks God !) . I tried whole night but could not remember the guy. Next day I asked my mother who all are settled in XYZ country. GOOD LORD ! WE ARE SECOND COUSINS !!! & THANKS TO PHOTOSHOP I COULD NOT IDENTIFY HIM EVEN HAVING SEEN HIM IN NUMEROUS POSTS AT FB This was fb conversation day after (I erroneously mentioned him as my first cousin here , which is not the case) ​ EDIT 2 Incidence 5 This incidence spammed my email account with hate mails. This guy sent me an interest at the matrimonial website. He worked with the top browsing engine as an analyst and had a decent explanation in profile. He mailed me his details and we did google hangout. I found him shallow,sleazy and arrogant in the first chat itself. I did not budge at his later pings and declined his interest.  His ego was so badly hurt that he mailed me super long hate mails quoting my superiority complex ; that I am a serial flirt , I waste men's time blah blah. I read two of them. Not only were they profane & demeaning , they kept on coming.  I had to create a filter to delete his mails. I have a linked mail account which I seldom check. Last time I checked he has sent me 13 hate mails and it has been only a week I declined his interest ! ​ Incidence 6 Guy was soft spoken ,good looking and we clicked at so many levels. Good so far. We chatted for few times and upgraded (?) to facebook. But Lo ! the guy was grief stricken for 4 long years for being dumped by his girlfriend. His time line was plagued by shayari (urdu language poetry) of judai (pain of separation). I asked him about his logic of taking arranged plunge if he is not over grieving yet. He said that he was being honest (yes crying like kitty over a social platform is being honest but faking interest in somebody doesn't demand honesty ). I had to decline the interest. I love facebook now. Incidence 7 Conversation at BBM Guy : Do you want boyfriend material or husband material ? Me *texts a smiley and laughs intestines out* Guy :  ? Me : Durable material , like concrete or steel Guy *texts me a weepy and probably is annoyed at ridicule* Incidence 8 Probably every girl or guy is working with <Insert some developed country's name> based top MNC. I am not. I still have vague notion about my likings and struggling with career. Me : So where do you work? Guy : It's US based top MNC in Bangalore. Me : Okay. Guy : We have broad clientèle. We manage portfolios of ABC , XYZ companies.We conduct research,financial risk management .... *a big paragraph at whatsapp* Me *amazed at talent of guy at tapping glass screen* : Wow ! That's huge. Guy : But I hate it. Me : Oh ! But where do you work ? *expecting the name of employers* Guy : It's US based top MNC in Bangalore. ​ Edit 3 Incidence 9 I thought the cousin saga ended. But no, it did not. I got interests from cousin brothers !!! Here is the hilarious WhatsApp conversation. The caste restrictions, skewed sex ratio and same age bracket make this up. ​ The second guy did not notice mutual friends (the only mutual friend , his cousin !) and the first guy un-friended me ! WTH ? Edit 4 I am now very happily married to an amazing person I fell in love with :) Updated 47w ago • View Upvotes • Not for Reproduction