What is feminism according to Hinduism?
Women's Dharma             Hindu women during the festival of Karva Chauth, during which they  fast and pray for the well being of their husbands. Devotion to the  husband is considered one of the traditional Hindu values, as  exemplified in many stories.   Although women may be classified according to varna, they  are also considered a section of society in their own right. They do not  pass through the four stages available to men. Rather the Manu Smriti talks of three stages for a woman:   As a child protected by her father: Traditionally, girls did  not receive a formal academic education. A woman's role, considered  essential in preserving social and cultural values, was learned in the  home. As a married lady, protected by her husband: Hinduism places  great value on pre-marital chastity and this has significantly  influenced practices. Girls were betrothed and married at a very young  age. In married life, the wife's roles were centred on the home and she  was not burdened with contributing towards the family income. Fulfilling  one's responsibility as a loving and available parent was considered  paramount. As a widow, protected by the eldest son: If the husband died or took sannyasa, then the widow would be looked after by the eldest living son. Elder ladies were always treated with great respect.According to tradition, women, more delicate than men, require and  deserve protection. Hindu texts extol the virtues of womanhood and of  the essential role women have in nurturing future generations. Though  Hindus are themselves re-examining and restructuring the roles of women,  there still remain powerful ideals, exemplified by ladies such as Sita,  Gandhari, Draupadi, Mandodari, and Savitri. Such idealism is often at  odds with many prevalent attitudes in the West, and those now emerging  in contemporary India.   Traditional female values and duties are listed below (please note  that many similar practices such as the first one below also apply to  males):     As a child, to be obedient and respectful to her parents and elders. In household life, to serve a worthy husband and treat his  friends and relatives with affection. To avoid mixing intimately with  other men.   To be fully conversant in religious principles. To be expert in household affairs, and to keep the home clean and well-decorated. To dress and decorate herself to please her husband. A wife should avoid dressing up if her husband is away from home. To control her greed and passions and to speak truthfully and pleasingly. To follow certain vratas (vows) such as fasting on days like Ekadasi (the 11th day of the moon). To love, protect and nurture children. In later life, to dedicate time to spiritual practices and to give counsel to younger family members.Many related practices have been misused, and fossilised as part of the hereditary caste system. The bhakti traditions, which opposed casteism, have featured many women saints who  broke away from stereotypical roles. Others remained faithful to their dharma and simultaneously developed their spirituality. Many Hindus  acknowledge the need to reassess the practical role of women in society  today, but strive to maintain the spiritual principles underpinning  traditional practice.       Related Concepts     The basic foundation of equality lies in the notion of atman, the self        beyond bodily designation. However, Hindus also acknowledge the need to        recognise psychological and physiological differences as a practical reality.        Equality is manifest through the concept of sanatana-dharma and conditional        differences through varnasrama-dharma. Failing to recognise the spiritual        equality of all and denying our external differences are both considered        signs of ignorance and contrary to dharma. Spiritual equality is affirmed        by discerning material differences, and recognising them for what they are —        ultimately superficial but practically relevant.       Common Misunderstandings     Chastity, faithfulness, and other traditional Hindu values mean that a woman will inevitably be exploited     The scriptures feature stories of women who accepted the female dharma      but remained influential and assertive. The above misconception may be based        on the notion that social justice is achieved only through one means  –  complete        equality. Hinduism holds that masculinity and femininity are intrinsic and        complementary qualities, not merely products of social influence. The value        of womanhood is expressed in many features of Hinduism, such as the respect        it gives to motherhood, the many goddesses, and the practice of calling        India "the Motherland." Some Hindu scholars consider much feminism to be,        ironically, an asymmetric endorsement of male values.           In public places such as the temple, men and women are somewhat  segregated. The prescribed roles and duties of women acknowledge that  they have different tendencies from men.     The Hindu notion of specific roles for men and women is sexist     Dr. Werner Menski, a senior lecturer at the University of London,  has written (1996) "It's too superficial to dismiss the Hindu approach  to women merely as sexist." Hindu texts do not support the exploitation  of any section of society, but they often differ with many currently  popular solutions to such abuse.         Quote     "It is not that a chaste woman should be a slave while her husband is naradhama,        the lowest of men. Although the duties of a woman are different from those        of a man, a chaste woman is not meant to serve a fallen [irresponsible]        husband."     A. C. Bhaktivedanta Swami Heart of Hinduism: Women's Dharma 