People who work for petroleum companies: How do you see your role in global warming?
Short answer: I see my personal role as having zero effect on global warming. Long Answer: First let me clarify a couple of things about me: 1) I have worked in the oil industry for 14 years 2) I believe in global warming 3) I believe the combustion of fossil fuels is by far the dominant cause of global warming. 4) I believe the fossil fuel industry is largely a demand driven industry, not a supply driven industry. You don't see oil companies with big advertising budgets trying to increase demand for their products the way you do in other industries. At best, you see them try to differentiate their products. They learned a long time ago that demand is fairly inelastic. This means that demand is not influenced strongly by price, or by industry advertising. Demand will be a byproduct of lifestyle choices at the retail level, and economics at the business-to-business level. Let's make this a little more personal. What would happen if I quit the industry? Would it in any way influence the amount of carbon going into the atmosphere? The answer is no, because my company can easily replace me and the company's business would still get done. I'm just an analyst, but even if I were a vice president, I could still be easily replaced. What if the labour market was mostly made up of people who didn't want to morally soil themselves in the oil industry (although it isn't)? The industry would just offer higher pay to fill the positions. Enough people would always be willing do to the work if the pay was high enough. The same amount of carbon would end up in the atmosphere. So what if an entire oil company were to change their stripes? Go 100% biofuel, make solar panels, wind farms, whatever. It would not change the demand, so the remaining oil companies would just produce more to fill the void in supply. You would need most of the companies around the world to get together on it. If such a move were detrimental to company shareholders, it would be illegal due to corporate governance laws around the world. Further, you can't even get all the governments to agree on how to go about doing it, and the governments are not be the ones to paying the price. So no group of companies representing the majority are going to agree to it. Even if somehow most existing companies were to agree to it, as long as the demand remained it would force the price sky high. The resulting potential profit margins would be irresistible to entrepreneurs or other potential entrants to the industry. In short, where there is a demand, the supply will follow. So what can a change in demand do? Until this very week, I worked at an oil refinery. That is no longer the case. The job is gone and I am working half a continent away, because that refinery has been shut down. It was shut down because it had been losing money. It had been losing money because demand for its products in the local market had decreased significantly, and the refinery could not compete effectively in foreign markets. Some specifics: - Consumers and businesses had switched from refined furnace fuel oil to natural gas for heating, in significant numbers - The provincial government mandated greater power generation come from lower carbon sources. So instead of burning refined heavy fuel oil for electricity, the local power company switched to using more natural gas, and more wind power. - Gasoline demand stagnated for years in spite of a growing population due to increased mileage from the total fleet of vehicles in the local market that the refinery served. The above demand factors were key to shutting down the refinery. By the way, did the shutdown of the refinery decrease the remaining demand or consumption of refined products, or amount of carbon emitted into the atmosphere? Nope, not at all. The product will still be consumed, it is just that it will be imported from foreign refineries that increase their production to fill the gap left by our refinery. This importing is not to the benefit of the company shutting down the refinery. In fact, it will cost the company a lot of money to do this. The company is doing it because they don't feel they can just abandon the local market of 1 million people without the fuels they need to run their lives. It would make global headlines for a market that big to simply grind to a halt. In summary, the combustion of fossil fuels is due to the demand for them, and the action of individuals, refineries, or even whole companies in the industry can't do very much to change that. There is an erroneous line of thought that believes the ones getting their hands dirty are the ones causing the problem. That is like saying it was the executioner's fault that so many people were put to death during the French revolution in the 1700's. Although the executioner was in a dirty business, he was not the one to blame for the deaths. Note: As an aside, this shutdown of the refinery is probably increasing global carbon emissions, not decreasing them. This is because local crude oil will have to be shipped further away, refined, and then the resulting products shipped all the way back. In some cases those carbon molecules will have to cross an ocean twice whereas before they were consumed locally. Those ocean crossings will consume fuel for which more carbon will go into the atmosphere. Updated 21w ago • View Upvotes