Kashmir: What's the story of the Kashmiri Pandits?
The timeline as given by the writer of Our Moon Has Blood Clots,  Rahul Pandita according to his own personal and family experiences is as follows (The book has detailed description of all the below mentioned incidents and more) : 1846 Kashmir is bought from British colonialists by the Dogra Maharaja Gulab Singh who adds it to Jammu and Ladakh region to form the state of Jammu and Kashmir. 1931 Mass uprising against the Dogra Maharaja Hari Singh. A mob of the majority Muslim Community targets the minority Hindus, known as Kashmiri Pandits. Property destroyed, several killed. August 1947 India attains independence. Partition takes place, Pakistan is formed. Maharaja Hari Singh is still undecided about Kashmir's accession to either India or Pakistan. October 1947 Aided by Pakistani army regulars, tribesmen from Pakistan's Northwest Frontier Province attack Kashmir in a bid to occupy it. Thousands of Pandits and Sikhs are killed, and their women raped and taken as slaves to Pakistan. Others took their own lives to save their honour. Thousands are forcibly converted to Islam. Pandit families living in border towns are forced to flee and take shelter in Srinagar and elsewhere. Magaraja Hari Singh signs the instrument of accession with India. The Indian Army lands in Srinagar and the tribesmen are pushed back. In 1941, kashmiri pandits constituted 15% of Kashmir Valley's population. By 1981, they are reduced to 5%. February 1986 Major anti-pandit riots break out in the south Kashmir's Anantnag area. Pandits are beaten up, their women raped and several houses and temples burnt down. July 1988 Two low-intensity bomb blasts rock Srinagar. September 1989 Pandit political activist, Tika Lal Taploo is shot dead by armed men outside his residence. January 1990 Massive crowds assemble in mosques across valley, shouting anti-india, anti-pandit slogans. The exodus of Kashmiri Pandits begins. In the next few months, hundreds of innocent Pandits are tortured, killed and raped. By the year-end, about 350,000 Pandits have escaped from the Valley and taken refuge in Jammy and elsewhere. Only a handful of them stay back. March 1997 Terrorists drag out seven Kashmiri Pandits from their houses in Sangrampora village and gun them down. January 1998 23 Kashmiri Pandits, including women and children, shot in cold blood in Wandhama Village. March 2003 24 Kashmiri Pandits, including infants, brutally shot dead in Nadimarg Village. 2012 Thousands of Pandits still languish in refugee settlements of 8 x 8. After more than two decades, the Kashmiri Pandit community has still not been able to return to their ancestral land. They are dispersed all over from Jammu to Johannesburg. 