How do you think the concept of God came into existence?
I'm late to the party here so I'm going to include a lot of points other people already made, my apologies.  I hope my treatment will put these into a broader perspective.  First, I'll highlight a few of the key cognitive errors our brains are highly susceptible to that could shed light on the process. Type I Error: The False Positive As Michael Shermer noted in several of his books (Believing Brain, et al.) our brains are evolutionarily tuned towards the false positive, Type I error. Imagine that you are on the harsh Savanna armed only with a wooden spear and you hear a pattern of rustling in the bushes. Do you investigate or do you try to run to safety? It could have just been the wind, and while curiosity may have killed the cat, too much skepticism here could allow the cat to kill you. Now imagine this pattern repeated over millions of years in all our mammalian ancestors. The cognitive pattern in question here is one of 'agency detection'.  At some point in the evolutionary tale brains developed an ability to sort out the inanimate from the animated - the things that are just there passively versus those things that could potentially actively seek to do you harm.  This is clearly a valuable cognitive tool in our repertoire, but only if it doesn't allow too many Type II errors through (or the false negative, "Naaa, that's not a tiger... *crunch*"). At one point the totality of human population was believed to be just a few thousand individuals (if you don't understand how evolution actually works you will erroneously believe that evolution implies there was a single 'human' or pair of humans at some point, this was NOT the point of the bottleneck). There just wasn't a sufficient margin of error for skepticism to take root at this time.  It wouldn't be until thousands of years later when mankind had the luxury to methodologically apply skepticism. Apophenia & Pareidolia Apophenia is "seeing meaningful patterns or connections in random or meaningless data" and Pareidolia is the related phenomena of seeing images in random data.  These are some easy to identify with examples of the False Positive effect. Do you see a Bell Pepper cut in half or two menacing faces? Tree or a spirit/human form? We can also pick up false speech, for example the 'reverse speech' in Stairway to Heaven (which you can see Shermer's presentation of this here [@ 9:23], I've linked to the relevant portion but I highly recommend going back and watching the whole thing): So there are portions of our brains that are clearly PATTERN SEEKING and are willing to falsely indicate significance when faced with mere noise. Confirmation bias Confirmation bias is the propensity for our brains to pick out bits of data that affirm our pre-existing beliefs/hunches/assumptions and to ignore or exclude data that would disconfirm these beliefs.  Translation: we tend to ignore the very things that would correct our errors. This might sound horrible (and it is when it comes to seeking factual truths) but it can also serve us well in more Natural settings, as did our False Positive bias. There are many, many more of these cognitive biases: List of cognitive biases Ignorance When I say 'ignorance' I merely mean being in a state where you lack knowledge about something.  This is in no way intended as an insult, just a fact.  I am profoundly ignorant of a vast array of things.  It is also a fact that we now know a great many things that ancient people did not. The Big Picture Religion didn't pop into existence out of whole cloth.  Long before any of the modern religions are known to exist we see evidence of spiritualistic, animistic, and Entheogenic practices. The oldest evidence of some form of proto-religious practice begins with the burial of the dead which goes back at least 130,000 years ago (Neanderthal burial in Krapina, Croatia) with our evolutionary cousins, the Neanderthals and Homo heidelbergensis.  Burials varied between simple unmarked graves to more complex graves with tokens buried with the dead, grave stone markers, and some care in the placement and anatomical arrangement of the body itself. Around 100,000 years ago Neanderthals evidence the first known practice of excarnation of the dead before burial.  Bones are also found stained with red ochre for the next 50,000+ years.  This practice of staining the bones with red ochre is also taken to Australia as far back as 42,000 years ago. By 30,000 years ago we see clear evidence of burial rites throughout anatomically modern human populations and we find evidence of the first burial of a 'Shaman' ** As time passes we see stronger evidences of Shamanism and other spiritualistic and Animistic practices.  There is also a distinct gap in the timeline of mortuary practices from about 21,000 - 11,000 BCE These older practices involve ancestor worship and contacts with spirits of Nature or animals.  They evidence strong Entheogenic influences (the use of psychoactive drugs or other techniques for achieving altered states of consciousness such as fasting or intensive rhythmic drumming/dancing). My partial list of ways to purposefully induce altered states of consciousness: transcranial magnetic stimulation, psychoactive chemicals, stroke, tumor, concussion, brain damage, self-flagellation, fasting, chanting, dancing, singing, drumming, isolation, sensory deprivation, pain, prayer, meditation, breath control, swaying, wandering in the desert, & sweeping up around the ashram What they don't indicate is evidence of a modern 'god'. Emergence Over time these spirits become powerful entities that control forces of Nature and cause other Natural phenomena.  They raise the Land up out of the Sea, they cause volcanic eruptions, floods, tides, lightening and thunder, pestilence, and they rule in the Heavens and move the planets in mysterious patterns through the night sky. If you aren't aware of the APPARENT motion of planets such as Mars it is quite mysterious, it APPEARS to change direction and form loops against the background stars: Of course, we now know this APPARENT motion is due to the dual action of both our Earth and of Mars moving in a more simple ellipse around the Sun. Entire pantheons are created, which is evident in almost every ancient culture. This was the Age of polytheism. These 'gods' intervened in the lives of men, often capriciously if not maliciously.  They were also plainly evident, did Mars not move mysteriously through the Heavens?  Did volcanos not erupt to punish the corrupt?  Did disease not strike down multitudes?  [We recognize these arguments today as the Appeal to Ignorance fallacy, this fallacy rests on the mistaken belief that some explanation is better than no explanation so if you cannot provide an account for the phenomena then the pre-existing belief is given more credence than it deserves] Now, let's imagine a people who are deeply ignorant of many aspects of the Natural world they lived in (not that they were unintelligent, they were often highly intelligent and keen observers) and we can see how these cognitive biases could have affected them. It was better (at the time) to unnecessarily do some things that had seemed to work before, rather than trying something new and missing some important component (and having your crop fail as a result and your people all die).  So when you had some success you tended to stick with whatever you had done before, lest you try the patience of the gods.  These ritualistic practices accumulated in the early practice of agriculture. Sacrifice / The Scapegoat The concept of Sacrifice was an essential element to early superstitious practices, animals were often sacrificed to appease the spirits or to commute the (perceived) sins of the people. This is evidenced as far as back the 24th century BCE in the Ebla texts (The Origin of the Biblical Scapegoat Ritual: The Evidence of Two Eblaite Text). This also appears in both Mythological and Shamanic contexts as sacrificing yourself to yourself (as Jesus, the sacrificial lamb, is sacrificed to himself as 'God'). Calendars An obviously critical component for the advancement of agriculture was the ability to predict the seasons (plant too soon and your crop could be destroyed by a frost).  So, these people became amazingly good astronomers but also infused this practice with their prior superstitious beliefs and practices. The Sun was a powerful force, it was often seen as the very source of life (not entirely coincidentally this turns out to be true in many ways).  Many early religions explicitly treat the Sun as the central 'god' of their religious practices. Amaterasu, Arinna, Apollo, Freyr, Garuda, Helios, Hepa, Huitzilopochtli, Hvar Khshaita, Inti, Liza, Lugh, Mithras, Ra/Horus/Amun-Ra, Shemesh/Shepesh, Sol, Sol Invictus, Surya, Tonathiuh, and Utu were all names for Sun gods & goddesses from religions ranging from Japan, to Mesopotamia, to Mesoamerica. Archaeoastronomy Ok, I'll be the first to admit there is a lot of nonsense in the field of Archaeoastronomy, but there is also a lot of sense to be made out of ancient history by recognizing that the stars and motions of the planets were unquestionably highly significant to ancient people.  I will confine myself here to fairly uncontroversial observations. The Mayans built a very complex and highly accurate calendar based on an overlay of both Lunar and Solar structure (1 Alautun is 23,040,000,000 days, over 63 million years - our universe is estimated by modern science to be 220 Alautun; today's date in Mayan 'Long Count' calendar terms would be 13.0.0.15.4).  Calendar-making wasn't undertaken on just a whim, as mentioned previously calendars had profound practical significance to agriculture but also began to take on personal meanings and religious significance.  Festivals and celebrations strengthen community bonds and give common purpose. The prevalence of superstition and ignorance at the time simply made it inevitable that these religious practices would get intertwined with the more practical practices.  The Heavens were divided into the 12 segments of the zodiac (circle of animals), the daylight divided into 12 periods and the night divided in 12 periods (making our 24 hour day).  Even the names of our days of the week come from this period of time (Monday, moon day or lunae dies; Tuesday, Týr/Teiws/Tīw/Tîwaz day, god of war in latin dies Marti, day of Mars, god of war; Wednesday from Odin, Wodnesdæg; Thursday from Jovis, Jovian, Jupiter, Þunresdæg or Thor's day; Friday from Freya, Frigga, frigedæg, frijadagr; and so forth). The Antikythera mechanism shows evidence of a detailed knowledge of astronomy and mechanics dated back to the first century BCE (which would rely on at least several centuries of careful observations to have built it). And there are numerous mesolithic calendar monuments across many cultures Warren_Field (see http://www.universetoday.com/103...), Stonehenge, Giza Necropolis, (see List_of_archaeoastronomical_sites_by_country). Entheogenic practices What we call 'Shamanism' today was a highly diverse practice, widespread in ancient cultures.  These include (but not limited to, there are hundreds more) the Olmec Bufo Toads (and their Therianthropic imagery); Mayan mushrooms; Aztec Ololiuqui (Rivea corymbosa seed), Teonanácatl (psilocybe mushroom), Sinicuichi (Heimia salicifolia); Ayahuasca / yagé / et al. (an admixture of MAO-inhibiting beta-carbolines from the Banisteriopsis caapi vine enabling oral ingestion of the psychoactive DMT from Psychotria viridis 'Chacruna', et al.); Native American peyote (with evidence of use going back 6000 years) mushrooms, San Pedro cactus, Peruvian torch; Soma of Vedic lore; and the Kykeon of the Eleusinian Mysteries (a ceremony related to Demeter and Persephone that spanned from about 1500 BCE until 392 CE, as reported by Eunapius); African practices include ingesting Iboga, a powerful psychoactive substance from the rootbark of the Tabernanthe iboga plant (one of the more chemically dangerous psychoactives but people tended to used whatever they found locally). SOMA (from about the 10th century BCE) Splendid by Law! declaring Law, truth speaking, truthful in thy works, Enouncing faith, King Soma!... O [Soma] Pavāmana, place me in that deathless, undecaying world wherein the light of heaven is set, and everlasting lustre shines.... Make me immortal in that realm where happiness and transports, where joy and felicities combine.. If you want to 'meet god' (and return to tell about it) then entheogenic substances are probably your most reliable ticket.  They aren't strictly necessary but require the least sustained effort to get results. For those who haven't fully experienced psychedelic substances it is nothing like 'getting high' or drunk.  It's also not about pretty pictures although that is the one aspect of the experience that is the easiest to talk about so it is the most commonly discussed.  But it is not the visual aspect that is profound, it is the inner experience. Wounded Man In ancient shamanic imagery a couple of images are often repeated, and they appear in modern accounts as well.  One is that of the Wounded Man (or Pierced Man). See More:  Two Million Years of Art in Human Evolution This represented a transformative Death and Rebirth experience, common in Shamanic rites of passage [I can related to this personally from my own LSD experience, it is not a literal death obviously]. This imagery also distinctly appears in the Bible when Jesus' side is pierced with a spear while he is on the "cross", complete with Jesus' transformative rebirth three days later (Luke 24:15-16 Jesus himself came up and walked along with them; but they were kept from recognizing him).  Luke insists that this is a 'flesh and bones' Jesus who then eats some fish (representing Pisces, the fish, a symbol of Christianity - because Jesus represented the 'Age of Pisces' when the Sun would rise in the constellation Pisces on the vernal equinox (which occurs around March 20th), with each 'Age' lasting approx 2160 years due to the precession of Earth's equinoxes taking ~25,920 years and there being 12 signs of the zodiac): As an aside (on the "cross"): this portion of the Bible is written in Koine Greek (some of it translated from earlier Aramaic) and the Greek used was σταυρός which primarily meant an 'upright pale' or stake): Gunnar Samuelsson looks at this question (cross or stake) in detail in his book 'Crucifixion in Antiquity: An Inquiry into the Background and Significance of the New Testament Terminology of Crucifixion'. Having God on your side / My 'dad' can beat up your 'dad' I suppose it was inevitable that the 'God' concept would be turned to the purpose of human conflict.  The list of war gods and goddesses is long (War Gods and Goddesses) and goes as far back into ancient history as we have records.  And, as in all human events, there is bound to be competition and tests of strength. The 'god' of the victor in a battle was often adopted by the defeated tribe or people, because clearly their own god had failed them. This also features in the Bible.  In 1 Kings 18 the prophet Elijah calls the priests of Baal to a contest, the priests of Baal go first and try to pray to Baal to set the alter of sacrificed bull meat on fire.  After some time (and ridicule from Elijah "Cry with a louder voice: for he is a God, and perhaps he is talking, or is in an inn, or on a journey, or perhaps he is asleep, and must be awaked") they fail.  Elijah then takes his turn, with a flair apparent to a modern stage magician trick, he makes his own task even more 'difficult' by having jugs of 'water' poured over his sacrificial bull meat.  He then prays and a pillar of fire works its magic, the priests of Baal are then rounded up and 'slaughtered'.  [would any modern religious person take up a challenge to pray bull meat on fire or be put to death?] Elves, Fauns, Fairies, and Aliens Graham Hancock (with whom I have a lot of disagreements) has an excellent collection of stories in his book Supernatural which very nicely links the experiences related by people in the past with Fairies and Elves with those of modern alien abduction reports.  Whatever you think of Hancock you cannot ignore the plain and factual references to works that describe their experiences such as The Secret Commonwealth of Elves, Fauns and Fairies (1691, Reverend Robert Kirk). The descriptions and depth of experiences reported in this and other works are astonishingly similar to many modern alien abduction stories, including the apparent fascination with reproduction. Trace these further back and they tie, once again, into the realm of shamanic experiences. If you reject literal contact with a magical reality (because unlike every other aspect of reality there is no evidence for such a thing, no instrument can detect it apparently but take some DMT and your brain magically becomes one? I don't think this is sound reasoning) it is not hard to imagine the connections apparent between these experiential phenomena.  Be it from natural causes, illness, or otherwise people have these experiences and there are good neurological reasons to believe they originate entirely within the brain and are not experiences tied to an external reality (for one, the commonalities are broad and the specifics are highly in disagreement). False detection of agency (our old friend), the 'significance factor' being a false signal from within the brain, the dreaming brain easily creates highly complex and realistic seeming worlds, lucid dreaming (being consciously aware during dream state), and numerous other factors all account for the felt experience in these altered states.  More recent fMRI studies indicate that during these experiences portions of the brain associated with certain cognitive functions are shutdown.  So you are operating on a brain that simply isn't working normally. Connections So in summary, the concept of 'god' came into existence because early mammals survived better if they were skittish. This resulted in false agency detection which produced perceptions of personalized forces in Nature, spirits, centuries of confirmation bias building on itself, ritual building, a competition of gods until a single, abstract, impossible to detect but all-powerful entity emerged and the religions surrounding this concept have also evolved over time to become extremely well-adapted to surviving in the cognitive landscape we call the human condition (which is more adapted for survival than absolute-truth-detection). NOTE: The term 'shaman' comes from the Tungus culture in Siberia, however the term has come to have a much broader meaning so I use that term here even though it is technically incorrect.  My apologies for any offense in using the term.  I'm open to a better, more encompassing term if you have one. Suggested Edits are welcome. Updated 89w ago • View Upvotes