Scary Situations:  What is the creepiest thing that has ever actually happened to you?
In October of 2013,  my husband and I were going to a local concert to see two friends perform. On our way back, I called home to check on the kids, and was talking to my one son, when I suddenly felt this incredible burning pain sensations throughout my body. I screamed and dropped the phone. The pain continued for about 10 minutes. It was horrible. Turns out that I was electrocuted by the current running through my cell phone. I was freaked out and called a doctor.   She basically told me that if I called her, there was nothing else she could do.  However, that kind of shock can stimulate a heart attack.   I was LUCKY. So I am thinking that APPLE has a problem with the car charger.    And I am mad as hell.   I am a good letter writer, and wrote a note to Tim Cook at Apple,  scanned it to him on October 22.   (Full disclosure, my last documentary-APPLE engineers were GREAT to me.)   I basically wrote what happened, and how I wanted to share my experience with him on the product asap, as I believed the product to be dangerous.   At that time, I didn't know if it was an apple manufactured product, or a third party product, my goal was to alert Apple to the situation in case they needed to remove these products from the shelves.   I didn't get much of a response from the CEO's office and called the APPLE hotline, which was worse-they sent me to Alabama, where they offered me a Genius bar appointment.   I went back and forth trying to get someone to pay attention to what I was saying.  This all happened over a three day period.  Completely frustrated, I finally just sent the original copy of the letter to Tim Cook and kept a copy on my desk.  I figured if they wanted to do something, they knew how to reach me.  A few days later, when I walked into my office, there was a note on the copy of the letter.   It was on a little yellow "stickie" and it said, "CAREFUL" in uneven caps.  The word careful was underlined four times.  I immediately went to my husband and said "Why woud you write a note on the top of my note to Apple?"   He looked at my strangely and said "I have no idea what you are talking about."   I showed him the note, (Which I still have).  Nope, not him.    The only other occupants in our house were kids, and they weren't the least interested in a letter to the CEO of Apple.  So here was a note from someone who came into my house and actually searched my desk to find the letter.  Think about it, how would they know I wrote a letter, unless they were listening to my calls.   (Very easy to do in my office space)   They took one of my stickies to write the warning.  Pretty brazen. At that point, my husband and I realized that something was terribly wrong.  Someone was obviously listening to my calls and had been in our house.  Perhaps more than once.  We didn't lock our doors, we kept our keys in our cars, it has been pretty safe where we lived.  No more. I went to the local Sheriff.   He explained to me  when someone wants you to have an "accident" they can rewire your car phone charger so you can be electrocuted.     AS we sorted through what we knew, other things that didn't make sense.   (My passport disappeared) we realized that someone had actually tried to kill me.   After their failed attempt, they came into my office and left me a note to ensure that I knew this was not an accident.  How CREEPY is that? At that time, I was working on a few story ideas for a new documentary.   One was a situation happening in East Palo Alto and another on Locust's destroying the food supply in Madagascar.   I also thought about the last documentary that I did which was airing on SHOWTIME.     All three of them had elements where I was challenging a powerful government or major corporation.  I thought long and hard about what my options were.  I was clear that I could never forgive myself if anything happened to my kids or my spouse.   We immediately put camera's in and around our property to record any and all movement.   (deer included)     The sheriff's office had our house in their daily route to make sure everyone was safe. I also closed my non-profit-I decided despite loving my work on human rights issues, I didn't ever want my work to endanger anyone that I loved.   Things have calmed down since I stopped working on any projects.   I consider myself very lucky.  Updated 4w ago • View Upvotes