Are vampires real? If not, where and how did the idea of vampires originate?
Absolutely.  Vampires are real. The modern day vampires suck the life out of you.  They suffocate you with their needs, wants, and desires. They stifle your existence and stymie your growth. At times, when a vampire attaches to you, all you can feel is a desire to be in a different place.  But most of the time, all you can feel is the life being drained from you. Most of the time, vampires don't even know the amount of distructive powers that they wield.  It so remote to their thinking, they can't see the pain and loss that they create. Victims of vampires are incidiously reduced to dustballs behind pieces of oversized furniture.  Even if they were once vibrant an empowered beings before aquiring their symbiote, ultimately.... the victim will suffocate and be reduced to shit. Vampires vehemently fight to maintain their connection with host.  They will fatten them with their bribes, even if it means overdosing their victims.  Anything to keep their victims from maintaining a self-identity. Anything to keep their victims from leaving the relationship. My ex fell victim to one of these assholes and it forever screwed her up. Though we were madly in love, the pain caused by that vampire scared my ex for life; to the point of never wanting to be married again. Because of marring, I will always will hate that basturd.  Out of pure spite, I adopted his daughter and made her my own.  She doesn't even know the "man".  I taught my daughter to be confident, self-reliant, and independent.  Even if she ever meets him, she'll see right through him and his bullshit.  I don't think either of my kids will fall victim of a vampire. I've been lucky. Only one person in my life was a vampire. That relationship started & ended so early in my adulthood, I was able bounce back and trust my partners.  I left her ass a week before our marriage. Ultimately, she fell victim to her own fears, hates, and degradation; she committed suicide to "teach me a lesson" (actually stated that in her suicide note). The lesson I learned:               AVOID VAMPIRES Thanks Gina....  You taught me well. 