Kashmir: What's the story of the Kashmiri Pandits?
What happened to them ? Its a long story, but I will try to explain in short, what I have read. 1. How demography changed: Kashmiri Pandit community had suffered the wrath of being minority in a Muslim Majority state. Kashmir used to be fully Hindu state, no Muslim. When Islam grew in Africa and eventually Islamic preachers came to Kashmir too. Kashmiri Pandit community being a Hindu community respects every religions and akin to this, they welcomed Muslims with open arms and called them brothers. But with the rising influence of Islam, Kashmir witnessed a demographic change in it. And, large groups of Muslims started Ransacking local communities and during the Afghan and then the Mughal rulers in India gave long rope to Muslims to get Pandits converted forcefully. Pandit community suffered exodus 6 times during these history unfolding. So, actually Muslims living in Kashmir are either from Pandit background or migrated Muslims.  2. Why the divide with government: After  gaining enough hold over Kashmir during the Muslim rule. Muslims wanted that state to be ruled on Islamic laws. But, course of time changed and God finally heard Pandits, whose were tortured under Muslin rule and Sikh rule came to Kashmir. Maharaja Ranjit Singh was then the ruler and imposed restrictions on Muslims and Pandits finally relieved. After that period Hindu rulers Non-Muslims rulers ruled Kashmir. Pandits being an educated community, groomed under their rules. And occupied dignity and higher status in society. Sheikh Mohammed Abdullah was also a critic to the Dogra rule. After, 1947 India-Pakistan partition and merger of States to either India or Pakistan known to all. Well in keep in mind, J&K comprises of Kashmir, Jammu and Ladakh. As the ruler of J&K Hari Singh decided to merge with neither India nor Pakistan. Muslim in state turned totally against to the ruler. Great upheaval in the state, Pandits were at the receiving end. Even the Muslim sub-ordinates of Hari Singh had became a threat for him. Pakistan tried to take advantage of the situation in Kashmir and sent its sponsored terrorists in Kashmir. Pandits in Kashmir again suffered and many were killed, converted and raped. The Pakistani Terrorists entered from Baramulla, Pandits were cleansed. Northern and North-Western regions of the state witnessed blood flood. As situation went out of control and being attacked from Pakistan after loosing dialogues, Hari Singh decided to handover the state to India. Hari Singh signed document of accession, India forces entered Kashmir and drived terrorists away. Pak occupied some of Kashmir known POK. POK is also a part of Kashmir. 3. Why the EXODUS?: Now, Kashmiri Muslims became victim of politics from across the border and started demanding a Muslim state or an Independent state away from Indian rule. Pandit community being an Indian supporter in Kashmir was made to suffer. The Anantnag riot, riot won't be an appropriate word, rather attack on Pandits was a signal to the Pandits and authorities of communal divide in Kashmir. And in 1990's situation in Kashmir grew beyond control. Terrorist elements were raised at local levels by the Pakistan. Pandit community lost its leader Tika lal Taploo to terrorism. Course of Time again changed and Pandits were now at receiving end for no crime. A notice was published in local newspaper asking Pandits to leave Kashmir. Pandits thought its by some troublemaking elements and everything will be fine, nothing will happen to them, their Muslim neighbours are staying with them for years and will definitely stand by their sides. However, Terrorism has made its root stronger in Valley and those neighbours were also involved. In the early hours of 19th January, 1990 Muslims gathered in local mosques and carried out processions from there raising Islamic Slogans and asking Pandits to leave Kashmir. Pandits left Kashmir in 19th January 1990 left their motherland, their properties to save their culture. 4. Life after Exodus: Environment and surroundings changed after Exodus but not the situation. They were forced to leave in Tents akin to stable. No one paid attention to then, because they were not a substantial vote bank. Many pandits died because they were not familier with such hot environment. After spending decades in Tents, they were allocated Government sponsored Colony, but the colony is in such a pathetic condition and situation, and their worries have not ended. 5. Their demand: They demand separate Town in Kashmir for their rehabilitation, and its no way wrong. The community have already suffered seven exodus. Should we rehabilitate them in dispersed area. This way, they will again be vulnerable to the conditions and situation may be worse and what if they suffer exodus again, who will be their for holding them. I am afraid there will as usual be none. And condition in kashmir is also not free from terrorists elements yet, keeping the consideration recent encounters and the killings of the Sarpanches and Panches.  The Pandit community have been Punished for no crime. They have suffered alot but unfortunately no one paid attention to them. Because, they were not a Vote Bank. Updated 37w ago • View Upvotes