What would happen if the USA and Pakistan attacked India at the same time?
Thanks for A2A. The problem with the question is it considers two attacks at the same time. If ever two nuclear countries attack a single nuclear power, be sure we are into the World War 3. Now, I will answer your questions one by one: 1. How would India react?     Assuming that all the negotiation talks have failed and attack is confirmed, I believe US will not attack India directly. Not a chance. They will start building their base in Pakistan and supply Pakistan with advanced weapons. US will be seated in the backseat, denying all the accusations that it is a part of the war and let Pakistan face the wrath of Indian Defense. India will attack with the navy and army for that is the best way to put Pakistan on the back step. Meanwhile, India will continue its talks with the UN. 2. Countries that would ally India: The only country that will support India is Russia. The smaller developing countries will not dare to enter given US backup and other countries like UK, France, Germany, Australia, Japan will not be interested. China will not support either. China will play the role of perfect opportunist. By the time war would be over, much of the Indian land (near Chinese Border) would have Chinese barracks and soldiers claiming it to be their land. I doubt Israel will help for it has problems of its own to tackle with. If you are assuming that USA's enemies will help us, then forget it. We don't have friendly ties with them either. 3. Will India be able to fight back with current reserves?     Fight back? Sure. Sustain? No way. If it is Pakistan alone, we won't even need our full reserves, but, enter US and the fight would be over within a few days. 4. Enough nuclear reserves?    I am sure we do have enough, but I hope that all the countries participating in the war agree to a protocol which denies the use of nuclear weapons. Because I am sure, if nuclear weapons are used by India, we would be killing many fellow Indians in US. (I don't think India will use nuclear weapons against Pakistan. I mean when we would know that we are going down, then why not take the stronger opponent with us?). 