Race Relations: How can I show solidarity with the Mexican immigrants living in my city (Oklahoma City)?
One thing that I find interesting in the psychology of young children is that they are born with an innate sense of morality but are predisposed to biases and selfishness. Due to our evolution we are born being fearful of those who are different. Due to our need for survival we are selfish because the squeaky wheel gets the oil. We are predisposed to want more than others, to carve out our place in society. It’s these tendencies that children need to be taught how to cope with. These human tendencies never really go away. We like those who are similar to us - we're predisposed to be prejudiced against others even if it goes against reason.  Rather than being rational we are rationalizing. We're all the same really, beneath everything. Which means you learn to understand those who are invisible. Even more impressive, the geneticists concluded that every person on Earth right now can trace his or her lineage back to a single common female ancestor who lived around 200,000 years ago. Because one entire branch of human lineage is of African origin and the other contains African lineage as well, the study's authors concluded Africa is the place where this woman lived. The scientists named this common female ancestor Mitochondrial Eve.Are we all descended from a common female ancestor? The first step to social change always starts within. Fight your own ignorance before channeling it somewhere else. Some of the common ignorance I find about undocumented immigrants/ immigrants in general/ and Hispanics. Illegal immigration is a crime. You don't have to have an insane understanding of immigration but understand it's not what the xenophobes keep claiming that it is. Improper entry is the proper legal term for crossing the border. It's a misdemeanor and it's a civil offense.  Also anyone coming to this country can become "Illegal" - even someone who initially came here legally. We don't like the term "illegal". We are immigrants but we (our person, our humanity, and existence) is not illegal. We prefer the term undocumented because it's more accurate. I like the term "Alien" but that's just me. Also not all Aliens are from Mexico. But the stereotype exists for a reason. A lot of the immigrants are from Mexico. Please the note the chart below is a bit outdated. The number of Mexican immigrants has been in decline as the number of immigrants from elsewhere has been on the increase. Not all Mexicans are undocumented or immigrants. Some of them are citizens. Others have the right to work, but don't have legal status. Others were granted asylum. Everything varies and is based on every individuals situation.   2. So you're from Mexico/ Latino/ Hispanic? We're not all from Mexico. I want to point out several things here. Often it's the brown colored of us that get targeted with this. People assume all Latinos are brown skinned. We're really diverse actually. I come from Honduras my mother growing was around mostly dark colored peers. We have black people, whites, and brown - all shades. See video below to see how diverse we are. This video and song was made in Brazil in French. My parents grew up on it and it's a favorite in the Hispanic community. To put it simply there is Hispanic - which are people from Latin American and or Iberian ancestry. Below is a picture of Latin America. Iberian ancestry is basically that our ancestors are from Portugal and Spain.  For example, my last name is Ochoa which means Wolf in Spaniard. I don't know my family tree but I know at least one of the ancestors was from Spain. Hispanic is pretty loose term. Spanish is a pretty strict word. It's anyone associated with Spain. The nationality would need to be Spain. So Mexicans, Honduran, Chileans, Colombians, and any other Spanish speaking person doesn't fit into this term. We're not Spanish even though we might speak Spanish. Commonly Spanish people are called Spaniards. I never really identified as Latino preferring Hispanic. Latino, Latina, or just Latin American is basically anyone south of the US from the Caribbean to Haitians (who speak French), usually the people in this group speak the romantic languages Spanish, Portuguese, Italian, French, and so on. A lot of people in the US confuse all of these. There's also the subject of identity. For some Hispanics their heritage is very important to them, to others they embrace their new country whether it's the US, Canada, etc. We're also really diverse as you're coming to understand. Half (51%) say that most often they use their family’s country of origin to describe their identity. That includes such terms as “Mexican” or “Cuban” or “Dominican,” for example. Just one-quarter (24%) say they use the terms “Hispanic” or “Latino” to most often to describe their identity. And 21% say they use the term “American” most often. Half (51%) say they have no preference for either term. When a preference is expressed, “Hispanic” is preferred over “Latino” by more than a two-to-one margin—33% versus 14%. Most Hispanics do not see a shared common culture among U.S. Hispanics. Nearly seven-in-ten (69%) say Hispanics in the U.S. have many different cultures, while 29% say Hispanics in the U.S. share a common culture. When Labels Don’t Fit: Hispanics and Their Views of Identity   3.  Wow you have bad parents. I can't tell you how often I would tell a teacher, or a respected person my story about coming here at the age of five, only to hear this. Don't say this or imply this to someone. Undocumented immigrants come illegally for a reason. Coming here legally is hard and it takes years. Ask any legal immigrant - they'll complain about it for a while. But imagine if the there was no way to immigrant legally ... at all. Many people think they can show up at a U.S. embassy or border post, describe why they'd make a good addition to U.S. society, and be welcomed in. Unfortunately, this is the exact opposite of how the U.S. immigration system works. Instead, people who want to come to the United States, whether temporarily or permanently, must determine whether they fit into eligibility categories for either permanent residence (a "green card") or for a temporary stay ("nonimmigrant visa"). Then they must submit an application -- in fact, often a series of applications -- to one or more of the U.S. agencies responsible for carrying out the immigration laws. These include U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS), which has offices across the United States (plus a few overseas), and the U.S. Department of State (DOS), which manages consulates and embassies around the world.U.S. Immigration Basics | Nolo.com Despite the fantasy that immigrants can just "wait in line", this picture below a more accurate idea of how one becomes a legal immigrant. The truth is that for some people it's impossible. Trust me I've talked to many lawyers - and they all told me to wait until the law changes to give me an opportunity. My circumstances and the current law in place do not grant people like me a place in line. WHY DON’T THEY JUST IMMIGRATE THE LEGAL WAY?   3.  We took your job and are destroying the economy. I just can't with this one. It's literally the most annoying thing ever. They took our jobs!!!! People on Quora that go off on me for destroying their economic system usually don't understand basic economics. I have yet to find one that does actually. I can't say I blame them completely. Our educational system leaves something to be desired. Speaking of which check out this video on the aspects of our educational system that are failing us. The reason I'm talking about the educational system is because of my conversations with them. They probably think they sound very intelligent, not realizing the almost everything the say is very ignorant or just plain false. My sister told me that one day her teacher passed them an article on illegal immigration. The article wasn't flattering. My sister finished reading the article with a deep hatred of however these people were. She found out later that her parents were immigrants and so was I. So she questioned her beliefs. Most people in these classroom won't do this. And it gets worse. Growing up, my peers would grow more bold when speaking about immigration. I dreaded the topic when it came up. People would joke about green cards, and the evils of immigration. Some would talk about killing us if they could, and no one would say anything. Things like this help cement people preconceived notions. It helps hatred to continue. The worst part is that nothing they say is really based on facts, it's based on fears and a need to blame it on a scapegoat.  For example, many of these people usually think their economy is in decline. They think we're still in the Great Recession (we are not - it's been over since 2009). They also tend to believe that globalization is better for third world countries than it is for first world countries. Considering that the US operates sweatshops with children in Honduras so US citizens can get cheap goods I can't say I agree. Here's the two issues I have with this complaint I often get. The Entitlement. These people REALLY, and TRULY believe they are better than me. They consider themselves perfectly law abiding citizens and believe all their ancestors were too. They believe there is something seriously wrong with me for wanting to get an education, a job, and an equal chance at life. They believe that I'm using the system - taking welfare checking, free housing, blah, blah, blah. They're the givers and I'm the taker in other words. I have a lot of issues with this. But what I really hate is the entitlement. They believe they are entitled to a good paying job, benefits, and rights based on being born in a spot of land. They believe that I shouldn't have gotten an education, or a job, or drinking water here, food here, etc. I'm demanding basic human rights and they think I'm the entitled one. No one is entitled to a job. We're entitled to fair competition under our system. The Paranoia. We're not that big of a deal. Seriously we're not. According to study by economists we make up positive 1 difference in the US GDP (Gross Domestic Product). I was really disappointed when I read this but it made me realize that all the screaming, the paranoia is really over nothing. Unauthorized immigrants make up 5.1% of the U.S. labor force. In the U.S. labor force, there were 8.1 million unauthorized immigrants either working or looking for work in 2012. Among the states, Nevada (10%), California (9%), Texas (9%) and New Jersey (8%) had the highest shares of unauthorized immigrants in their labor forces.5 facts about illegal immigration in the U.S. Alan Greenspan, PhD, former Chairman of the US Federal Reserve, stated in his Apr. 30, 2009 testimony before the US Senate Subcommittee on Immigration, Refugees, and Border Security: "[T]here is little doubt that unauthorized, that is, illegal, immigration has made a significant contribution to the growth of our economy. Between 2000 and 2007, for example, it accounted for more than a sixth of the increase in our total civilian labor force. The illegal part of the civilian labor force diminished last year as the economy slowed, though illegals still comprised an estimated 5% of our total civilian labor force. Unauthorized immigrants serve as a flexible component of our workforce, often a safety valve when demand is pressing and among the first to be discharged when the economy falters. Some evidence suggests that unskilled illegal immigrants (almost all from Latin America) marginally suppress wage levels of native-born Americans without a high school diploma, and impose significant costs on some state and local governments. However the estimated wage suppression and fiscal costs are relatively small, and economists generally view the overall economic benefits of this workforce as significantly outweighing the costs." Francine J. Lipman, MBA, LLM, Professor of Law, Business and Economics at Chapman University, wrote in a Spring 2006 Tax Lawyer essay titled "Taxing Undocumented Immigrants: Separate, Unequal and Without Representation": "Americans believe that undocumented immigrants are exploiting the United States' economy. The widespread belief is that illegal aliens cost more in government services than they contribute to the economy. This belief is undeniably false... [E]very empirical study of illegals' economic impact demonstrates the opposite: undocumenteds actually contribute more to public coffers in taxes than they cost in social services. Moreover, undocumented immigrants contribute to the U.S. economy through their investments and consumption of goods and services; filling of millions of essential worker positions resulting in subsidiary job creation, increased productivity and lower costs of goods and services; and unrequited contributions to Social Security, Medicare and unemployment insurance programs. Eighty-five percent of eminent economists surveyed [according to the Dec. 1995 study by Julian L. Simon, "Immigration, the Demographic & Economic Facts," of the Cato Institute and the National Immigration Forum] have concluded that undocumented immigrants have had a positive (seventy-four percent) or neutral (eleven percent) impact on the U.S. economy." Jesus Nebot, filmmaker, entrepreneur, and speaker, wrote in an Aug. 14, 2011 email to Pros and Cons of Controversial Issues: "Economic studies seem to indicate that the contribution of undocumented immigrants to the US economy is greater than their burden. Undocumented immigrants pay sales tax on their purchases and property tax on their homes. Additionally an estimated three-quarters of undocumented immigrants pay income tax using Individual Taxpayer Identification Numbers or false Social Security numbers. These documents put workers 'on the books,' which means their employers must make required deductions from their pay. Each year, taxpayers who use incorrect or false Social Security numbers (the majority of them undocumented immigrants) contribute approximately $7 billion to Social Security and $1.5 billion to Medicare. Most of these workers were educated in their countries of origin and now the U.S. economy reaps the rewards of their work. Yet, undocumented workers are ineligible for most government benefits. On average, all immigrants will pay $80,000 more in taxes per capita than they use in government benefits over their lifetime. These facts led the President's Council of Economic Advisers to declare in June 2007 that 'the long-run impact of immigration on public budgets is likely to be positive.' Undocumented immigration also produces a net benefit at the state level. For example, approximately 13.9% of the nation's undocumented immigrants live in Texas. In 2006, the Texas Comptroller reported that undocumented immigrants paid about $424.7 million more in state revenues – including sales tax and school property tax – than they used in state services, including education and health care." I should probably answer your question. Like I said I believe the best thing you can do is embrace the culture and the diversity. Listen to the music, watch our movies and shows. You'll like some of it I promise. Eat our food, and check out our history. Exploring diversity is suppose to be fun. If you really want to do more though, I would recommend teaching. Make a blog, podcast, spread the word somehow about immigrants and Hispanics. Most of the people talking are hateful and don't care too much about how much their getting right. They're just using people's preconceived notions to push something.... Donald Trump.. It's hard to re-educate someone, especially when they want desperately to blame things on someone. Or if they're so used to a certain narrative they don't want to hear a different one. But people (even if their silent) do read and they change their minds everyday on things. Change starts in small places, but they do matter. Change the narrative, get people questioning, and talking about the topic. 