People who work for petroleum companies: How do you see your role in global warming?
As many people have aptly noted, petroleum is not an optional part of modern civilization. That strongly shapes the opinions and beliefs that we industry insiders have about global warming. Transport fuel is just as important to society as food, running water, electricity, and sanitation. When you include the importance of petrochemicals and flexible electricity generation, the idea of giving up fossil fuels is almost unthinkable. It would mean reverting society back to the pre-coal era... roughly speaking, a mid-1700s level of technology, powered by chopping down the world's forests for firewood and charcoal. We do not have the technology to support 7 billion people on this planet in a 20th or 21st century lifestyle without consuming massive quantities of hydrocarbons. There are still far too many applications where fossil fuels are irreplaceable. If you want to lift the billions of global poor up to the quality of life that the EU or US enjoys today, the world will eventually have to produce over twice as much primary energy as we do today. Much of that is simply going to have to come from coal, oil, and gas. We can talk all you want about electric cars and renewables, but you and I are going to be long dead before those are able to reduce fossil fuel use by even half. Nuclear power offers promise for electricity generation, but can't replace transport fuels (for now) or petrochemicals -- and is wildly unpopular. I think we'll be lucky if fossil fuel use even stops growing in the next 30 years. The trends and underlying economics all indicate global fossil fuel use will continue to rise, not fall. Yes, the developed world is reducing its hydrocarbon consumption rate, but that micro-trend is being swamped by the macro-trends of global economic development and population growth. China and India are lifting two billion people out of poverty as we speak. The UN expects world population to rise to 10 billion before it stabilizes. Development places inexorable demands on the world's energy systems. So in terms of epic struggles for the future of humanity, the oil industry's priority is figuring out how to meet ever-rising demand -- even as the "easy oil" is starting to run out. We must find more oil, and we must bring it to market at an acceptable cost. The alternative -- world-wide economic depression, resource wars, and wiping out two generations' progress in battling global poverty -- is simply unthinkable. The stakes are every bit as serious as I'm presenting here. I find it utterly terrifying. And as an industry, that's all we have mind-space for. Providing the energy required to sustain and improve mankind is a powerful, powerful imperative. We know civilization would collapse in a matter of months if the taps suddenly went dry. Global warming, as a concept, just can't compete with that. It's in the future, and no one knows how bad it will be. Widespread harm from climate change is still very much an idea, a theory, a prediction -- whereas oil is our civilization's lifeblood now. Given that, do you have any doubt where the industry tends to sit on the subject of global warming? Our priorities are perfectly clear. As a sidenote here, it's really not about greed or protecting our business models. Oil companies are truly energy companies and are the largest non-government source of funding for renewables research. When electric cars or hydrogen vehicles saturate the transport market, you can bet Exxon and BP and Chevron will be running the corner charging stations. The world's need for energy isn't going to go away, therefore our big-picture business model isn't going to go away. The survival of "big oil" is assured for much longer than anyone currently working in the industry cares about. But there is still some degree of skepticism, uncertainty, and doubt around anthropogenic climate change. Even if the consensus view is 100% correct, there are enough real and imagined chinks in the theory to leave space for selective disagreement. So most people in the oil industry take the intellectually-easy way out: disbelieve and deny, or perhaps simply ignore. It's not easy to be simultaneously pro-oil and anti-carbon-emissions. It's human nature to resolve mental conflicts by rejecting whichever side of the issue we're less emotionally invested in. We (as a species) seek out consistent narratives to shape our worldviews. The narratives of global warming ultimately matter more than the facts do. Are you receptive to stories where you're cast as the villain? Let's look at how the narratives clash: Oil industry insiders know that the idea of stopping fossil fuel use in our lifetimes is somewhere between laughable and suicidal. Environmentalists and climate scientists say we have to stop using fossil fuels to prevent global warming.We are therefore strongly disinclined to listen to the environmentalists and climate scientists. How else would you expect people to react? You might as well tell farmers that they have to stop growing food because obesity is going to cause massive health problems. It attacks the pride-of-purpose of a very hard-working group of people, and the argument completely misses the forest for the trees. There's more to food than obesity and more to oil than circling parking lots in SUVs. They're both critical to society, and it's not the farmer's fault or the oilman's fault if society over-consumes his product. Just like food, the world continues to need more oil, not less. Just like food, we could cut back on oil consumption but can't stop altogether. Just like food, oil is one of the pillars of civilization. So industry insiders can do one of four things: Deny anthropogenic global warming Blame the consumers Ignore the problem Accept that we're screwed, and continue generating global wealth so we will have the resources to deal with the impacts of climate changeObviously, the first is going to be the most popular option. It's the most intellectually-consistent (i.e. black & white) way to look at things. Personally, I lean towards the fourth. I know the global energy trends too well to think we have any chance of reducing CO2 emissions enough to meet the IPCC targets. If the models are correct, it's already too late. China and India (and many others) are already building too many coal plants for there to be any chance of significant global reductions in CO2 emissions in the next 50 years. Even if electric cars exceed all expectations at reducing oil use, coal- and gas-fired electricity will still dominate 21st century global energy flows. Renewables are simply 50-100 years behind where they need to be on the growth curve. So I'm in favor of continuing to generate as much broad-based wealth as we can, so that humanity has the resources to survive whatever new climate unfolds. Rich nations can cope with rising sea levels and changing weather patterns. It's the global poor who will suffer most from climate change. Which is just one more reason why providing the energy needed to sustain development and end poverty is one of the great moral imperatives of our generation. In the light of climate change, it's hard to imagine a more important geopolitical priority than development. It's obvious that the only way to end the post-colonial legacy of poverty and exploitation is to let everyone rise to first-world standards. It would be deeply, resoundingly evil to prevent the developing world from gaining access to the energy and wealth they need to survive the consequences of the developed world's profligate energy use. And I'm in favor of geo-engineering solutions, such as stratospheric sulfate aerosols. We know how to cool the planet -- Mount Pinatubo showed it was possible -- so we already have our last-ditch strategy more or less figured out. But it's still scary to imagine relying on engineered systems to regulate planetary energy flows. The ability to warm or cool the planet with the flip of a switch will mean we've "graduated" as a species. We'll truly be in control of the entire biosphere's destiny. As I said, I find it utterly terrifying. Updated 100w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Pamela Dennett Grennes