What was the reaction of your parents when you told them that you are a gay/lesbian?
My mom claimed to have known that I was gay ever since I was 5 years old. For some people, I guess that's endearing or comforting - for me, it's a little annoying. (Get real, mom. I was five. You didn't know shit about who I'd want to bang. I love you, but c'mon.) Either way, she took it well - enough so that I hardly remember what her specific reaction was, anymore. I guess she had practice: her sister was gay (though I didn't know that at the time). She was more worried about how other people would treat me. She was warm and accepting and supportive. She did not seem startled or shaken or surprised. She switched to joking that she'd have to bug my brother for grandkids almost instantly. My dad took it differently. He was genuinely surprised, and bruised. He wasn't upset that I was gay; he was upset to learn that I had been in the closet. I told him when I was a young teenager, and around the same time that I told my mom. (They were some of the first people I told.) Before then, we had stayed up late watching The Man Show and laughing at crude jokes. There were girls he thought I had crushes on. When I told him that I was gay, I was also telling him that there was this part of me that I had been keeping secret from him. I was telling him that there was something I kept inside me that made me feel ashamed and confused and that I struggled with. I was telling him that I didn't come to him for help with those feelings. When I came out to my dad, he was upset because I had been struggling with things he could have helped me with, because I was wrestling with things he had no idea of. He had wanted to be there for me; he had wanted (and still wants) to do everything he can to empower me and my brother to be happy and strong. He made me understand that he loved me, and that he had wished he could have helped me with that struggle. I think he was also worried that he might've unwittingly "made things worse" by assuming I had been straight, or that he had done something wrong somehow that made me not want to come out to him sooner. My parents hadn't done anything wrong at all. They had no latent homophobia they needed to wrestle with. They never made me feel uncomfortable for being gay. (Hell, when my little brother grew older, my dad had a joking "it's OK to be straight" talk with him.) They weren't reacting (outwardly) to my sexual orientation, but to the fact that I had been in the closet. It was a tremendous weight lifted from me. They were and are wonderful. And seriously, mom, that's bullshit, you had no idea who I would end up dating when I was fucking five. 