Islam: What is Jannat?
Before answering your question let me define Jannat(Swarg) and Jahannum (Nark) in my terms Individual Level Jannat - is a place which you desire to go after your death. Jahnnum - is a place where you dont desire to go after your death. Community Level (Muslims/Hindus/Christians......) Jannat - is a place which is agreed among the majority of individuals to be a good place and therefore people should desire for that place for their after death. Jahannum - is a place which again is agreed by majority of individuals to be a bad place and should not be desired for post death experience. Now mere desiring for Jannat is not enough, you need to make your Energy levels(Souls) such that they travel in the direction of Jannat post death. For this each and every community has given measures/deeds which will lead you to Jannat and which will lead you to Jahannum post death. BUT any Religion has just not to guide post death travel of soul, it also has to lay rules which will ensure that the soul is fit to survive in the mortal world, Therefore it does gives the freedom in "certain" cases to attack others. ( As in Geeta, As in Quran) especially if your enemy is attacking you. Religion does not want cowards especially when it has to stay for a longer period of time in history. Unfortunately this "certain" is not clear cut defined and depends on the situations which may unfold. Here is where the problems occur I can attack some one who does not agree with me and say that my religion permits me and I will be attaining Jannat for this, therefore justifying my deeds and that to in accordance my religion. Answering your question now ...This is what is happening with most of Muslim Extremists  (who have less knowledge), they either have not understood their religion or they are just defending themselves on the pretext of Quran's 'certain' cases for their personal lust/power hungriness and hoping that this will lead them to Jannat and thereby changing the meaning of Jannat( Swarg / Heaven) which is that portion of the Universe which has lots of positive Energies vibrating ( both after-death and pre-birth). 