Why doesn't God kill Satan?
Satan is a metaphor for ignorance.  It is one of the thousands of misinterpretations out of which Christianity has been created.  Jesus said he spoke in parables.  I wonder, what on earth they thought he meant?  Sin and Satan= the darkness of human disillusionment concerning who and what they truly are, which is ONE with their source.  Jesus wanted humanity to wake up, not dig a deeper hole by telling them they were lowly.  Religions in essence, condemn their own source as being lowly riff raff by condemning that within which the source dwells, i.e, human beings, as lowly riff raff needing to be saved by the son of the power alive already within each of them!   I call this insanity. There is no judgment in mankind's awakening from sleep.  There is healing by virtue of ingenious and loving universal laws born of Cosmic Self Aware Consciousness.  There is no hell that is not born of ego and earth experience via the ego, and there is no heaven that is not born of transcending the ego. We heal our own ignorance incrementally as we grow into our potential via the awakening of indwelling divine intelligence.   It is divine truth that awakens.  Ignorance then is being healed.  It IS happening.  There's no killing of any evil guy, unless you're exceedingly puerile in comprehension of the word "parable".    Then you get the Dick and Jane version of the bible that excludes the teachings of the man entirely and creates a mockery of divine power. How on earth they came up with a religion around the teachings of a man who was in essence, pleading with them to look within, "for greater works shall ye do", and "heal thyselves".....boggles the mind.   When he told them not to judge, he fricking meant it because that energy frequency is so low it keeps people's consciousness asleep. Jesus was an iconoclast, a rebel, against institutions that profited by binding up the souls of man.  So what did his witless followers do?  They created religious institutions to profit by binding up the souls of man.   Brilliant.   Then their own beliefs created the darkness and shadows that embody their own fear.  Again, thanks for that, as these shadows actually do exist.  But they were created by human beings who are fools. No master has ever created a religion.  It is only followers who have diminished and misinterpreted truth out of which religion arises in maddening offense to clarity.   Masters are wayshowers, not PARENTS.  Oh the little, little children who just want more than anything to remain the little little children, the sheep, the flock of god.  Thus, awaken your own mind and free the truth from within, and your god will have killed Satan, if that is how you must see it. 