English (language): What are some interesting English idioms and their meanings?
1. Leaving someone high and dry This means to leave someone helpless and unsupported " He bailed out on her and the kids, leaving them high and dry." 2. Losing one's religion Yeah, I thought the same too, but no, it has nothing to do with 'religion'. It's basically a Southern US term meaning to lose one's temper.  You're most likely to have heard it in the below context: "That's me in the corner That's me in the spotlight Losing my religion" R.E.M FTW!! "Federer was close losing his religion when the Chair umpire got another decision wrong." 3. Draw first blood The first blow or defeat  inflicted on an opponent in a conflict. Today, it finds itself being used more in the areaof Sports writing or commentary. "Australia drew first blood after they defeated England in the First Test of  the Ashes" 4. Back to square one Origin: Early BBC radio commentaries  helped listeners follow the progress of football and rugby games by notionally dividing the pitch into eight equal regions. Commentators described the play by saying which block the ball was in.  Commentators began using this phrase when attacks broke down and teams switched from attack to defense. Today, its use stretches beyond the football field and would be used when a project or task would have to be restarted from the beginning because of a dead-end or failure. "After hours of coding, we realized that this wasn't gonna go anywhere and we started back from square one" 5. to lower the boom This is similar to 'delivering a knockout punch'. Meaning to punish severely or be extremely harsh with criticism. "When she saw the expression on her Art-teacher's face, she half-expected him to lower the boom." 6. put two and two together This has to be the most repeated idiom in the Hunger Games series. It means to figure out something obvious with the information at hand. " The girl, after collecting all the hints he was throwing at her, finally put two and two together and realized that he was in love with her." 7. jump the gun Origin: This phrase derives from track and field races. False starts were rarely penalized, the “Go” indication generally followed immediately on the signal "Get set!" and so shiftless were the starters and officials that jumping the gun was one of the tricks which less sportsmanlike runners constantly practiced. The phrase has evolved to mean doing something too soon, usually without thinking much. "He shouted at me before I had time to explain, but later he apologized   for jumping the gun." 