Scary Situations:  What is the creepiest thing that has ever actually happened to you?
I wrote an answer to a similar question here , and that was more on the serious side of things. But I have two stories that are sort of silly, still inexplicable.   Both involve clowns. I've always been a voracious reader, and I've gotten a lot of books as gifts.   One summer, I went through a thing where I was trying to catch up on everything Stephen King had written, and then watch as many film adaptations as I could.   Knowing this, my mom got me the special-edition paperback of IT, the promotional one timed to the miniseries release. It had a very freaky glowering Pennywise on the cover. The eyes glowed, I tell you.  They glowed. I may have enjoyed the book, but at the time I was more than a little frightened by how well Tim Curry portrayed Pennywise, and having that face around really creeped me out.  I found I couldn't even keep it on my bookshelf, because there was also a tiny face glowering on the spine and it was watching me too.   For a thirteen year old girl, it was too much.   I waited until a bright, sunny day, took the book down to some bookcases in the basement, and stashed it facedown behind a row of heavy engineering manuals.   I hustled back up the stairs, content that the book would never see the light of day again.   And I forgot all about it. Flash forward to a dark and stormy night many months later.   I was home alone; my parents were at some sports thing with my younger brother.   I was coming down to the basement with a heavy basket of laundry on one hip, holding the rail with the other hand.   I was just about to set foot on the basement floor when the power went out.  I heard a thump I couldn't identify.  I hovered on the stairs, confused for an instant. ...and then the lights were back on, and I saw a shape in my peripheral vision.  I turned toward it, and there was the book.  On the floor, in front of the bookcase where I'd hidden it.   Facing me.    With the engineering books undisturbed behind it. The eyes were staring at me in just the way you see above. I may or may not have screamed.   My body was consumed with a surge of adrenaline that it hasn't experienced since.    I flung the laundry basket away from me, sprinted up the stairs in my own lopsided way, and turned on every light and source of comforting noise in the house.   I found that a large mirror had fallen off a wall and broken, as well.   I don't know if that was the thump I heard, or if it was the book somehow escaping the bookcase to (again, 13 year old mind) attack me.    How did the book get out?   To my knowledge, no one knew that I'd hidden it down there.   I was home alone.   To this day, I know how ridiculous the whole thing sounds, and of course I can reason that a paperback book was not out to get me.   But I don't have a good explanation. The next morning, it was bright and sunny again and I could approach the book safely.   I tore the cover and the lower part of the spine off, ripped up the pieces, and disposed of them. (it was now "safe", as the editions with the sewer grate and monster claw on the cover are "safe")  Then I checked the bookshelf.  There was a thin film of dust that wasn't disturbed in front of the books.   Mystified, I looked closer.  And behind the books, I saw the dim outline of a perfectly intact paperback still on the shelf.   The eyes were glowing up at me out of the darkness. Now, that did mess me up for quite some time.  I had to put myself through a sort of Pennywise Saturation Therapy to avoid getting cold chills when I spotted the odd paperback in a thrift store or at a flea market.   I would get a jolt of terror when I saw random Pennywise on Facebook or imgur.   I still don't know what happened and past a certain point I'm not sure I want to know.   Maybe someone bought a second one and threw it on the shelf, where it fell off?   No one admitted to it, so I don't know.  But I tell you that story, to tell you this story, and it's probably what predisposed me to an irrational fear of clowns. My grandmother went through a thing in the early eighties where she collected clown figurines.   She had them on a polished knick-knack shelf in the corner (Little House on the Prairie fans will recognize it as a "whatnot"). People knew about her collection and were always giving her little clown figurines as gifts.   Some, like the French porcelain Pierrot dolls, were quite beautiful.  My favorite was in red satin with little golden heart charms.   But some were terrifying, including this gift from a well-intentioned family friend. I was about five or six, and knew from Poltergeist what I could expect from such a clown.  I eyed it warily whenever I was at her house.   On nights when I was to sleep over, my grandparents pulled out a mattress from under their couch and I got to face down the horrible thing at bedtime.   Not surprisingly, I didn't sleep very well there.     And the worst thing about this clown was that it sometimes started laughing for no reason at all.   Usually, you had to squeeze the torso and activate a button.   But this one would just laugh, out of the blue.   I don't know if it slumped over and hit something or if there was a short, or what, but it would.  There would be silence, then "Ooo-eee-hoo-ha-ha, Oh-ho-ha-ha-HAAAAAAAA, ha-HAAAAA!"   If the deepest circle of Hell has a soundtrack, I bet this clown's laugh is on it. So one night, I'm there on the yellow vinyl mattress, watching some early Disney channel show and trying to get to sleep.    And this thing starts, from his shelf high above me.    It's cold-chill inducing enough to hear it suddenly start during the day, but imagine it when you're a five year old in the middle of the night. My career as a clown-destroyer started early.   I spent about thirty seconds in mute terror before springing to my feet and grabbing his shoe, which was the only thing I could reach.   I yanked him off the shelf, and he was still going.   I frantically flipped him over, looking for the battery case, which fortunately was just held closed with a plastic prong and not the ittybitty eyeglass screws we have to deal with now.   But the prong thing just wouldn't budge.   Tears were coming now as I pried and squeezed, and the thing was laughing, and nothing was working.   I grabbed him by the legs and whacked his body against the coffee table as hard as I could.   After three or four whacks, the case flew open and batteries scattered in all directions.   The laughing abruptly stopped.   His evil little body in my hand, I searched around for a place to stash him.   Under the couch?  No, he could creep out and strangle me in my sleep.   In the trash?  No, my grandmother would surely find him.   I debated for a few minutes, and finally crept into a bedroom closet.   There was a vent coming up from the furnace in the basement, and it had a wide crevice behind it, maybe four inches.  Enough that I'd been told to stay away so I didn't get trapped back there.   I could see basement lights through the crevice, and I didn't care if I ever went into their creepy basement again.   I tried stuffing the clown facefirst down the hole, but the vinyl or whatever his head was made of was too rigid and wouldn't go all the way through.  I worked and stuffed until most of him wasn't visible anymore, and then I gave up.    I fell into a fitful sleep, but when I woke up the next morning I'd forgotten all about him. Again, fast forward.   This time a few years. I'm at my grandmother's again, and she's asked me to go down to the basement to get something.   I'm a big kid now, maybe 10 years old, and not afraid of the basement.   I descend confidently, on the hunt for a serving bowl or whatever it was.   I poke around shelves, not finding it, not realizing that I'm getting deeper and deeper into dark-and-creepy territory, including a juncture near the furnace where all the heating vents are coming out.   As a bonus, there is also an open window where you can see nothing but flat dirt, the access to the crawlspace under the house. Always fascinated by the prospect of seeing under the house and wanting to take the rare opportunity to look, I tiptoe closer.   I'm now very close to the furnace, directly under the closet I'd chosen to stash the clown in so many years before.    I'm on my tiptoes, peering out at the short expanse of soil lit by the basement light, when something brushes my shoulder.   I bat at it in annoyance before I remember the existence of spiders.   I jolt back to reality and look up, expecting to see the giant Black Widow I'd disturbed.  Of course, it was much worse. I had been brushed by the tip of a clown shoe, which was attached to a yellow satin pantleg, which was attached to a satin particolor body.   And grinning down at me was the grotesque, half-melted face of the clown doll, fused to the furnace vent.  He looked like he'd been in a nuclear accident. Unfortunately, I have a blank in my memory after that.   Did I run upstairs like I did with the paperback?   Did I panic and dispose of him?   I don't remember, and I wish I did.   I know I didn't get in trouble, and no one ever mentioned it to me.    And now, nearing age 40, I'm conflicted...do I make amends and buy my grandmother a new clown doll, or do I take the safer route and not allow one of those evil things near us again? Thanks for the A2A. 