Is it fair to compare the "May 4 Massacre" (Kent State shooting) in 1970 to "Tiananmen Massacre" in China?
Well, having lived through the times of both events, noting the outcomes of each, noting the cultural responses to each, I have to say, yes, these two events are quite similar.  However, there is a significant difference in cultural response which, from my view here in the US is important:  Our culture was horrified at the Kent State shootings, and the event put such a black mark of the nation's psyche that there was suddenly no longer a generation gap when it came to the Viet Nam war, there was barely a generation dent.  The idea our own troops would, on our own soil, shoot and kill our own sons and daughters for doing nothing more than protesting a war- a war which seemed to be mired in quicksand having become a mindless beast into which we shoved our young men as fodder-  was so shocking, the culture as a whole went from murmuring platitudes like "Well, they must know best" to a united "No More War!"   This is one of the seminal events of the Baby Boomer Generation; it is where those apple-cheeked 50s kids who had become good church-going middle-class workers and consumers stopped believing the government must know best.  And our government got that message, and, while all politicians try and pull the wool over their constituents' eyes sometimes, most of them realize they aren't given a job for life, and you please us or get out-  'cause we will make a stink of your name. Ohio State would never happen again while the Baby Boomer Generation lives. Whereas, here in the US, it is unclear  whether or not China's leadership learned a lesson.  It's true, we think, that such never has happened again, but we don't know that because, to us, China is so secretive.  Tienanmen Square sent shock waves through the world and was immediately condemned, but, at the same time, many "regular Joe" folks have no frame of reference to understand whether such a thing hadn't happened before and wouldn't happen again. As to moral high ground, I look at it this way:  Who cares what other countries do compared to your own, as long as your own reflects moral principles of which its citizens can be proud.  Why compare, when you can gloat? 