Did Jesus die for our sins?
The concept makes no sense to me, but it starts with Adam and Eve. Let's say the bible is true. If so, God created man and told them the earth was theirs to do with as they wish. He only had one rule - do not eat from the tree of knowledge of good and evil (Genesis 2:17). Why put the tree there in the first place? If God is omniscient, he would have known they were going to eat from it anyway. So he immediately set them and all mankind up for failure. Fast forward to Jesus - The famous passage from John 3:16, "For God so loved the world that he gave his only son so that whosoever believes in him shall not perish..." seems to support the claim that Jesus died for our sins. But it just seems really twisted that God set us up to sin in the first place, then felt it necessary to appear on earth in human form so that he could die in the flesh to reverse his initial decision. There are other issues with this story, such as: 1. What about all the sinners who came before Jesus? 2. What about all the Jews who died during/shortly after Jesus' death and didn't get to hear the good news? 3. Jesus' mission didn't appear to target Gentiles, only Jews. It wasn't until Paul started making his journeys that the message spread outside the greater Galilee area. Finally, imagine this scenario... We are all born with a generic sense of right and wrong not because of God, but because that's how we evolved. In the most primal sense, we understand that it is not good to cause harm to others. But as we began becoming civilized, our ancestors had difficulty understanding natural phenomena. But they did understand the difference between "good" and "evil". So when they did good and good things happened, or vice versa, it was convenient to make a correlation. Over time, the concept of karma evolved and man started to attribute consequences to supernatural beings. Eventually, the code of ethics became so restrictive (as in Exodus, Deuteronomy, Leviticus, etc), that we needed a scapegoat. Enter Jesus. 