Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS): Why are people joining ISIS?
I think this is the question that a lot of governments and organisations are asking themselves currently. There is no one motivating factor but I think there are often common themes: Religion - ISIS is a religious group that appeals to a specific religious group within Islam and plays on the Sunni-Shia divide. By manipulating this religious divide and presenting themselves as a restoration of what they consider to be "true" Islam and the Caliphate, ISIS has crafted a powerful message that appeals to many people. But religion can be overplayed as a motivating factor, some of the individuals who have gone to fight from Europe have had little to no knowledge of the teachings of Islam. Disillusionment - I think that disillusionment plays a key role in motivating people all over the world to join ISIS. For example, recession and high youth unemployment across much of Europe has led to disillusionment and a sense of a lack of prospects. When combined with the allure of fighting in a foreign country, the prospect of pay and the opportunity to loot and disillusionment becomes a powerful push factor. Targeted campaigning - ISIS has successfully used social media to specifically target individuals who are susceptible to its message of violence and adventure. ISIS has also benefited from "disseminators", individuals who are sympathetic to their cause but not fighting for them. Social media and other communication methods has also enabled those who are willing to be radicalised to directly engage with the conflicts in Iraq and Syria and communicate with ISIS fighters. The ISIS lifestyle - ISIS has been very clever to present a broad lifestyle in the "Caliphate". This not only emphasises the glory and excitement of fighting but also the normal family life people enjoy. The idea is to entice not only young men but also their wives and children to come and support the state they are trying to establish. This enables ISIS to break down the barrier between them and their target populations all over the world.This is by no means a comprehensive answer and I am sure other people can suggest a whole range of other factors that motivate people to join ISIS. Hopefully this will spark a conversation on the topic. For a deeper look at what motivates individuals to fight for ISIS, here is an interesting article: From Portsmouth to Kobane: the British jihadis fighting for Isis. 