What is feminism according to Hinduism?
Thank you for the A2A. Women in the Vedic times have always been protected by their family members because the senses are very strong and even a learned man can commit mistakes. Hence men are expected and trained to follow high standards of etiquette even when dealing with their mother, sister or any other women. Below is such an injunction: ​One should not allow oneself to sit on the same seat even with one's own mother, sister or daughter, for the senses are so strong that even though one is very advanced in knowledge, he may be attracted by sex. -Srimad Bhagavatam 9.19.17 Such etiquette for them was very easy for every child was trained since the age of five in Vedas and remain Brahmachari ( Celibate ) by one's activities, mind and words as instructed by Yajnavalkya. Also, they were trained to address and also respect every other women as Mother not sister, as we do today. Srila Prabhupada explains: So in India, especially, women are still respected. Therefore Chanakya Pandita says, matrvat para-daresu: "Any woman who is not your wife, she should be treated as your mother." This is moral instruction. Matrvat. At the present moment, they have invented the word behenji, "sister." No. In the Vedic culture, there is no such thing as "sister." "Mother," that is Vedic culture. Because mother is always respected, so any woman, if she is called "Mother..." The brahmacari would go to the householder's house and address the ladies, "Mother. Mother, give us some alms." So from the childhood, a brahmacari is trained to address all women as mother. Therefore, when they are young, they cannot see women in any other way. This is Vedic culture. - Lecture on Srimad Bhagavatam 1.8.24 October 4 1974, Mayapur The restrictions on both men and women are put so that the unscruplous cheaters who have malicious intentions for women do not get a chance to fulfill their intentions. Today, such kind of men are taking advantage of women who are may be working, or out for some purpose pertaining to their day-to-day activities. Even babies and girl children have not been spared by such people what can we say about women. But it is not possible that one lockdown the women and girls in the house, That is not practical. Neither laws have made any changes in the scenario. Even though a public execution may be announced for rapists, still they will attempt it because they are propelled by a strong desire of illicit sex. Hence, it is a change in the mentality of people and also the way people view women and girls need a change. And in fact both, men and women require such training. We view girls and women as an object of sensual enjoyment, but our bodies irrespective of being a man/woman/animal is a bag of bones, flesh, marrow and stool. Sripada Shankaracharya shows us this harsh reality in his composition of Bhaja-Govindam: ​Having seen the supposed beauty of a woman's heavy breasts and her thin waist, do not become agitated and illusioned, for these attractive features are simply transformations of fat, flesh and various other disgusting ingredients. You should consider this in your mind again and again. But following Krishna consciousness one can become gradually free of such wild attractions and reserve oneself from viewing women in such disrespectful manner : Self-control means that one should not accept anything which is detrimental to the path of spiritual progress. One should become accustomed to this and reject anything which is against the path of spiritual progress. This is real renunciation. The senses are so strong that they are always anxious to have sense gratification. One should not cater to these demands, which are not necessary. The senses should only be gratified to keep the body fit so that one can discharge his duty in advancing in spiritual life. The most important and uncontrollable sense is the tongue. If one can control the tongue, then there is every possibility of controlling the other senses. The function of the tongue is to taste and to vibrate. Therefore, by systematic regulation, the tongue should always be engaged in tasting the remnants of foodstuffs offered to Krishna and chanting Hare Krishna. -  Bhagavad-gita As It Is  13.8-12 I hope your question has been answered. All glories to Srila Prabhupada. Updated 3w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Anonymous