What are all the contradictions in the Bible about Jesus Christ?
Throughout Christianity's 2,000 year history, many have charged the Bible with errors and inconsistencies. In response, Christians have defended the Bible time and time again. One other answer on this page asserts that these defenses reek of desperation. I submit rather that most of these charges reek of bias. By far the vast majority of supposed contradictions in the Bible can be resolved with a quick 5 minutes of research. Most derive from ignorance of the historical and cultural contexts, misunderstanding translation issues, or simply mis-reading what the text actually says. There are many, many, many resources available that put to rest all of these charges of contradiction. I'll point you to one of the many, many websites that explains the supposed contradictions: http://www.philvaz.com/apologeti... An even better resource is the work of Gleason Archer, whose work refuting contradictions in the entire Bible can be viewed here: http://sent2all.com/Archer-Intro... David Carpenter has assembled quite a list of supposed contradictions. I will quote Archer in response to some of them, as I have time, inserting a few of my own comments here and there, as needed to address additional points. The Genealogies of Jesus The supposed charge is that Matthew and Luke disagree on the lineage of Jesus. In response:  Matthew 1:1-16 gives the genealogy of Jesus through Joseph, who was himself a descendant of King David. As Joseph's adopted Son, Jesus became his legal heir, so far as his inheritance was concerned. Notice carefully the wording of v.16: "And Jacob begat Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ" (NASB). This stands in contrast to the format followed in the preceding verses of the succession of Joseph's ancestors: "Abraham begat [egennesen] Isaac, and Isaac begat Jacob, etc." Joseph is not said to have begotten Jesus; rather he is referred to as "the husband of Mary, of whom [feminine genitive] Jesus was born." Luke 3:23-38, on the other hand, seems to record the genealogical line of Mary herself, carried all the way back beyond the time of Abraham to Adam and the commencement of the human race. This seems to be implied by the wording of v.23: "Jesus...being (as was supposed) the son of Joseph." This "as was supposed" indicates that Jesus was not really the biological son of Joseph, even though this was commonly assumed by the public. It further calls attention to the mother, Mary, who must of necessity have been the sole human parent through whom Jesus could have descended from a line of ancestors. Her genealogy is thereupon listed, starting with Heli, who was actually Joseph's father-in-law, in contradistinction to Joseph's own father, Jacob (Matt. 1:16). Mary's line of descent came through Nathan, a son of Bathsheba (or "Bathshua," according to 1 Chron. 3:5), the wife of David. Therefore, Jesus was descended from David naturally through Nathan and legally through Solomon. Carpenter then includes a length section supposing that the genealogies did originally include Jesus as Joseph's son, followed by speculation as to why. The problem with this is that there is no evidence of this, whatsoever. The earliest copies we have include the genealogies as they're written in any Bible you'll pick up today. There is no trace of a tradition that recorded Jesus as Joseph's son. It is an interesting thought exercise to suppose that the records were changed, but there is absolutely zero evidence that would support such an idea. The Virgin Birth Carpenter claims that it is highly suspicious for only Matthew and Luke to report on Jesus' virgin birth. Yet there are very obvious reasons as to why Mark and John do not report it. Mark's entire Gospel is not concerned with reporting on the Jewish history of Jesus. The virgin birth is a fulfillment of Jewish prophecy, which Matthew focuses on in his Gospel. Mark aimed to communicate the story of Jesus to those who did not have any Jewish background, so he avoided most of Matthew's discussion of prophecy and fulfillment. John had no need to write of it, as he wrote a few decades after the other three, and the story of Jesus' virgin birth was already extremely well-known. Nearly 92% of John's Gospel is unique to John, because he was attempting to write about the stories of Jesus that had not yet been widely published, rather than to re-tread the ground of the Synoptics. As for Paul, he doesn't mention the virgin birth because his writings are all occasional. This means that he is responding to unique situations in churches and with his associates. He never intended to write the definitive theology textbook of Christianity. He refers to a great many of the stories of the Gospels off-handedly, demonstrating that He certainly knew of what had happened in Jesus' life. Yet because both Paul and his audience already knew the stories, Paul felt no need to repeat them. Women in Matthew's Genealogy of Jesus Carpenter makes the claim that the only possible reason for Matthew to include these four women in his genealogy is to provide an excuse for supposed sexual infidelity of Mary and Joseph. He supposes that all four women were guilty of sexual sin, and this therefore exonerates Mary and Joseph for supposed pre-marital sex. The problem with this view is that it's simply not factually accurate. Ruth committed no sexual sin. The Bible records that she went to Boaz at night, but it is highly, highly improbable that they had any sexual relations, given that they were out in the open, surrounded on all sides by other sleeping people. She uncovered his feet to wake him up with the cool night air, but there is no record of them sleeping together before they married. A few creative writers have tried to shoe-horn sex into the narrative by trying to read its details as double entendre, but it simply isn't there. Given this fact, the conclusion that these women are included solely to justify sexual sin of Mary and Joseph falls apart. It is further complicated by there being no evidence that Mary and Joseph ever slept together before being married, or that the Gospels ever recorded such. It is wild speculation on Carpenter's part, supposed by no historical evidence. The Angel's Message / How Jesus' Family Understood Him Carpenter asserts that if the messages from the angels to Mary and Joseph were true, then they would have the highest regard for Jesus. He supplies Mark 3:20-21 as evidence against this, as they say that He is out of His mind. The answer to this is to simply explore the context of Mark 3. Jesus has already done amazing things and gathered huge crowds. His family did not stop him or say that He was crazy during any of this, demonstrating that they saw that behavior as in keeping with their understanding of who Jesus is. Jesus' family only says He is out of his mind when the crush of the crowds becomes so great that Jesus doesn't even have space in which to eat a piece of bread. Jesus' family is not saying Jesus was crazy because He was acting as Messiah. They said He was out of His mind because of how they perceived Him to be handling the attention of the people. The Date of Jesus' Birth To quote Carpenter: "According to Matthew, Jesus was born during the reign of Herod the Great (Matthew 2:1). According to Luke, Jesus was born during the first census in Israel, while Quirinius was governor of Syria (Luke 2:2). This is impossible because Herod died in March of 4 BC and the census took place in 6 and 7 AD, about 10 years after Herod's death. [...] In any event, Quirinius did not become governor of Syria until well after Herod's death." This supposed contradiction has been recently resolved by the progress of archaeology. To quote William Lane Craig: An eminent archaeologist named Jerry Vardaman has done a great deal of work in this regard. He has found a coin with the name of Quirinius on it in very small writing or what we call micrographic letters. This places him as proconsul of Syria and Cilicia from 11 BC until after the death of Herod. That would be exactly the time that Luke says Quirinius was the governor of Syria. This is published in John McRay’s 1991 book Archaeology and the Old Testament on page 154. This again illustrates the point that our knowledge of the ancient world is very sketchy, and it would not be at all surprising to see these sorts of factual discrepancies dissolve upon acquiring further information. The Place of Jesus' Birth Carpenter admits that both Matthew and Luke record Bethlehem as the birthplace of Jesus, but he claims a contradiction between when they declare the Jesus' family lived in Nazareth. There is no contradiction here, but rather one unified story with details supplied by two different authors. Luke records Jesus' family living in Nazareth before Jesus' birth, which makes a great deal of sense. Matthew declares that they moved back to Nazareth after Jesus' birth, which also makes a great deal of sense, as they would likely desire to move back to a place they were familiar with. Matthew does not declare that this was the first time they lived in Nazareth, as many have claimed. Carpenter doubts that Roman governors would have required Jewish people to return to their home towns for a census, calling it "absurd." Contrary to this, we have well documented evidence that this kind of practice occurred in Egypt, making it highly probable that it also occurred in Israel. I may continue this at a later time, but I'm running out of time at present. If you will consult Archer's work as I linked above, you can diffuse most of Carpenter's accusations with a few minutes of reading. Updated 67w ago • View Upvotes