If Adam and Eve didn't know right from wrong then how did they know it was wrong to eat off the tree when God told them not to eat it because it was wrong?
In the story, the reason they knew it was wrong is because God told them so. (If you think about the definition of 'wrong', it means doing something that is destructive or breaks a law - even if you don't understand the consequences). They knew God warned them not to eat from it. What made them doubt their knowledge was that the serpent seemed to contradict God, and the consequence of their wrong action was separation from the world God prepared for them. The story says that the world we live in is in some ways 'fallen' - it does not reflect God's kingdom/paradise any more. The rest of the Bible describes (through the eyes of Israel) how God wants creation to be reconciled again, brought back from that exile, and He promises to do just that... But it is also important to realise the story doesn't just describe something long ago, which we cannot do anything about. It also shows how we generally experience life. In other words, Adam and Eve were just like us - and we are like them. We also experience loss and suffering in our lives. Even though we might try to be good ourselves, all we see is the world being deceived and destroyed and corrupted by people doing evil, without understanding or even thinking about the consequences. So we find ourselves living into a world we did not ask for and do not agree with. You are not alone to think it seems pointless, mean and wasteful: "I observed everything going on under the sun, and really, it is all meaningless—like chasing the wind!" said the author of Ecclesiastes. "Why wasn’t I born dead?" Job complained. "I know the difference between right and wrong—and I have done no wrong!" It is our instinct to look for someone ultimately responsible, someone to blame for this state of affairs... But the story of Eden begs us to reconsider the wisdom of doing that, since it means looking for scapegoat to take the blame - an enemy. Scapegoating has consequences: the innocent is made to suffer for the guilty; the living are asked to pay for the dead. It leads to the persecution of others - other groups, other religions, other nations... or God - the ultimate Other. This desire to make enemies has to stop if we are ever to find our way back from exile into that promised land. So finally, the story about Eden is also about having something to work for, something to look forward to, something that makes the struggle for good an achievement that our children (and the children of our enemies) can be thankful for. The story is not only about what we lose by doing wrong, but also what we hope to gain by doing right. When you see a good man, try to emulate his example, and when you see a bad man, search yourself for his faults - Confucius 