Narcissism: How does someone abused by a narcissist (mother) resolve their anger?
I have a narcissistic mother, the covert kind.  No matter the circumstances, the event or the people involved, she always managed to turn all the attention on herself.  She was always the martyr and the victim. She's the meanest person I've ever known. Her verbal attacks were always delivered when no one else was around and then promptly denied them when confronted in front of others. And then the tears would come because she was so "hurt" at being falsely accused. Yet,  she slandered my character in unbelievable ways.  Understand this: the minute you GET what this person really is, you become a target. You're their bulls eye.  For the lies, the false accusations, all of it.  I started hearing about all the ways I had abused her and now, that "poor" thing just couldn't "take it anymore". Whatever goes wrong is your fault, even if you live on the other side of the planet.   In my case, after I severed ties,  I would receive vile phone calls from my mother at first.  I changed my phone number, email addresses and I moved as well. Because she was still manipulating so many other family members, I cut ties with them as well.  One person knew how to reach me. That person was my father.  My mother never knew we kept in contact all those years.  She still doesn't. For me,  I made the choice to take my life back and I would go to any lengths to do that.Looking back, I just got flat-out PISSED at what she had done and  honestly, that anger fueled me in a positive way.  It gave me momentum  to keep going. Don't know if that works for anyone else, but it did for  me.    I saw my mother as being the toxic person she really is.  I had no name for what my mother is at first. I read everything I  could find. I found a good therapist who spent hours explaining narcissism and helping me heal.  He was the best investment I ever made. It took a long time, but I slowly rebuilt myself.  I quit allowing my mother's cruelty and criticism to define me as a person.   I refused to allow her to have any further power over me and that's when the anxiety and depression started to dwindle.  I let go of the guilt I carried for not being "enough" of a daughter to her. The reality  is, no one can ever be what she wants 100%.  After all, in the mind of a narcissist, they are the only perfect being. Pfft!   I learned I'm a work in progress and always will be. I'm anything but perfect, but perfect is boring. :) It took years, but my siblings and I are close once again. Every single one of them have been the victim of her abusive manipulations and lies. I actually see my mother now and then these days.  ONCE, she tried to trash me to my sister. And the confrontation that followed was epic. Because this time, my siblings stood with me.  Hasn't happened again. While you posed your question quite awhile ago, if you should see this, I hope you are doing better and are more content and happy. :) 