What are all the contradictions in the Bible about Jesus Christ?
David Carpenter presented a good list of the contradictions found in the Bible about Jesus Christ. For those of us who are mainstream Christians (mainline Protestants, Catholics and Orthodox), we freely acknowledge the contradictions and don't try to deny or harmonize them like some evangelicals and fundamentalists do. The contradictions are there. Christians have known about them for at least two millenia. The question is: Why does it bother us now but didn't bother them before? The Bible is a anthology, not a book. "Bible" comes from the Greek word Biblia which means "The Books". It is the product of many authors writing over many many centuries. They were writing to different groups of people in different circumstances using different styles, which can lead to contradictions. The Gospels are the product of oral tradition passed through different communities before being written down decades later. While stories passed through communities tend to stay more consistent than through individuals because of self-correction (which is why the "telephone game" doesn't apply to oral tradition), there may emerge variances in their details. The Pauline letters tended to dwell less on what Christ did than what His legacy is, so getting the details about what Christ did mattered less to Paul than how Christ changed our relationship with God. As modern, western people who live in a hyper-literal culture, we reflexively assume that variances and contradictions in a narrative must mean that the story is of questionable validity or altogether untrue, but ancient people didn't think that way.  The writers and editors of the Bible were aware of different versions of a story circulating through a community. It was ancient practice to include all the variations and then let the readers decide for themselves which may be most correct (if it mattered.) Sometimes the splicing was even done in the middle of a story. One example of this is in the Noah's Ark story: God first tells Noah to bring "of every living thing, of all flesh, you shall bring two of every kind  into the ark, to keep them alive with you; they shall be male and  female.  Of  the birds according to their kinds, and of the animals according to their kinds, of every creeping thing of the ground according to its  kind, two of every kind shall come in to you, to keep them alive." (Genesis 5:19-20). But only two sentences later, God tells Noah to bring "seven pairs of all clean animals, the male and its mate; and a pair of the animals that are not clean, the male and its mate; and seven pairs of the birds of the air also, male and female, to keep their kind alive on the face of all the earth." (Genesis 6:2-3). Clearly there is a contradiction. There is also another problem: God doesn't reveal which animals are clean and which animals are unclean until Moses' encounter with God at Mt. Sinai during the Exodus, millenia later (if one believes that the Noah story is factual). In this case, the writers of the Bible were aware that two variations of the story were circulating, including one that developed after the Exodus event, and chose to include both. As any police officer will tell you, it's very common for a group of people to give diverse and even contradictory descriptions of what happened after a crime event. We tend to process events through our own lenses, so it makes sense to include all of them instead of trying to harmonize, hide or suppress them. Modern people also tend to assume that if a writer had an agenda, they must not be telling the truth, but again, ancient people thought differently. The Gospel of Matthew quotes extensively, and often out of context, from the Hebrew Scriptures (Old Testament) in the writer(s') attempt to show that Jesus Christ is the fulfillment of the Jewish messiah. To a modern western mind, he's pulling the wool over our eyes, but to ancient people it only mattered whether his agenda was true, not how he supported it. Again, it's not as if modern people are the first to become aware of contradictions in the Bible. People have been aware of them for at least 2,000 years. The original writers were certainly aware of them when they wrote them down. The only thing that makes them an issue now is that our own cultural assumptions are very different than those in the past. We associate truth with facts, dates, events and other details and reflexively become sceptical if they don't all line up. Ancient people didn't care as much about facts, dates, events and other details but were focused on whether the essence of the story was true. For mainstream Christians (mainline Protestants, Catholics and Orthodox), the Bible is the Word of God because God speaks through it to us, not because it doesn't contain contradictions. The writers of the Bible were certainly inspired by God, but wrote of their own culture and first hand experiences to those who lived in the same place, time and context. We can't impose our cultural assumptions of them, but must let them speak to us in their own way instead. The binary (all-or-nothing/yes-no) thinking of fundamentalism and anti-theism just doesn't hold sway for the rest of us. 