Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS): Why are people joining ISIS?
A2A by Gary Ow. Keep up the good work Gary. I feel obliged to warn of graphic content. If anyone knows where I can flag my answer for this that would be much appreciated.   Let's begin. They're the bad guys, to people they've threatened.   Like me.   They didn't threaten to kill me personally, but that whole thing about 'invading Australia' and 'killing all the shirk' sorta gave me the impression I should make it a 'me' against 'them' sort of deal. In fact, for them, it's a 'with us or against us' sort of deal. They are the sort who, if they had the power, would try to take over the world. In fact, they're trying to already, they just don't have the power.   I consider myself a tolerant person, but my policy of tolerance is intolerant of intolerance. So, I want them dead, but it's useful to understand why they are like they are to get them dead. That means I should study them and understand them.   To my understanding, the people joining ISIS 1. Believe in a higher power and 2. Believe what they want to hear about that power, which means that 3. What they hear from ISIS is what they want to hear. ISIS is killing shirk (idolaters, pagans, polytheists) and disobedient Muslims (who fail to uphold holy laws as interpreted by said group) and sticking it to the West, which is shirk. Shirk shirk shirk. That's why they broke the statues and burned the books. Statues and books are shirk, because they don't worship their god. ISIS is taking ground from various dictators, and upholding the law of their god at their layman's level understanding of it. They don't listen to Islamic scholars because Islamic scholars don't represent them. They feel betrayed by the failure of the Islamic global community to bring their piety to everyone. They feel righteous, and they feel like their god wants them to do what they're doing.   The music you hear in the background of all of their videos is praise for their god. All their war cries and chants, Takbeer: Allah Akbar, God is greatest. You can hear a great example of it in this video, where the jihadi speaks, and once they're done the call goes up. They work very hard to sound like they have an intellectual basis, and they believe they do, but as a general rule they circumvent established understanding in order to do what they believe is right. Misguided or purposefully ignorant, what they do they do in the name of a true Islamic Caliphate. An Islamic State, so to speak.   Lovely, simple creatures they are. Simple enough to subscribe to an us against them theology and a saviour complex. I mean, look at them - would anyone of any intelligence or culture ever smash priceless historical artefacts? They think they're doing their god, themselves, and the rest of us a favour. I think they're going to die miserable and lonely. Preferably, they'll die miserable, lonely, and disembowelled, but I can only hope.   Conclusion: We need only extend to them the mercy they extend to others, which is none. It is no more than the mercy they would extend us. They are selfish, short-sighted, and aggressively, purposefully anti-intellectual. You join intolerant, ignorant, destructive groups because you are intolerant, ignorant, and destructive.   Afternote: I miss some context here, naturally. There are some great answers floating around the internet, an example being Adel Helal's answer to How do pacifists think we should react to ISIS?, where ISIS and other Islamic problems are conceptualised as reactions to colonialism, the fall of the Ottoman Empire, and other Western meddling. As far as I'm concerned, that's partially true. What's also true: women, children, Muslims who don't fit into the box of the terrorist of the day, pagans, atheists, intellectuals, and people of reasonable common sense, are falling victim to these 'problems,' and they have solutions which can only work after some jihadists  and their organisations have been splattered by artillery or otherwise killed. 