What would happen if the USA and Pakistan attacked India at the same time?
I was A2A and I haven't read the other answers yet. Some of this is based on my experience driving up to the Indo Pak border when there was a mobilisation during the confrontation in 2002. India is a continent. It has a large army, navy and I assume Air Force. The US would need at least two carrier task forces - one on the west coast and one on the east coast. It would also have Middle Eastern assets and those in Diego Garcia. The first step would be to develop a defence in depth through the Punjab and Rajasthan. With no air cover massive tank battles would be suicidal so the the Pakistanis would be best defeated by letting them outrun their logistic support. Dispersing Indian troops into lots of amorphous low value formations for air attacks would help. Again dispersing air and command and control assets across India would be a really useful thing to do. There is a limit to what US forces could achieve with limited munitions. And pretty much any ground forces could be swallowed up by the sheer scale of India. So absorb the first blows and then decide the best way to counter attack. One thought that would be interesting would be to commit the Indian Airforce against a carrier task force. How many aircraft and anti ship missiles would you have to commit to degrade its defences?  That's a calculation I can't do. But there will be a point at which you can saturate even a modern carrier task forces defences. To defend itself it needs to either withdraw or put much of its aircraft in the air. All you need then are 1 or 2 lucky hits on the main deck and it goes from being a potent striking force to a significant liability that has to be protected. Can this be achieved within an acceptable loss ratio? I have no idea. Pakistan I believe should be easily fought to a standstill. I cant see many circumstances where the US would commit massively if it suffered significant losses. So the focus has to be making it too painful for the US to stay engaged. Various unconventional thoughts: Commando raids on Diego Garcia Scuttling or blowing up ships in either Suez or Persian Gulf Massive bribery in the tribal areas Declaration of Kashmiri independence!!!!!!! Unilateral commitment to nuke the first US troops to enter India even at the cost of massive Indian casualties. There's got to be something possible with the Indian diaspora inSilicon  valley as well - they can't all be taken to Internment camps like the Japanese in WW2 Key thing though - read up on the Soviet Defence of Russia in 1941 and apply the same lessons. India can do this. None of the other countries the US has fought could 