What would happen if the USA and Pakistan attacked India at the same time?
Let me give you an analogy, that of a jungle.   The United States of America is a group of bald eagles, each deadly in it's own right and coordinating brilliantly; powerful, swift and smart! (Think Lord of the Rings eagles) India is a group of giant Elephants living on the opposite end of the forest from the Eagles. Pakistan is a group of aggressive wild goats living quite close to the Elephants. Now, the Eagles have decided to attack the Elephants with the help of the goats! Before the battle, the Eagles do go to the Council of Animals for launching an attack on the Elephants alleging some crime which the Elephants clearly cannot commit. The Council of Animals, by the way is a completely useless organisation and has no power whatsoever on any major animals and most of the times, just acts as moral shield for the Eagles. However, in these case, the Elephants have some friends and most probably must have convinced either the Bears or the Dragons to veto the proposal. The Dragon fears Eagles getting a home so close to his and would naturally oppose it. Bears hate Eagles anyways, too much bad blood between them. The Council of Animals, thus does not take any part in the planned invasion. The Dragons might threaten the Eagles to stay away from their area but they can only threaten, they cannot engage Eagles openly without pressing self destruct. The Elephants in the meanwhile, know that if the Eagles attack them, defeat is imminent and they won't be able to put up much fight against them. They would try every thing in their power to avoid any such confrontation. Even offer Eagles a place in their home, if the Eagles want. Let me admit, it is very difficult to fathom any motivation for the Eagles to attack the Elephants. Eagles hunt only small, powerless and rich in protein animals, the Elephants are neither small, rather decently powerful and rich in fats (e.g. Thorium). Eagles are not really expansionist, they consider every animal town as their own and don't attack unless they can loot some proteins. Unless the Eagles have figured out some real good use of the fats, they really don't have no motivation to attack the Elephants. Even if they have, they can simply steal it from them, the Elephants are pretty much oblivious to their town and stealing from them is very easy. Anyways, let us assume that the Eagles do have a reason to attack and all negotiations have failed and everybody is preparing for battle. The Elephants know they are doomed but they will put up a fight. They are not much concerned about the power of the Goat but the major problem is, the Eagles can use the Goat's town as a temporary shelter while they would require much time to reach any place close to the Eagles' town and even if they do reach, most of the Eagles' neighbors would not lend them any shelter. Let me describe to you, the Elephants' town in brief.  It is quite secure on the north eastern side as there is a big hill. On the other side of the hill, live the Dragons who as we know, don't get along well with the Eagles. On the South Eastern side, there is a nice big river. Big enough that the Elephants can feel safe from most animals, most animals but not the Eagles. The Elephants are not weak in the water, but the Eagles are way too powerful. The major danger come from the north western side, where they share the border with the Goats. Although, we have been calling it the Goat's home, it is more or less Eagles' play ground and they injure the Goats a lot. Goats even protest against the Eagles but the Eagles stared them down. The south western side is again surrounded by waters, but those waters are accessible to the Goats as well, hence they are much less safer. The Elephants have prepared some tree trunks for launching attack in dire situations, but the Eagles home is so far away, that even if they manage to throw one that far, they will be intercepted in the middle. Indeed, Eagles have a keen eye-sight! They even know what force the six thousand, seven hundred fifty fifth hair of elephant number twenty one's left-back thigh is experiencing right now. They even monitor Facebook and Google! Also, the Eagles have collected lots of tree-trunks themselves and might use it as an excuse to destroy the Elephants completely. So, the Elephants can merely look out for survival in as much Gandhian fashion as possible. On the eve of the battle, the Eagles arrive at Goats' town. The Elephants line up at the border between their and the Goat's town in the hope that some how the battle reduces to fist fighting. The Eagles are clever, they are willing to make the Goats scapegoats pushing them for the first strike. The Elephants defends the first attack with quite some force and is now, happy. After creating some chaos, time for the Eagles to enter, they attack the elephants from all sides, the Elephants do not have much answer to the Eagles' air superiority and quite soon, the Elephants are all broken physically and broken-spirited. The battle ends with the Eagles freely moving between the Goat's home and the Elephants' home, they also promise to bring democracy to the Elephants, even though, they were a democracy to begin with. They say they would leave the Elephant town soon, but never do! Everybody hates the Eagles.. Updated 88w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Aanchal Jhunjhunwala