Race Relations: How can I show solidarity with the Mexican immigrants living in my city (Oklahoma City)?
This is a great question and I’m glad you’re actively looking for ways to show solidarity.  As a white person, I can share what I have done to show solidarity with the Hispanic community in my area, but I can’t speak from the position of someone who has been on the receiving end of these actions.  I can only tell you how I think my actions have been received.    In high school, I felt a frustration that is similar to what you describe.  The student body at my school was divided not by ethnicity but by language.  The majority of students at my high school were Hispanic (mostly Puerto Rican and Dominican) and many of them were native Spanish-speakers with varying levels of English ability.  There was a Bilingual Program for students who were not yet fluent in English; they took classes that were mostly taught in Spanish.  Students in this program were learning English alongside their regular curriculum with the goal being to eventually integrate them into regular courses.    Racial breakdown of my high school from Francis T. Maloney High School Meriden, CT Enrollment & Demographics While most of my best friends in high school were Hispanic, they were all native English-speakers.  The divide was not between Hispanic and non-Hispanic students, but rather between English-speakers and Spanish-speakers.  The native Spanish-speakers in the Bilingual Program were often referred to as ‘gualas’ (sometimes in a derogatory manner, other times in a purely descriptive manner) by white, black and other Hispanic students alike.  They were generally completely ignored (and sometimes mocked) by the rest of the student body.  (To be honest, I’m sure they mocked us too, although that clearly isn’t as harmful as our mocking of them.)  Even though they took classes in the same hallways as the rest of the students, ate lunch with us and passed us in the halls every day, there was very little attempt from either side to mingle with the other.  It was something everyone accepted as normal – after all, how can you befriend someone when you can’t even communicate with them?   I took Spanish classes throughout high school and started really trying to become fluent by my junior year.  Most of my Hispanic friends, while native English-speakers, either spoke some Spanish at home or had parents who spoke Spanish.  This helped me practice outside the classroom and gain confidence with the language.  (I still remember the glee my best friend's mom expressed the first time I correctly translated an English sentence into Spanish in front of her - it was an awesome moment.)  As my Spanish skills and my love for the language grew, I started to become increasingly aware of (and bothered by) the divide between English- and Spanish-speaking students at my school.  During my senior year, I started a club with the goal of creating a space for English- and Spanish-speaking students to gather and try to bridge the communication gap and actually interact with each other.  When pitching the idea to my friends to try to get them to join, I emphasized that they didn’t need to be bilingual, they just had to be willing to try to creatively confront the language barrier and show interest in mingling with new people, regardless of the awkwardness of not speaking the same language.  I hung up flyers around the school in English and Spanish, made announcements over the intercom in English and Spanish (which ruffled the feathers of some entitled white students…you know, those people that complain about having to press 1 for English), and spread the word to my friends in an attempt to get people on board with what I was trying to do.  The club only had a small number of members and took a few weeks to get started (after being approved by administration, backed by a teacher, etc.), but we had some successful meetings in which students who spoke English, Spanish, and both came together to hang out after school once a week.  We watched movies, played board games, and brought in food to share.  Students who were bilingual acted as translators, and we had some fun moments where we realized we all had more in common than we would have guessed.   Regretfully, my 'senioritis' and stressful course load caused me to devote less time to the upkeep and management of the club by the end of the year, and it fizzled by the end of the year as I didn’t find anyone to replace me as the leader when I graduated.  However, I still learned a lot from the experience and am tremendously proud of the efforts of everyone who was willing to face the difficulty of crossing a language barrier and making friends with people who seemed on the surface to be completely different from themselves.   Now that I am in college and live in the Bronx during the school year, my Spanish-speaking skills have come in handy and allowed me to mingle with some of my Spanish-speaking neighbors, specifically a cheery Christian man from Honduras named Milton (pronounced Meel-tone) who worked as a repairman in the last two apartment buildings I lived in.  I’ve had a lot of interesting conversations with Milton, from debates about the Bible to chats about our families and where we’re from.  He’ll often ask me how to say certain words in English, and I’ll ask him how to say some things in Spanish.  Two winters ago, when I was living in the apartment above his, the power went out in our building for almost 24 hours on a freezing cold February day.  He ran a super long extension cord from the building behind ours (with the permission of our landlord, who owned that building as well) to his apartment and then hooked up another one and tossed it up to me through the window so I could at least plug in a lamp and a heated blanket.  Needless to say, the other students in my building were quite jealous and certainly missed out by not befriending Milton. J   I still live in my hometown during the summers and work at an ice cream shop where many of the customers are native Spanish speakers.  When they’re struggling to describe what they want in English, I will sometimes say, “Dímelo en Español” (“tell me in Spanish”).  Their eyes light up in surprise and they are often relieved that they can speak the language they are more comfortable with.  Even when there is a word I don’t know (a few weeks ago a guy asked for “maní,” which means peanuts, but I was drawing a blank and couldn’t remember what that meant), they generally appreciate that I am willing to try and meet them halfway rather than getting frustrated with them for not being fluent in English.   So, with all that being said, I think the most important thing you can do to show solidarity with the Hispanic community (especially immigrants whose first language is Spanish) is to try to communicate with them in their native language and potentially even form genuine friendships with them.  Regardless of your level of Spanish ability, make an effort to learn and be willing to cross awkward language barriers.  Distance yourself as much as possible from the “English Only” white people who insist that “In America, you must speak English!”  From my point of view, this is truly the most important thing you can do.  Many Hispanic and Latino* people have been treated poorly by white people who look down on their language, culture, and mere presence in the United States.  In my experience, making a sincere effort to communicate with these folks in Spanish (or even Spanglish if you’re not quite fluent) is greatly appreciated.   Now, obviously learning a foreign language isn’t easy and requires you to devote a lot of time and effort to it.  I’ve been studying Spanish for about nine years now (granted, I’ve only been taking it seriously for about five), and I’m still not totally fluent.  I can form sentences and communicate most ideas, but there are still many words I don’t know and it’s often still difficult for me to understand native speakers since they often speak quickly.  However, I can say that studying and attaining near-fluency in Spanish has been immensely rewarding and has increased my empathy for those Spanish-speakers who are trying to learn English.  Spanish is a much more consistent language than English, and a fairly easy language to learn once you pick up on the basic patterns and grammar rules.  I would recommend a program like Rosetta Stone, but there are plenty of more affordable (and free) resources online such as Fluencia.  Watching Spanish television, listening to Spanish music and radio, and being around Spanish speakers as much as possible is also helpful when it comes to perfecting your Spanish accent and understanding the slangy terms and phrases you won’t learn from books or formal programs.   If you decide to take my advice, the only side note I have is to be sure that when you begin speaking Spanish to someone, you’re not doing it in a condescending way.  I don’t speak Spanish to every person who has a Spanish accent just because I know it’s their first language, since it could suggest to them that their English is bad.  Instead, I’ll offer a word in Spanish if I think someone is struggling to get their idea across in English, gauge how they respond to it, and continue in Spanish if they seem more comfortable switching over to Spanish.   TLDR: Learn Spanish! It’s a fun and beautiful language that opens so many doors and allows for the possibility of meeting and befriending people you would otherwise only have been able to smile and wave at.    Sorry for the long and rambly answer, but this is something that is important to me and I hope I’ve helped at all!  If you have any thoughts or questions feel free to comment or message me.   P.S.: If you haven’t already, you should ask Katherine Ochoa to answer this question.  She is a wonderful writer with a lot of important thoughts and experiences to share about the Latino community and specifically Latino immigrants.  While she is not Mexican, she might be able to share some important tips from the perspective of someone who has personally experienced what it is like to be a Latino immigrant in the United States.   *As I just learned recently, there is a difference between the terms Hispanic and Latino.  Familiarizing yourself with this concept (if you haven’t already) could be another small step in showing solidarity!  “Hispanic” refers to someone who is from a place in which Spanish is a primary language, while “Latino” refers to someone who is from Latin America.  Someone from Brazil (where they speak Portuguese) is therefore Latino but not Hispanic.  And someone from Spain (which is not in Latin America) is Hispanic (or Spanish) but not Latino.  I’m sure you already know this, but “Spanish” and “Hispanic” do not mean the same thing, as Spanish refers specifically to someone from Spain (or obviously the language ‘Spanish’) and could not be accurately used to describe someone from Mexico, Puerto Rico, Guatemala, etc.  While that should be fairly obvious, many of my white friends call all Hispanic/Latino people “Spanish” and it drives me crazy. 