Scary Situations:  What is the creepiest thing that has ever actually happened to you?
Years ago I studied abroad in Australia for a year.  My first semester I attended Murdoch University in Perth, my second semester I attended James Cook University (JCU) in Townsville.  During my time at JCU I stayed in John Flynn College (JFC), which is basically what we would call a dormitory in the States.  My room was in the "D" building on the first floor.  The rooms were not exactly secure, meaning the doors did not have any sort of major deadbolts.  The door that went out onto the shared patio/garden area could easily be unlocked by sliding the glass of the window, rolling back the screen, and then reaching through to turn the knob from the inside.  This didn't really bother me because we were on the campus of a university in a small town of Australia.  Everyone who stayed at JFC knew everyone else, we ate meals together, partied together etc.  However, a week or so after I moved into my room, I started to notice strange little things that would be different inside my room.  The things were small enough that I thought they were just things I hadn't noticed before, like writing in black marker on the inside of one of my cabinets, or those glowing stars inside the "closet space."  Also, every once in a while I would find these little fake, material roses stuck into the locks of my doors.  Again, I just brushed it off as nothing to worry about.  Until one night, my friends and I had been hanging out on campus having a few beers when I decided to go to bed.  So I walked down the hall, got changed, and went to sleep.  At some point in the night I woke up, startled, and there was a guy, who I had never seen before, leaning over me as I slept, with his hands on either side of my head.  I was extremely disoriented at first and simply managed to say "What the f***?" And this guy stood up, backed slowly away, and started saying "It's okay, I am supposed to be here, I am supposed to be here." Then he just turned and walked out my back door leading to the shared patio area and off into the night.  Needless to say, I was freaked out, but it was like 3 am, so I threw on some clothes and ran down to my friend James' room and ended up sleeping on his floor for the rest of the night.  The next morning I went to the main office and asked that they put deadbolts on my doors and change all the locks.  As I mentioned, I had never seen the guy before, and I never saw him again.  Also, all the weird little things that I had brushed off stopped happening.  It was definitely creepy to think that this guy might have been breaking into my room all the time at night to watch me sleep.  Shudder. Updated 4w ago • View Upvotes