English (language): What are some interesting English idioms and their meanings?
Not exactly English but I love this one. “THE WRITING IS ON THE WALL” ‘The writing is on the wall‘ has an origin in the Biblical Book of Daniel and literally is a portent of impending doom or misfortune. In chapter 5 of the book of Daniel, a supernatural hand writes a message upon the wall foretelling of the demise of Babylon. MENE; God hath numbered thy kingdom, and finished it. TEKEL; Thou art weighed in the balances, and art found wanting. PERES; Thy kingdom is divided, and given to the Medes and Persians. In the popular Harry Potter franchise we can see a reference to this same phenomenon, is this not a portent of impending doom? Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets Source: 10 Idioms from the Ancient World - Roman, Greek, Hebrew Too Many Chiefs and Not Enough Indians This is often used to describe a company where there are too many managers and not enough people doing the actual work. too many chiefs, not enough Indians on Urban Dictionary Phrase used to claim there are too many bosses, not enough workers, but also used to lament the over-education of the "masses," who should realize their place. Usually uttered by yuppies or their parents, quite confident that no one in their circle will end up a mere "Indian." "Ah, another fellowship program, but you can't find a good lawn man these days. Too many chiefs, not enough Indians." I don't think such a proverb should hold true in this age. Talk for England When someone can talk for hours and hours. “I’m so sorry I’m late. I couldn’t get away from Linda. She can talk for England!” I could not find a reference to this idiom's origin but it seems worth knowing. Source: Page on englishwithatwist.com More holes than a Swiss cheese While delicious, Swiss cheese is hard, pale yellow or white with many holes. If something has more holes than a Swiss cheese, it has a lot of problems; there are many things wrong with it. It is incomplete or lacks important components. Example: You can do better, Mary. This essay has more holes in it than Swiss cheese. Source: funnyjunk! 