If Adam and Eve didn't know right from wrong then how did they know it was wrong to eat off the tree when God told them not to eat it because it was wrong?
Given the preceding answers I will address one aspect of your question: that God knew they would choose to rebel.  While I do not know the perspective from which your question is coming, lets assume for a moment that God does exist.  If he doesn't, the story is made up and we can answer your question by saying merely that, so lets assume for this discussion that He does. We cannot know what God did or didn't know, or what that concept even means.  We exist in a created thing call time, events occurring in succession.  Outside the realm of the created universe we can't know what that means.  In other words does God allow me to choose what I will eat for dinner?  If so, does He know what that will be?  If he knows, does that mean I really didn't choose?  I think the offer was genuine.  We could live in harmony with Him and our environment, or we could decide to go our own way.  Whether He 'knew' we would choose the latter does not affect the genuineness of the offer.  The reason I believe this is that I believe He genuinely wants relationships with us, and those can only be had when the possibility of leaving is present.  My wife and I have a love relationship because she has to choose it, every day.  She could get a better deal.  A widely held theology of the creation is that it was in response to this same rebellion which occurred when Lucifer and his third of the angels rebelled.  Part of God's response to this was the creation of a being which Lucifer could not steal, those whose price of rebellion was paid for by Him.  If that seems only verbally logical, a story almost beyond comprehension, the Bible agrees with you.  Peter writes, "Even the angels long to look into these things."  They understand the rebellion and the price.  They witnessed it.  What they don't get is this redeemed deal.  And why us and not them?  They don't yet know either. As I said at the start, if God exists this is a simple explanation.  If he doesn't, its all made up. 