How do Romney supporters explain/rationalize Romney's lack of detail on how he'll do much of anything?
The Romney campaign knows that most people will be voting to fire the President because of his handling of the economy, instead of voting to hire Romney. No President has ever been elected with such horrible numbers, Republican or Democrat. So Romney doesn't need to be overly specific and can play it safe. If he can point to his stellar business background, record of balancing budgets, turning around struggling operations, and strong bipartisanship in Massachusetts, he can stay above the fray. If he sticks to the big issues of the day and hammers the President on the economy by putting himself forward as a man with stronger economic credentials, then he has a good shot of winning. Presidential elections are won on big visions and personalities, not nitty gritty policy debates. Look at Obama in 2008, he won with 2 words, "hope" and "change." The problem Obama has is that he is betting his re-election on making Romney out to be a bad guy who can't be trusted. So he is basically saying that what he has done in his first term has worked and if you just stay the course with him and give him more time he will be proven correct. Instead he should say "Look, things aren't going good. I have put together the top minds on both sides. You know me already. Here is what I plan to do over the next 4 years to turn it around. Here is my vision." But it seems like he is out of ideas. He also hasn't laid out any new plans or specifics. Likely Romney voters are basically saying "Hey, I gave this guy Obama a shot for 4 years, it didn't work, let's get someone else in there and see if he can fix it." Once he gets into office I think you will see him take more of an executive leadership role, bring both sides together and try to figure out a more detailed plan that can turn things around. Right now he doesn't need to do that. He is taking more of a business approach, rather than an ideological one. 