Why is our media so screwed up?
Thanks for the A2A. Who's our? But it doesn't matter. I thought I should ask which country do you refer to then realised the answer won't change much. We may have all seen American and British media due to many other nations just copying or relaying same programs or news segments. While, I have experienced first hand Indian media and New Zealand media as audience. So here goes. All media is untouchable in these democracies due to freedom of speech being practiced as well as in some cases freedom of speech been made a scapegoat, for shoddy reporting. Channels are owned by fewer and fewer owners worldwide, leading to a common view being propagated at times. Most media outlets like to call themselves independent but in reality they are beholden to owners, sponsors, shareholders, advertisers as well as viewers / subscribers. In short economics rules. Had read a joke long time back which seems apt here. Have made my own changes. Fact: Man saves puppy from falling tree branch. Then some media outlets investigate and their news reporting below. Middle East news channels: Arab man saves puppy, is a local hero. Death to the American infidels who planted trees here to then claim they need a small army base to look after it. Pakistan News: Muslim man saves puppy endangered by Indians not cutting dangerous trees on the border! Pakistan PM demands Indians handover the disputed land on which this tree stands as well as some more land just to be safe. India: Indian man saves puppy from falling tree. Pakistan hand suspected in weakening the tree roots by constant digging on the border. Tree has always been integral part of India and we shall protect it till last breath. BBC: Muslim man pushes puppy into nearby tree causing damage! MI5 suspects foul play but will wait on US to point finger to his country of origin so UK can join in an attack blindly. Queen sheds a tear. CNN: Muslim terrorist plot uncovered. Use of animals detected in causing damage to natural food sources. All dog owners worldwide will have to agree to put a tracking chip in their dog collars. New President Jebb Bush says not agreeing to this is equal to declaring war on America and some country with enough oil will pay for this! I guess you get the point. 