Islamic State of Iraq and Syria (ISIS): Why are people joining ISIS?
There are several reasons why the people are joining ISIS and some of them, not all, are outlined below The Only Alternative For Iraqi Sunnis: ISIS is mainly a Sunni organization espousing the Wahhabi brand of religion Islam. During Saddam era, Sunnis were at the helm of affairs and all the key positions in bureaucracy, armed forces and intelligence community were occupied by Sunnis. The 2003 American invasion changed everything and interchanged the power play between Sunnis and Shias. A power vacuum was created in the Sunni populated areas which was filled by Al-Qaeda in the initial stage. The situation exacerbated when the Iraqi army of Saddam era was disbanded and Maliki government added fuel to the fire by its continued victimization and marginalization of Sunnis and secular political leadership in running affairs of the country. Both the disbanding of the Iraqi Army and Sunni marginalization led to a political catastrophe and the Iraqi Sunnis resorted to violence out of frustration, grievances and humiliation at the hands of Shia led government. Such situation was ideal for Al-Qaeda to exploit the Sunni humiliation at the hands of Shias led government for their own game. The Iraqi Sunnis had no alternative as they were being sidelined and victimized in the political and economic spheres despite being superior in the past. The armed resistance started and organized by Al-Qaeda in the initial stage and later on taken over by ISIS was seen by Sunnis in Iraq as the only alternative for a political survival and taking revenge of the humiliation.  ISIS Stunning Battlefields Successes ISIS successes against its rivals acted as a magnet for the Sunnis to join it. Everyone is attracted and inclined to be on the side of the group or party which is stronger on the ground. This was the main reason ISIS refused later on to toe the Al-Qaeda line and parted its ways with it because it considered itself as more stronger than Al-Qaeda and the only alternative for international Islamist Jihadists. It was also out of this reason that some factions of Taliban in Afghanistan and Pakistan declared allegiance to the self-proclaimed Caliph Abu Baker Al-Baghdadi because they wanted to be seen with the stronger side. The alliance with the stronger side not only increases the morale but also the chance of fresh recruitments. The Alluring Historic Notion of "Caliphate" The notion of Caliphate is an extremely attractive slogan throughout the Muslim history for religious and practicing Muslims to rally around a leader. This notion is equivalent for most of the followers as the revival of the lost glory of the Muslim Ummah. The Muslims of subcontinent staged a nationwide protest in 1920 against the British in response to the hostile moves at the end of the 1st World War against Turkey whose Sultan was considered symbolically as the Caliph of all muslims. Mullah Umar also used the same title of Caliph for himself and so is the case with Baghdadi. This is not a co-incidence but it is an extremely important notion that carries deep rooted and historically unexpressed and hidden meanings for the religious Muslims. Excellent Use of Social Media For Propaganda and Recruitment ISIS has a separate wing for social media and recruitment and these people come from various countries who has brilliantly used social media for its campaign. Its gruesome and brutal videos of killing and slaughtering people showcased it as a group to be feared and sent very strong intimidating signals across its areas of operation and reach. There are many people who has joined ISIS only to survive its terror campaign. The same tactics were used in the past by Pakistani Taliban in the Swat area in 2009 where its fear and brutality was one the important factor of its strength despite being small in numbers. ISIS has also used social media for recruitment not only in the Middle East but also in Europe and USA and significant number of Westerners joined either ISIS or interdicted en route towards Iraq. Exploiting and Deepening Sunni-Shia Divide ISIS also made an effective strategic move in transforming its terror campaign on the basis of Shia Sunni divide. Both on the Iraq and Syrian theater such a move had relevance and advantage as the fissures among Sunni and Shias are profound and deep rooted and could be exploited easily. The regional hegemonistic game between SA and Iran is also being played on this faultline. ISIS is also slowly penetrating into Yemen exploiting exactly the same Sunni Shia divide. This religious aspect is of paramount importance in the geostrategic calculations of the Middle East and ISIS seems to be well aware of that and exploiting it to its full advantage. Illicit Oil Trade and Possession of Key Govt. Installations for Revenue generation Despite all the brilliant moves on the strategic side, ISIS success could not become a reality if it had not the possession of oil and gas reserves and other key government installations for revenue generation. It gives a good monthly compensation to its warriors and they are currently in possession of superior weapons as compared to its rival groups including the current Iraqi Armed Forces. A good compensation to its warriors is alluring for the new recruits who join ISIS. In contrast, the Free Syrian Army against Assad regime once created and sponsored by West became ineffective and disbanded mainly because of low or no salaries. Islamic State expands its ‘state’, closing Sunni alternatives to jihadis The Allure of ISIL's Caliphate Terror on Twitter The Sunni-Shia split at the heart of regional conflict in the middle east explained How ISIS has stole a fortune of £1.3BILLION Updated 1w ago • View Upvotes