What are some of the best ways to become extremely smart?
Read A lot. Read what you love. Read what offends you. Note that by offensive, I don't mean that pick up the copy of fifty shades of grey, but read books that challenge your preconceived notions about the entirety of human thought and imagination. Not only will this build an expansive vocabulary when you read outside of your comfort zone, but also enable you to develop critical thinking, as you begin asking questions, being sceptical, rooting out fallacies etc. But the above was just a very trite and overused method commonly sold to people because it is generally believed that having read a lot of books  makes you "smart",  I think what makes you smart is your ability to apply what you have learned. Application of what you have learned comes from your ability to understand, recall and memorise and review. Which is why I will get down to some of the tips and techniques that I try to incorporate while studying: UNDERSTANDING Extra-integration After getting the basics out of reading such as literal recognition, try to bring the whole body of your previous knowledge to the new knowledge you are reading, making appropriate connections. This includes analysis, appreciation, criticism, selection and rejection. After everything you read, be it a scientific journal or a literary masterpiece, rack the library on its analysis, or criticism. RECALL AND MEMORY Memory and understanding do not work in exactly the same way as time progresses. Even if you understand everything, you will  have a problem with recalling. This is especially a pain in the ass for us students. The reason is that recall tends to get progressively worse as time increases if the mind is not given brief rests. If a period of learning from a lecture, a book or the mass media is to take two hours, it is far better for brief breaks to arrange during these two hours, so that your recall curve can be kept high. Alternatively, breaks get rid of muscular and mental tension. SO chill your butt off! The important thing to remember about memory is to have as much fun with it as possible and to be creative. Whenever you are trying to memorise something, give it movement, association, humour, imagination, senses, colour, order, sequence, exaggeration. You don't have to apply all of these points, but isn't it great to realise the great potential of our brain to do these things! REVIEW Mind maps, Flow charts It follows that our mind relates information most efficiently, when it can "slot in" as easily as possible. Information should always be relayed in this way, in an integrated and interlinked manner, as compared to traditional "lines" or para form. Below is an example of a Mind Map ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Use arrows you can use codes Geometrical shapes; squares, oblongs, circles etc. 3-D images ColourMind Maps is a technique which can be used any time where thought, recall, creativity and planning are involved. Other things to remember: Eat well. Stay fit. Stay hydrated. Exercise, or at least do some physical activity once in a while. Try to get better everyday, but don't overstress yourself. Take care of your emotional and spiritual health. Updated 18w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Ankit Al