How do Romney supporters explain/rationalize Romney's lack of detail on how he'll do much of anything?
I don't know if this is exactly a relevant answer, but I feel it's a relative point to the question. Politics is rarely about issues... Especially when the candidates are hyper-using the phrase that "...this is a campaign about issues...." it's really all about style, confidence, charm and overall demeanor.  Further, it's also about "selling" a vision.  No, correct that - it's about selling a "symbol". And more specifically, I would be that if therapists ran  an MMPI test on a good sample of both Liberals and Conservatives, there would some interesting correlations between members of both parties. My hunch is that conservatives overwhelmingly want control of government, because they sincerely believe it's is careening downhill uncontrollably at 250 feet per second and increasing  in speed exponentially with no brakes. Liberals on the other hand believe if the GOP takes over, we will be thrown into the medieval ages both in terms of health care, education, economic opportunity and governmental representation. And you know, both sides may have points to consider, although I tend to side with the Liberal's fear of the GOP.  According to Watchblog.com: States that voted for Kerry in 2004 had 21 percent more college graduates than states that voted for Bush. The states that ranked the lowest for high school and college graduates were all red states. Eight out of 10 of the states that ranked the highest for high school college graduates were blue states. (The number one state, by far, is Colorado — technically a red state because it went for Bush by a small margin, but effectively a “purple” state because it’s become so politically mixed.) It's been my experience (talking to my relatives - farmers in Oregon) that they are deathly concerned with spending, but they've bought farmland with interest-free government loans, bought farm equipment with the same, purchase seed and fertilized from the USDA Agricultural experiment station and even get cable TV from government subsidized FCC channels. In other words, rural red IMHO seems to sucks off the government more than anyone in the nation, ... Even though they work very, very hard, it would probably be cheaper for them to just live off of food stamps and find a job in the City and let big-agriculture take over. ..This provides an interesting insight into the dilemma... This is the classic model of Government Pork-barrel politics... it actually costs more to put people to work doing economically inefficient jobs than it does to have them live "off the dole" and re-train to do get employment in jobs that offer more economic efficiency. So why don't my farmer-relatives do just that?  I mean, if they were really patriotic, they would do exactly that, right?   Psychology.  Organization Theory taught me in business school that "job fit" is a highly influential motivator towards peoples decisions for contribution to the economy... I come from five generations of farming stock on my mother's side and three generations of carpenters on my Dads, but here I sm, a software engineer with a BSc and MBA working in a high-rise in LA... So rounding back to the question;   The reason the candidates don't offer detail is because people don't want to hear that they must turn their lives upside down to get a job with a good benefits package with a decent long-term economic outlook, because it generally means finding a  profession that will require significant self-sacrifice, of which there  are no short-cuts (especially in a competitive economic environment), and four to six years of college. So what we're left with is a situation where the blue states end up supporting most of the red states, yet the red states think they're supporting the blue states, because they obviously work harder than those silly college-graduates sitting in the LA high-rises. Romney is simply reinforcing the typical red-stater's opinion of what's wrong with the country... If  he's elected, he'll prolly send us into war with Libya and Syria - of which several thousands of defense jobs will be created and the"bill" will be postponed ten years (Just like Bush 43 did). Obama's plan is not easy... But it is the correct way out... It's a combination of stimulus and austerity.   But what people  don't seem to understand is that Government can do very little.... it's all of us that has to change more than government... Changing Government is just deferring personal responsibility.  It's exactly why Bill Clinton had a tech-boom... over a hundred thousand software engineers became available between terms, and they all got busy and cranked out a bunch of products.... Everything from bigwords.com, myspace,com, even butter.com got tons of VC.  Clinton made very nuanced changes to FCC regulations of the Internet that caused things to just explode....  Such that he could raise taxes, and actually create a little surplus... good for him.. He found low-lying fruit and made a pretty good-tasting pie out of it.   Bush 43 basically mowed the trees down to get the rest of the fruit. But Hats off to Romney if he can convince the nation that we don't need to be personally responsible for what we take from the government. People look for scapegoats in times like these... "welfare moms", "food stamp whores", "homeless drug addicts",  but the overwhelming majority of food stamp recipients are children.  Welfare for homeless mothers is less that $80B in budget, and even much more is being given to tens of thousands of wounded and crippled veterans of the wars... ...And yes, Romney (and Obama) aren't explaining this because it's one heck of a buzz-kill  that people just don't want to hear.   They want to hear what "they're going to do about it", when in fact it's citizens that have to transform themselves in order to transform the country. 