What was the reaction of your parents when you told them that you are a gay/lesbian?
My dad outed me.  My gayness was something that I considered a fact since an early age; I just endeavored to conceal it by following a crowd which would never be and never was the right one. Due to his appreciation towards me I always felt like I was my dad's favorite for being his first son. Fathers feel in cloud nine when the first child happens to be a boy who will hopefully become a manly lady-killer, and whose main influence is his dad. However, as I grew up I started to see how both my mom and dad looked down on me for never taking girls out. I hung out with them but I never really talked about my sexual orientation because it was an uncomfortable topic for me. Years passed and hearing my dad say that he'd be ashamed if he had a gay son became so fucking repetitive I refrained from spending time with them. Things changed when I turned 18. I didn't let any of the daily offenses and shit taking on gays sideline me from building a brighter future for me, I got interested in many things—Neuroscience, English, Psychology, Human and Animal Behavior—and the list goes on. My parents started to see my non-stop progress, especially in the field of of teaching, and so they decided to support me there. I know life is not about showing people they are wrong, but I was too young to have such perception and my main goal was to show society that I was more than a gay person, and I did it. I changed, my parents changed the way they thought about me. They gained my respect and I gained theirs. Two years ago, at 1:00 A.M my dad woke me up, with tears in his eyes and asked me why I hadn't told him that I was gay and asked why had I lied so much to him without even caring. I opened up to him and nowadays my dad is someone I appreciate and someone I want to have in my life.   My mom said I was too smart to get myself into this. I think my mom never suspected. She always claims that I am too manly and "masculine acting" to be gay. That makes so much sense to those girls who usually flirt with me trying to get me on the "right path". My relationship with my mom was always a great one but just thinking that she would hate me for being gay was something that lingered in my head continuously. My mom has always been the queen of funny reactions but this time she was dead serious when she said that. She asked me if I still liked boys every single week for one year.  Mom: "So, you still into boys?"  Me: "No, mom. I noticed I like men better now". Updated 106w ago • View Upvotes