What is the craziest experience you've had when a prospective groom/bride had come to see you for the first time (before the wedding)?
"Visiting bride's place" is one of many stages of arranged marriage. Following are stages of arranged marriage in Tamil Nadu(I guess this is same across India) Stage 1: Parents of bride/bridegroom is informed(through a common contact or a 'marriage broker' or matrimony website) about a bridegroom/bride. Stage 2: Father/Mother of bride/bridegroom make the first contact with bridegroom/bride family and they exchange horoscopes. :D Stage 3: If horoscope match(there are 10 specific factors in which there has to be a match. Parents will go ahead only if there is match in >=7 factors), they will exchange photos of bride and bridegroom. Stage 4: if bride and bridegroom like each other, then both family starts to talk to each other on things such as job, financial status etc Stage 5: 'Visiting bride's place' happens now. I have had hilarious and humiliating experiences during Stage 1 to Stage 5. But I have visited bride's place only once. So my comments will be very limited to Stage 5. I will list down all that were asked by family of bride and the bride. In this, I will share experiences of my friends as well. So here goes. 1. Family of Bride: "Boy is too tall. We are looking for a boy with height 5ft 4in to 5ft 8in." (I am 6ft :D) 2. Family of Bride: "Is he a only child to his parents? If he is, then we are sorry. We cant discuss further." (I was baffled to hear this. When I researched on such a statement, I found this - If I am a only son, then I have to take care of my parents and I am solely responsible for financial commitments related to my parents. Seriously?) Now it gets better. 3. Family of Bride: "We are looking for a bridegroom with a brother and he should not have a sister." (The reason for insisting a brother is the same reason as I told above. But why no sister? Because I have to financial support my sister at times and undertake responsibility of getting her married.) 4. Family of Bride: "Boy should be working in Chennai/Bangalore. But his parents should be living in Andhra Pradesh". (Bride is not comfortable about the idea of living with parents of bridegroom, which is totally reasonable and rational. Seriously, I have no clue why my parents have to live specifically in Andhra Pradesh) 5. Father of Bride: "Boy should not cross the border of Chennai. Ever. If the boy finds a job in another city, he should not go. I will not let my daughter to cross the border of chennai. She will not be comfortable living away from us and I prefer her to stay near my place." (so I ask this to the girls father - Hypothetically, what if, I am offered a better job with a great pay in a company in Bangalore? He replied - "You should not go. In case of you going to Bangalore, why should I send my daughter with you. Should I send my daughter with you?". I was completely speechlees by that time) 6. Family of Bride: "In bride's horoscope, it is observed that she will marry a government employee. So we will wait for a government employee." ( Phew!) 7. Bride: "Do you have your own house and car?" (This was asked by a girl to my friend. She rejected him because his own house was very distant to the place where she worked. Apparently she is looking for someone who lives within 10 Kms of the place from where she is working) PS: By far, I find arranged marriage to be the most self excruciating experience one can go through. I am sure girls too will have many such stories to tell. I will keep updating this answer. Updated 84w ago • View Upvotes