I've been out of work for 8 months. Are there new and creative ways of finding office work?
In addition to Bhattacharya and Baldridge's suggestions ... "Office Work" is a very broad term.  What can you actually do?  This is related to question of resume shape.  Keep in mind also these facts of life: 1.  If you satisfy MOST requirements for a job, especially the "must haves", you have a good chance. The odds that a "perfect person" will show up at the employer are pretty slim.  The employer has problems that need solving.  And the clock is ticking.  Whenever you see an opportunity, apply if you can get it done, and don't worry about "extras". 2.  A president I reported to once said; "I'll take attitude over aptitude any day." The fact of the matter is this:  If a job does not stretch you a little, what's your future going to be?  Likewise, if an employer isn't assigning people to challenging things, what's the employer organization's future going to be?  So, if you can do the job, you have worked with similar software before, etc. ... in other words you have the attitude and aptitude ... what difference does it make if you know the exact ABC software package?  That's narrow-minded.  It's designed to "screen" people OUT; not find good people to take IN.  (And that's why resume/listing systems can't really match people.) You need to show confidence, work ethic, and "can do" about challenges.  So, show your A-game.  Have aspirations.  Exude self-confidence.  And of course keep all the usual good behaviors like "on time", "follow-up", etc.  My father once said; "Show me who you run with and I'll show you who you are."  You're valuable to have around if you think you are, and act accordingly with substance (like accumulating skills always). 3.  Selling anything is a subtle art.  Here are some of the tricks (for want of a better word): a. Want to get support?  Think:  Purpose, Process, Payoff.  The payoff is the good thing the other person may take interest in getting.  The purpose is the step you want taken.  The process is how you see it rolling out.  An example:  "Do you know anyone who needs an accountant?  If you can make an introduction for me, I can do the best bookkeeping they've seen, and they'll thank you for the connection." b. Want help.  Ask for help.  Don't ask if they have a job.  Ask if they can give you advice about the job, about where such a job can be found, etc.  If they have an opening and like you, they'll say so, and you'll begin the hiring process.  If they don't have an opening, you may be pointed/introduced to someone who does.  If they don't like you, you get nowhere.  So, be nice and don't put people "on the spot".  Also, people have high "social needs".  It's in pretty much everyone, like it's DNA, that they enjoy giving help. c. Want to break the ice?  FORE:  Family, Occupation, Recreation, Enjoyment.  These are topics (there may be others germane to the situation) that you can ASK anyone to get them to start talking, which signals YOU care about THEM (and you should genuinely be a caring person).  It allows you to get to know them, which you need in order to "tune in" and be helpful. d. People react oddly when they cannot help.  Realize it to get over it. Suppose you come to someone for help.  You're pretty bad off.  They really feel for you.  They consider what they can do and come up with nothing.  What do they do next? Well, most people feel inadequate at that point.  And they don't like to feel that way.  They don't like to admit that they're not up to the situation.  How is this expressed? Unfortunately, people lash out.  They may pin the problem on you; in other words, you become the scapegoat for their bad feelings.  So they may tell you that you're not good enough.  What do you do next? The best thing to do next is simple:  Forgive and forget.  That person was not "in the market" for what you offer.  Just dismiss it, and move on.  Don't beat yourself up just because you didn't get a lead from someone who didn't have it in the first place.  You should do soul-searching when you lose a real opportunity, but not just because you barked up the wrong tree.  Go find the right tree. e. The "assumptive" close:  When selling a widget, this means you ASSUME the customer wants it and you just ask them to sign-up/pay.  When selling your services, it's a more ongoing dynamic.  Ask "what's the next step" to get started.  In other words, assume you're their pick until proven otherwise.  Therefore, your attitude should be reflected in your behavior to want to do the next step. 4.  Let's talk "listings" (like appear in the newspapers in the old days, and appear in Monster-like places now).  They don't work because ... ... but first let me tell you a story from hiring manager side ... When I was an executive needing to hire, HR assigned a person to write a job order/specification.  That person could not grasp the challenges in my department, and frankly didn't care.  As we talked, he just captured every buzzword and acronym that ever fell from my lips.  This was published as a job listing, resumes were scanned against keywords, and a stack "this high" (you get the feeling) was given to me.  Nobody was remotely close to what I needed.  What lessons came from this? a. It takes a long time to get a job listed. b. So many people reply that it swamps the hiring manager. c. HR tries to help with keyword-search software, but it's lame. d. The formal description is a lot of "bull" to begin with. e. Both the hiring manager and candidate would be better off if they were connected by someone who saw some fit upfront. This is why I support the others' comments.  The right use of tools like LinkedIn is to explore connections in a directed way.  It's like a journey:  a lot of smart steps.  And if you have a company in mind (maybe even knowing they have a need; maybe even from a listing), finding someone who can introduce you and the hiring manager AS PEOPLE and NOT AS PAPERWORK does more to advance the process. There are ways you can navigate switchboards and secretaries, in other words "gatekeepers", to finally reach a hiring manager.  The trouble is that you will be "screened out" if any gatekeeper believes you don't have legitimate business warranting the manager's time.  So, make sure you have a reason to reach the manager.  That you have business with him/her.  It can be because of a referral/introduction, because of a project in a professional or volunteer organization, etc.  That's why you have to "get out there" and not hide behind "email" or "Monster". Also, HR policies frequently frown upon candidates out of work (or school) for over a year.  You may want to take SOMETHING to avoid that bias.  It will relieve other pressures too.  What "something"?  Recently I discovered school bus drivers are paid above minimum wage, get all the hours they want, but are obligated for only 25 hours per week.  That leaves time to continue the search.  You need to pass training, license, and background/drug checks, but may not even be interviewed!  I guess nobody wants to be a school bus driver.  Go figure.  But it's best-for-situation "interim" job I have found.  Can you think of others? I hope this helps. 