Does destiny exist?
Dear Friend, There is surely destiny. There is no  doubt about it. You are born in a particular home, you are born as a  human being, the color of your eyes, the situations of your birth,  everything that goes around you in the universe, all that is destiny.  There is no doubt about it. So there is a lot that is just happening,  and is outside the domain of your free-will. Simply call it ‘destiny’. Something that you never wished for,  desired for, and is yet happening. And of that, the first event is your  birth. Does anybody desire his or her own birth? Did you desire your  birth? You did not, right? Do you desire that at a particular time a bus  must pass on the highway, and also honk? We don’t desire all these  things. Right. All this is destiny, and there is no doubt about it. And  destiny is important. There can be an earthquake any time. An asteroid  may hit the earth, and we all would be vaporised. Right? All this is  destiny. We are not denying the force of destiny.  All that we are saying is, that in spite of being important, it is  nothing compared to another force. And that is the force of  intelligence. That is the force of understanding. And destiny is nothing  compared to that force. Destiny can only make outer events  happen, but destiny can never touch your core. Never. So destiny is  powerless when it comes to the real you, the core. There, destiny is  absolutely powerless. Destiny cannot touch your core. The body can be hurt, wounded, destroyed,  but your response to that event that cannot be dictated by the external  force that is hurting, or wounding, or destroying. You have no control  over what the world does to you, over the various forces in the  universe, but you have all the control over yourself. And the one who  controls himself, effectively controls the universe. Destiny has no  value then. The one who has found himself, the one who has moved to the  center, destiny is powerless in front of him. The one who has not found himself would  forever remain a slave of destiny. So whether or not destiny is  important, depends on you. If one who has not found yourself, the one  who does not live at the core, then he would always be a slave of  destiny. There would only be destiny in his life. “Why do I have a lot of money? Because I  was born in a rich family. Why do I keep chasing women all the time?  Because I was born with male chromosomes. Why am I pursuing such and  such job? Because I did B.Tech. Why did I choose B.Tech.? Because I had  subjects Physics, Chemistry, and Maths in class Twelfth? Why did I have  these subjects in class Twelfth? Because it was fashionable to choose  these subjects, when I was doing class Tenth? Why were you doing your  class tenth from such a place where there was this fashion? Because I  was born in a particular state, of a particular country, in particular  economic conditions. So the situations of your birth are  dictating your entire life. That is slavery. Your place of birth is  dictating your entire course of education. Your education is dictating  your job. Your job is dictating your wife. Your wife is dictating your  family. And there is hardly anything more to your life. There is nothing  more to your life. So the entire life is being dictated by the  situations of birth. The very fact that you were born in a particular  year, in a particular family, with a particular gender decides the  entire course of your life. That’s it. How many of you want to live like that?  “Because I was born in the year 1993, in the Gupta family, as a girl,  therefore I am a homemaker today with five kids. That is the story of my  life.” How many of you would want to be like that? “Because I was born  in the year 1990 as a Hindu, or as a Muslim, so I have devoted my entire  life to the service of my cult.” Don’t you see that all these incidents  are just random occurrences? Were you greatly interested at the time  of your birth, that whether you should be born a Muslim or a Hindu? The  moment you were born, did you run towards a mosque or a temple? Imagine  the child is newly born, and he is running to the church. And the  doctors and the nurses are chasing him. The child is saying, “I am a  devotee. After coming to the world, the first thing that I must do is to  say ‘Thank you’ to the lord.” Did that happen? But today you act as if your religious  identity is your biggest asset. Is that so? That is the price you pay,  that is the punishment you suffer, for not being at your center. The one  who will not live by his intelligence, will have to live by his  destiny. In fact, the lack of intelligence will become his destiny. When I say ‘intelligence’, I do not mean  cleverness. Intelligence is that which shines in attention. Intelligence  is that which shines when the ego has made way. Intelligence is that  which starts shining when the mind says, “I want to know.” So it is all in your control. The moment  you say, “I really want to know,” the power of intelligence becomes  available to you. That is called attention. The feeling that – “I really  want to know,” this is attentiveness. That power is always available to  you. Whatever is your situation, you can always instantaneously move  into attention. Everything else, all other powers, can be taken away  from you. But the power to understand can never be taken away from you.  Whatever be the condition, even in your worst of conditions, you can  still understand what is going on. So intelligence is always available  to you. You can never lose it. Those of you who do not want to live  pre-scripted life, predestined life, must learn to be bold. They must  learn to move beyond their patterns. They must not be afraid of  something new happening. Otherwise you will find that there is a script  ready for you, and all that you are doing is going by that script. Isn’t the script already ready for you?  Tell me. Is a script not ready for you? How does it feel to live a life  as if the chapters of the script are opening, and you are just acting as  per the script? It has been pre-decided. It was already certain what  you will do class Tenth, class Twelfth, then a B. Tech., then maybe  M.B.A., M.S. or job. And then marriage, then kids, then a house, then  some money in your bank account, then certain responsibilities of your  parents and kids, and then death. Finished. How many of you want to live like this,  where everything is already decided? This way even your life-span is  kind of decided. Marriage between the age of twenty-five to thirty, kids  at thirty, thirty-five. Even the number of kids is also already  decided. Thirty years back it would be three, four or five. Now may be  one or two. So everything is destined. Just the time of your birth, the  place of your birth is deciding everything. So if your birth-place is China, you  cannot have kids more than one. Do you know that in India, in a  disproportionately large number of families, the youngest kid is a boy.  Because the families keep aborting the girl child, till they get a boy.  So usually you will find that the youngest kid in the family is a boy.  And the boy is born after the three-four girl child have been aborted.  so, it is pre-decided. The last kid is the boy. Now what will happen to  this boy who has come after so much slaughter? Do you want to live like  that? You want to live with this destiny? Do you see how powerless all this is? Do  you see that this is sheer slavery? Or can there be freedom beyond  destiny? Can there be life beyond destiny? You have to ask that to  yourself. If today somebody  comes to you and hands over the script to  your life to you and says, “Live it,” how will you feel? Every single  breath that you take has been pre-decided. Is that already not the case?  So it’s a good question to ask, “Is there a life beyond destiny?” There  is, but it is only for the strong, the courageous and the surrendered.  Because that is the only source of strength and courage. Surrender! Don’t make such grave faces. It is  actually quite easy, quite simple. Some of you are actually looking  afraid. “O my god! Going beyond your destiny. Why take so much pain when  a script is already ready? why should I write a new script? Somebody  has done so much of effort. He has already written a complete script.  Why should I violate that? Pay some respect to the script.” Just like a puppet pays respect. Have you  seen a puppet? Everything is already ready for the puppet. Puppet pays  great respect to its script. It does nothing that is not written in the  script. Beautiful life of a puppet. Right? You want to live like that?  Now the puppet will enter a B. Tech. program because everybody else is  doing that. The puppet will work hard to get more than seventy-five  percent marks. (Mockingly) “Son now you have started earning.  It is time to get married. “And you feel so puffed-up. The next chapter  of the script is unfolding. “What can I do? The situations were such  that I had to do this.” You sing songs also where you attribute  everything to destiny. “Waqt ne kiya kya haseen sitam. Tum rahe na tum, hum rahe na hum (If  destiny would have allowed, you would have been mine. Destiny was so  cruel. I did not remain myself, you did not remain yourself).” So  everything is destiny. Why  are you  alive? “Destiny Sir. When  death will come, I will die. When I had no role to play in my birth, why  should I have any role to play in my death? Everything is destiny. Kahaani Kismet Ki (The story of destiny)” It eases our burden. Right? We know that we are stupid. But we won’t say that. What we will say? “Kismet kharaab hai (Bad Luck)” Why not simply say, “I am stupid”? Why blame things on destiny? Destiny is there, obviously there for  everybody. The question is that what are you doing to yourself. Nobody  has control over destiny. But what is your response to the destiny. An intelligent man lives in attention,  not under the influence of destiny. And the moment he starts living in  attention, destiny looses its control on him. now destiny cannot dictate  its influence on him. RD 