If Adam and Eve didn't know right from wrong then how did they know it was wrong to eat off the tree when God told them not to eat it because it was wrong?
For the second part of the question see: John Simpson's answer to If God knew Adam and Eve would commit sin, why did he create them? Genesis 3:22 notes, “The man has now become like one of us, knowing good and evil.   He must not be allowed to reach out his hand and take also from the tree of life and eat, and live forever.” God is speaking in this verse. The  question  arises: how, exactly, did knowing good and evil make man like  God? Adam and Eve already knew, intellectually,  the difference between  good and evil because of God’s command to not  eat of the tree’s fruit.  They knew it was right to eat of those trees and wrong to eat of that tree. However, when they chose to disobey, they knew evil experientially because they themselves had sinned against God. At that point, they  fully understood both right and wrong. God, who  knows everything,  already understood the nature of evil. When Adam and  Eve lost their  innocence, they, too, understood the nature of evil  because of its very  real presence within them. They became “like God”  in that they now  realized what evil was truly like. The  serpent’s deception in the Garden had included a grain of truth.  Satan  told Eve, “God knows that when you eat from it your eyes will be   opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil” (Genesis 3:5). What the serpent did not say was that knowing evil would damage Adam and Eve’s relationship  with  God. Half-truths can be as deceptive as full-blown lies. It was enough for humans to understand and experience the good, and much good had been given to them (Genesis 1:31).   But Adam and Eve wanted more knowledge and more experience, to their   own detriment. The entry of sin into the world was a curse leading to a   loss of fellowship with God and other judgments upon Adam and Eve.  Those  judgments have affected all humanity (Genesis 3:16–19). Only in the end, when God creates a new heavens and earth, will this curse be broken. Revelation 21:3–4 promises, “Look! God’s dwelling place is now among the people, and he   will dwell with them. They will be his people, and God himself will be   with them and be their God. ‘He will wipe every tear from their eyes.   There will be no more death’ or mourning or crying or pain, for the old   order of things has passed away.” Revelation 22:3 adds, “No longer will there be any curse.” Knowing  good and evil was not a positive thing for Adam and Eve; rather,  it  served as the entry of sin into humanity. Now, all people sin and  fall  short of the glory of God (Romans 3:23), and we all live under the twin curse of sin and death (Romans 6:23).   “Who will rescue me from this body that is subject to death? Thanks be   to God, who delivers me through Jesus Christ our Lord!” (Romans 7:24–25; cf. John 3:16; Ephesians 2:8–9). How did the knowledge of good and evil make man like God (Genesis 3:22)?   Did God Wrongly Punish Adam & Eve? Brett Kunkle (answer starts about 2:56) 