How do you think the concept of God came into existence?
I love Douglas Adams' answer to this question (a bit long, but worth it): Where does the idea of God come from? Well, I think we have a very  skewed point of view on an awful lot of things, but let's try and see  where our point of view comes from. Imagine early man. Early man is,  like everything else, an evolved creature and he finds himself in a  world that he's begun to take a little charge of; he's begun to be a  tool-maker, a changer of his environment with the tools that he's made  and he makes tools, when he does, in order to make changes in his  environment. To give an example of the way man operates compared to  other animals, consider speciation, which, as we know, tends to occur  when a small group of animals gets separated from the rest of the herd  by some geological upheaval, population pressure, food shortage or  whatever and finds itself in a new environment with maybe something  different going on. Take a very simple example; maybe a bunch of animals  suddenly finds itself in a place where the weather is rather colder. We  know that in a few generations those genes which favour a thicker coat  will have come to the fore and we'll come and we'll find that the  animals have now got thicker coats. Early man, who's a tool maker,  doesn't have to do this: he can inhabit an extraordinarily wide range of  habitats on earth, from tundra to the Gobi Desert - he even manages to  live in New York for heaven's sake - and the reason is that when he  arrives in a new environment he doesn't have to wait for several  generations; if he arrives in a colder environment and sees an animal  that has  those genes which favour a thicker coat, he says “I'll have it  off him”. Tools have enabled us to think intentionally, to make things  and to do things to create a world that fits us better. Now imagine an  early man surveying his surroundings at the end of a happy day's tool  making. He looks around and he sees a world which pleases him mightily:  behind him are mountains with caves in - mountains are great because you  can go and hide in the caves and you are out of the rain and the bears  can't get you; in front of him there's the forest - it's got nuts and  berries and delicious food; there's a stream going by, which is full of  water - water's delicious to drink, you can float your boats in it and  do all sorts of stuff with it; here's cousin Ug and he's caught a  mammoth - mammoth's are great, you can eat them, you can wear their  coats, you can use their bones to create weapons to catch other  mammoths. I mean this is a great world, it's fantastic. But our early  man has a moment to reflect and he thinks to himself, 'well, this is an  interesting world that I find myself in' and then he asks himself a very  treacherous question, a question which is totally meaningless and  fallacious, but only comes about because of the nature of the sort of  person he is, the sort of person he has evolved into and the sort of  person who has thrived because he thinks this particular way. Man the  maker looks at his world and says 'So who made this then?' Who made  this?  -  you can see why it's a treacherous question. Early man thinks,  'Well, because there's only one sort of being I know about  who makes  things, whoever made all this must therefore be a much bigger, much more  powerful and necessarily invisible, one of me and because I tend to be  the strong one who does all the stuff, he's probably male'. And so we  have the idea of a god. Then, because when we make things we do it with  the intention of doing something with them, early man asks himself , 'If  he made it, what did he make it for?'  Now the real trap springs,  because early man is thinking, 'This world fits me very well. Here are  all these things that support me and feed me and look after me; yes,  this world fits me nicely' and he reaches the inescapable conclusion  that whoever made it, made it for him. This is rather as if you imagine a puddle waking up one morning and  thinking, 'This is an interesting world I find myself in - an  interesting hole I find myself in - fits me rather neatly, doesn't it?  In fact it fits me staggeringly well, must have been made to have me in  it!' This is such a powerful idea that as the sun rises in the sky and  the air heats up and as, gradually, the puddle gets smaller and smaller,  it's still frantically hanging on to the notion that everything's going  to be alright, because this world was meant to have him in it, was  built to have him in it; so the moment he disappears catches him rather  by surprise. I think this may be something we need to be on the watch  out for. Full quote at Douglas Adams' Speech at Digital Biota 2 