Islam: What is Jannat?
I will use this answer not only to explain the concept of Al-Jannah or Jannat in Islam but also clear the misconceptions which mislead in formation of so called Jihadi Groups/ Jihadism (also called jihadist extremism, jihadist movement, jihadi movement or militant jihadism) What is جنّة‎ Jannah in Islam : The meaning of the word Jannah or Al-Jannah is derived from the Arabic word Jann which primarily means to cover. Hence Al-Jannah means a place that is covered i.e. a place that is covered by trees and plants. In simpler terms, we all know that a place that is covered by trees and plants is called a garden, whence Al-Jannah came to mean a garden. Says Almighty Allah in verse 35 of Surah Al-Ra'd: "The parable of the Garden which the righteous are promised! Beneath it flow rivers: Perpetual is the fruits thereof and the shade therein: Such is the End of the Righteous; and the end of the unbelievers is the Fire." This verse in its derived meaning means fruit and enjoyment of all kinds, spiritual as well as other. The joys of Jannah are not like the joys of this world, which fade away or cloy. The joys of Jannah are pure, everlasting, and without any of the drawbacks which we associate with the joys of the sense. The shade of Jannah that Almighty Allah speaks about literally means shelter, protection and security for we all know that shade is one of the delights of a garden. In this verse, as in other places, the Fire is contrasted with the Garden, as Misery is contrasted with Bliss. We can also imagine other incidents in contrast with those of the Garden, e.g. with the Fire will be drought, aridity and thirst, instead of beautiful rivers; pain and suffering, instead of perpetual delight; no protection against the fierceness of the heat, as contrasted with the cool shades ever deepening as you proceed in the Garden. Our Beloved Nabee Muhammad Sallallahoo Alayhi Wasallam said: "Almighty Allah Subahanahoo Wata'ala has prepared for His righteous servants what no eye hath seen, and no ear had heard, and no heart hath conceived."In other words, the external sense organs of humanity cannot give an idea of the rewards and blessings of Jannah and the punishments and agony of Jahannum. The true concept of these two abodes are totally and completely beyond any human comprehension. In the Mishkat-ul-Masabih - We are told that the foundation of Jannah is of silver and gold. The earth of Jannah is of musk, its dust is of camphor, its plants of saffron and its rain of perfume. There are eight stages of Jannah popularly called doors. They are Adn Khuld Al-Nayeem Mawa Darus-Salam Darul - Qarar Al-Muqama and Jannathul-Ferdous (highest stage of heaven.)Our Beloved prophet Muhammad Sallallahoo Alayhi Wasallam said that if any one of his Ummah seeks to enter Jannah they should always pray for Jannathul Ferdous as it is the highest stage of paradise. It is stated in a Hadith that, when Almighty Allah Subahanahoo Wata'ala created Jannah, He told Sayyidina Jibra?eel Ameen Alayhis Salatu Wasallam to go and visit Jannah. Upon his return from Jannah, Sayyidina Jibra'eel Ameen reported: "O Allah! By Your Greatness and Glory, whoever comes to know of it, will strive with all their resources to enter it"That is to say, its pleasures, comforts, enjoyments and untold blessings are so intense that there will be no body who, after knowing and believing, will not strive their utmost for admission into it. Almighty Allah Subahanahoo Wata'ala then surrounded Jannah with hardships and made it compulsory to display Imaan and Taqwa, perform regular Salaat, give Zakat, observe fasting during Ramadan, partake in Jihad, perform Hajj, display love and Muhabbat for all those around you, obedience to parents etc., as a pre-requisite for admission into Jannah. Almighty Allah Subahanahoo Wata?ala then instructed Sayyidina Jibra'eel Ameen Alayhis Salatu Wasallam to visit it again. Upon his return he reported to Almighty Allah: "O Ya Rabbal Alameen! I fear that hardly anybody will be able to enter it." Jannathul-Ferdous has a tree at its farthest limit called "the farthest Lot tree" i.e. ? The Seedratul Muntaha? beyond which there is no power of man to proceed. This tree is so big that it will take a rider on a swift horse a hundred years just to cover the shade of this tree. Similarly, after Almighty Allah created Jahannum (Hell), He ordered Sayyidina Jibra'eel Ameen Alayhis Salatu Wasallam (angel) to visit it. After witnessing the punishments, the horrors, the afflictions and tortures of Jahannum, he submitted: "O Allah! I swear by Thy Glory and Thy Grandeur that if anyone comes to know of the conditions in Jahannum they will do everything possible never to go near it."Almighty Allah then surrounded Jahannum with acts of indulgence, such as Shirk, Fitnah, lying and back-biting, adultery and fornication, drinking, cruelty and disrespect towards parents, stealing, Ribah, pride and disregard of the Divine Commandments etc., and then asked Sayyidina Jibra'eel Ameen Alayhis Salatu Wasallam to visit it again. He saw it and submitted: "My Lord and Creator! I fear that hardly anybody will be able to escape it." Is Jannah and Jahannum located in any particular geographic area? This also baffles our conception. However, Almighty Allah Subahanahoo Wata'ala through His Infinite Mercy and Bounty reminds us in verse 133 in Surah Al-Imran: "Be quick in the race for forgiveness from your Lord and for a Garden whose width is that (of the whole) Of the heavens and the earth, prepared for the righteous." The picture of Jahannum is drawn in a concrete manner for easy human conception in the words of the Most Holy and Noble Quran. It is said that the fire of Jahannum burnt for a thousand years then it became red. Again it was burnt for an additional thousand years and then it became black. It is at this stage black with the redness of the flame. There are seventy thousand valleys in Jahannum with seventy six thousand hillocks in each valley. There is a valley in Jahannum called Jabal Hazan from which this section of Jahannum seeks refuge seventy times a day from the intensity of the punishment and the heat. Jahannum is so deep that if a rock is thrown into it, it will take more than seventy years to reach the bottom. It is also mentioned in the Mishkat-ul-Masabih that the fire of this world that Almighty Allah blessed humanity with originated from just one single flame of Jahannum that had to be washed seventy times before it was brought down to earth. Just one drop of the stench of Jahannum is enough to kill the entire human race. Says Almighty Allah Subahanahoo Wata?ala in verses 6, 7 and 8 of Surah Al-Mulk: "For those who reject Their Lord (and Cherisher) Is the chastisement of Jahannum: And evil is (such) destination." "When they are cast therein, they will hear the (terrible) drawing in of its breath even as it blazes forth." "Almost bursting with fury: Every time a Group is cast therein, its Keepers will ask: "Did no warner come to you?" Says Almighty Allah in verses 17,18 and 19 of Surah At-Tur: "As for the righteous, they will be in Gardens, and in Happiness." "Enjoying the (Bliss) which their Lord hath bestowed on them, and their Lord shall deliver them from the Chastisement of the Fire." (To them will be said:) "Eat and drink ye, with profit and health, because of your good deeds."The righteous will be in Bliss far beyond their merits: their sins and faults will Insha'Allah be forgiven by the grace of Almighty Allah, which will save them from the penalties which they may have incurred from human frailty. And says Almighty Allah in verse 21 of Surah At-Tur: "And those who believe and whose offspring follow them in Faith, to them shall We join with their families: Nor shall we deprive them (Of the fruit) of their works: (Yet) is each individual In pledge of his deeds. As practising Muslims and as sincere believers in Almighty Allah Subahanahoo Wata'ala we should for ever be most thankful to our Creator and sustainer who has favoured the Ummah of his beloved Nabee Muhammad Sallalahoo Alayhi Wasallam over all other nations of the world. The great Muhabbat that Almighty Allah has for us is clearly shown in verse 110 of Surah Al-Imraan where Allah has confirmed our status: "You are the best of peoples, evolved for mankind. Enjoining what is right and forbidding what is wrong, And believing in Allah."In view of this wonderful declaration by our Glorious Creator, we must for now and forever strive with all our resources to glorify and worship none other than Almighty Allah Subahanahoo Wat'ala. The logical conclusion to the evolution of religious history is a non-sectarian, non-racial, non-doctrinal, universal religion, which Islam claims to be. For Islam is complete submission to the Will of Almighty Allah Azza Wajjal. This implies (1) Faith. (2) doing right, being an example to others to eschew wrong, and having the power to see that wrong and injustice are defeated. Islam therefore lives, not for itself, but for mankind. O servants' of Almighty Allah Jallah Wa'ala! Let us surrender ourselves completely to our Glorious Creator and Exalted Creator - Almighty Allah Azza Wajjal. Give back to Him both the price and the merchandise. Say to Him: "Our souls, wealth and paradise are Yours. Everything besides You O Allah belongs to You. We want nothing but You O Rabbul Ala'meen." You are Gafoorroor Raheem and You are our Creator and Maker. Ya Ay'yu hal Muslimoon! Let us search for the good neighbour before we look for a house. Look for the companion on the road before we embark on our journey. We who are asking for Paradise, the buying and building of it is done today, not tomorrow. Increase our rivers and let the their waters flow today not tomorrow. Let us all beg for forgiveness while the door of forgiveness is still open to us. O you who believe! Be clean and pure, and seek not occasions for quibbles, nor go after sorcery or false gods. Be faithful in your trusts, learn obedience, and settle your quarrels under the guidance of Almighty Allah's Beloved Nabee Sallallahoo Alayhi Wasallam. Keep away from hypocrisy and every kind of falsehood. Then will you be admitted to the glorious fellowship with the highest and noblest in the spiritual world. May He in All His Infinite Mercy, Glory and Bounty grant the Ummah of His Beloved Nabee S.A.W. with Sabir, Imaan, Taqwa and Muhabbat so that we may share His Blessings and Bounty with our children, our families and with the rest of humanity. "O Allah! Increase us with beneficial knowledge, save us from the punishment of the grave and the Akhirah and forever keep us on the path of Seerathal Mustaqeem." Ameen! What jihadist/extremism do : What made the 911 attack & other different attacks possible — and so unexpected and terrifying—was that willingness to die to accomplish the mission. The final instructions found in the luggage of several hijackers leave little doubt about their intentions : “an oath to die. . . . When the confrontation begins, strike like champions who do not want to go back to this world. . . . Check your weapons long before you leave . . . you must make your knife sharp and must not discomfort your animal during the slaughter. . . . Afterwards, we will all meet in the highest heaven(جنّة‎ Jannah). @'Dying to win: why suicide terrorists do it,' Robert A. Pape Taliban & others offers a package no one in the world can: a one-way flight ticket to Jannat. The only eligibility requirement is consent to become a suicide bomber for the Taliban. That's what they do they misguide illiterates. File:Analfabetismo2013unesco.png - Wikimedia Commons It is one of the main reasons young boys and girls are brainwashed to such an extent they believe that by carrying out a suicide mission for the Taliban, they ensure everlasting paradise. The reality, however, is that Islam bans suicide. Anyone who commits suicide is not given the requisite funeral prayer. As far as suicide bombing is concerned, it is a double sin; one for taking your own life, a gift that is from Allah and second, the killing of innocent, unsuspecting people by a suicide bomber. The version of Islam that such people follow is the darkest side of what just could not be Islam. I won't get into a debate that such people as Muslims or they are not, as every soul shall be answerable for it's own deeds; but I would admit that they are surly perverted ones. The truth is that suicide bombing is un-Islamic, unethical and heinous. The drafting of suicide bombers is not a one-way ticket to Jannat, as the Taliban would have us believe. Rather, it is a one-way ticket to hell. What they don't understand : By Nouman Ali Khan, Former Muslim-Atheist, USA Islam has always been a convenient scapegoat for violence. Genocidal maniacs and extremists throughout history have frequently invoked religion to grant cosmic significance to their earthly conflicts. The political conflicts, brutal dictatorships, and warfare involving Muslim countries in recent decades have lead to the emergence of modern extremist groups attempting to justify violence in the name of Islam.  Chaos, instability and prolonged warfare create a political vacuum where power-hungry groups vie for control. Such groups will raise whatever banner draws support for their cause, whether it be the banner of ethnic identity, cultural identity, nationalism, 0r a particular ideological or religious identity. One should immediately be skeptical of the political instrumentalization of religion by such groups, and of the attempt to shift blame to a religion that has been around for 1400 years and is practiced by almost two billion adherents around the world.  Nevertheless, certain verses of the Qur'an have been tossed around by radicals and by islamophobes alike, alleging that there is some Qur'anic support for violent activity. The slightest familiarity with the verses in question would demonstrate that nothing could be further from the truth. It is fairly easy to misquote a text. All one must do is cherry-pick partial sentences and delete the surrounding context. They used verses which supposed violent nature of such verses immediately dissolves with a quick glance at the textual and historical context. All one needs to do is simply complete the sentence, or read the preceding or following verse, and it becomes evident that the verse in no way preaches violence. In addition, this perspective is further substantiated when one looks at the other passages in the Qur'an and statements of the Prophet Muhammad, which are unequivocal in their condemnation of violence and affirmation of peace. Furthermore, 1400 years of scholarly analysis of the Qur'an dispels the misinterpretations of contemporary radicals and anti-Muslim bigots MISQUOTATION 1 – VERSE 2:191 The phrase “kill them where you find them” is by far the most frequent phrase that is misquoted by ardent Islamophobes and radical extremists. But this battlefield exhortation comes right after the verse which states “fight against those who fight you” and it comes right before the part which states “but if they cease fighting, then let there be no hostility except against oppressors“! What is the historical context of verses 2:190-3 and who does it refer to? Ibn Abbas, the famous companion of the Prophet and Qur'anic exegete, says that this passage was revealed in reference to the Quraysh [1]. The Quraysh had persecuted the Muslims and tortured them for thirteen years in Mecca. They had driven Muslims out of their homes, seized their properties and wealth, and fought battles against them after the Muslims sought refuge in Madinah. The Muslims were apprehensive about another attack occurring during their sacred pilgrimage when fighting was prohibited. This is why these verses were revealed to reassure them that they would be able to defend against a Qurayshi attack during pilgrimage. Such fighting never ended up occurring between them and Quraysh, for a peace agreement was upheld and the pilgrimage was permitted [2]. The phrase “do not commit aggression” was explained by Ibn Abbas to mean, “Do not attack women, children, elderly, or anyone who is not fighting against you“, and thus harming any non-combatants is deemed a transgression against God Almighty [3]. The erudite Qur'anic exegete Ibn Ashur (d.1393H) states, “If they desist from fighting you, then do not fight them for verily God is Most Forgiving and Most Merciful, and so it is only befitting that the believers show mercy” [4]. In this regard, this verse is very similar to 4:89 which prescribes fighting the enemy but is immediately followed by the statement in 4:89, “So if they remove themselves from you and do not fight you but rather offer you peace, then God has made no way for you to fight them.“ Returning to 2:190-3, the word fitnah in this passage means religious persecution (as used in 85:10) and punishing someone for their faith, and coercing them to disbelieve or commit idolatry. The great Qur'anic scholar imam al-Kisaa'i (d.189) explains that fitnah here means “torture ('adhaab) because the Quraysh used to torture those who accepted Islam” [5]. Ibn Jarir al-Tabari (d.310H) explains that the phrase “fitnah is worse than killing” means that “to persecute a believer for his faith until he recants it and becomes an idolater is worse and more painful to him than being slain while holding onto his faith” Therefore, the passage clearly prohibits fighting against those who are not fighting. The particular misquoted phrase describes fighting in defence against perpetrators of anti-religious persecution and torture. MISQUOTATION 2 – VERSE 9:5 The next phrase that is frequently misquoted is quite similar – “slay those pagans wherever you find them” But again the slightest familiarity with the historical and contextual context would immediately dispel this misquotation. The verse immediately before speaks of upholding peaceful agreements with those who are at peace and never supported enemy warriors against the Muslims – so who is verse 9:5 in reference to? Qur'anic exegetes al-Baydawi (d.685H) and al-Alusi (d.1270H) explain that it refers to those pagan arabs who violated their peace treaties by waging war against the Muslims (nakitheen) [7], and thus Abu Bakr al-Jassas (d.370H) notes that these verses are particular to the Arab polytheists and do not apply to anyone else [8]. These comments are substantiated by what the Qur'an itself says. Verse 13 of the same chapter states, “Will you not fight against those who violated their peace treaties, plotted the expulsion of the messenger, and initiated the fighting against you?” and verse 36 states, “and fight the pagans collectively who wage war against you collectively.” The textual context is abundantly clear that verse 9:5 is not a random instruction out of the blue but relates to the pagan tribes of Arabia, who were in a state of war with the Muslims [9]. Therefore, to interpret the passage in any other way is to contradict the very text of the Qur'an. Moreover, what is fascinating is that the very next verse (9:6) states that if any enemy warrior suddenly demands protection, one is religiously obligated to provide that individual with protection, explain the message of Islam to him, and if he refuses to accept, escort him to a place of security. This instruction to protect and escort enemy combatants to a safe haven makes it blatantly obvious that this passage in no way, shape or form, can be construed as violent. MISQUOTATION 3 – VERSE 8:60 Another favorite text to misquote is the passage that states, “Prepare against them all you can of power and steeds of war..”  but again, the very next verse reads, “If they incline towards peace, then incline towards peace as well” – hardly a violent passage! Moreover, one must again ask who is being referred to in this citation? The historical context clearly places these verses again in reference to the ongoing war between the Muslims and the enemy forces of the Quraysh of Mecca and their tribal allies [10]. This chapter was revealed in reference to the Battle of Badr which took place between the Muslims who sought refuge in Madinah and the Quraysh who had persecuted them and driven them out of their homes in Mecca. The same chapter describes the pervasive warfare in Arabia and lack of security suffered by the early oppressed Muslim community. “And remember when you were few and oppressed in the land, fearing that people might abduct you, but He sheltered you, supported you with His victory, and provided you with good things – that you might be grateful.” (8:26) Note also that sometimes Islamophobic bigots cite verse 8:12 from this same chapter “strike above their necks”, somehow completely missing the fact that the verse describes what God said to the angels during the battle of Badr. The first half of the verse reads, “When your Lord inspired the angels, 'Verily, I am with you, so strengthen the believers…'”. To take a description of God's inspiration to angels during a historical battle against the Quraysh oppressors and somehow distort that into a generic command for Muslims to attack non-muslims is profoundly dishonest, to say the least. MISQUOTATION 4 – VERSE 47:4 This is perhaps the most outrageous of all misquotations. A phrase in the middle of a passage about battle is ripped out of its context and presented ludicrously as, “When you meet disbelievers, smite their necks.” To even the most casual reader who bothers to glance at the passage, the verse is talking about a meeting in mutual battle between warriors (Ar. “fi'l-muharabah” as al-Baydawi explains [11]) that comes to an end “when the war lays down its burdens” as the verse itself states. This verse is specifically discussing mutual battle with those disbelievers engaged in warfare as noted by Ibn Jareer al-Tabari [12]. This is clear from the opening line of the chapter which states, “Those who disbelieve and prevent people from the path of God“, which as Ibn Abbas has stated, is in reference to the pagans of Quraysh [13], who oppressed the believers by denying them the freedom to practice their faith and then went to war with them to exterminate their community. With respect to the phrase, “until the war lays down its burdens“, imam Qatadah (d.117H) explained it saying, “until the enemy warriors lay down their burdens” – a phrase that was echoed by many scholars throughout history, including Ibn Qutaybah al-Daynuri (d.276H) [14]. Note also that this verse provides Muslims with only two options for prisoners of war – unconditional release, or acceptance of ransom. The verse mentions no other option, and indeed scholars have pointed out that this is the general rule, for the Prophet Muhammad only punished those war criminals guilty of treachery or gross violations, but otherwise he almost universally would pardon people even his most ardent opponents, as he did with the war chief Thumamah ibn Uthal, Abu Sufyan ibn Harb, Habbar ibn al-Aswad, Ikrimah ibn Abi Jahl, Umayr ibn Wahb, Safwan ibn Umayyah, Suhayl ibn Aamir, and the list goes on. MISQUOTATION 5 – VERSE 9:29 One of the most interesting citations is 9:29, along with the claim that it instructs Muslims to fight people of the Book “until they pay the jizya and feel subdued”. But this verse as well has a historical context that is neglected. The very early exegete, Mujahid ibn Jabr al-Makhzumi (d.104H) explained that this fighting was revealed in reference to the Prophet Muhammad's campaign against the Byzantine empire [15]. The Prophet Muhammad sent al-Harith ibn Umayr al-Azdi as an emissary to the Byzantine vassal state of the Ghassanids, but the chieftain Shurahbeel committing the shocking crime of tying up the emissary, torturing him, and murdering him [16]. When an army was dispatched to confront the Ghassanids for their crime, the Vicarius Theodorus summoned a large force of Roman soldiers to engage in war against the Muslims in the Battle of Mu'tah. Thus, this verse was revealed in regards to fighting within an existing war against an enemy political entity, namely the Byzantine empire, which lead to preparations for the expedition of Tabuk. The hostility of the group in question is mentioned in the this very Qur'anic passage itself, which goes on to state (9:32) that this instruction refers to those “who attempt to extinguish the light of Islam with their mouths“, which al-Dahhak (d.105H) stated meant “they wish to destroy Muhammad and his companions.” [17] As history went on, imperial conflicts continued between the Byzantine empire and the subsequent Muslim empire of the Umayyads. Many writing within the historical setting of imperial conflict assumed that this verse characterized a generic state of perpetual warfare with opponent political entities. However, as noted in Tafsir al-Maraghi, all of the Qur'anic conditions of warfare mentioned earlier still apply to this verse. Thus, the verse means, “fight those mentioned when the conditions which necessitate fighting are present, namely, aggression against you or your country, oppression and persecution against you on account of your faith, or threatening your safety and security, as was committed against you by the Byzantines, which was what lead to Tabuk.” 