Islam: What is Jannat?
Jannat is nothing but paradise. And as far as killing enemy makes someone eligible it depnds on whom you call enemy. An enemy here will be a person who wants to annihilate Islam and its followers. That can be even a person who is MUSLIM by NAME or BACK GROUND. Islam asks us to fight and not turn our back when such people attack us, to turn us away from path of Islam. It is when Islam as a religion is attacked for sole motive of removal that we muslims are allowed to fight. We should not be coward to bob down under pressure and just leave Islam because of fear in such oppression. Its in this sense That if one fight for JUST cause that one MAY become eligible. That is NOT the SOLE criteria and is just ONE of the points you will get(among all other good and kind acts) IF you fight against oppression. Also the important point to note here is that various organisations like ISIS,Taliban or other terrorist organisation are NOT what you mean by Fighting in Allah's cause. World in current sense is quite a peaceful place and though there are oppressions and back ground dirty politics but that situation which calls for Fighting In name of Allah is still not Valid anywhere. So any Such call is UN ISLAMIC. And needs to be condemned. The whole concept of fighting in Allah's cause is very sacred and does not mean that a muslim should kill any non-muslim to enter Jannah. That is ABSOLUTELY Rubbish.  I would like to ask my brothers Junaid Hasan Hashmi,and Mohammed Bilal on how did they concluded that nowhere it is mentioned that Enemies of Islam can't be killed. Yes presenting Islam is good but rather than denying something we need to present its proper context. Simply saying flowery words which other non muslim will use to just counter your arguments will only hurt image of muslims and Islam. IMPORTANT to note here is that Quran encourages muslims to live in peace with non-muslims. Peace Treaties are encouraged,treating everyone in a good way is encouraged,Even good treatment to prisoners of wars is encouraged. However, in case the war is inevitable and INITIATED by people to DAMAGE ISLAM as a religion than it is allowed to fight and not turn our backs. However,still after war it is not permissible to kill enemy's women,children or even ones who have surrendered. So the whole concept is VERY VERY balanced and exceptionally rare. Using it to say that you can kill any non muslim whom you brand as ENEMY of Islam and enter Jannah is HIGHLY HIGHLY UN ISLAMIC. And therefore ISIS and the likes does not represent what ISLAM preaches. 