What is a narcissistic parent?
I think that this is a highly accurate description given by parental alienation consultant John Thomas Steinbeck. What’s a narcissistic parent? It’s someone who is  self-absorbed, authoritarian (watch out for their outbursts), negative, a  know-it-all, never culpable or blameworthy for anything, highly  critical of others, secretive, cunning and conniving, manipulative,  exploitive, stingy with others (but not themselves), ungrateful, a  pathological liar (twists the truth with incredible ease), envious and  competitive, deaf to other’s opinions, has zero empathy, doesn’t listen,  doesn’t seek agreement (not a single ounce of agreeableness), brags and  exaggerates, plays favorites (and it’s a rotating favorite list at  that), has no boundaries, never asks you any questions, inept at basic  manners, lacks a sense of humor (especially at themselves), and excels  at making others feel guilty… He or she is one unhappy person who can  successfully convince their targets that they are needed, and that without them their targets would be nothing. Source: The narcissistic parent Traits of narcissistic parents Narcissistic parents are… self-absorbed,  authoritarian, know-it-alls, negative, highly critical of others,  yellers, secretive, possessively close to the child, cunning,  manipulative, exploitive, stingy, pathological liars, envious and  competitive, play favorites (and it’s a rotating favorite list), deaf to  other’s opinions, bad listeners, braggers and exaggerators, ungrateful,  boundary-less, inept at basic manners, lacking a sense of humor  (especially at themselves), feel superior to all others, and are masters  in making others feel guilty. http://www.brainwashingchildren.... Some information from myself. The basis of narcissistic parenting: Control Narcissistic parents are "control freaks" who think on the basis of needs. They want to ensure others need them and depend on them by force. They do not relate to their children in any other way. The basis of connection with their children is through control of resources such as food, money, information, familial relationships, roles or their emotions, and that they never manage to become independent adults. And they do that consistently, from the moment the children are born. They may outright tell their children expressions like "you need me, you depend on me", "you owe everything to me, you dirtbag, aren't you ashamed of yourself?" in any of the frequent arguments with or without realistic basis. Narcissistic parents and their behaviour towards achievements of their children: Envy Narcissistic are envious of their children. They show their envy from the way they behave towards their children's achievements. "Children" here are the biological children, meaning that this happens for any age. "Achievement" is ultimately anything at all the children do independently, from doing a drawing to becoming a president. Also, narcissistic parents have this behaviour always and never any other. Narcissistic parents either: constantly play superior to their children's achievements downplay them downright deny the achievements ever happened The children will never have the chance to speak about any achievement of their own.  If they do, which they will have to do voluntarily, almost as if they are asking permission to become present. The narcissistic parent then responds in one of the following ways (or slight variations): Grandiosity examples - They may immediately interrupt them and say "I once did..." (add some real or imaginary event appearingly impossible to beat) " and it was the greatest" and then stop talking. If they have nothing grandiose enough, they may say something which they "almost did" but say that they didn't do it because of someone else's fault. - They may respond with "Is this the best in the world?", to cancel it out. - They may shout loudly to the person's face "Bravo" or "Well done" with their arm raised in the air, in a commanding voice as if they are giving their permission. Anger examples - They may get tense, and have an angry, disgusted face, and just stare them. - They may instantly throw a nasty comment in the end about the achievement as if it was not good, or point out some fault about them. They may even say that it was not needed or unnecessary. - They may even directly tell them to give it up. After the behaviour, they will not show any practical interest, by asking "How did you do that?", "What was it like?", "I am so glad for you", "Tell me about it" as comes naturally from non-narcissists, friends or other people. And they will never attempt to contribute voluntarily. They will never leave any impression that their children had the achievement on their own. They will however brag about it to other people as if the achievement was owed to them, and secretly when their children are not there. But they will not feed back that information to their children, or be interested about the children in the light of the achievement in the future. And if what they achieved later fails, they will neither ask why or how, although they may suddenly appear calmer, caring or happy then. In reality they have been ignorant to their children before, never contributed or were associated to the children or the achievement. They had been silent and absent throughout. Narcissists are excited when their children fail, and lose authority, success, money, comfort, independence, happiness and attention. They just as easily play the poor person secretly to the outside about the failure as if it happened to them to gain more attention for themselves. Stories of great failure are equally good as stories of success for narcissists. They perceive their children and their achievements, positive or negative, as impressions to attract attention to themselves from the outside. Most of the narcissistic behaviour is evident from what is missing in their behaviour to close people, and effectively the inconsistencies between their overall actions towards their children and their occasional reactions and remarks such as the above. Those are only moments of creating or "stealing" impressions. Note: The above example is a description which comes together with the overall behaviour of a narcissistic parent. It isn't an isolated occasional behaviour which can necessarily and solely determine if one is a narcissist, or to be used as a counter-example of praise, what not to do, or how to not be a good parent. "Narcissistic" is not an adjective like happy, angry, confident, good or bad. Narcissism is a personality disorder which is evident in every single behaviour of the affected person. Anyone interested in being a better parent would already be looking at different resources for that purpose, and would not be looking to find out how to "not look like a narcissistic parent". What is important in narcissist parents is that while studying them in isolation is partly useful, when a parent is a narcissist the whole family is affected. It is therefore easier to understand what is happening by seeing how a narcissistic family functions. Below is some information from Psychologytoday, written by Karyl McBride Ph.D. Narcissistic family dynamics The following are some common dynamics of this profoundly dysfunctional intergenerational system. (Keep in mind there are always degrees of dysfunction on a spectrum depending on the level of narcissism in the parents.) Secrets. The family secret is that the parents are not meeting the children's emotional needs, or that they are abusive in some way. This is the norm in the narcissistic family. The message to the children: "Don't tell the outside world—pretend everything is fine." Image. The narcissistic family is all about image. The message is: "We are bigger, better, have no problems, and must put on the face of perfection." Children get the messages: "What would the neighbors think?" "What would the relatives think?" What would our friends think?" These are common fears in the family: "Always put a smile on that pretty little face." Negative Messages. Children are given spoken and unspoken messages that get internalized, typically: "You're not good enough"; "You don't measure up"; "You are valued for what you do rather than for who you are." Lack of Parental Hierarchy. In healthy families, there is a strong parental hierarchy in which the parents are in charge and shining love, light, guidance, and direction down to the children. In narcissistic families, this hierarchy is non-existent; the children are there to serve parental needs. Lack of Emotional Tune-In. Narcissistic parents lack the ability to emotionally tune in to their kids. They cannot feel and show empathy or unconditional love. They are typically critical and judgmental. Lack of Effective Communication. The most common means of communication in narcissistic families is triangulation. Information is not direct. It is told through one party about another in hopes it will get back to the other party. Family members talk about each other to other members of the family, but don't confront each other directly. This creates passive-aggressive behaviour behavior, tension, and mistrust. When communication is direct, it is often in the form of anger or rage. Unclear Boundaries. There are few boundaries in the narcissistic family. Children's feelings are not considered important. Private diaries are read, physical boundaries are not kept, and emotional boundaries are not respected. The right to privacy is not typically a part of the family history. One Parent Narcissistic, the Other Orbiting. If one parent is narcissistic, it is common for the other parent to have to revolve around the narcissist to keep the marriage intact. Often, this other parent has redeeming qualities to offer the children, but is tied up meeting the needs of the narcissistic spouse, leaving the children's needs unmet. Who is there for them? Siblings Not Encouraged to Be Close. In healthy families, we encourage our children to be loving and close to each other. In narcissistic families, children are pitted against each other and taught competition. There is a constant comparison of who is doing better and who is not. Some are favored or seen as "the golden child," and others become the scapegoat for a parent's projected negative feelings. Siblings in narcissistic families rarely grow up feeling emotionally connected to each other. Feelings. Feelings are denied and not discussed. Children are not taught to embrace their emotions and process them in realistic ways. They are taught to stuff and repress them, and are told their feelings don't matter. Narcissistic parents are typically not in touch with their own feelings and therefore project them onto others. This causes a lack of accountability and honesty, not to mention other psychological disorders. If we don't process feelings, they do leak out in other unhealthy ways. "Not Good Enough" Messages. These messages come across loud and clear in the narcissistic family. Some parents actually speak this message in various ways; others just model it to the children. Even if they display arrogant and boastful behavior, under the veneer of a narcissist is a self-loathing psyche—that gets passed to the child. Dysfunction—Obvious or Covert. In narcissist families, the dynamics can be seen or disguised. The dysfunction displayed in violent and abusive homes is usually obvious, but emotional and psychological abuse, as well as neglectful parenting, are often hidden. While the drama is not displayed as openly to the outside world, it is just as, if not, more damaging to the children. Reviewing these dynamics, one can see how this kind of family can look pretty but be decaying at the same time. If you recognize your family in this description, know that there is hope and recovery. We can't change the past, but we can take control of the now. We do not have to be defined by the wounds in our family systems. As Mark Twain defines the optimist, I see the recovering adult child: "A person who travels on nothing from nowhere to happiness." Source: The Narcissistic Family Tree Updated 2w ago • View Upvotes