People who work for petroleum companies: How do you see your role in global warming?
There are some in the petroleum industry that, for whatever reason, will deny that climate change is happening and deny that it is a real problem.  That would be convenient, but I don't count myself among them. Energy companies, and their employees, are demonized as a group that wants nothing more than to make money at the expense of the planet.  When I look at the public perception of energy companies, what I see is a lot of anti-corporatism mixed in with anxiety over climate change and a perception that short-term gain is acceptable for long-term losses.  Somehow, petroleum companies and their employees are simultaneously, the embodiment of all the evils of capitalism and callous disregard for the environment at once. That's not true.  The vast majority of employees are people who care about what's going on, have kids, want to leave some kind of better world to their children, and are sad when environmental tragedies happen, especially because we often have a personal connection to the area that armchair environmentalists sitting in air-conditioned rooms in California can only imagine. How do we see our role?  We are facilitators.  We are in the business of providing energy, and we will provide whatever energy is economical.  I guarantee you, 100%, that if it were as profitable to provide our energy from renewables or other technology then we would do it.  Petroleum companies invest hundreds of billions of dollars of private money each year, a sum that greens can only dream of reaching in renewables investment.  Even a fraction of that would go beyond greens' wildest dreams. Does the energy we provide impact climate change?  Absolutely.  Is it a problem?  Yes.  Do our employers, as businesses, have a duty to do anything about it?  No.  The only obligation of a business is to grow and survive - or, if you subscribe to certain pop-management theories, "to maximize shareholder value."   Not every company has a social or political mission, the vast majority of companies do not, and frankly I think most companies should not. The incentives for company behavior need to come from someplace else.   The real question should be, how do you see your role in global warming? If society did not demand petroleum for energy and chemicals, we would not provide it.  If we as a group saw a better alternative or were motivated enough to transition now, we would. Petroleum companies will begin transitioning to other energy sources if and when it becomes economical to do so.  The preferences of petroleum companies depend on the what is profitable - that is driven, ultimately, by what do you, our customers, want.  Privately, many businesses in the oil and gas industry - especially in the US and Western Europe - have long been planning for some form of carbon tax, and in the EU that's already becoming a reality.  That will certainly change our businesses, but perhaps not as much as you think: oil and gas will be around for a long time hence, because there are no very good alternatives. So in that sense, at least, we who work for petroleum companies are only those who happen to work for a living as messengers.  We are the scapegoats, people who are easily demonized because the majority of people would prefer to not have to hear about how their lifestyles are damaging the environment and causing climate change, and instead blame these evil corporations - or still worse, deny that it's happening altogether.  Those of us who care about climate change can and do make the personal choices that will move towards stopping it, to the extent we can; in fact, I'd wager the average petroleum engineer is better informed about climate change and energy conservation, and more likely to make lifestyle changes because of that, than most people in the United States. So the activists out there to squeeze our livelihoods, condemn our careers while exonerating their lifestyles, push through still more stifling politically-motivated regulation (as opposed to more sober, technocratic analysis that prevails in other parts of government)... we watch these people and wonder why they rode diesel-powered buses to chain themselves to the gates of the White House.  They could have helped the cause of climate change more by staying at home and planting a tree, or better yet, cashing their bus ticket towards getting better housing insulation.  There is an exception to all of this, of course.  The exception is, in short, lobbying.  Frankly, this now veers into the realm of politics, and I don't want to dwell on this too much, but I think that contributions of petroluem companies to policy groups and lobbyists are not excusable.  To the extent that these groups have worked to prevent effective climate change legislation from being passed - and that extent is controversial - I think it is at the very least unethical, and I have strong feelings about all other lobbying for "corporate welfare" in general.  I would prefer that the AFPM and API separate their lobbying arms and stop tainting the image of the industry.  But the people on the ground don't decide what policy at the top is... and change there will happen one funeral at a time. 