What is the craziest experience you've had when a prospective groom/bride had come to see you for the first time (before the wedding)?
Kruti is lefty, we don't want a lefty progeny. In India, you would find such story in every second household. In fact, "what happened at the wedding meeting?" is quite a thing people are excited about. This is what "occurred" to my best and closest friend, Kruti, name changed, a very simple and good looking architect and I was with her throughout the play. I took her permission to publish it here. A very nosy matrimony enthusiast uncle of hers imposed this proposal on her. First one for her. We were told the guy, Nikhil was a 29 years old Green Card holder from US. The profile overview was good, with so much talks on Kruti eventually developed some optimism for it, just that you can't miss skepticism here, she had few things she wanted to be sure of. Phone talks were on between parents of both and finally a day for meeting at girl's place was fixed. An hour before the meeting Nikhil's father called up for exact address. After a lot of railing and derailing from the track, he couldn't get it. So Sunny, Kruti's brother was summoned to guide them from a certain spot. Sunny, told them he would come in a white Santro (for fast recognition) and guide them to home. This happened, their family arrived. Father, mother, the guy and his granny and an iPad (it also have a major role). It all began, introduction, exchanging pleasantries etc. Now, the girl (Kruti) was summoned. I'brought her in' as they call it. She touched every ones feet from boy's family, as instructed, of course except for the boy himself. When we entered Nikhil was busy pretending reading something on his gadget, the iPad! And the conversation was on these tracks. Nikhil's dad: So you have a Santro, your son came to get us by that. We have have a Hyundai Sonata and Nikhil has his own in US. (Oh! So boastful.) Kruti's dad: We have two cars.(Failing to mention the model.) Nikhil's dad: The second one is of exactly what model? (May be this was to gauge the pocket sizes). Kruti's dad: Ford Ikon. Now, the Girl's questionnaire began. Nikhil's dad: Namaste. What have you studied? Kruti: Namaste. I have M. Arch in Town Planning. I wish to study further along with the job/practice. Nikhil's dad: Great! What does the "M" in M. Arch stand for? I am a Master of Science in Agriculture of my time. (His attitude couldn't ooze out more.) Oh you want to tell us, that you also have a Masters. Accolades. Kruti: M is for Master in M. Arch as well. (Smiles) Nikhil's dad: I know that, I was just testing your knowledge on your subject. (So with your infinite smartness you could gauze Kruti's Knowledge of Architecture from her knowing 'M' stands for Masters, where were you when people were disapproving of Newtons theories, you could have given his gravitational theories a clean chit just by knowing an Apple(p.i.) fell on his head). Nikhil's dad(further): So, you want to work after marriage? Hmm..... Two earning hands are better than one. Do you believe in saving? Before Kruti could answer, he asked pointing at me, "Who is she?" Kruti (sensing the displeasure) : She is my dearest friend. She is family to me. Nikhil's dad: Really? You invite friends to such occasions? I was aghast!! Your son do iPad-ing on such occasions? Kruti's mom came to my rescue, and said she considered me her daughter just like Kruti, also that I am a distant cousin of Kruti, which I actually am. Nikhil's mom (for the first time, she spoke): Anyways, Kruti why are you wearing a Salwar suit(a semi ethnic Indian attire). We expected to see you in sari. I am a working woman and I am always in sari on such occasions. Oh really, I mean on how many 'occasions' you go on a bride-hunting spree for your son. Is this your hobby? Nikhil's dad (echoed): Yes indeed! Sari was required. Any ways, can you cook? Kruti: Yes, pretty much. Almost all veg Maharashtrian dishes and few other as well. Nikhil's dad: And your friend? (At me now) do you cook? And yes what have you studied? Me: I don't know cooking much, not as much as Kruti does. I am done with my M.Sc. (I tried to keep it short, in fact I felt I should run away, I never wanted it all to be spoiled). Nikhil's dad (to me again): Any job? Me: I am a research scholar up for PhD. Nikhil's dad: In what subject? Me(baffled): Microbiology! Why in the world was he so hell bent to know about me? Nikhil's dad: You are quite well studied, don't you know you shouldn't have been here. Don't your parents bother? We all were with our mouths hanging wide and low and the boy still busy with his gadget, as if its his father, who is to be married. Moron duo. Kruti's dad was taken aback. I felt if I had known apparition or atleast had Harry Potter's Broomstick Nimbus 2000, either I would have busted him up with it or at least fled away on it. Nikhil's dad again blurted out to me: We could have misunderstood you for the girl. (Seriously! How lamer it could go! Get your cataract corrected. I wanted to kick him, you know where! ) This time Nikhil's mom turned towards him and gestured to let go and even Nikhil himself managed some precious seconds from his gadget, to give the surrounding a much awaited glance. Things again rolled back to normal mode just with pretensions, at least from our side. After few more filthy questions from his father, Nikhil's chance came up to speak with Kruti. Kruti's mom was taking them to other room when Nikhil's mother prompted, "They both can sit here and talk, our son tells us everything, lets reduce his efforts". Laughs. What a joke you cracked Mademoiselle!! Tough that he manages to do that from the USA, but please care to spare us. They both sat amidst all. Nikhil (to Kruti): Hey, I am very techno-savvy as I stay in US. How about you talking to my brother who is in NY on FaceTime (Apple's online video chat app). He is online. He will also approve of you then. (First let Kruti approve of your imposed gadget-ing on her.) All was going miserable. I felt as if Nikhil's granny was dozing off since always. She actually was. She should have taken some care of her son's etiquettes issues, besides dozing off generally. Meanwhile, along with the FaceTime-ing, my interview was on. My study, my hobbies, my spending habits, my marriage views (Oh! why me?) and then restrictions girls should have. Somehow, it all ended after issuing out recipes of all the dishes cooked from Kruti over dinner, to make sure she knew some cooking. It was most certainly garnished with their snarky remarks. Nikhil told how he couldn't do without McD and how much difficulty he sustains his India tours. Oh! one jug head. They left, and Nikhil got a BIG NO in consensus. Though, an informing phone call had to be made. It was bit difficult to say no without any suitable reason. Like, "this alliance is not suitable because you are rude and carelessly mannerless" could not be accounted for at least from sensible people like Kruti's family. But to Kruti's family's relief, next day Nikhil's dad called up, and to my utter surprise they said no, thankfully. But, sure enough they had a validated-and-accountable reason for this, "Kruti is lefty, we don't want a lefty progeny." Lefty or righty are distant thoughts, I wish those people some luck, next time at least get a little brainy, hearty and mannerful progeny. P.S. I wrote this answer on my 'iPad' and then my husband read it, again on my 'iPad' and since then he is just on a teasing spree, as I am generally glued to some books and gadgets, he keeps asking me, "where was your iPad the time when we first met?" Updated 84w ago • View Upvotes