Why is our media so screwed up?
Thanks for the A2a! I think the state of the media is a bit of a chicken and egg proposition that goes beyond news media, which is what people have spoken of so far. Does the media deliver more banality now because it's what society wants or does society settle for mediocrity because it's what they've become accustomed to? Maybe both. Let's remember, consumers and their money have a lot of power- if people didn't eat up channels known for their 'news reporters' blatantly lying, those methods would change immediately. If magazines didn't sell truck loads of issues dedicated to which stars have cellulite or have been captured sans makeup or post-weight gain, those magazines would find a new tack. If people didn't pay or click to see (name of celebrity) caught getting into a car without undergarments, those photos would no longer be in demand. If people didn't want to analyze which celebrity gained weight, has a cute child, and whom may be having an affair with whom, there would be no market for it. It's worth noting that the average paparazzi earns between $66-100k per year with the really smarmy ones earning a salary exceeding $250k per year. The public complain about taxes being high with those funds going to pay teachers, who are grossly underpaid, fund schools, many of which are sorely in demand of updating and new materials, libraries, parks, and police and fire departments. Where is the outrage about how much paparazzi earn to stalk 'celebrity' children coming home from school? The public is largely funding those outrageous salaries, yet seem content with it. Coming back to the initial question, the media is screwed up because people have their priorities competely wrong. It enrages someone to pay an extra $50.00 a year on their tax bill to fund a new library in their town but they'll happily spend $5.00 a week on Us Magazine with the hope that they can catch seemingly glamorous people at their worst. Consumers have all the power and as much as people complain about the atrocious standards in the press and the horrible body imagine examples in the media, no one actually wants it to change. If that's what people wanted, that's what they'd get. 