What would happen if the USA and Pakistan attacked India at the same time?
Many of the answers I read say, India will suffer heavy casualties and will run out of resources. Remember Vietnam ?  USA could not manage a war with a country 10 times smaller than India and with much smaller population.  India will hold its ground and USA will face heavy causalities. Remember, we are elephants. But if they are cornered, you can never guess which way it would start destroying. You could try controlling. But that would be waste of effort, because before you can even start the process, you would have suffered heavily. Of course, in the end you can subdue it, but at what cost. Pakistan would be totally obliterated of course. Only way for USA to win would be to go nuclear. If they go India will also go. Make no mistake USA will also face suffer heavily by a nuclear attack from India. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lis... http://thediplomat.com/2013/09/i... http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sur.... http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Agn... We have many NRIs.  Many are powerful. In terms of money or control they hold over various organizations. If they go rogue inside US without letting anyone know, that would be extremely devastating for US. We are only talking about armies of both the countries. But what about the citizens of India ? The 1.2 Billion people ? If you say they will accept USA invasion with open arms, you are mistaken. We have the largest volunteering army in the world. If war starts, and if our  government gets desperate enough to ask its citizens to join the army, how many people do you think would join ? My guess would be around 200 million at least. US can never hope to rule us.  If US really start attacking that would really be world war III. Why ? Because after the war US would be weak. Now do you think Russia and China would be waiting in the side lines ? Others will also later join. More likely this would be the end of the world I suppose. US can make us as a country almost a desert, but remember, some one who knows they are going to suffer heavily or have nothing to lose or cornered, would be the most dangerous person. 