What would happen if the USA and Pakistan attacked India at the same time?
I have read Pratyush Rathore's answer as well as others'. They were quite logical answers. Some were short, and  one of them  was almost poetical and elaborate. And I could easily understand the underlying fear and anxiety that goes on in the mind of a typical Indian. But none of the answer was creative - out of the box type! Can there be another angle to this? Imagine the following scenario: -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- India attacks and captures the Haji Pir Pass which the army was forced to give back to Pakistan under the Tashkent agreement in 1966. (In 1965 war, Indian Army had captured the strategic Haji Pir Pass.  During the Tashkent talks between India and Pakistan, held after the intervention of Soviet Union, India agreed to return Haji Pir Pass, Pt 13620 which dominated Kargil town and many other tactically important areas). Because of good foresight, India resolves its territorial and boundary dispute with China. With the help from China and Russia, India becomes a permanent member of the United Nations Security council. India along with China, Russia, Vietnam  forge a cooperative Asian Security framework. All the member nations agree not to wage war among the member nations. But America continues its parochial policy of siding with Pakistan and covertly supplies arms, ammunitions and the funds needed, to pakistan which continues its blatant terrorists activities on indian soil. In 2017 an open conflict erupts between India and Pakistan. Because  of strategic planning, within two days of the commencement of hostilities, the Pakistan air force is decimated and the navy is stale-mated. The Indian army then dismembers Pakistan with a sledge-hammer blow through Sind and captures almost all of POK. The US enters the war on the side of its ally. The US fires Tomahawk land-attack cruise missiles at Hyderabad from a carrier battle group in the Arabian Sea but these are intercepted and destroyed by India’s newly-installed national missile shield. India chooses to respond with its “soft” power. The scene then shifts to the continental US where India unleashes a powerful electro-magnetic pulse (EMP) and launches computer viruses in a “cyber attack” to disrupt communications and command and control computers as well as major commercial centres to plunge US “administration, commerce and banking sectors into chaos.” Russia and China strongly support India and the US stands isolated in the UN Security Council. The short and sharp war goes badly for Pakistan and the fundamentalist mullahs seize the opportunity to stage a coup to overthrow the military government. The US almost pleads with India to send in its Special Forces to restore the situation in Pakistan! The UN intervenes, a grateful Pakistani government agrees to handover POK and the Northern Areas to India and all is well that ends well. India emerges from the 60-hour war with its honour intact and the Kashmir dispute solved once and for all. ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Of course the above fiction is not the outcome of my fertile imagination. Rather it is an extract from the book: The Writing on the Wall: India Checkmates America 2017 General S. Padmanabhan, PVSM, AVSM, VSM (Retd.) I urge all of you to read that book. Not as a fiction. But as a means of going into the minds of our military commanders. Sundararajan Padmanabhan (born 5 December 1940 in Trivandrum, Travancore) was the Chief of Army Staff of the Indian Army from 2000 to 2002. 