Is it justifiable to blame Kejriwal for the death of the farmer in the Delhi rally today?
Yes! If Arvind didn't have that rally then that that farmer wouldn't have committed suicide. or may be he (the farmer) would have and we might never got to know about his suicidal. That Farmer came all they way from his home state Rajasthan to attend Arvind's rally in Delhi in a hope that he would get some thing there from the messiah(Arvind). Arvind is so pathetic that couldn't give he anything but Bhashan (speeches) and Slogans against Modi Govt. He couldn't even give that farmer any assurance about anything.  He has increased all the hopes for farmers and disappointed them even though they belong to different state. Arvind increased compensation for Delhi's farmer to the highest in the country but what about Rajasthan's farmers? The rally was about Land Acquisition Act supporting the cause of some farmers, but the farmer was really not hopeful of any positive outcome out of that rally. That farmer committed suicide in particularly Arvind's AAP Kisan rally to make a statement "hume aur sapne mat dikhayiye". Arvind has raised so many hopes but this time he should lose hope because he let an man die in front of him. So Arvind go back to your own business because you should not become the reason why people die. Yesterday I heard all this in the news: 400 farmers have committed suicide in Maharashtra. A lady committed suicide because her husband was gay. Student committed suicide because he failed in exam. IIT guy committed suicide because of academic pressure. Girl committed suicide because somebody leaked her naked photos. Wife committed suicide because her husband was cheating on her. Bride-to-be committed suicide because of dowry. I have no respect for people who commit suicide. They do what they want to do but its living people (also people dependent on them) who are being blamed (and suffer) for their act thus making their life miserable. PS: This is very insensitive of me to write all these, So to all dead people(suicide ones), you can haunt me in the night, I don't know what you were going through but suicide is definitely not the answer . 