Are vampires real? If not, where and how did the idea of vampires originate?
No. Sorry. They are not. We actually can trace back the modern vampire myth to its origin and can see it evolve over time into what it is now. The roots of the modern vampire myth (what you and I think of when we hear the word vampire) stem from eastern Europe in the late 17th century. Science was in its infancy and people looked to superstition and religion to inform their world. Much like witches, vampires were popular scapegoats for many illnesses a village might be facing. It was this lack of scientific knowledge of disease and medicine that let the vampire myth thrive. The first known human accused of being a vampire (locally known as a strigoi) was a man by the name of  Jure Grando, who lived in a village in what is now Croatia. Legend has it that he died in the year 1656 and promptly came back from the dead. At night he would wandering about drinking the blood of his neighbors. He would also sexually harass his widow until he was supposedly tracked down and beheaded [1]. From eastern Europe the vampire myth traveled westward into Germany and eventually England where it was embellished and popularized. Vampires became a particularly popular literary device during the 18th and 19th centuries, however no single book was more influential in the myth's popularization than Bram Stoker's seminal 1897 work "Dracula". This book is largely responsible for codifying many of the traits we now associate with vampires: the transformation into a bat, vampire's inability to cross water, the drinking of blood, sleeping in coffins, the fear of garlic, and the ability to turn others into thralls. When we picture a vampire rising from his coffin at night to drink the blood of young women, be sure to thank Bram Stoker! Interestingly enough, vampire-like myths can be found in many other cultures as well, having arisen independently from local folklore... even very old ones as ancient India or the ancient civilizations of the Mesopotamian Valley (Persia, Babylon etc). Oftentimes the myth would take the form of a demon or restless ghost who would subsist on human flesh and blood. Ancient Mesopotamians feared Lamashtu, a demon goddess who would sneak into people's house at night and steal the life from babies and infants. Modern scholars think this was ancient people's attempts to explain miscarriages and sudden infant death syndrome. Similar stories are also found in China, where they are called jiangshi: a reanimated corpse dressed in Qing Dynasty regalia. The Jiangshi would hop around, hoping to catch an unsuspecting victim and drain his chi (or ki), the life energy supposedly sustaining us all. The piece of paper commonly seen stuck to its face was the written spell used to bring the jiangshi back from the dead. [2] In West Africa they had the Sasabonsam. It is described as hairy, with bloodshot eyes, iron teeth, and hook-feet. It would hide up in trees and wait for a victims to pass below, dangling its hook-feet down in an attempting to snare the unwary person, hoping to catch its meal. [3] In Columbia, there is the myth of the Tunda: a hideous demon who took the appearance of a beautiful woman in order to lure the unsuspecting deep into the woods. She would then feed her victims shrimp which she farted on (seriously!) This would put them in a trance so that she could change back into her normal form, that of a hideous old hag, and feast on their blood. [4] So no, as you can see, vampires aren't real, but that hasn't stopped many cultures around the world from dreaming them up anyway! [1]Jure Grando [2]Jiang Shi [3]Sasabonsam by Lizzy-John on DeviantArt [4]Delfina y la tunda Velia Cristina Santos Carvache - Artelista.com - en 