In what ways has Christianity influenced Jewish theology?
The Resurrected Messiah Until recently, Judaism has never claimed that the messiah would rise up from the dead. Jews believed that the messiah would come, be entirely grounded in the natural universe (as opposed to the supernatural), and change things in the world through very conventional means. Then Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson, who was thought to be by many Jews to be the arrival of the Messiah..... inconveniently died. And you guessed it: many Jews believe that he will one day rise up from the grave in order to bring to fruition the prophecy of the messiah. So, in essence, they believed the messiah came, died, will resurrect, and continue his work on behalf of the Jewish people and the world. Even though the resurrectionists are a sliver of the population, Schneerson is still adored throughout the larger Jewish community. "There are some in Crown Heights who say they don’t believe the Rebbe is  dead, and others who say that his resurrection is imminent. Some of  these resurrectionists, who critics within the movement say are straying  far from traditional Judaism, have even taken to sleeping near the  Rebbe’s grave in a Queens cemetery, hoping to be the first to see their  Messiah rise from the dead." ("Battle Among Lubavitch Erupts Over Rebbe’s Will", Jeffrey Goldberg, The Forward, June 17, 1994.) The myth behind Schneerson's return is very clearly influenced by the myth of Christ. But since early Christianity was really a form of Judaism, this would be Judaism's second go around with this messiah model. Messiah as the Scapegoat for Sin Also, during Yom Kippur, a chicken is sacrificed (kapparot) with the belief that the sins of the Jews, having been poured into the chicken, would be destroyed with the death of the chicken. That's, again, the Christ model. Specifically, the belief that a proxy can take away the sins of the world -- or in this case, just the Jewish people. This is arguably against the concept of atonement, which is the entire point of Yom Kippur. (Because if you can just dump your sins into a chicken and then kill the chicken, there is no value to atonement.) Now, perhaps some of these Christianesque things arose in Judaism quite independent from Christian influence. And perhaps not. But I put the above out there for consideration. If I am not mistaken, this practice originated in medieval times. Certainly, after the time of Christ. The Fires of Hell My stepsons attended very Orthodox yeshivas in which all the rabbis used the fear of hell (with fire) to manipulate behavior, quite the way we see done in Christianity. I'm not sure how widespread this fear tactic is used throughout Orthodox Judaism, but it demonstrates a very clear Christan influence. If widespread, it is worth noting. It is especially worth noting if this belief is becoming part of Jewish tradition beyond the yeshiva walls. "It's Beginning to Feel a lot Like Christmas" -- Bing Crosby The Chanukah bush is Judaism's Christmas tree substitute. I know this isn't theology, but I added it for fun. 