Why does Israel have a negative image across the Middle East?
Anti-Zionism was the foundation and justification of existing regimes in several Muslim countries: Saudi Arabia: House of Saud used anti-Zionism and support of al-Husseini as a battle cry against the established Hashemite dynasty. De-humanizing Israel is justification of Saudi rule over the Arabian peninsula. Iran: Shah was quite friendly with Israel - Khomeini made Israel an Iranian problem, declared Jerusalem a holy Muslim city and instituted a national day of hate of Israel. Once again, anti-Zionism is part of their claim to power. Egypt: the creator of the contemporary Egyptian state, Gamal Nasser, made his name fighting against Israel in 1949, then lost all other wars against Israel. De-humanizing Israel is the way to turn loosing the war against numerically inferior opponent into a heroic struggle. Syria: for several decades the Alawite rulers were using opposition to Israel as their claim to power. Most of these rulers were hopping on anti-Jewish hysteria created by a talented propagandist Haj Amin al-Husseini, who at some stages was taking guidance from the history's most talented, distinguished and evil propagandist: Joseph Goebbels. It looks like the only leaders who favored Israel were long-established hereditary rulers who were [mistakenly] confident in their hold on power and wanted to bring their countries to the forefront of civilization: Shah and up to some point Hashemites. The problem was massively amplified by USSR meddling in Middle East, who brought anti-Israel propaganda to the whole new level: it became a science. Full-time academics were developing, with proper scientific methods and on the basis of evidence, the most effective ways to portray Israel as evil. Mahmoud Abbas'  Ph.D is in that science. From that point on, it was a centrally organised and scientifically based campaign of blanket dehumanization. Some international event on the rights of women - Arab countries blame everything on Israel. Ophthalmologists or Endocrinologists  meet to discuss new developments - someone from an Arab country will talk about crimes of Zionism. Try to imagine what was happening internally - a non-stop all-permeating propaganda that was more intense and active for much longer than Nazi or Stalin's. This propaganda was never opposed by USA or Israel, even US allies were spending US money on it. Think of Germans in 1941 or Soviets in 1956 - Arabs suffered higher degree of brainwash, it can only be compared to what North Koreans have endured. 