What are the basics of data structures?Well in very simple terms Data Sturcture can be explained as organization on data in a particular way. The way data is organised makes its use for a particular application more suitable. For example in order to model a deck of cards in a card game, stack would be the best data structure with its Last In First Out property. Now as you might have guessed with this example that in addition to organisation of data, data structures also define the valid operations on that data. Thus the combination of these two aspects define the data structure in a complete sense. Use of Data Structures Data Strucutures if used keeping in mind the nature of the problem in hand can result in the following advantages Better code which is easy to manage, as much of the solution implementation is taken care of by the DS implementation, which has been under review for quite some time and the corner cases are already documented. So once you wisely choose the DS based on your problem, you straightaway benefit from the years of wisdom of the people who documented the DS and can focus more on the actual overall problem. The time efficiency of your code improves, you could surely implement your solution without using any well know DS and just model it around PDT(Plain Old Data Type), but then your code would be hard to debug and improving its efficiency would take more efforts as against to using already defined DS, which are optimized for time and space complexity There would be many more benefits like easy sharing and understanding of code among peers etc. So as a general practice modelling your solution around an abstraction of data grouped with the operations allowed on that data is a recipe for creating good maintainable code. And this indeed is the basics of DS. You can learn a bunch of DS around which are already present, suitable under different needs or define your own based on the need at hand. Explore around a bit, you will benefit from more examples releating DS to more real programming problems. Cheers 154 Views