Is it neccessary for me to be able to implement Graph data structure natively without language libraries?For competitive programming, I learnt the theoretical aspect of graph data structure and traversal, but having issues implementing it natively, should i move on or learn to write that compulsorily. Below is an image of my logical drawing ​The thing about graphs is that — unlike many other data structures — if you don’t understand how to implement them, you probably don’t understand the concepts involved, either. Implementing a graph class is very straightforward if you understand the idea. It’s not like binary search trees or something, where you might understand the idea of a balanced tree, but you don’t remember how any of the balancing algorithms actually work. If you understand the concept of graphs and are a good programmer, it’s hard to fail to implement a graph. Even when you have to make implementation choices — such as whether to use an adjacency matrix or adjacency list — these choices are based on relatively straightforward considerations that I would expect a good engineer to be capable of. Because the implementation is so simple, if someone can’t do it, I’m forced to assume that one of two things is true: They struggle to convert ideas into code even when they fully understand the ideas and all the details. That would make them a bad programmer. They don’t understand the ideas involved in graphs. If we’re talking about an interview situation, if #2 is the reason, I would not rule that candidate out for a general software engineering position, if they show strength in other areas. If it’s #1, then I simply cannot support their candidacy at all. If we’re talking about your general development as a coder, if you are in this situation and firmly believe you are a good programmer (inability to translate fully-understood ideas into code is not something you normally experience), I would urge you to reconsider the assumption that you have really learned the “theoretical aspect” of graphs well. 104 Views · View Upvotes · Answer requested by Alaran Moshood