What algorithms or data structures should be considered for user profiling?It’s unclear what you want, or why algorithms would be useful, but I’ll take a stab at this in that general direction. For storing user profiles I’d probably create a custom object in a NoSQL DB unless there was a good reason to use SQL. I just think of a user profile as a document already essentially, and NoSQL would scale easily. I’d make it a custom user profile object with arrays for various lists of attributes as necessary. Pretty simple stuff, just requires making a few decisions. As to making use of it, I’d bet that clustering is going to be your friend. Clustering along different dimensions and sets of dimensions will tell you useful things about new users. So you could hear just 2 or 3 pieces of info about someone and then infer a range of probably pieces of information about them by looking at other people similar to them in your database. For example, this could be very useful in a recommendation engine. Rather than relying solely on a single user’s preferences, you could ask them a few questions that highly correlate with clusters of users and then make a wide range of guesses of that new user’s other potential interests. For instance… let’s say that we have a guy named Rob. Rob is a college student. Rob is using our online shopping service. What we could do is recommend Rob products similar to those that he views and buys. That would be useful, and we probably should do this. But if we have a million people in our database, based on a few pieces of information about Rob, we can find him as a certain type of college student within a larger (unsupervised, mind you) cluster of college students and people very much like him. Based on that we could recommend some very unique products that may be quite different to what he initially looks at or buys, because we know what people like Rob normally buy. Like given his age, location, and seeing that he purchased an Xbox and a textbook, we could recommend a collapsible laundry basket or a mini fridge. Interesting stuff. 1.8k Views · View Upvotes · Answer requested by 1 person