How did data structures and algorithms come into existence?I am not sure about the exact existence but i feel like everything in this world is interrelated and inter disciplinary in nature. As one of my lecturer’s said everything came from a single taught or a question WHY? that question lead us to physics and to prove physics we developed mathematics. And computer science is an another way of mathematical representation. we can see a lot of programs like fibonacci series, interest calculation, armstrong number and many more. Well,coming to your question data structures and algorithms are already existing in this world for a very long time!!! First let me define data, data means facts that are collected together and structure means arranging the facts in a suitable and more reliable manner.we apply data structures in our day to day life very frequently. lets say you want to take a plate from a stack of plates. then you cant take any plate you want to. you should take the plate that is placed in the top most position. That’s it ! this application in data structures is named as STACKS,and we keep on discussing we find QUEUES where a group of people standing in a line to board on a bus and many more. ALL these things we ask machines to do by writing a simple code. So, there comes the existence of data structures in a stream of computer science engineering, I mentioned only two applications of data structures but if we keep on writing it is like “cleaning the sand in a beach”. So due to its wide range of usage ,application and scope data structures and algorithms came into so called existence. Then coming to algorithm part it used because to make our lives more comfortable. Instead of reading and understanding the computer language we can write the same in a simplified and well defined format which is nothing but ALGORITHM. That is all about DATA STRUCTURES and ALGORITHMS. Being a second year student i feel like this subject is simply superb.I just love this subject. I would like to thank my lecturer for this, because without him there is no such interesting subject in my life. 319 Views · View Upvotes