What should I know as a computer science student?I am a freshman and aim at getting into Google, Facebook, Microsoft, Capegemini, TCS, Infosys, etc. However I don't know what all knowledge should I have to pass rounds I have a clear understanding of c++ and java. I am in a 3rd tier college. So have to apply off- campus. Provide a guideline. Thanks.First of all, I would compliment you for being self-driven enough to ask this question and second thing you don't put Google, Facebook and Microsoft in the same bucket as CGI, TCS and Infy. I would tell you why?! Facebook, MS & Google are top end product based firms and difficult to get in while CGI, TCS & Infy are service based firms and hire candidates in volume from regional colleges in India. The difference being is the kind of work being done at these companies. TCS, Infy and CGI mostly provide their services to the clients like telecom companies and banks. The majority of projects they have are maintenance based. For them you don't need to have deep knowledge of programming. Just some basic aptitude and some basic knowledge of programming will do while on the other hand Facebook, MS and Google are product based which means they require you to work on their own products like Google Drive, Google Chrome or Facebook Messenger for which you need to have great knowledge of data structures, algorithms and have great programming skills at one of the majorly used object oriented language such as C++ or Java. So you first need to have your head clear about which path you want to follow. If you want to get into a good product based company then you need to gear up and seriously need to get your hands dirty with data structures and algorithms. Start with basic algorithms like searching and sorting, then dynamic programming, graph theory etc i.e if you are really passionate about programming and developing new products this should be your path. But if you are not that much interested in programming then aim for service based firms like TCS or Infy. For them start with basic aptitude and verbal skills. Follow a book like RS Agrawal or Arun Sharma. Then get some fundamental knowledge of programming and prepare your projects well. That should be enough to get into these firms. Hope this helps :) 873 Views  View Upvotes