Is it necessary to learn algorithm and datastructures when applying for a job as an application developer?The job I’m interested in require these knowledge: web technolgy (HTML, CSS, JS) Docker, AWS Java I want to take courses about Algo and DS on MIT OCW. Do I need knowledge about Algos and DS for the kind of job I’m interested in? Otherwise I could save myself time and learn more hands on skills.This position looks like a full-stack engineer type position, in my opinion: “Web technology (HTML, CSS, JS)” is frontend “Docker, AWS” is system administration Java is backend For any of these areas, you will need to know algorithm and data structure. You might not need advanced knowledge in data structure for frontend and system administration but having a minimum of it will make the difference between a regular developer and a great developer. Data structure and algorithm are quite important topics during interview processes. All technical interviews I have seen contained some of it, for some companies a lot of it. Usually top companies such as Facebook, Google or LinkedIn will require you to have a solid knowledge in Data structure and algorithm(because the scale at which they operate requires its engineers to optimize algorithms for scale). Often during technical interviews, you will need to answer questions/solve problem that will not reflect at all the day to day job that this position will involve but unfortunately, that’s the only that one can get the job. I have a solid knowledge of technical interviews as I am working in the industry for a decade and I am running a software engineering school training full-stack software engineers. My students have applied to numbers of small and big companies as well as a variety of roles and these 2 topics always come up. I would add that on top of being comfortable with Data Structures and Algorithm, you need to be comfortable explaining it and explaining it on a whiteboard, again for technical interviews. My observation as a software engineer and now co-founder of a software engineering school is that there is a gap between what you need to know to get a job and what you need to know to be good at your job: To get the job: data structure/algorithm/whiteboarding/theoretical knowledge To be good at your job: hands on skills As your question is framed, “yes” that might be considered as a waste of time, but that’s how the Software industry works. Some recommendation to be on top of your game: The book “Cracking the Coding Interview” The book “The Algorithm Design Manual” Practice on HackerRank and Deliver Faster through Crowdsourcing Good luck and if you liked my answer, please upvote it :)! 162 Views · View Upvotes