What skills in terms of programming, data structures and algorithms should you have before you can hope to solve coding interview questions?I’m having difficulties solving coding interview questions, problems on topcoder and problems classified as “easy” on codechef. What am I missing? What books should I study and can I hope to land a job in a good tech company in the next 3 years (I am a cs graduate)?Here is how I recommend you approach. 3 years is a lot of time to prepare. For data structures like Array, Linked List, Stack, Queue, Hash Table, BST, Map (Hash vs Tree), Set, Trie, understand “cost” of various operations like add, delete, modify, search, sort, traverse, etc. That should lead to knowing pros and cons of each data structure and what type of data they are good at representing. Read up as many algorithms as you can. Pay close attention to how they overcome the cons of data structures (if any) and exploit the pros of data structures and any special attributes of data to find efficient solutions. Read up math! It has a much bigger role to play than it appears in coding interviews. That should lead to good problem solving skills. You should know how to break down an unknown problem into similar and/or smaller known problems. Finally, practise writing elegant, correct and efficient code that is easy to read and explain within 25-45 minutes. Hints for coding interviews: ask relevant questions before attempting to solve break the problem into similar/smaller known problems briefly discuss brute force approach, if required apply, if required math sorting searching recursion bit manipulation dynamic programming before implementing your algorithm discuss it with the interviewer discuss it’s time and space complexity see if it can be improved based on above discussion write test cases (before code!) start small, test immediately write functions that are reusable loosely coupled small and do only one thing! avoid gotos unnecessary variables unnecessary/many/nested if-elses always validate input check return codes handle corner cases trace your code with test cases before telling the interviewer - done! 4.4k Views · View Upvotes