Given a point (x,y), how can you find the number of unique ways of getting to that point from your current position?What algorithm would you use and how? I came across this question on glassdoor asked in an interview at a company with no other information. I was just curious to understand how to proceed with the problem. Any specific constraints that would make sense, please consider them in your answer.As disclosed in a comment this may be an interview question a candidate encountered and posted to give others a heads up about the curve ball question. The genre is questions that reveal how someone thinks and might proceed in a job where problems and requirements are ill-defined. Different companies will have different specific points they will be looking for with different priorities. Answers and comments already indicate that one needs to recognize the incompleteness of the problem description, and the need to probe for clarity. In the interview, there will be interaction. How does the candidate ask for information? Is the candidate tenacious? Are other strategies tried, to tease out what is requested or needed, or to clear up the infinities? What is the response to frustrated efforts? Does the candidate surrender? Or, begin to identify and own the definition of constraints. How is this communicated? How far does the candidate go, down that path? Are multiple paths considered and weighed against each other? As a solution starts to take shape, does the candidate seem to come with a robust tool box of techniques and methods. Does the candidate name data structures or strategies that are known, and refer to appropriate ones for the challenge being defined? Basic problems include eliminating the infinity of solutions. But what defines a “way”? What makes two ways different? How do we describe a way? Presumably there are choices. What is a choice? How does it affect the way? The number of ways? What about loops - traveling in laps several times before moving on? How do you know a route has already been counted? Does the solution scale? Does the candidate consider this? Is this factor compared across multiple alternative designs? How clearly is the candidate expressing these thoughts, ideas and designs? Does the candidate bother to check that the interviewer is following along? 264 Views · View Upvotes