Should I learn how to design data structures before learning about algorithms?Emphatically yes. First you design them and then you populate them and manipulate the results. If you try to do both at once, many deep potholes loom. In the real world, most of the data structures are already in place and populated. This precludes understanding of why a number of complicated issues have been addresses and resolved in seemingly arbitrary or even incorrect ways. Consider that databases have to be tuned. That doesn’t seem logical. You’ve already created a logically correct structure, a jewel that sparkles. Then you try to model likely patterns of use. After that, you try to quantify the frequency of use of the different patterns. At that point, you have to go back to your original pristine architecture and start cheating for the sake of necessary performance requirements. It’s time to do some things “wrongly” or the sake of acceptable performance. There is no way to understand the application of algorithms without knowing about how real world databases/ data sets have been forced to evolve and why so many of their bugs are, really and truly, features. Another factor you have to be aware of is that most databases are “dirty”, full of information that may have been true 5 years ago which aren’t true now. Most of these inherited descripencies are harmless. This is a fact of life that many of the users of words like “algorithm” have difficulties living with. Now if you jump in writing algorithms to deal without good knowledge of all the dirty data infesting the files. your short-term prospects are good, but your longer-term ones aren’t. So you need to really splash around in the pools of already created data already in use before you can trust your quite correct algorithms. Building the data structures first hides the real world safely away. Remember, something like 80% of IT work is maintenance, and refactoring (maintaining with class). Sorry for the rant, but most current practice is like teaching automotive mechanics with brand new cars 243 Views · View Upvotes