How can one be well prepared to answer data structure/algorithm questions in interviews?The best, first place to start is by reading David Byttow's ABC: Always Be Coding. There are a lot of resources in there from a guy who has interviewed a ton of technical candidates. The over arching theme: Forget about libraries and code from the ground up. This is a powerful approach for how to get through tech interviews. No one is going to ask you to code an app on the spot, its all about them getting comfortable with the way you work and your grasp of key or fundamental concepts. During an interview, everyone is impressed by the person who can make hitting free throws look easy. Next, get a little more technical with How to Rock an Algorithm Interview provided by our friends over at Palantir. Palantir is known for their rigorous interview process, and this article gives you a great framework to start thinking about all types of algorithm based interviewing questions. Then we have William Shields' expounded response, Interview Programming Problems Done Right, to 37 Signals' Parlor Tricks article. Long before Google blew the lid off of why Why Brainteasers Dont Belong in Job Interviews, William wrote this blog post which garnered a ton of response on Hacker News. Finally, as a coup-de-gras, you have your choice of Steve Yegge's excellent blog post How to Get that Job at Google. (Skip down to "The Warm-Up" section, which is where things get less Go-To-Google sales-job) or Paul Tyma's How to Pass a Silicon Valley Software Engineering Interview. Both articles offer broad strategic advice for interviewing in the valley. Video on Whiteboard Interviews While not the prettiest video, Dice's Gayle Laakmann delves into the Whiteboard interview on YouTube. If you haven't whiteboarded for an interview in a while, thats a good place to start. Screwed up? It's not over Finished your interview and felt you could have done better? Recovering is still possible, check out "I Dunno" - Recovering From a Botched Technical Interview Answer, Postmortem". 73k Views  View Upvotes