What are cool data structures?Splay trees are a type of binary search tree that percolate the most frequently accessed items to the top of the tree. The amortized time is log(n). However, since most data access patterns are not random (in fact many follow Zipf's law) a splay tree can result in large constant-factor savings. Splay trees are one of the few data structures that get modified on read. A trie is a data structure that can efficiently encode prefixes. It can be used for e.g. autocomplete. In practice hashtables might be preferable since they’re easier to distribute. Bringing us to… Distributed hash tables work similarly to in-memory hash tables but can store much more data and service higher volumes of traffic. As with most distributed data structures new problems arise that are specific to the distributed nature of the data. For hash tables the issues involve resizing the table and adding/removing hosts from the cluster. A technique known as consistent hashing is used to minimize the impact of these types of changes. Arrays might not seem too cool on their own. But they have many interesting applications. For instance if you need logarithmic lookup for a static set of data you can simply sort an array and use binary search. This is often preferable to a binary tree since The data is more compact as no pointers need to be stored. Better memory locality, in particular toward the leaves. (Leaves of a binary tree could be anywhere in memory.) That usually means better cache performance. Search can be done with integer operations on indices. Binary trees use indirect memory references through pointers, which can be slower on some hardware. Another cool application of arrays is Region-based memory management. malloc() and destructors can chew up a lot of CPU when dealing with many small objects. Allocating and deallocating all the objects at the same time can have a substantial impact on performance. There may also be other benefits such as better locality and reduced memory fragmentation. 6.5k Views · View Upvotes