What exactly should a beginner do to master algorithms and data structures?As a beginner it is very hard to get up and going with Data Structures and Algorithms. The major problem that arises for a beginner is to find good resources, good mentors and problems with the confusing code syntax (especially if you are a complete beginner and trying to implement DS using C/C++). I myself tried to implement the various different Data Structures in C and was so much frustrated at that time due to lack of a good guidance and lack of resources. I was also not familiar with Quora or Stackoverflow at that time. So I left DS and shifted to Web Designing and Development. But DS and Algorithms are the essential components of Computer Science and hence a must know for all the CSE and IT people. A beginner can do the following things while learning Data Structures and Algorithms: Master a language first. Like C/C++/Java. (Most of the students are confused with self referential classes and structures, get used to with it.) For a complete beginner I will suggest to use C. With C++ and Java, comes more concepts like templates, generics and multi-threading that is not so suitable for a beginner. The following books are very nice to start with Data Structures and Algorithms: Data Structures and Algorithm Analysis by Mark . A. Weiss ( Have different books for different languages [C/ C++/Java] Data Structures and Algorithms by Adam Drozdek (Have books in C++ and Java). Login to YouTube and watch all the playlisst of mycodeschool. Once you complete any of the book above and have a solid understanding of the different DS with implementations, go for the books like : Cracking the Code Interview Elements of Programming Data Structures and algorithms Made Easy Note : Never give up even you are frustrated and lacking the motivation. Keep going. Practice on HackerRank. It’s the best for a beginner. Give more preference to the Bold text. Hope it helps ! 332 Views · View Upvotes · Answer requested by Sheetal Bharadwaj