What kind of programming questions are asked while interviewing a candidate in C?In C it is hard to solve the problems related to graph, tree etc as they take up a lot of time needs several other data structures to be implemented from scratch so what kind of question should I prepare for?What do you mean? A tree is represented in C in exactly the same way as in any other higher-leveled language, except that you’d use a struct and some pointers instead of a class and some references, so what’s the difference? Don’t tell me allocation and deallocation, because we’re talking about algorithms here. Same goes for linked lists, of course. Can you not represent a graph, directed or undirected, using, say, an adjacency matrix? People have implemented graph algorihms before modern-day C++, Java, C#, Python, or others, had existed, you know. You want to talk about heaps, or Segment trees, or Fenwick trees? They are just arrays, for nature’s sake, so who cares if you write C or Java? The only meaningful difference for problem solving is hashing - associative arrays, sets and dictionaries. This is something that exists in the C++ standard library, JDK, .NET framework and is built into languages like Python, Ruby, or JavaScript. That’s something that the C standard library doesn’t have and you’d have to build from scratch if need be. I would appreciate my candidate to be able do describe the concepts of hashing, but I wouldn’t require them to write a complete set of functional hashing APIs in C, in an interview. I’s be happy enough with some function prototypes and a reasonable explanation of how the work. Fine, you also don’t have dynamically resized arrays, or lists, or vectors, as the civilized world calls them. Well, you don’t need them. Estimate an upper bound and use an array, I’ll live with a little bit of wasted memory. Anyway, the problems that are asked in interviews never rely on knowing about the pre-cooked implementations of your favorite data structures in your favorite language’s runtime. 280 Views · View Upvotes