What is the interview process of Infosys InStep Internship for someone who knows Data Structures?I have been placed in a reputed company, but I still have 8 months to join. I’m interested in iOS and Android dev, although I haven’t built any app. What can I then be asked in the interview?You can see following flow chart for Internship Application Process. for more info you can visit Application Process. Following the extract taken from Infosys Instep - Internship Application Tips The Instep interview is based on your resume. Therefore, you are advised to think about your skills and experiences provided in your resume, and be prepared to explain in detail achievements and leanings acquired in your academic and professional backgrounds. We advise you to review the description of the projects selected during the application and reflect on the reasons of the choice and provide links to background. Make sure you use the interview to learn about your project and answer any questions you may have about it. Finally, be yourself, be calm, and good luck! Now, coming to interview questions, as mentioned in above citation, question are mostly based on your domain expertise. you can expect few basic questions from other technologies also, just to gauge your technical reach, but this varies person to person and resume to resume. So i would suggest prepare your Resume properly.You can refer to following extract from InStep to prepare your Resume. Resume The first step for a successful application is to ensure that the resume submitted contains all the required information in a concise structure. Therefore, when preparing your resume, ensure that it includes the following information: Personal contact details Educational background Dates of graduation Main courses taken Extracurricular educational experience Language Skills InStep is a global internship program held in English. Therefore, you will be required to have basic knowledge of business English to be considered for the program. Professional experience (when applicable) Start and end dates Main achievements and learning All The Best. Just for fun….!!!! Thank You.! 168 Views · View Upvotes · Answer requested by Sahil Dhawan