Which data structures should I at least know in general?I studied arrays, linked lists, stacks, queues, binary trees (Search, AVL, splay and B-), hash tables, heaps and a few types of sorting. I heard of other structures such as leftist and skew heaps, red-black trees, disjoint sets and mroe. Is it essential to learn all data structures in general?Here is a good list of useful data structures. Studying them will also help you understand fundamental concepts in CS: Linked Lists Hash Tables Range Minimum Query Structures Trees Binary Search Tree Heap Graphs via Adjacency Matrix Disjoint Set Some cooler data structures to check out: Segment Tree Treap Also Implicit Key Treap kD Tree A balanced binary search tree (AVL etc.) Fibonacci Heap Competitive programming websites can be good resource to learn advanced data structures, because there is additional focus on making the code simpler, faster and easier to remember. You can also checkout data structures based on your interests. There are special data structures for processing big data, parallel programming, 3d rendering etc. because your constraints are fundamentally different. Most of the data structures I listed are designed to be used in-memory, but it could be that you want to process data so big that it wouldn't fit into the memory. Then, you would use a data structure that was designed with accessing storage in mind. And even the kind of storage (hdd or sdd) could make a big difference, due to differences in bandwidth and latency. It is important to learn as many data structures as possible, because they essentially represent solutions and techniques used to solve problems that have already been mostly perfected. To be able to develop solutions to new and different problems, it always helps to strengthen your fundamental knowledge. On the DS you mentioned, I would suggest you learn about Disjoint Sets because they are really simple and elegant. I don't think one has to really know more than one kind of balanced binary search tree, but having a general idea about their function is always good. 344 Views