What structures are involved in mitosis?Mitotic cell division involves an intricate sequence of events involving many structures, all within the cell nucleus. To undergo mitotic division, a cell must enter the cell cycle from its resting state (G-zero, or G0). It goes through processes whereby the chromosomes, in a loose, not condensed form, have the DNA checked for errors, and if some are found there is DNA repair done by specialized enzymes; the monitoring for errors is managed by a protein called p53. Once the DNA is judged OK (if it can't be repaired p53 is supposed to kick the cell to a suicide state), the DNA has to be copied, so that each chromosome is duplicated. That is accomplished by other enzymes that make new DNA by copying the existing sequence. When that is done the DNA is tightly compacted, making the chromosomes visible in a microscope for the first time in the cell cycle. The chromosomes are made to line up in the center of the cell, moved around in an energy-dependent process (so ATP is consumed) by specialized intracellular fibers or tubules. These attach to sites on the chromosomes called centromeres. The filaments are attached at the other end to a common point, so that across the cell there are two opposite points where the two new daughter cells will be centered. This line-up of chromosomes all in the middle is called the metaphase plate. During this process the nuclear membrane is broken down, exposing the chromosomes to the cytoplasm for the first time in their existence in this cell. The filaments, which make up the structure called the mitotic spindle, then pull the pairs of chromosomes apart, drawing one of each duplicated pair in a direction opposite to the other member of the duplicated pair. While the chromosomes are being pulled apart, the cell is in anaphase; when they are fully apart at opposite ends of the cell, that is telophase. At this point new nuclear membranes are made so there are now two nuclei; meanwhile, the cytoplasm is also pulled into two separate cells, separating along the prior metaphase plate and forming surface membranes so that there is no gap. Voila: two cells, each with a nucleus with the proper number and types of chromosomes, separate from each other. 129 Views