What are the most practical ways to select the "right" number of clusters?
I am directly quoting an article from Princeton course COS-424 Interacting With Data .It clearly explains the concept with an example How to Choose Number of Clusters k Choosing k is a nagging problem in cluster analysis, and there is no agreed upon solution.Sometimes, people just declare it arbitrarily. Sometimes the problem determines k. For image we may have memory constraint that decide the limit on k. We may also have a constraint on the amount of distortion that we can accept and have no memory constraint which also puts a limit on the value of k we can choose. In another examples of clustering consumers, constraint can also be number of salespeople available. We try to choose a natural value for the number of clusters, but in general this notion is not well-deﬁned. Now we discuss what happens when the number of clusters increase. Let us consider the example in the slides where there are 4 clusters(Figure 1 ). There are many options forthe ﬁfth group. 1. One option is that the ﬁfth group is small or empty. In this case, the objective function remains almost the same. 2. Fifth cluster center is in the center of the ﬁgure. In this case, ﬁfth cluster draws points from all the other clusters. In this case, the objective function decreases as the points would not have otherwise shifted to the new mean and we would still be in the ﬁrst case. But, there are many points that are far from the cluster means. 3. One of the cluster subdivides into two. In this, we decrease the objective function since all the points come closer to the means. Also, since all points will be closer to the means, this is a better option than the previous 2 since more data points are aﬀected in this case than in the second case. We can see the eﬀect of increase of the number of clusters from 4 to 5,6,7 and 8 respectively in ﬁgures 2, 3, 4 and 5 respectively. We ﬁnd that one of the clusters get subdivided into two in all these cases. When we plot the objective function against the number of clusters (Figure 6) , we ﬁnd a kink between k=3 and k=5. This is because the decrease in the objective function when k increases from 3 to 4 is much higher than the decrease in the objective function when k increases from 4 to 5. This suggests that 4 is the right number of clusters.    Embed Quote 