★Robotics: Why Traditional way of modeling and control are still in use in Robotics, even though we have sophisticated algorithm like Reinforcement learning?Might be modelling the Robot and derive the equation of motion and design the controller looks sexier, but  Reinforcement  learning which make the system to find and learn its own model and make system to control itself is far more better. So why traditional way of modelling and control is still in use?, is it because it looks sexier ?
In terms of modeling, we are pretty good at making mechanical dynamic models of robots using Newton's Laws and representing them as a matrix of 2nd order differential equations. It's true that there are some simplifications made, but in general, these equations are good enough for many applications.   In terms of control however, depending whether your system is fully-actuated or under-actuated, the control of these robots can be either very easy or very hard respectively. As a general rule of thumb, if your system is grounded, and you have actuators to all the DoFs, controlling the robot can be done with classical methods. Now if you have an under actuated system, then we can start talking about different ways to control such a system. Even here, there are mathematical tools that we can use without jumping in to artificial intelligence. Typically this is done using optimization functions, search, heuristics, and dynamic programming. And so, for many applications, using those tools are also enough. Now, I'm not saying that reinforcement learning is not useful, but in many cases it could be over-kill or unnecessary. For example, you can use reinforcement learning if you want the robot to learn its own model parameters better. You can also use reinforcement learning to make the robot search for the correct control gains in the system. But in this case, you're only using reinforcement learning to find better parameters. Before you even get to this point, you would have been using the previously mentioned primitive dynamic models. Now you may be thinking that reinforcement learning so that the robot can learn how to do a particular task. This is again useful, but we have only figured it out for certain tasks like pick-and-place. No one yet has figured out a way to make the framework general enough that the robot can accommodate for any given task without a human to specify the learning goals and what to do to achieve those goals. In essence, we are still stuck at telling robots what they need to do.    Embed Quote