★Robotics: Why Traditional way of modeling and control are still in use in Robotics, even though we have sophisticated algorithm like Reinforcement learning?Might be modelling the Robot and derive the equation of motion and design the controller looks sexier, but  Reinforcement  learning which make the system to find and learn its own model and make system to control itself is far more better. So why traditional way of modelling and control is still in use?, is it because it looks sexier ?
Any kind of "machine learning" algorithm requires that you have a good, comprehensive, representative set of training data that covers all the situations that your robot needs to handle. If your training set is inadequate, the best machine learning algorithms in the world are just going to give you junk behaviour. It's very hard to fake data that's accurate and representative of the kind of data that a real robot receives about the real world through real sensors (with all their real-world problems like temperature sensitivity, fluctuating voltages and intermittent disconnections etc.) Either you have to collect your training set "in-situ", in the robot itself, in the real world. (That's how nature does it. Babies spend time learning inside their own bodies.) This is expensive : you probably need a lot of time, and a lot of robots, and to accept that some robots are going to get themselves damaged or destroyed trying to figure out how to cope with tricky or dangerous situations. OR you basically work with an artificial / abstract model of the world, but one which is "conservative" (ie. the robot errs on the side of caution) In this case a more traditional abstract, rule-based control system is sufficient. There's no point using a very sophisticated, powerful machine-learned model when all you're learning is the behaviour of an extremely simple, abstract model of the world. If your world model is simplistic and defined by rules, you can more or less compile it directly into the control system that handles it.    Embed Quote