★What is "multi-agent reinforcement learning"?
As its name indicates, it is simply reinforcement learning in a multiagent setting (vs. single-agent setting like Pavlov's dog). A good overview of the field: Busoniu, Lucian, Robert Babuska, and Bart De Schutter. "A comprehensive survey of multiagent reinforcement learning." Systems, Man, and Cybernetics, Part C: Applications and Reviews, IEEE Transactions on 38.2 (2008): 156-172. (Link: Page on google.com) A multi-agent system can be defined as a group of autonomous, interacting entities sharing a common environment, which they perceive with sensors and upon which they act with actuators. Multiagent systems are finding applications in a wide variety of domains including robotic teams, distributed control, resource management, collaborative decision support systems, data mining, etc. They may arise as the most natural way of looking at the system, or may provide an alternative perspective on systems that are originally regarded as centralized. For instance, in robotic teams, the control authority is naturally distributed among the [...] A reinforcement learning (RL) agent learns by trial-and-error interaction with its dynamic environment. At each time step, the agent perceives the complete state of the environment and takes an action, which causes the environment to transit into a new state. The agent receives a scalar reward signal that evaluates the quality of this transition. This feedback is less informative than in supervised learning, where the agent would be given the correct actions to take (such information is, unfortunately, not always available). The RL feedback is, however, more informative than in unsupervised learning, where the agent would be left to discover the correct actions on its own, without any explicit feedback on its performance. Well-understood algorithms with good convergence and consistency properties are available for solving the single-agent RL task, both when the agent knows the dynamics of the environment and the reward function (the task model), and when it does not. Together with the simplicity and generality of the setting, this makes RL attractive also for multiagent learning. However, several new challenges arise for RL in multiagent systems. Foremost among these is the difficulty of defining a good learning goal for the multiple RL agents. Furthermore, most of the times each learning agent must keep track of the other learning (and therefore, nonstationary) agents. Only then will it be able to coordinate its behavior with theirs, such that a coherent joint behavior results. The nonstationarity also invalidates the convergence properties of most single-agent RL algorithms. In addition, the scalability of algorithms to realistic problem sizes, already problematic in single-agent RL, is an even greater cause for concern in multiagent reinforcement learning (MARL).    Embed Quote