★What do you think of reinforcement learning? Would it be the next "miracle" like deep learning?
Operant behavior is behavior that operates on the environment and produces consequences that may increase of decrease the likelihood that that particular behaviors will occur again.  Operant behavior is pretty much everything we do.  The environmental consequences that make responding more likely are called positive reinforcers, and the term "reinforcement" has become a general reference to these and other behavior-consequence relationships.  The science regarding the complex relationship between operant behavior and its consequences is comprehensive, of high quality, and definitive.  The field, which has been around since the 1930s, is now generally referred to as "behavior analysis," and it long ago spawned an applied research literature and technology called "applied behavior analysis" or ABA.  This technology is the default approach to meeting the behavioral needs of individuals with various developmental disabilities, but it is also widely used in other areas, such as business and industry. Asking about one's view of the laws that describe the interplay between operant behavior and the environment is like asking what you think of gravity.  The science has clearly established how such behavior works, although few of these particulars have made their way into general cultural understanding.  (Scientists in other fields are unfamiliar with this literature as well because it is not a routine area of science training in higher education.)  The problem, one shared to a much lesser extent by other natural sciences, is that the culture teaches contrary explanations of behavior that are well ensconced and therefore difficult to confront successfully.  In this sense, this field shares burdens similar to those shouldered by biology and its efforts to sell the theory of evolution, which also requires people to change their view of themselves. For a good summary of what science has revealed about operant behavior, see Catania, A. C. (2013). Learning, 5th edition.  Cornwall on Hudson, NY: Sloan Publishing.    Embed Quote