Is there really scientific evidence for a "Young Earth"?
If you believe that the earth is young, then what you are also saying is that you cannot possibly believe in science.  Furthermore you have to be suggesting that the creator set the entire universe up, complete with phenomena that support a measurable, prodigious age - for example the light from stars and ancient galaxies, cosmological objects such as quasars and pulsars, and a universe replete with cosmic background radiation.  Furthermore we were created on a planet sporting radio isotopes, fossils, mitochondrial DNA, meteorites, tectonic plates, mineral deposits, knapped flints, gas bubbles in the polar ice, paleolithic cave art, and an almost endless list of other evidence for timespans on a geological scale.   All of which is possible provided that you accept that for some reason God set all this up to be deliberately fey, whilst revealing a truth in the Bible which does not square with all of this exquisitely cohesive, scientifically measurable evidence.  Seems kind of odd to me, but if you do believe that, then the best thing to do, surely is to accept that your medieval view of creation cannot possibly, under any circumstances square with science.  In fact in scientific terms it is an irrational belief system.  Once you can accept that, you will be able to get on with your life without making a spectacle of yourself arguing with scientists.   By the way, I am not saying that a person should not have the right to choose to believe in a 'Young Earth' or come to that a 'Flat Earth', or a 'Hollow Earth', just pointing out that such views are not scientifically tenable.   Equally, I am not saying that you need be an atheist.  Belief in God does not necessarily require faith in paradoxical historic literature or mythology.  You could take the view that whilst historical wisdom might provide some valuable pointers to human virtue, it was written down by human beings at a time when humanity had not really got off the starting blocks, scientifically speaking.  Society back then was very different, and furthermore, as religions have evolved, scriptures have been selected, rejected and tinkered with in countless ways to suit religious authorities and political machinations. 