Thermodynamics: Is there a maximum temperature?
If you want to get technical about it, infinite temperature can be achieved.  (And so can negative infinite temperature.)  In order to understand this, we need to understand that temperature is a measurement of how two systems divide up thermal energy when they can exchange energy between themselves*.  The driving principle behind this is that energy will be exchanged so as to maximize the total entropy.  If you put two systems into thermal contact, and there is some amount of energy that you can exchange between them to increase the total entropy, then thermodynamics tells us that change is exceedingly likely to take place (at least, eventually). Before getting to systems that can achieve infinite temperature, let's look at systems that cannot. Let's call these systems type A.  Most systems that we are familiar with cannot achieve infinite temperature because to do so would require infinite energy.  This is because in type A systems, the entropy S is a monotonically increasing, concave downwards function of energy U.  Specifically, S is proportional to log(U).  For example, this includes most systems of particles with translational, vibrational, or rotational motion.  The animation below illustrates what happens when two type A systems are allowed to exchange energy.  (There is a lot going on in this animation, but I think if you can understand what is going on here, you will have a pretty good understanding of temperature.) In the left plot, I am showing two blue curves that plot entropy S vs. energy U for two systems.  These are both proportional to log(U).  The dark blue and light blue dots represent the current amount of thermal energy in the two systems.  Energy can be exchanged between the systems -- the dark blue dot shifts left, the light blue dot shifts right, and vice versa.  The dark and light red line shows the tangent to the entropy vs. energy curve.  This is relevant because the slope of the tangent line tells you how much entropy that system gains or loses for a small change in energy.  We want to know what exchange of energy will maximize the total entropy.  With two type A systems, one will always lose entropy and the other gain entropy in an exchange of energy.  But the total entropy can be increased by an exchange that takes energy from the system with the smaller sloped tangent and gives it to the system with the higher sloped tangent.  When the two slopes are the same, that is when the system is in thermal equilibrium, and the two temperatures are equal.  You can see this point by eye when the two tangent lines become parallel.  Note that this does not generally occur when the two systems have the same energy.  In the middle bar graph, I have also plotted the entropy S1 and S2 of the two systems, and the total entropy.  You can verify that total entropy is maximized when the two tangent lines are parallel. This leads us to the definition of temperature: temperature is the inverse of the slope of these tangent lines.  The temperature of the two systems is shown in the rightmost plot.  This definition makes sense in that the equilibrium condition is that the temperatures are equal.  But why the inverse?  This is so that energy gets transferred from the higher temperature object to the lower temperature object, in agreement with our expectations.  Furthermore, you can see that as you add more and more energy to such a system (the dot moves farther and farther right), the slope of the tangent becomes increasingly flat, but never zero (the temperature becomes increasingly large, but never infinite.)  So far so good.  Now for systems that can achieve infinite temperatures.  Let's call these systems type B. Type B systems are ones where the plot of entropy vs. energy goes up, through a maximum, and then goes back down.  The typical difference between type A and type B systems is that the constituents of type A systems have arbitrarily high energy states, while the constituents of type B systems only have energy states up to some maximum and then no more.  Examples of this would be magnets (spins) in a magnetic field, or bound energy states in an atom.  The animation below shows the analogous plots for a type A and type B system as they exchange energy.  When the type B system has energy on the left side of the plot, everything is quite similar to the previous case.  Things are very different however, when the energy of the type B system is on the right side.  Here the temperature of the type B system is negative*.  So what happens when you have a system with negative temperature in thermal contact with a positive temperature system?  Again, the driving consideration is that energy will be exchanged in the way that maximizes total entropy.  Initially, when the type B system has negative temperature, the entropy of both systems will be increased by a transfer of energy from the type B system to the type A system.  Clearly the total entropy would be increased by such an exchange, so that is what thermodynamics tells us will happen.  This exchange of energy causes the temperature of the type A system to go up, and the temperature of the type B system to go down (become more negative).  This continues until the energy of the type B system goes through the maximum in the entropy-energy curve.  Here the slope of the tangent line goes through zero.  Therefore, the temperature (the inverse of the slope of the tangent line) becomes first negative infinity and then positive infinity.  (Here you will see the bar for T2 shoot off the scale in one direction, then the other.)  Once past the maximum, the type B system now has positive temperature and things behave normally.  At some positive temperature, the two tangent lines have equal slope, and this is the equilibrium position.  (This must be at a positive temperature since the type A system can never have a negative slope.) It is experimentally achievable to have a system with a negative temperature, which then equilibrates to positive temperature by way of negative and positive infinity.  So why does nothing insane happen when you have a system with infinite temperature equilibrating with another system?  Why don't the surroundings burst into flames?  The key is that temperature is not the same as energy.  In the type A systems described above, increasing energy does mean increasing temperature.  But not so for type B systems. The energy of the system may be proceeding along quite smoothly and calmly, but the temperature is going nuts. Another way of putting this is that for type B systems, the heat capacity of the system goes to zero when the temperature goes to plus or minus infinity, so it doesn't take any significant transfer of energy to go through these extreme temperatures. The reason why these surprising effects of infinite temperature take place is because of our definition of temperature as the inverse of slope of the tangent line.  One might argue that a better definition would be to just use the slope itself (or its negative) as the temperature, but then you would lose the nice property of temperature proportional to energy for type A systems.  In any case, it is the definition we are stuck with, so we just have to suck it up and deal with the infinities. *For more background see my answer here: How is it possible that scientists achieved a temperature that is lower than absolute zero? 