While string theory has not been proven, what are the theories or equations which were resolved by it?
“There are some things which cannot be learned quickly, and time, which is all we have, must be paid heavily for their acquiring. They are the very simplest things, and because it takes a man’s life to know them the little new that each man gets from life is very costly and the only heritage he has to leave.” - Ernest Hemingway -  The question does not have an easy answer. The difficulty in answering the question is largely due to the fact that we do not understand M / string theory all that well. Maybe that's because it's a blind ally. Maybe that's because we're still sorting it out. We do not know. When you do not understand what something is, clarity is challenging to impossible, until that confusion's been replaced with understanding. Nature is always putting hurdles in the path of our most ambitious attempts to describe Her. She rewards us with our courage and clarity. The short answer is that most "theories and equations" that M / string theory helped resolve, or prove, are in the realm of advanced mathematics - especially in Manifold Topology - and are too difficult to explain to a lay person, and to most math undergraduate majors, even, or to professors of physics. M / string theory is at present at best an intuitive guide to advanced mathematics. It is, not, however, advanced mathematics. I'll just provide some links to some results before moving onto why M / string theory is having difficulty connecting with actual experimental physics. These advancements in mathematics include knot theory, the theory of three and four manifolds, the mathematics of topological quantum computation ( e.g. tensor category theory, [0906.5177] Man and machine thinking about the smooth 4-dimensional Poincar\'e conjecture, quantum computability and logic and so on). What generally happens here is that some result from M / string theory motivates an attempt at a mathematical proof on general grounds by interpreting the mathematical structure in terms of physical principles. Then, successful proof results in rigorous detail. The most famous example is Seiberg–Witten gauge theory, which is constructed as "sector" of M / string theory, and its application to the topology of four manifolds. But, that does not make M / string theory any different from the entire adventure of advanced mathematics, [math/9404236] On proof and progress in mathematics and clearly general reasoning about Hilbert Spaces, topological structures and Path integrals by smart people will yield smart proofs. Number theoretic structures emerge naturally in M / string theory, so there may be progress on that front in the future. But, as far as I know, nothing truly significant yet. Andrew Wiles proved Fermat's Last Theorem without any M / string theory, at least not explicitly. { http://math.stanford.edu/~lekhen... } However, that proof is a piece of the Langlands program in number theory; simpler version is called the Geometric Langlands Program, where M / string theory has made significant contributions in the last decade { Gauge Theory and the Geometric Langlands Program } As another example, the key step in Seiberg Witten theory required concepts from complex curve theory famously found in the book Amazon.com: A Scrapbook of Complex Curve Theory (9781468470024): C. Herbert Clemens: Books. Here is a workshop on the connections between M / string theory and number theory. { 2008 5 Day Workshop: Number Theory and Physics at the Crossroads } You could argue that the resolution of the Poincare conjecture - Clay Mathematics Institute was inspired by string theory, since the methods used in that proof involve mathematical structures that arise naturally in string theory, as noted in the papers that gave the solutions, but that was probably largely a tangential observation rather than a central guiding light in the proof. Michael Freedman, who is a Fields Medalist and incidentally is working on topological quantum computation for Microsoft | Devices and Services, where much of that kind of research is being pioneered, said in the paper on the smooth 4d Poincare conjecture :: "Manifold topology has been transformed by contact with physics and geometry so much that few of the questions studied today would have been recognizable fifty years ago." The physics he is referring to is primarily topological quantum field theory, which you can loosely think of as the conceptual building blocks of M / string theory, in an analogous way in which cells form organisms or objects form programs in object oriented programming or LEGOS build LEGO ships. The problem, of course is that American [math/0503081] Mathematical Education is abysmal, so most people will have no hope to get any of that stuff if they did not go to a top university. The "success" of M / string theory in observable, experimentally accessible physics has primarily been in the development of topological quantum field theory in the realm of strongly correlated condensed matter physics, like the Fractional quantum Hall effect by Xiao-Gang Wen and others as well as [1008.2026] Topological insulators and superconductors by Shoucheng Zhang | Department of Physics and others. Such theories could live logically disconnected and independently from M / string theory in theory space, though it's not likely, due to the holographic principle, as we shall see. You can think of M / string theory as like a training ground for the theorists who worked out the physics of such systems. But, in the end, the core of M / string theory was ripped out and what remained was simply quantum field theory and topology. ---- The rest of the answer will focus primarily on the logical complement of the question - what theories and equations have not been resolved by M / string theory - with one great exception - general relativity. Before I give the long explanation, let me point to a great lecture by Andrew Strominger where he gives M / string theory a report card in physics. He's funny and smart. You need to have a sense of humor when you get a report card as bad as Strominger gave M / string theory, which is his life's work. Physics Video Archive COLLOQ_STROMINGER_091310 Historically and roughly, people started thinking about strings as objects to be studied in physics in addition to particles when they discovered magnetic flux tubes in Type-II superconductors ( the vortex state ) and postulated that quarks are held together by electric flux tubes via color confinement. Yet, we've yet to directly connect M / string theory to the Standard Model of Particle Physics or the Standard Model of Cosmology or to the quantum mechanics and microscopic physics of black hole, with the exception of a particular kind of black hole in five dimensions with symmetry and dimensions that we do not observe in the universe. Actually, I should be more generous on the subject of black holes - holography and the M / stringy descriptions of black holes are satisfying, if incomplete, and probably just need to be re-worked like a Rubik's cube to get the correct picture of the physics. More on that later, but something is surely missing. ( Strominger worked out the entropy of that supersymmetric, five dimensional black hole from M / string theory that with Cumrun Vafa. He later realized that he did not need M / string theory at all to calculate the entropy - all he needed was a ruler with measurement error. ) Lets focus on the Standard Model of Particle Physics. It is a rather ungainly quantum field theory. The particles have specific masses and interaction strengths that we cannot derive from principle or postulate; instead, we simply measure them and put them in by hand. It's analogous to using fluid dynamics to calculate the flow of water; but, instead of being able to derive the viscosity of water, or honey or liquid helium, from the quantum mechanics of the molecules, we simply put the viscosity in by hand after we measure it. { Cool paintings of fluid dynamics and viscosity Christopher Martin Gallery Select Paintings } So, we'd like to be able to know where these Standard model free parameters come from, at least in principle, and where the particle spectrum originates, just as we want to know that at least in principle we could derive the viscosity of water from the quantum and statistical mechanics of water molecules. And sometimes, like in cell biology or microfluidics, we actually do want to do the complicated and hard calculations of describing the dynamics of water in terms of water molecules rather than in terms of bulk fluids. But, we can't do any of that stuff with M / string theory. We've also not shown that M / string cannot explain all those things in detail. Almost everything else we've tried, we've shown on general grounds cannot explain the origin of the free parameters and the structure of the Standard Model. These are important points. It's unclear whether alternative explanations and frameworks exist, but currently little inside the mainstream of physics is being investigated that is not within the framework of M / string theory. That is because the only logically consistent way presently known to combine the principle of general relativity and the principles of quantum physics is M / string theory. Most particle physicists and string theorists repeat that lie after they wake up in the morning and before they go to bed at night. Wait, that is actually not true. Another framework does exist, held secretly by many condensed matter physicists, collectively a set of ideas called "emergence" and described here in detail :: { The Universe in a Helium Drop } and, more for the layman, here :: { Amazon.com: A Different Universe: Reinventing Physics from the Bottom Down (9780465038299): Robert B. Laughlin: Books } It's a radical departure from the mainstream of physics that holds symmetry as sacrosanct. It basically says that special relativity, gauge symmetry and all that stuff does not hold in general at very high or very low energy scales - only approximately at our energy scale. It's a bit like the relativistic physics of the Dirac electrons you get in graphene. These electrons in graphene do not behave relativistically at extremely low or extremely high energy. The linear dispersion relation between the energy and the momentum holistically is more complicated that a straight line, but approximates a straight line at a certain scale. That is also true on the surface of a helium droplet. And on the surface of a topological insulator. And so on. Anyway, lets ignore that for know because it completely undermines the entire conceptual structure of modern particle physics and M / string theory. Instead, lets pretend that logical consistency and principles are important in full generality and do not shape shift at different length and energy scales. Then, the only logically consistent way presently known to combine the principle of general relativity and the principles of quantum physics is M / string theory. The analogue is that quantum field theory is the only logically consistent framework for combining the principle of relativity and quantum physics. So, in a crude sense, we're trying to "lift" our extremely successful quantum field theory framework to include gravitation and the principle of equivalence in addition to the principle of relativity and the principle of the constancy of the speed of light, which together make up special relativity. The reason that does not work directly in quantum field theory by including gravitons - the proposed force carrying particles for gravity, analogous to photons for electromagnetism - is that every time we try to calculate something that way, the calculations blow up. In fact, we can prove in generality that you cannot make them not blow up for quantum gravity. Interestingly, when quantum field theory was first attempted for quantum electrodynamics, the calculations also blew up, but highly intelligent people found out why and fixed the conceptual and calculation errors in a manner consistent with the aforementioned principles of quantum physics and relativity within that theoretical framework. However, for gravity, no conceptual or calculation errors existed in attempts within the framework of quantum field theory - the calculations always blow up within that framework. We can show that in the general case, so it's not worth spending time or effort checking all the possibilities any more. It's basically like saying that no matter what we try, we'll always calculate a viscosity of water that is infinity, even though we know that the viscosity of water is not infinity. We've made an error. Moving on. Over and over in physics we've learned that when your calculations blow up, it means some fundamental principle is missing from the framework and a more general framework is required. It's called a singularity, typically, or a phase transition, or the emergence of a new set of phenomena, or "more is different," or whatever, and is only removed when you figure out what you're missing, conceptually, when describing the physics in mathematical terms. The most famous example is the ultra violet catastrophe in black body radiation. What was missing, of course, was quantum mechanics. Planck was able to create his distribution that saved the catastrophe by finding the relevant piece of quantum mechanics that resolved that singularity in the black body; basically, by saying that the number of possible energy states of light is countably rather than uncountably infinite; that is, discrete integers rather than continuous real numbers. Then, over subsequent decades, the general theory of quantum physics was developed that answered physical questions beyond the statistical electrodynamics of a black body emitter. You can read about the experiments that verified that general quantum mechanical framework here Exploring the Quantum: Atoms, Cavities, and Photons (Oxford Graduate Texts): Serge Haroche, Jean-Michel Raimond: 9780198509141: Amazon.com: Books. The other famous example is the formation of a black hole in General Relativity, which is a singularity in the curvature of spacetime, when you pack too much matter into a finite volume. That basically means that the laws governing the curvature of spacetime, that is the Einstein field equations of General Relativity, no longer hold true under those circumstances. You need new mathematical laws. We do not know how to resolve that physics. That is where M / string theory hopes to shine - by creating the theory and equations that explicitly describe in mathematical terms what happens at the microscopic quantum level when a black hole forms. Lets back up a little. We started to talk about quantum field theory. And we started to talk about how the structure of quantum field theory blows up when we try to incorporate gravity - specifically, General Relativity. What could that missing thing be with gravity and quantum field theory? Lets make a guess. An extra principle, in addition to the principles of special relativity and the principles and postulates of quantum physics, is invoked in quantum field theory by some, such as Steven Weinberg. It is known in statistical physics as the cluster decomposition principle, or more generically, cluster expansion - rules that give a systematic procedure to sort out and relatively weight different  physically allowable particle configurations and interactions. When calculating some observable quantity to be compared with an experiment, you need to parse all the possible configurations and interactions, to figure out what is important and what is not important. Since in quantum physics, everything that can happen, does happen, with some probability, however small, and all those things effect each other through the principle of superposition and quantum mechanical interference phenomena ... and maybe through in the Multiverse. : P The cluster decomposition principle saves the day by allowing you to say that all but of few of the uncountably infinite number of possible particle configurations and interactions are not that important. All those particle configurations and interactions can be described by colored graphs. The lines of the colored graph represent the world lines of a particle, their nodes the spacetime points of interactions and different colors correspond to different particles and particle states allowable in the particle spectrum of the particular quantum field theory you are analyzing. And most do not matter. In fact, the number that matter is usually only one or two to a few to a few hundred at most, depending on the questions being asked and the system being studied. So, with cluster decomposition, you can loosely think of quantum field theory being a complex linear theory, summing over an infinite superposition of complex amplitudes associated with colored graphs, then taking the square of the absolute value ( Born rule ) to yield real probabilities for observable events to take place in physics experiments. For each graph, we construct a contour integral - to sum over continuous momentum or position states between some cutoff values - by a certain set of rules, which we then solve to get a complex probability amplitude of the graph. We sum all the probability amplitudes to calculate the probabilistic dynamics of quantum particles flying through spacetime, interacting and interfering with one another. The conclusion of the calculation is a probability of a particle going from state A to state B. We measure that probability by repeating experiments many time and taking statistics. It's not so different from the Power series of the Exponential function, except that each analogous term is much more complicated, informational and meaningful in quantum field theory - and you need to do more than simply sum the series to yield quantities comparable to experiment. And each term in the series has some number of colored graphs to be solved. But, that does not work when we try to make one of these colored lines a graviton, a point particle that sweeps out a line in spacetime. So, what should we do? Here's a conceptual trick to understand how one might generalize quantum field theory to include gravity. Let's try the stupidest thing possible. Hilarious. Well, actually, that's not true! What that idea implies, actually, is the existence of gravitons - the quantum mechanical force carrying particles of gravity. That's a big deal. You do not have to put in gravitons. You simply have to analyze quantum mechanical strings propagating through spacetime as an input and you get gravitons as an output. You could say the way quantum field theory naturally generalized to M / string theory in the dumbest way possible to include gravitation was by considering cluster expansions of manifolds more general than colored graphs - that is one dimensional manifolds with some extra data - like particle data ( charge, mass, spin and so on ). It's not that simple, of course, because life is complex, but hey, that's good enough for now. As implied by the cartoon, M / string theory involves, very roughly, summing over the world sheets and world membranes and other various objects of various dimensions - not just point particles, which did not work for gravity - and the result is that we resolve objects that look like gravitons and equations that are the same as the Einstein's field equations, an equation, of General Relativity, a theory. Okay, great. But, we do not get the Standard Model as an output. We get something that kinda looks like the Standard Model with a bunch of over stuff. And we do not get the free parameters of the Standard Model. At least, not yet. We've gained something ( gravity ), but also lost something ( e.g. quarks ), by generalizing quantum field theory to M / string theory. Well, we haven't exactly lost quarks, we just haven't found the quantum field theory as part of an M / string theory structure that puts them in the form that conforms to our knowledge of them from particle physics experiments. We also do not get the cosmological constant. Lets think about black holes for a second. Perhaps, when a point particle in four dimensional spacetime falls into a black hole, from the perspective of someone looking in from the outside, it gets completely delocalized over the entire spherical event horizon. Time stops, too, so now it's a two dimensions sheet, the same type of topological object is formed by one dimensional string moves sweeping out a sheet in time. That's an idea that is roughly consistent and came out of thinking about black hole physics and string theory, simultaneously. It's an idea related to the Membrane paradigm and Black hole complementarity. But, we still cannot do any real calculations with it at the quantum level like calculate entropy from the microstates. It's vague.   The reason M / string theory is so hard technically is that the string worldsheets can carry a lot more data than the colored graphs - you can and do have quantum point particles flying around the string and the membranes - even though the topology of two dimensional manifolds is quite simple; and, the topologies of the three manifolds and four manifolds that one might want to attempt a cluster expansion in for M theory are incredibly intractable. Until Grigori Perelman proved the Geometrization conjecture for three manifolds of William Thurston, we did not even know the possible topologies of three manifolds. We are still completely in the dark about the topology landscape of four manifolds. By the way, an observer falling into a black hole who is also able to perform careful experiments around the singularity might see two, three and four manifold objects like we see point particle objects like photons, electrons and quarks. We do not know. That's kinda the point of the spear of our ignorance. What happens at that singularity, besides infinite gravitational tidal forces? That's a bit like infinite viscosity in fluid dynamics. Some basic principle is missing. Of course, we also see fluctuating and interacting strings and membranes in the form of flux tubes and domain walls in superconductors and even, roughly, cell wall membranes made from lipid bilayers, for example, but these are probably not the droids we are looking for, even if the mathematics used to describe them is strikingly similar. Quantum field theory, with its colored graph expansions and contour integrals, is challenging enough for most physicists - thinking about strings, surfaces and membranes in various dimensions and contortions becomes beyond our theoretical abilities quickly, except for in narrowly, highly constrained and well defined settings. So, much of M / string theory research focuses on poking around that huge structure hoping to learn something about it's generality like blind men reconstructing the shape of an elephant by feel. And these are just the objects that potentially move around in a spacetime that is ten or eleven dimensions or so, depending from what perspective you look at it, with part or all of these dimensions wrapped up in an incredibly complex manner. After sorting through all that, you have to somehow reduce that information into the Standard Model and into Einstein's field equations from the same, logically consistent structure. That means the same structure cannot give the answer yes and the answer no to the same question. That's difficult. It's difficult because Godel told us it's impossible. Complete logical consistency is a bad criteria for a physical theory. The more practical problem is that the part of that structure that we've gained some traction on also implies many, many other things that we do not ( yet ) see in the universe - like Supersymmetry ( symmetric relationships between matter and force particles, roughly ), extra dimensions wrapped up into Calabi–Yau manifold creating a String theory landscape and very little that we do see in the universe - like the Standard Model particle spectrum, or a precise value of the Cosmological constant, or a falsifiable prediction for the constituents of Dark matter. Nothing like dark matter drops out of M / string theory. So in sum, if the constraint of working with a spectrum of point particles yielding colored graphs in space + time is not working out for you, generalize the problem and see what happens. Oh, gravitons happen. General relativity happens. Great! Oh wait, what's all this other stuff that we do not want! And where the extra stuff that we want? Strings, membranes, black holes, extra dimensions and so on. Strominger actually was one of the people that helped gain traction on the extra dimensions, showing with a few friends how if they folded up in a particular way, into a class of manifolds that satisfy Einstein field equations in a vacuum - that is, without matter - at low energy, a particle spectrum almost like the Standard model emerges, but still with lots of other stuff. That stuff is being looked for at the LHC, but no one is that optimistic that we'll find it anymore. However, the problem is that the class of manifolds - called Calabi–Yau manifolds - does not include one or two manifolds, but perhaps 10^500 or more, with each on yielding, in principle, a different prediction for the exact particle spectrum of a standard model physics at low energy, or different predictions for other quantities like a cosmological constant. I say in principle because most for most cases, we know very little about Calabi–Yau manifolds - our tools and languages to describe them are crude and vague to non-existent. It's like trying to describe the solar system before the telescope, mathematically speaking. We just do not know much about what these manifolds look like - they live in six dimensions, satisfy one equation and have a related topological constraint. But, we cannot write down equations that show what they look like in the vast majority of cases and we cannot visualize them on a computer. But, we do know that they exist. Even searching for limited data about each manifolds in that class is computationally hard. [hep-th/0602072] Computational complexity of the landscape I The theory is just not constrained enough to make testable predictions within our universe. And that may just be the way it is. We do not know. Principles constrain theory and that implies a principle is missing, or it implies that our universe is one of many - 10 ^ 500 or more, each with its own Standard Model and its own cosmological constant. But, even if true, none of that answers what happens at the singularity of a black hole. So, to answer the complement of your question, at the moment, M / string theory does not "resolve" the theory of the Standard Model or proof it's equation - the Standard Model Lagrangian. It does not accurately calculate the free parameters of the Standard Model nor the cosmological constant, the free parameter of General Relativity. It does not yield a microscopic description of black holes that we would find at the center of galaxies, unless we assume much more symmetry and more dimensions than nature clearly grants us. ( An odd fact about topology is that it gets harder until manifolds of dimensions three and four, then gets significantly easier starting at dimensions five. ) It does yield Einstein's field equations, which we already had, and gravitons, which we have yet to observe. But, people thought it might, with good reason. So, to directly answer your question, in the middle of all this muddle. What are the theories or equations in physics which are resolved by string theory? There aren't any that cannot be explained independently without M / string theory. But, they cannot be explained in any other known way, either. Except, they can, possibly, by the principle of emergence.  So, eh, we're kinda stuck. Any thoughts, Shoshin? I'll just mention one more important principle unearthed by thinking about quantum gravity, partly through the framework of M / string theory. Holography Gerard 't Hooft and Leonard Susskind formulated the holographic principle in the early 1990s while thinking about quantum gravity and string theory - that was before the days of M-theory, but not, I might add, before the days of the membrane paradigm. The holographic principle states that in a black hole, the maximal amount of entropy - which you can think of as "hidden information - in a finite volume is not proportional to the volume but rather to the area of the boundary of the volume. Think about that for a moment. Hence, the degrees of freedom of quantum gravity, which might be M / string theory, should live on the boundary of space, not in the volume. That is analogous to a two dimensional holographic plate and it's projected three dimensional holographic image. All the information about the image is contained on the plate of one less dimension. The holographic principle is now a powerful tool for calculating observable quantities in many areas of physics and mathematics, including fluid dynamics, quark-gluon plasmas, strongly correlated condensed matter and also items like topological numbers that distinguish between higher dimensional manifolds in pure mathematics. Pragmatically, it often allows you to map a physical system with an intractable theoretical description to another, completely equivalent physical system with a tractable theoretical description. Superficially, the two systems can look extremely different - one could be a black hole and one could be a fluid or a quantum field theory - yet everything observable about the two systems are equivalent. The best examples of the holographic principle in action are found in M / string theory - specifically, the Maldacena conjecture and AdS / CFT correspondence. We are finding that the holographic principle exemplified by the plate and the image are quite general. In M / string theory, roughly, the strings are the image and a quantum field theory is the plate. More complicated examples exist within M theory as well, but they are not worth mentioning here. But, the main point is :: A principle is more powerful than a theory or an equation. Theories and equations are consequences of principles. That is what makes physics powerful - being able to condense our knowledge of the universe down to simple, compact principles from which we can derive complex and detailed theories that contain equations capable of describing measurable quantities predictably, precisely and accurately.  Holography gives us two shots at mathematically and quantitatively describing any physical system. Sometimes, looking at the "plate" provides the clearest picture. Sometimes, looking at the "image" yields the most insight. We know that quantum field theory gives a good description of nature. Now, if the holographic principle holds, we generally can construct a string theory in five dimensions that is equivalent to every quantum field theory in four dimensions. And one must be the Standard Model. Holography might be the principle that eventually allows enough constraints in M / string theory to conform to all observable experiments, from particle physics to cosmology. Or, we might need something else, too. Or, holography might not actually be true. See, this stuff is complicated and risky. There is a logical gap in the entire story, too, lurking in the back round like a tiger hunting in the night. It's the proverbial missing dragon scale that exposes the soft underbelly that could take down the entire beast of modern physics. That is, the entire logical consistency and structure of quantum field theory is predicated on something called CPT invariance. Basically, if you switch the sign of the charge of each particle, flip space and reverse time, you get the same dynamics and observable quantities. It's a bit like taking a triangle with one line marked with a color or a dash and rotating it 120 degrees three times - you get the same triangle back. If CPT invariance is not held by the universe, then quantum field theory - and then via holography, its generalization to M / string theory - as a complete description of nature cannot be logically consistent. But, we already knew that from Gödel's incompleteness theorems. Hence, it's that CPT invariance is violated in the universe and our quantum field theory descriptions of nature are approximate rather than complete.* We actually already know that Einstein's General Relativity is not logically consistent. Godel showed us that, too, with his Gödel metric due to its Closed timelike curves. Otherwise, quantum field theory would have to be simpler than arithmetic. It's not, because we can use the particles described by quantum field theory to build a general purpose, Turing complete computer. Extremely accurate low energy particle physics experiments are being done to test whether or not CPT invariance holds, by trying to measure a dipole moment of the electron. That would break time reversal symmetry and since we already know that CP is violated, that would break CPT symmetry. These experiments are not done in giant particle accelerators, but rather in basements of physics departments. { e.g. http://gabrielse.physics.harvard.edu and DoyleGroup } and here :: Doyle Colloquium Harvard I'll just make the remark that over and over nature shows us that it is not that symmetric or smooth. We use symmetry and group theory as a powerful tool to solve physical problems in approximation - assuming spherical cows that are actually tori, assuming our own humans faces are symmetric in the mirror reflection, assuming that our universe is homogeneous and isotropic - but, always, such things are almost only approximately true. Always, as we look deeper into the laws of nature, we find chaos and roughness - turbulence, even. Pull on that thread patiently and carefully enough, and you'll find that M / string theory resolves no theories or equations at all. So, while everyone is excited about the Higgs boson and the LHC, the true revolutionaries are in the basement. My bet is that they undermine the entire logical structure of modern physics. Why? Because, well, that would be the most interesting and surprising - the most entropic - result. All is not lost for string theorists, however, if true; my belief is that the number theoretic structures, like the Theta function as a string partition function, that emerge in the parts of M / string theory most related to the fractional quantum Hall effect are the bridge to the theoretical promised land, so to speak. M / string theory might actually be completely equivalent to number theory and have everything to do with the field of hidden messaging - cryptography.  A message that cannot be deciphered, cannot be measured. And all experiments are messages. Listen to the technology; find out what it's telling you, said Carver Mead. Listen to nature Find out what it's telling you Planck Satellite Shows Image of Infant Universe { Florence and the Machine "DOG DAYS ARE OVER" } * I have almost certainly misinterpreted Godel's work here. But, the point is not to be right. The point is to get you to think about the problem in a new way; and, if you know about Godel's work in detail, to correct my thinking. Please be respectful, however. No yelling. I've just proposed that CPT invariance cannot be true in the universe due to Godel's work. That is tractable because we can think about quantum field theory in terms of quantum computation, as people like John Preskill have shown. I've proposed that on the fly, in real time, without thinking about it in detail, on Quora. I've hacked it. I already know about a funded experiment that will test whether or not it's true.  In the interest of open science, go try to figure out if that's true. Because, if it's true, and you can show it ahead of Gerry's experimental results showing that it's true, then that's a big deal. Post it on arxiv. Reference Quora. Tell Gerry to hurry up. And give him more funding. I've also proposed that M / string theory should be completely re-interpreted under the Langlands program as number theory. I believe that path will yield testable predictions from the theory, including better explanations for the emergence of fractions in the fractional quantum Hall effect and a route to calculating the entropy of a Schwarzschild black hole from its microscopic description. Who knows, it might even explain dark matter and the cosmological constant, all under one roof. The universe is born from counting ... How big is infinity? - Dennis Wildfogel Updated 143w ago • View Upvotes