Why is dielectric loss highest in regions where the dielectric constant changes the most?
This has to do with the mechanisms for loss. Consider any material as a set of particles that can have an electric dipole induced on them.  An electric dipole is a separation of positive and negative charge.  Separating the positive from the negative charge takes some amount of energy.  It turns out the energy/separation relationship is, for relatively small fields, very similar to the energy/separation relationship for a spring.  (When it gets to bigger fields, it also behaves like a spring that has been stretched out further than normal, but there's some variability in that behavior.  The subject is very interesting.  See:  Nonlinear optics for examples of what it does). Now replace distance with Electric dipole moment, and there's an intuitive picture for induced dipoles. Now start shaking that spring. Image source:  Damped Oscillations, Forced Oscillations and Resonance It turns out there's a frequency that the spring wants to move at.  This is the resonant frequency.  If you shake it close to the resonant frequency, it will shake more, but if you shake it at a higher or lower frequency then it won't shake as much.  At the same time, there's also air friction and internal friction in the spring, which damps out the oscillations. Here's a chart of the frequency response for shaking that spring. The different curves are for different levels of damping.  The less damping, the sharper the peak amplitude. If I were teaching a class, I'd go into the math here, but I won't.  Ask later if you want the math :D Anyway, back to the dielectric constant and associated dielectric loss. It turns out the electric dipoles have similar underlying physics of attraction and repulsion, and there's some amount of momentum in inducing the dipole -- that is, if you instantaneously apply an electric field, the dipole doesn't instantaneously appear, it takes time to stretch out.  If you let it go instantaneously, it vibrates a bit. This gives rise to a frequency response.  It turns out that there's more than one resonance to the dipole moment, thanks to interactions with other dipoles, the fact that a molecule isn't a single "spring" but may consist of many different possible springs, and then there's electronic transitions that have similar harmonic oscillator characteristics, etc.  Here's a water molecule for example. That's all well and good for where resonance comes from, but what about the damping mechanism?  There's no air resistance or internal spring resistance at the atomic scale, is there? No, there isn't.  But there are loss mechanisms.  The most easily identifiable one is that the momentum from pushing these molecules around to make them do what they do will transfer from one close molecule or atom to another, kind of like pushing a ball in a ball pit.  Push one and it will rustle all the others.  In the micro realm, adding a bunch of random motion is heat. Another one is radiation, or electromagnetic drag.  Whenever you accelerate a charge, it creates some electromagnetic radiation.  What do you think you're doing when you're shaking a dipole?  It's basically a micro-antenna.  This process is referred to as scattering. (Here's the radiation pattern from a point electric dipole.  The dipole is oriented up/down.) In both of these loss mechanisms (adding tons of random collisions into heat, and scattering), the stronger the induced dipole moment, the worse the loss is.  Hence, concentrated loss around resonances. (No, I didn't ask the question, I'm not practicing masturquation.  This question showed up on my feed without any additional notification.  Thank you, OP, for asking follow-up questions). 