Is God real?  Do you believe in god?  Why do we believe there is an almighty god in real world?  Why we regard the man lived in 1400 years ago, 2000 years ago, 2600 years ago as our belief?  (PS: I mean no discrimination, I just want to know what other people think this question)
This is a great question with a difficult answer.  The starting point is the fact that because of God's nature, you will never be able to "prove" God's existence. Because God does not exist within Creation, but instead transcends Creation, as its Creator.  This is why no matter what, God must approach people with "messengers" which are totems, avatars, or projections into the state of existence that we perceive.  Now are these "messengers" beings with separate identities?  One hopes not.  But, is there really a way to tell?  We just have stories, reports and must work with that. So how does this get to the "Realness" of God.  First, any assertion of the existence of God is an assertion first and foremost, an unprovable, unverifiable, and ultimately uncommunicable statement of faith in what is beyond comprehension. So, how do we move forward?  The Philosopher Voltaire is quoted as saying, "if God didn't exist, we would have to invent him."  This statement seems flip, but instead it is a powerful insight.  Civilization itself, much less the concepts of freedom and human dignity depend on the acceptance of the existence of God as revealed in the Torah.  Before the Torah, civilization was made possible by Gods and God-Kings welding together societies on a basis that placed central assumptions in place to create a coordinated value system.  But, only the Hebrew Bible insisted on the value of an individual who's specific relationship to God mattered.  Torah often talks in terms of community, but the actions and aspirations of individuals and their challenges and failings are the central grist for this mill.  Even the sacrifices include individual obligations on every level as well as the community obligations. Our relationship with God forms the primary axis, or dipole relationship in the life of a human, that even goes beyond our relationships with spouse or children in that God is our immediate and all present witness.  Seeing what we see, hearing what we hear, knowing what we know, and feel and hope, and despise, and plot and neglect.  This is a positive relationship for us if we have a sense of righteousness, or a negative relationship when we feel we have missed the mark quite significantly and perhaps are not even interested in attempting to choose a better path. People have fertile and productive imaginations.  We can feel emotions and even get sick and be crushed or driven to madness by our very own imaginings.. and just like with a young girl or boy's crush, we can also fall in love with a self-made image of God that we create out of the words people tell us about God.  But, people who reject God also worship false images of God, such as Science, or Power, or Wealth or Fame.. or Gaia, or "the Environment."  And, they point to these false gods and try to get people to agree on the values and ideals of these purposes.  People inherently understand that we cannot work together, build community or justify self-sacrifice without some "god" to create a locus of cooperation.. The Jewish understanding of God recognizes the impossibility of naming God, defining God or even in any normal sense "relating" with God.  But, rather, God is defined by the proverbial finger that points at the moon.  I can tell you about God, and tell you what is not God.. but ultimately, the prayer Mi Chamocha .. who is like you among the gods that men worship.. a funny way of pointing out the true God of all... asking a question rather than making a statement. Yet, it is our "REALITY" that is defined by our acceptance of God the Creator, rather than the "reality" of god that truly enters the question.  By accepting God without "proof" but instead opening our eyes to God's creation and accepting and loving it with all of its opportunities for creating joy and peace in the midst of the struggle to create and sustain life.. we become what we call Human.. and rise ourselves above the simple need satisfying behavior that governs the action of simple animals.. So, if you care to be free, and develop a will that is a mighty pillar of strength and resilience in ever raging storms of the struggle of life.. God's gifts of acceptance, compassion and justice become available to you so that you can approach the world with Love rather than Hatred or Grief.  The simple choice to believe in God frees us. And then, we can make the choice to regulate our lives in accord with the vision of justice, dignity and freedom that is defined in the teachings of Torah and the writings and scholars.. that have followed.   And, we are able to read and see this material and interpret it for ourselves just as each generation has. But, acceptance of God provides the human being with a point of reference such as the North Pole provides to sailors.. so that we can chart a course through life.. rather than simply being blown by the winds of change and happenstance... and the demands of ego and appetite that so often inevitably lead to depravity and ruin. So, whether we can prove this or not, glad is the human who chooses to accept what cannot be forced.  It is the ultimate opportunity of the dignity of humans that we can make this choice, and that God does not force us by always being in our faces.. so be glad of that.. rather than resent it. 