What are some promising future applications of nanomaterials?
I'm glad you asked! One of the most exciting and already existing applications for nanomaterials are quantum dots.   Typically made from cadmium selenide nanoparticles, they have huge   potential in both light absorbing (e.g., solar power) and light  emitting  (e.g., display) applications. Below   is an excellent video describing how quantum dots are produced. This   process is scalable and they can be manufactured by the kilogram. Solar   applications benefit from the ability to control particle sizing   whereby sunlight's spectral peaks are intercepted with near-perfect   absorption of energy at that wavelength. As can be seen, there are   certain regions within the solar spectrum where specific photonic peaks   deliver much greater amounts of energy. Tuning the physical size of   quantum dots so that they intercept this energy with the greatest   possible efficiency holds the potential (as it were), for high-output   solar panels. As   per the introductory video, physically tuning the quantum dots is a   somewhat pedestrian exercise that occurs during the final annealing   stage. While the "shell" is being grown around the dot's core, the   growth period is what controls the eventual particle size so it is   merely a matter of timing and maintaining highly controlled annealing   process conditions. Quantum   dot-based displays also exhibit some unique characteristics such as   "full gamut" color spectrum, UHD (Ultra High Definition) and very low   cost. See: Quantum-dot 55-in. UHD TV to sell for one-third the price of OLEDs. The   screen can be flexible, which opens up all kinds of new opportunities   for information transmission such as wearable mobile devices. See: Apple is eyeing quantum dot displays Below is a set of color space diagrams that depict the spectral range of human vision and various emission capabilities of common display types. Clockwise from upper-left: The complete range of human vision. An internal triangle delineates the display range according to sRGB standards. The spectral display range of a typical color CRT monitor screen. The spectrum of a white-light emitting diode (W-LED) monitor. The   color display ability of a screen using quantum dots. The area inside   the black triangle is their intrinsic emission spectrum. The yellow   triangle represents the reduced spectral range when backlit with a   W-LED.See: High efficiency LCDs using Quantum Dot Films Of   particular note above is the how the lower-right chart's black  triangle  penetrates so deeply into the green region of the color space.  To date,  rich green emission has been one of the greatest challenges  for solid  state light output. Recent work (see below chart) has focused  on LEDs  using Ti4+/Mn2+-activated Mg2SnO4 phosphors but quantum dots  still  remain a more cost effective way of obtaining such emission. Below is an explanation of the anatomy of a CIE chromaticity diagram. However,   as noted in the video, the light emitting characteristics of quantum   dots have very useful applications in other fields. When encased with a hydrophilic lipid coating, quantum dots can be used as luminous markers for detection and location of cancerous tumors. See: Multicolor quantum dots for molecular diagnostics of cancer The   foregoing information about quantum dots represents a tiny fraction of   what nanomaterials have in store. Here is another interesting   application of nano-layers that I saw at a lecture being presented by   Indium Corporation, a world leader in soldering and other metal bonding   technologies. It deals with conjoining dissimilar metals and even   nonmetallic materials using a process that delivers strong bonds with a   very low thermal pulse and minimal temperature excursion. The Nano-Bond process uses a thermally activated NanoFoil composed of alternating aluminum and nickel micro-layers that, when   ignited, produce intense, localized heating that will join surfaces   (pre-wetted with solder), even those not normally amenable to such   bonding such as ceramics, glass and polymers—all of which can be mated   in various combinations. The   above is a high speed video (2,000 frames per second) of a 450mm   molybdenum target being bonded to an aluminum backing plate. As the   following chart shows, this is about as dissimilar as two metals can  get.  (Actual time of video = .432 seconds.) Molybdenum's CTE   (Coefficient of Thermal Expansion) differs from aluminum by nearly a factor of five. This capability has been of extreme interest to a wide variety of users   ranging from formula race car design teams to high throughput PCB   (Printed Circuit Board) manufacturing. Elimination of thermal  excursions  related to wave soldering allows for use of temperature sensitive components and minimizes the introduction of defects that typically occur due to cracking of solder joints or thermal damage to devices on the PCB. Another well-know nanomaterial is Buckminsterfullerene,  (named after geodesic dome inventor, Buckminster Fuller), affectionately called "Buckyballs" by those who investigate their amazing properties (see below). These   C60 nanostructures are just one of many different manifestations that   carbon can take. Equally, if not more, famous are carbon nanotubes   (shown as Figure H in the following illustration). One novel  application  is using a Buckyball to imprison small molecules such as  H2 and H2O.  Having a guest molecule that possesses an electric dipole  moment opens  the door for nanoscale electronics and similarly small  scale devices.  See: Bucky ball "cage" imprisons smaller molecules. The tensile strength of carbon nanotubes is around 63 gigapascals (GPa). This translates into a structure that can endure the tension   of  a weight approaching 6,422 kg (14,158 lbs) on a cable with    cross-section of 1 mm2. That's over seven tons suspended from a rope one millimeter square in diameter. Imagine towing an ocean liner with a hawser the thickness of your little finger. Clearly,   another major goal would be low temperature, low-pressure fabrication   of diamonds, something that is already happening with DLC (Diamond-Like Carbon) coating processes (see below). As   can be seen from the large disparity in hardness and Young's modulus,   DLC coating technology cannot structurally rival synthetic or natural   diamonds. However, the ability to control film thickness and  conformally  apply these layers to complex three dimensional substrate  shapes still  gives this method specific advantages. On   a final and ominous note, please notice in the last video how those   researchers are handling that nanotube forest without much in the way  of  protective gear. In reality, they are being very foolish as carbon   nanotubes have many of the same properties as asbestos with respect to   size and an ability to lodge in alveolus (lung) tissue. Prudent   institutions are already calling for more thorough investigation of   these potentially detrimental  properties. See: Study Says Carbon Nanotubes as Dangerous as Asbestos Speaking   as someone who has worked with extremely hazardous materials such as   full strength hydrofluoric acid (HF), silane (Si3H4—a spontaneous pyrophore)   and arsine (AsH3), there seems to be little in the way of serious   attention being paid to the risks these untested materials pose. Of   extreme concern is the rapidly expanding presence of nanomaterials in   products manufactured for human consumption. Just the ability for   nanoparticles to pass across the placenta and BBB (Blood-Brain Barrier  )  should be cause for major alarm. From: Campaign for Safe Cosmetics : Nanotechnology Research   by Campaign for Safe Cosmetics founding partner Friends of the  Earth   suggests that nanoparticles have entered just about every personal   care  product on the market, including deodorant, soap, toothpaste,   shampoo,  hair conditioner, sunscreen, anti-wrinkle cream,  moisturizer,   foundation, face powder, lipstick, blush, eye shadow,  nail polish,   perfume and after-shave lotion.            Preliminary   scientific research has shown that many types of  nanoparticles can be   toxic to human tissue and cell cultures, resulting  in increased  oxidative stress, inflammatory cytokine production, DNA  mutation and   even cell death. They can penetrate cell walls, including  organ   tissues, and are known to be highly reactive.            To   close, nanomaterials have the ability to provide humanity with   solutions to vexing problems ranging from site specific drug delivery  to  aerospace composites that ordinary metal alloys cannot possibly match  for strength-to-weight ratios. Given these properties, they are  here to  stay. None of which releases industry from ensuring that they  are  handled and administered in a safe and responsible manner. Please watch this  superb video by Nanorex Systems which accurately depicts the  operations  of a (future) counter-top consumer oriented nano-fabrication  tool that  should be capable of producing complex home consumer  electronics for several dollars per pound. Updated 61w ago • View Upvotes