What is the phase of the EM waves?
First consider an EM wave far from a source - a far-field or radiation wave. The electric and magnetic field components are at right angles to each other and to the direction of propagation. The electric and magnetic portions of the wave have identical phase or in other words they are phase synchronous. At a given instant, the phase will change through 360 degrees as you evaluate it along one wavelength in the direction of propagation. Equivalent at a given point in space, the phase varies 360 degrees over one period of the wave. What's really interesting, however, is the behavior of the phase in an EM wave close to a source. The electric and magnetic components of an EM wave can be ninety degrees out of phase with respect to each other - only then  the fields are reactive, not radiation. The energy oscillates back and  forth instead of actually progressing as it would in radiation. You can think of this as the field equivalent of the power factor concept from AC electronics. When  voltage (V) and current (I) are in phase, they convey power. When V and  I are in quadrature (i.e. 90 degree phase difference), they are purely  reactive and convey no power. The fields close to a small dipole  source are in quadrature with a ninety degree phase difference between  the electric and magnetic waves. By the time you get a half wavelength  or so away, the electric and magnetic waves converge to form an  electromagnetic wave.  This behavior was described by Hertz in his  classic work Electric Waves (see p. 152 for Hertz's graph of phase  versus range). The individual phases have peculiar behavior in the near-field region. For an electric dipole, the magnetic field phase propagates faster than the speed of light, slowing down to the speed of light by a wavelength or so away. The electric phase is "antichronous," appearing to propagate backward in time for the first quarter wavelength, before turning around and propagating forward superluminally. Note that the phase does not carry energy or information! You can see this behavior in Hertz's diagram, or see my book, The Art and Science of Ultrawideband Antennas, pp. 289-292 for more about the distinction between signal, phase, and energy velocities. My company (Q-Track)  actually uses this physics to make indoor location systems that employ  long wavelength (~300m) radio waves to achieve 40cm accurate indoor  location. This is one of the techniques involved in "Near-Field  Electromagnetic Ranging" or NFER indoor location technology. 