Is God real?  Do you believe in god?  Why do we believe there is an almighty god in real world?  Why we regard the man lived in 1400 years ago, 2000 years ago, 2600 years ago as our belief?  (PS: I mean no discrimination, I just want to know what other people think this question)
Those are all good questions, Frank. I have 2 minutes today so let me just say that for the most part God "hides himself" as the prophet put it. God is intentionally withdrawn from active participation in human affairs. He made a few interventions in what is now called the Patriarchal age, when he revealed himself (through angels) briefly to the ancient fathers like Noah, Abraham, etc. He intervened from time to time with one nation (Israel) and then sent his only begotten son into the world. At least that is what the Bible says. There apparently were a few miracles and a significant upsurge img Jesus' followers, but obviously the world system didn't change. And then when the first generation of believers passed on the few miracles they were given power to do died with them. The two most lasting results of God's interventions thus far have been individuals gentle encounters with a small family of faith, which continues to this day... And the production of a lasting text that contains guidance and predictive material that is useful to that family of faith. And the program of events predicted in calm, reasonable terms in that text continues to come true like clockwork. Most of the religious establishment is out of touch with what is happening. They're busy trying to save the world. That is already happening but not in the way most Christians are expecting. You can be sure of two things... Well, you can't be sure without reading and believing the Bible... But if you do some study and suspend disbelief long enough to look at the whole package of information... I believe you can count on this much: that if there is a god he sees the real human world around us, takes responsibility for its ghastly condition, and has pledged himself to a complete and total remedy. And you can bank on the fact that when he starts the real remedy for what Evangelicals like to call "the problem of evil", you and everyone else on earth will know it. God will at that time stop his current practice of hiding himself. 