Is God real?  Do you believe in god?  Why do we believe there is an almighty god in real world?  Why we regard the man lived in 1400 years ago, 2000 years ago, 2600 years ago as our belief?  (PS: I mean no discrimination, I just want to know what other people think this question)
Yes. First of all, most Atheist confuse God with religion. God is the maker of all things, the unmoved mover, the beginning and the end, the alpha and the omega, he who contains all he fills, all in one and one in all. God is nature and the maker of it. Religion is an understanding of God by a certain group of people. So to say that God lived 1400, 2000 or 2600 years ago is religious, this does not affect the fact that the maker existed before all things became. Let us use a simple logic to check if God exists. If there is a pattern in anything then there are some rules guiding the production of such patterns. If there are rules, then there is a ruler, or a rule maker. Period. Everything in nature follows a pattern; humans have 2 hands, 2 legs, one head etc. Stars and planets are spherical not Square or triangle. The atom follows similar rules as the solar system. Light and the combination of elements have their own rules and laws. Basically you can look around you, everything has a pattern, that is why phenomenons can be eventually understood by science. Even evolution itself has rules: survival of the fittest, random selection etc. Everything. Is it not so stupid to say that all these things were not made? They may all have been made through evolution. But the bible (3000 years ago)  was so accurate when it stated the order in which earth was created . Darwin confirmed that 3000 years later. It also clearly stated that God had made the heavens (stars, galaxies etc) first. The first words in the Bible reads: In the beginning, God created the the heavens and the earth (our planet was mentioned specifically because it concerns us). The earth was without form and void, darkness covered everything. The spirit of God moved over the waters and God says, let there be light ... So accurate. So so accurate. So undisputable, these are the greatest prophesies ever made by man. Another one you should check out is the last chapter in the bible about the destruction of the earth and our subsequent exodus unto any planet. John writes in revelation: "i saw a new heaven and a new earth..." Believe what you want. But know ye that the devil's most effective tactics is to get you disbelieve the existence of God and subsequently disown God so you will have no saviour when he deals with you, your health, your relationship, your soul etc If you think you are doing a new thing by not believing in God, some people called the Pharisees in Jesus time, didnt believe in GOd, or afterlife :) 