How does flocculation work?
Flocculation can mean a couple things but most commonly refers to particle aggregation, the process by which suspended colloids clump together and come out of suspension as a floc. (Trivia: floc comes from the Latin word for "tuft of wool".) The state of the suspension is determined by how the particles interact with one another. If the net force is repulsive, the colloids stay suspended; if the net force is attractive, the colloids will clump together. Colloid suspensions are interesting because the individual particles are so small (and thus, the surface area/volume ratio so high) that surface effects become dominant. The major attractive force between particles is actually van der Waals interactions! These are induced dipole interactions that are usually considered weak, but on a particle with minuscule mass and high surface area, are quite effective. The major contributor to repulsion is electrostatic repulsion from surface charge. Particles are subject to a repulsive force proportional to charge magnitude and inversely to the square of distance. If you graph the total repulsive force vs. distance between particles, it'll look like the sum of these two: If your particles start out in a colloid suspension, they'll probably stay suspended because it costs energy to approach (climbing the hill from the right) and pass the energy barrier. You could change things about your particles that alter the forces here. For example, in steric hindrance, the particle displays large, bulky groups on its surface that make it hard for particles to get too close to one another.  This would increase repulsion forces in close range, and thus the height of the energy barrier. Flocculation happens very commonly when there are electrolytes present. What's happening is that the repulsive force from a (for example) negatively charged particle is being canceled out by positive ions in solution clustering around the particle surface. This is called Debye shielding. As a result, maybe the repulsion has been weakened enough that the resulting force curve will look more like this: Here, particles will tend to fall into the secondary minimum instead of staying nicely far away, increasing the chances of reaching irreversible aggregation in the primary minimum. The more you decrease repulsion, the more particle-particle interaction will occur, eventually leading to flocculation. In summary, the stability of a colloid suspension depends on the balance of forces that tend to aggregate or separate particles, and can be modified by adding surface charge, steric chains, or ions. References: Particle aggregation Understanding diluted dispersions of superparamagnetic particles under strong magnetic fields: a review of concepts, theory and simulations Page on rsc.org 