Thermodynamics: Why does the H2O-Ethanol solution have less volume than the pure components?
There are two ways of answering this question, and which one you may feel does the job of clearing your doubts is up to you. Classical Thermodynamics The first one is the macroscopic, classical thermodynamic description of the system in terms of state properties. If you have two glasses, one of them filled with pure water an the other with ethanol, then the whole set constitutes a system which can be probed and characterized with a bunch of variables that are readily accesible, i.e. you can measure them with some instrument or experimental tool. Volume is one of those variables: you just need to graduate each glass to measure the volume of each liquid before and after mixing them; but there are others, like mass, which can be measured by weighting the glasses before and after pouring in the liquids. State variables like volume and mass are called extensive, because they are linear in the size of the system: if you double each element in the original set (i.e. you get to have two pairs of identical glasses), then each of those state variables will also double. There is a second kind of variable comprising those which don't behave this way, and these are called intensive. Examples of the latter are temperature, pressure, density, viscosity, thermal and electrical conductivity, etc. If the definitions above didn't make clear the difference between extensive and intensive variables, you can think of the former as properties that only make sense (from a macroscopic point of view) when applied to non-empty regions of space, while the latter are perfectly sensible as properties of space points. So, there's no way you can talk about the volume of a point, but you can surely speak about the temperature at a point in your system. So what's the deal with these state variables? Well, it turns out that both extensive and intensive variables are connected, in the sense that they're not entirely independent from each other, and so by setting the values of a finite number of them every other possible state variable becomes completely determined. This is because the laws of nature impose restrictions on the behavior -i.e. the possible configurations- of systems, and these restrictions come in the form of conservation or maximization laws. The (classical) two laws of thermodynamics express both the conservation of energy and the maximization of entropy in closed systems; energy and entropy are also state (extensive) variables, and they can be measured or calculated from measurable properties. The explicit arithmetical statement of this fact is called the Gibbs' phase rule, and for our system (single phase, two-component), it turns out that setting the value of 3 state variables is enough to completely determine all the other. Back to the glasses: in our example, we assume that temperature and pressure are fixed. The third state variable is the composition of the mixture, and this is also fixed by the relative amounts of water and ethanol in each of the glasses. That's it! Any other state variable is already determined, including density; and as the original mass is conserved (the sum of the masses of the pure liquids) then the total volume is also determined, and it turns out to be less than the sum of the volumes of the pure liquids. You could repeat the experiment over and over again, with different relative amounts of both components (and so, different final compositions of the mixture) and calculate the difference between the sum of the original volumes and the final volume of the mixture, divide that difference by the total mass (or equivalently, by the total number of Moles) and plot the list, obtaining something like this: This seems not to be explaining anything. Why is that happening with the volume of the mixture? The restrictions which make Gibb's rule valid already are the answer. Our system doesn't exchange mass with it's surroundings, but it exchanges energy in the form of heat and work (the latter as the atmosphere compresses the liquid when it contracts). That energy must be conserved; and also, the total entropy of the system plus it's surroundings must increase. We conclude that if the volume of the mixture stayed constant then this two restrictions combined wouldn't be satisfied. How? because the contraction evolves with heat dishcarge to the environment: So, a mixture of water and ethanol which has the same volume as the sum of the pure liquids cannot be stable, and it will fastly (in fact, instantaneously) evolve exothermically to a state with a reduced volume, maximizing total entropy. The Molecular (Qualitative) Approach Viewing the graphs of the variation of mixture volume and enthalpy above you can see that there's a simple qualitative pattern arising: apparently, when the mixture forms the reduction in volume is accompanied by a simultaneous decrease in enthalpy, which results in heat flow to the surroundings at fixed temperature. Even if there's no chemical reaction going on (you can recover the water and the ethanol by a relatively straightforward, physical separation process) you can infer there's something happening here which disrupts the additivity of volumes and produces that heat, just from the macroscopic account of those phenomena. The explanation involves the molecules themselves. Both water and ethanol have little hydrogen atoms atached to an oxygen atom, which strongly attracts the shared electron cloud between the two. This makes the hydrogen nucleus (a proton) to be relatively exposed, and given the very little atomic radius of the former, a high moment molecular electric dipole is formed. These dipoles tend to attract each other in different molecules, and the resulting intermolecular interaction implies that this kind of chemical species pack molecules very closely and bonds them together strongly. The name given to this bond in the chemist's jargon is the "hydrogen bond" or "H-bond": The formation of hydrogen bonds doesn't limit itself to identical molecules, but they cross-form among different H-bond forming chemical species in a mixture. That's what happens between water and ethanol: the oxygen in one water molecule is attracted to the hydrogen in the hydroxyl group in a nearby alcohol molecule, and vice-versa. The H-bonds pack the molecules together in the liquid phase, which produces the macroscopically observed increase in density and total volume reduction. Also, the strong interaction implies a reduction in the internal energy of the system (and so a reduction of enthalpy) which manifests as the liberation of energy in the form of heat. Final remarks This qualitative explanation makes clear the origin of the effect, but is the classical approach irrelevant now we've made translucid the relation of the macroscopic effects with the molecular processes? Could we have predicted the actual volume decrease in the mixture from the arrangement of molecules? The answer (not for this particular question, but in the general sense of the physical chemistry subject) is no, because turning this framework into quantitative predictions is extremely difficult for almost any possible practical mixture. The theoretical models of mixture behavior developed from molecular parameters are pretty complex, and they must always be used with caution, specially if the system under study is not well known. Some examples are UNIQUAC, UNIFAC and the Non-random two-liquid model; all of them are semi-theoretical, as molecular parameters are fitted to existing experimental data banks. So, at least until we develop a reliable computational model for general molecular behavior grounded on quantum mechanics and of enough scale to be able to make macroscopic predictions, we will still need to rely on experimental results interpreted from a classical thermodynamic framework. The images are taken from these websites: *Ethanol *Chem Class - April 20, 2010 *The Basics of General, Organic, and Biological Chemistry 1.0 