Why is fugacity, or z, always less than 1?
Compressibility The compressibility factor, Z, is not always less than 1. The compressibility factor is simply another way of measuring the deviation of a real gas from an ideal gas. Compressibility factor (Wikipedia) The ideal gas law supposes two things: first, that the particles have no real volume and second, the particles are non-interacting. The first only really matters for extremely high densities but the second is where a lot of the deviation from ideal behavior occurs. As you notice in the above graph of Z verses pressure, at zero pressure (or atmospheric for that matter), air behaves very much like an ideal gas. As you increase the pressure however, the molecules in the air begin to interact with each other. At long ranges, this force is attractive and in the case of air, is mostly due to Van der Waals forces where instantaneous fluctuations in the electron cloud produce a dipole that can then induce dipoles in other molecules and cause an attractive force. This attractive force decreases Z. As the molecules get closer and closer together, they begin to collide and repel each other. This effect then leads to Z values that are greater than 1 because the pressure is actually higher than what the ideal gas law would predict. In some graphs, you might see only values of Z that are less than 1 but this is most often a result of the pressure range for which the graph is plotted. Fugacity Fugacity is related to the compressibility but is not the same. The definition I like is that fugactiy is equal to the pressure of an ideal gas that has the same chemical potential as the real gas. There is an equivalent mathematical statement to this but I don't think it really helps. Therefore the units of fugacity are just pressure. Because of this, we can arbitrarily choose units such that the fugacity is greater than 1, equal to it, or less than 1. The relationship between fugacity and compressibility is not as straightforward as you might think either. Starting with the expressions for the Gibbs free energy of the real and ideal gasses, you can work out the following relationship: [math]\text{ln}(\frac{f}{P}) = \int_0^P \frac{Z-1}{P} dP[/math] In this relationship, the only mathematical limitation on the fugacity that exists is that it must be positive. Otherwise, the above relationship shows two things: As the pressure goes to zero, the ratio of f/P, the fugacity coefficient, must go to 1 and therefore the fugacity is simply the pressure at very low pressures. This was guaranteed by the definition of fugacity. Additionally, anywhere the ideal gas law is valid, the compressibility is equal to 1 and the integral also becomes zero. Equivalently, the ratio f/P again must be 1 and the fugacity approaches the actual pressure. Since Z is often less than 1 for lower pressures, this would cause the fugacity coefficient to be less than 1 but if Z is greater than 1, the fugacity coefficient must also be greater than 1. Updated 124w ago • View Upvotes