Which type of study is there in ECE?
First year in most colleges have common subjects mostly C-language,engineering maths,chemistry,engineering physics, engineering drawing etc From 2nd year onwards core ECE subjects get introduced basically there are 8 subjects. Network Theory: It is similar to what you have learned in 11th and 12th grade. It is about how to resolve complex networks along with KVL and KCL you will learn few more cool techniques that may make you wonder "why didn't they teach this in coaching classes". Electronic Devices: In this subject you will study about basic electronic components such as FET, MOSFET, LED, BJT, diodes, Basics of LASERs there fabrication etc. Analog Circuits:  It is about amplifiers op-amp  amplifiers basically how to deal with analog signals and how to resolve their circuits easily using different transform. Digital circuits: boolean algebra, different types of IC's , multiplexer , encoder, decoder , lathes , flip-flop etc beside these you will learn about Microprocessor(8085): architecture, programming, memory and I/O interfacing.(only 8 bit don't expect they will teach you latest 32 or 64 bit architecture but these are the basics) Signals and Systems: This is basically special type of math used to deal with signal problem you will find its use in Communication. Control Systems: Its the easiest one, in this subject you will learn how to find stability of a system whether mechanical or electrical system. Communications:This subject is the most interesting part i find in ECE it is very broad and divided into two part Analog communication and Digital communication.     Analog Communication : you will earn how to transmit signal using AM and FM techniques. You should be able to make your own fm transmitter or walky talky after understanding the technique     Digital Communication: Digital Communication is what our cell Internet i.e 3G , edge , gprs use. You will learn various type of technique to transmit digital signals their bandwidths and other advantages , disadvantages. Electromagnetic: This is pretty boring i don't even remember what i was taught in this let me copy pasteElements of vector calculus: divergence and curl; Gauss' and Stokes'  theorems, Maxwell's equations: differential and integral forms. Wave  equation, Poynting vector. Plane waves: propagation through various  media; reflection and refraction; phase and group velocity; skin depth.  Transmission lines: characteristic impedance; impedance transformation;  Smith chart; impedance matching; S parameters, pulse excitation.  Waveguides: modes in rectangular waveguides; boundary conditions;  cut-off frequencies; dispersion relations. Basics of propagation in  dielectric waveguide and optical fibers. Basics of Antennas: Dipole  antennas; radiation pattern; antenna gain Besides these you will learn C, C++, Java, Matlab, Unix, DSA , OS etc. and yup you will learn maths too. Mostly calculus. 