Is there any case where students during the process of writing their thesis or dissertations have discovered or invented something that has made them famous?
Great answers on this question and was a bit surprised that nobody mentioned Einstein. His Ph.D. was called 'A New Determination of Molecular Dimensions'. In that paper he estimated the constant Avogadro's constant. That is the constant which connects the relative masses of the atoms on the periodic table, to the common units of mass, like kilogram or pound. So when you have an actual value for Avogadro's number, you are weighing all the atoms on the periodic table, in one go. It was not the only way known to estimate the constant, what Einstein did though, was to show that an existing estimate could be independently verified by a totally different theoretical method. Later on, same year of 1905 though, he uses the number he gets for Avogadro's constant and he uses it to calculate the magnitude of an effect called Brownian Motion (link opens as a pdf of the original paper translated into English). Or rather he calculates from the kinetic theory of gases, what should be observed for the random motions of small motes of dust in fluids of known viscosity and that theoretical calculation is later compared to the real world Brownian motion in an experiment done by others and his calculation is right on the money. Before that 1905 paper and the quick confirmation by experiment, there were chemists who said that in their opinion atoms were not real things, atoms were just a chimera, a conceptual aid, a way of modelling chemical reactions but something else was going on. After the 1905 paper and the evidence which completely vindicated the kinetic theory of gases, that argument just wasn't tenable. So Einstein has a kind of double act of papers of which his Ph.D. was the foundation. First he confirms an estimate of the Avogadro constant which weighs all the atoms in the periodic table, then he uses that result to calculate the effect of the Brownian motion and ends all debate about atomism in the sciences. Atoms are real and Einstein's 1905 Ph.D. was key in that outcome. 