Why does the value of G, speed of light and other scientific constants not vary?
The value of "G", the speed of light "c", Planck's constant "h", Boltzmann's constant "k", and the electrostatic constant "epsilon naught" are constant because they define the system of standard measures and weights. There are 5 measures we choose arbitrarily, the meter, second, kilogram, Coulomb (actually Ampere, but whatever) and Kelvin. If you choose the  mass, length, time, charge units appropriately, these constants all become 1 (or  2pi, or 1/4pi, depending on your convention). So these are simply the constants that explain how to convert our units to natural units. Once  you have a dimensionless natural system of units, you can sensibly ask whether  other constants vary. It makes no sense to talk about dimensional  constant varying. The (square of the) electron charge in natural units is called the fine structure constant. The mass of the proton in natural units is something ridiculously small (like 10^-20), and so on. Then you can ask what makes these constants what they are and why they don't vary. To explain the role of standard measures more concretely, I might redefine the meter to shrink by one cm every year.  Then the speed of light varies suddenly every year. This is not  abstract, if you define the meter using the radius of the Earth, and the  second using the rotation of the Earth, then the speed of light would  keep going up every year, because the second would keep getting longer and  longer. because tidal friction keeps slowing the Earth's rotation. We don't want that headache, so we define our measures so that these constants are constant, because they are really not there, they are really 1, in natural units. If the G constant were easier to measure, we would use it to define the Kilogram, but it's hard, you only have a certain amount of precision, so it isn't taken as a definition, instead, you have this block in Paris that defines what a kg is supposed to weigh. Updated 130w ago • View Upvotes