Can anybody explain to me a little molecular orbital theory?
A little Orbital theory is awfully vague. Are we starting with the Bohr model or going right into orbitals, do we want to cover electron tunneling and movement? In short the basic form of orbital theory is that electrons surround the atom in one or more shells, these shells divide into subshells and into orbitals. The orbitals at each stage have a charateristic shape. For most main group elements the desired number of electrons in the outermost shell is 8. The two exceptions to this are hydrogen and helium which both only have two in their outermost shell. As the shell closest to the nucleus can only hold two electrons, electron repulsion does not allow more. According to the Octet Rule, shells and orbitals want to be either filled or empty, and not in between meaning that electrons will either be gained or lost in order so that the outermost remaining shell is full. Transition, Actinide, and Lanthanide, metals follow their own distinct fill pattern, some of these orbitals will follow the octet rule but many will not and most metals can form ions with variable numbers of electrons gained or lost. This is vary particularly true when polyatomic molecules are involved. For main group elements, other than hydrogen and helium, an atom with 2 electrons in its outermost shell will lose those electrons so that the shell beneath has 8 (meaning the atom will tend to form positive ions and negative dipoles for covalent substances) While an atom with 7 electons will tend to gain a single electron to eight and tend to form negative ions or dipoles. Shells fill order follows a distinct pattern that can be recognized and is based on the quantum numbers of the atom. n represents the principal quantum number and l represents the azimuthal quantum number these can be identified from a periodic table explaining from whence they derive would be more that a "little bit of orbital theory" There are presently no known elements with a quantum number greater than 7 however by observation the chart fill order has been expanded all the way up until 8. Larger synthetic molecules, or non terrestrial elements may exceed this.  Orbitals also have additional quantum numbers that describe their spin and orientation. The first of which is the spin quantum number and the latter is the magnetic quantum number, In addition, other quantum numbers exist for other systems outside of this ordering scheme. 