★Has anyone done any of the SF2G bicycle routes?http://sf2g.com/ What was it like? What was the speed 'type' and how hard was it for you? How many people did you ride with?
I've done SF2G around 700 times.  But before rhapsodizing ad nauseam, I'll answer the questions: What was it like? Every single time I've commuted the 40-ish miles from SF to my south bay jobs, it's been a heckuva lot better than driving the 101 (posh corporate shuttle or no).   Even when I got rained on, crashed, got dropped, or got 3 flats, it was better than being cooped up in a metal box with little control over my forward progress.  Being helplessly stuck in traffic makes people crazy, it makes your blood boil.  It's the sheer impotence of the situation -- you can do nothing but accept your fate.  And you rightly feel like a lemming committing slow mass suicide. On the bike, you are the lord of your domain, and you can go as slow or fast as you are capable.  Freedom and fresh air, oh yes. What was the speed 'type' and how hard was it for you? I think you mean the "style."  I've been on many rides where I suffered horribly to hang on, and some where I've been pushing the pace.  It varies quite a bit, so it helps to be realistic about your ability.  Try one that's slower than you rate yourself.  With all the stops/starts on the Bayway variants, you might find it's harder to maintain a high average than you think.  That said, riding your bike from SF to, say, Google, isn't "hard" if you're in decent shape and have a decent (road) bike -- it's almost dead-flat.  Just give yourself plenty of time and make sure your bike is up to the task.  Read here for more: http://sf2g.com/bike-prep.html We created rough speed-type classifications to help people pick the right ride for them.  It's an imperfect system, but it's better than the alternative (like democracy or capitalism :)  Style 1 is "as fast as you can go", or 19+ mph avg., while Style 4 is a <15 mph avg. leisure cruise.  Most rides are Style 2, at least nominally.  More: http://sf2g.com/ride-styles.html How many people did you ride with? The earliest rides were 4 or 5 people, perhaps once a week.  Nowadays, FFFF rides are often 50-70 riders, and Bike to Work Day will be around 500.  It's an awesome sight to see.  Personally, I don't like riding alone, so I always post my rides to the SF2G list (Google group).  A typical weekday ride will be 8-10 people, and there will usually be several to choose from, leaving at different times and taking various routes. Now some questions you didn't ask, but may be wondering: Is SF2G a fun, welcoming, positive group?  Is it suitable for beginners? Yes!  We are a hater-free club (for lack of a better term) that welcomes everyone.  You can "join" by showing up for a ride.  Over 2000 people are on the list, and it's a positive, generally unsnarky place where questions are invited.  If you're new to cycling, we recommend an abridged version of the commute called "Millbway" (http://sf2g.com/millbway.html), starting from the Millbrae BART.  It's about 13 miles shorter and cuts out all the hills.  I'm pretty badass.  Are there hella fast rides? Affirmative.  Look for (or post) a Style 1 ride, and you should be satisfied with the pace.  Lots of local racers like to train by commuting to work, and logically they tend to ride most often, so you won't have any trouble finding a brisk ride to get your heart rate up.  I like hills.  I heard SF2G is flat :( Yes and no.  The Bayway route is pretty flat.  Skyline is not, and Half-Moon Bay Way is most assuredly not.  Just pick the right route for your climbing mood. Are the routes dangerous? Are there a lot of crashes or accidents? In my view, the routes are pretty safe.  Of course, we mix it up with cars, so you have to be careful and watchful.  Occasionally there are crashes, but they are almost always bike-on-bike.  For the sheer miles and rides we do, the % chance of a mishap is quite low, and I would guess that the accident rate is substantially lower than general urban riding. Is riding my bike to work a good way to lose weight? If you ride consistently, yes.  I personally know people who have lost 40, even 70 lbs.  It really can be life-changing in that regard -- people become cyclists for life because of how it makes them feel, and how it improves their health. Will SF2G come to dominate my social life, and will I meet super fun people to party with? 100%.  If you ride a lot, you'll make a lot of new friends, and then one day at a party you'll look around and think "huh, everyone here is someone I know from riding bikes!"  It's cool.  You'll definitely broaden your social circle quite a bit. What IS this thing called SF2G anyway, really?  A bike club? Having ridden hundreds of SF2Gs, from the very first to today's FFFF, I feel comfortable asserting that it is a (local) social movement, in that it changes the way people think, changes their behavior, and makes them evangelists.  It has also reached self-sustaining scale, meaning its founders are no longer needed.  That makes me happy.  If I left SF and returned in 10 years, I am pretty confident the rides would still be happening.  Though it's possible it will be so commonplace that a club/email list won't be necessary -- people will just show up at Ritual Roasters or Philz at 6:30 or 7 and people will be there to meet them.  When fuel is $8/gallon and some of the unused roads are set aside for non-car use, I think we'll be there :) If you're interested in more history, you can find it here: http://sf2g.com/history.html    Embed Quote