★What was your route to becoming a Product Manager, and how do you think it helped you to become a better PM as opposed to other routes?
My career journey started out with a creative love for software and engineering.  The thought of creating a functional object devoid from any constraints and engineering it to act and react to differentiators was both thrilling and fulfilling.  It fulfilled me creatively but also enabled me to learn a great deal about software engineering, processes, methodologies, software & information architectures and a desire to always, always learn more.  Later in my software engineering career, I grew bored of coding, B-O-R-E-D!  It used to be stimulating and fun but it soon got to be, simply put, boring, and I grew to hate it (coding, but have huge respect for coders!).  I love technology, everything about it - and I appreciate the skill-set of an engineer but there was a huge void and that's when I knew it was time for a career shift, but at the time, I didn't know what. It might be painfully obvious to some of you but do you do if you love technology, love products, love working with and understanding businesses and markets, love talking to and learning how customers interact with products,  love finding a business void or gap and filling it, love collaborating with software engineers and love managing complex synergies? Yeah, so what? It was almost by happenstance that I worked up the nerve to approach a reeeeeally high up dude (executive) and to my surprise, he actually engaged me and those conversations and opportunity put me where I am now as a product manager in the mobile space (basically I create mobile solutions; a little more to it than that but that's the gist). So.  How did my background in software engineering and technology help me become a better PM?  Simple.  Without that background, there's no way I could be a PM in the mobile space.  Without an intimate understanding of technology, architectures, synergies, relationships, what customers want and the nerve to get things done at all costs - I couldn't be successful.  Think of my experience as now-fulfilled-opportunistic-gaps that enable me to be quite efficient at what I do.    Embed Quote