★Who designs the routes at rock climbing gyms and how?Is there repository or something?
Here's some route setting technique for creating movement on a rock wall . • Forcing basic movement 1. Object holds are holds that the climber is trying to gain.   a. If the object hold is relatively too poor for the grade, the average climber will become unmotivated.   b. If the object hold is too positive then the climber may be able to circumvent the desired movement. 2. Launch holds are holds that the climber is using to gain the object hold.   a. If the launch holds are relatively too positive the climber will hesitate to commit and end up wasting energy trying to rest. 3. Movement is the technique that the climber must use to transfer from the launch hold to the object hold. 4. Movement cannot be forced by a route setter unless the route setter has a compassionate respect for the ability of the climber(s) that will attempt the route. 5. To force a specific movement the route setter must account for the climbers attributes including: reach, finger strength, climbing experience, creativity, problem solving ability and gumption.   a. Remember you are trying to force movement, not stop it all together. 6. Beginner route setters will make better routes if they place the object hold before placing the launch holds.   a. Start at the top of the wall and work downward.   b. Set the crux first and try to keep the other moves easier to maintain the grade.   c. Select a key hold that will facilitate a desired move and place it on the wall first.  Set the rest of the route then readjust (tweak) if necessary. 7. Good route setting comes from maintaining a consistent degree of difficulty through a variety of movement.   a. Let the features of the wall frame the movement of the route.   b. Use the holds to emphasize the existing angles of the wall.   c. Difficulty is directly related to availability of footholds.      i. Good route setting comes from anticipating footholds for the various heights of climbers. 8. Indoor climbing routes should be exercises in technique not futility.      i. By setting technical movement, the route setter lends themselves credibility and the climbers will attempt to utilize more problem solving skills.      ii. Do not be afraid to tweak the route.  Minor changes can turn an otherwise futile route into a classic. • Forcing advanced movement and sequencing 1. Advanced movement depends on the use of oppositional forces by the climber.   a. Oppositional forces will allow a climber to gain an object hold by creatively controlling pressure between two or more body parts. 2. Creating sequences depends on a combination of reach potential, directional hold positivity and limited foot placements.   a. Reach potential is the ability to gain the object hold from the current stance.   b. Directional hold positivity is the amount of purchase on a hold from the current stance in a given direction.   c. By limiting foot placements the route setter is able to force directional movement and by controlling directional hold positivity the route setter is able to create hand sequence. 3. Use of oppositional forces and directional holds can lead to unlimited creativity in problem solving and advanced technical movement sequencing. • Route management, taping and grading 1. Route management is very important.   a. Groups and birthday parties need easy routes with easy access.      i. These routes need to have a high route turn-over rate in order to facilitate the needs of the group in the given amount of time.   b. Classes need routes that teach technique while being accessible to the ability of the class.   c. General Climbing Wall participants need routes of various difficulty and new routes on a regular basis. 2. Taping needs to be effective and attractive.   a. Position tape so that it can be seen from above and below but not easily smeared off by climbing shoes.      i. If the tape can be easily smeared off the wall then pinch it between the hold and the wall.   b. Choose colors that will not confuse climbers. 3. Grading acts as a guide to the difficulty of routes.   a. Grading is often subjective, however, a general consensus can be established.      i. Routes will fall into a grade based more on the fact that they do not fall into the next higher grade than the fact that they do not fall into the next lower grade.      ii. Basic factors that can help to determine the grade based on the Yosemite Decimal System are: 5.5 = a 30’ ladder, 5.6 = a 30’ ladder overhanging at 5 degrees, 5.7 = a route that may require basic footwork, 5.8 = a route that requires footwork and hand strength, 5.9 =  a route that requires problem solving, 5.10 = a route that requires problem solving and finger strength, 5.11 = a route that requires expert balance or dead point precision, 5.12 = a route that requires maintaining momentum through several moves and tremendous core strength   b. It is important to set routes that maintain the grade for climbers of various heights.  This can be accomplished through the skillful use of foot placements.   c. The value of a route setter comes from the ability to determine the need for a particular grade and create a route that fills that need for the climbing community.   I hope you can use some of this information to expand the sport!   Thanks.    Embed Quote