★What was your route to becoming a Product Manager, and how do you think it helped you to become a better PM as opposed to other routes?
After I graduated from UC Berkeley in 2007 I thought I wanted to be a lawyer. I ended up accepting an offer in Finance where I worked full-time and studied for the LSAT in the evening. I quit the finance job since I realized very quickly that I was miserable there - I also decided that if I found finance boring, I'd find being a lawyer even more uninteresting. I ended up volunteering for a nonprofit where I took the lead in setting up their social media presence. This led me to working for an early-stage startup where I initially started off as a community development manager (basically, a community manager, but also product marketing and understanding user needs). But as with all early-stage startups, you often have to take on other roles. I became interested in product management and user experience. I started working more closely with the Product Manager. I focused on talking to users, doing user studies, and user tests. I would go to events where the product had the potential to be used, and would talk to people about their habits and what they currently did to solve the problem we were trying to solve. I'd observe how new users would use the product and where the flow blockers in our product were - I was essentially a User Experience Designer, but under a different title. Unfortunately, there wasn't a ton of product development, so I left to join a mid-stage startup that already had a product market fit and a good number of users (clients - it was in the enterprise space, and they had revenue). Since the product was an API and I didn't have a technical background, I joined their Marketing team as an Online Marketing Manager. I owned the website so I treated it like a product. The goal of the site was to get users (or, leads, since it's an enterprise marketing site) to convert and enter our funnel so we could then pass their information to the Sales Team. I would track behavior, a/b & multivariate test landing pages, then iterate based on the results. I also managed their more traditional online marketing programs. I wasn't particularly passionate about Marketing (webinars program and other online marketing activities), but what I loved about my job was what I was doing with the site - figuring out ways to capture more leads, while creating a better experience for them on our site. I also really enjoyed the design work I got to do - we didn't have an in-house designer, so for our first set of online ads, we hired an outside agency. I hated the results. They looked like ads created in 2001, not 2011. So I ended up creating new ads with slight variations (so I could test them out and see what performed better). The new ads also converted better than the ones created by the agency. The skills I developed, however, would help me in my next two roles. Even though I wasn't passionate about Marketing, I learned about business goals. And as a Product Manager, it's an integral part of the job to create products that meet product/business goals (among other things). I didn't want to keep doing what I wasn't passionate about, so I ended up leaving the enterprise startup to join a gaming startup as an Associate Product Manager - User Experience. Essentially, I was a Design Product Manager. A lot of people ask me what that is, and what the difference between a Product Designer and a Design Product Manager is. I guess it depends on the company since titles are just..well..titles. To me, the difference is that a Design Product Manager has to ensure that design and product goals are aligned. I was part of the UI/UX team as well as the Product team - my responsibilities were in both. In Gaming, and really with any product, there are three important product goals: virality, retention, and monetization. When I designed the UI, I did so with the intention to maximize any one, or all three of those product goals. But I also needed to focus on creating UI that's intuitive for our users, so that they can easily invite their friends, or spend money in our game, but also have an enjoyable experience. I loved this job, and I loved what I was doing as a Design PM. Unfortunately, the publishing side laid off the development arm. About a month after we were all laid off, I joined a startup (BizeeBee) where I'm Lead Product Manager and Product Designer. I have a bit of an unconventional route, but my experiences have given me the skills to be a strong PM. A strong PM should understand product and business goals, understand market needs, understand user needs, able to effectively talk to customers/users, and be able to communicate well with every department in a company (from Engineering, to Sales, and even Support). After I figured out that what excited me most was defining and designing products (and that it's called Product Management), each step I took in my career was to do exactly that.    Embed Quote