★I am going to be walking from Beijing to London... What's the best route I should take?
Yes it is possible. Some notable similar attempts: http://www.thelongestway.com/ Christoph Rehage tried to walk form Beijing to his home in German. He hasn't finished the walk, stopping after a year and still in Xinjiang, China. He covered about 1/3 of the distance. http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-eng... A Chinese man who had been a torchbearer at the Beijing 2008 Olympics, cycled to London for the 2012 games. http://www.chinacycle.co.uk/ Cycling this time from London to Beijing. http://www.cycleuktochina.com/ Another cycling form England to China. http://www.2wheels.org.uk/ And yet another cycling form England to China but this time back again too. http://www.gadling.com/2012/05/2... Jean Béliveau from Canada walked around the world. His route passed through England and China. Routes for England to China. There are three basic routes: Europe - Russia - Mongolia - China: This northern route is probably the safest as it avoids many war zones. In Russia there is backup rail and road should you get into difficulties. The take the southward route from Irkutsk through Mongolia to Beijing. Though this route looks long on the map, it is the route taken by airplanes on the London-Beijing route so is actually quite direct. There is the advantage that should you have difficulties you will be near rail and road routes most of the way. One disadvantage is that you really only see one culture, Russian, for most of the route. Europe - Caucauses - 'stans - China: The straight line route on a map. The main difficulties is that you go through some unstable countries on route. Some detours may be required. Another issue is that you will spend most of the journey in the same arid semi-desert steps for pretty much all the trip. On the plus side this is the old silk road and the route used by Marco Polo. This is similar to the route used by Ewan McGregor in his TV round the world series, "The Long Way Round." Though Ewan didn't actually go to China, he crossed Kazakhstan, Russia and Mongolia. At Ulaanbaatar he turned north instead instead of south. From Ewan's show it appears one should be careful if choosing this route as the west-east route over Mongolia was very remote and tedious and he was robed at gun point in Kazakhstan. Europe - Middle East - Iran - India - China: The southern route is the longest. Head out of Europe via Istanbul and cross Turkey then Iran. You will have a choice of steering north through the 'stans but probably safer to keep south through to Pakistan then on to India and over the Himalayas to Tibet. By far the most cultural and geographically varied route. You'll be following the footsteps of Alexander the Great so far as to India. Then retracing the route used by Xuanzang made famous in the Chinese novel Journey to the West (aka Monkey King). Routes for China to England There are three basic routes: China - Mongolia - Russia - Europe: This northern route is probably the safest as it avoids many war zones. Though this route looks long on the map, it is the route taken by airplanes on the London-Beijing route so is actually quite direct. There is the advantage that should you have difficulties you will be near rail and road routes most of the way. One disadvantage is that you really only see one culture, Russian, for most of the route. From Beijing you head north to Ulaanbaatar in Mongolia and continue on to Ulan-udi in Russia. Now turn west to Irkutsk. You might take a boat over lake Biakal rather than walking round. Then just continue westward through Russia till you get to Europe. In Europe keep near the north coast and you're there. China - 'stans - Caucauses - Europe: The straight line route on a map however not the shortest route - look at a globe. The main difficulties is that you go through some unstable countries on route. Some detours may be required. Another issue is that you will spend most of the journey in the same arid semi-desert steps for pretty much all the trip. On the plus side this is the old silk road and the route used by Marco Polo. This is similar to the route used by Ewan McGregor in his TV round the world series, "The Long Way Round." Though Ewan didn't actually go to China, he crossed Kazakhstan, Russia and Mongolia. At Ulaanbaatar he turned north instead instead of south. From Ewan's show it appears one should be careful if choosing this route as the west-east route over Mongolia was very remote and tedious and he was robed at gun point in Kazakhstan. If you keep south of Mongolia you'll be on the route used by Christoph Rehage across China so read up on his book/blog. China - India - Iran - Turkey - Europe: The southern route is the longest but probably the most interesting as you go through many different landscapes and cultures on the way. There are two possible exits from China. Either through Xinjiang into Pakistan or through Tibet and Nepal into India. The first takes you rather near Afghanistan and the troubled border with Pakistan. The second takes you through Tibet, which would be spectacular and you could even route it to pass Mount Everest. However special permits will be required and access to Tibet can sometimes be closed without warning. Crossing Iran should be simple enough but the eastern borders of Turkey are another trouble spot as are the neighbouring countries. You may find yourself detouring far north or south to get into Europe depending on the political situation at the time. If you do get into Turkey, then it is a simple walk from there to Istanbul but then you end up in the Balkans. While there's no wars there just now, this is not the richest area in Europe. Instead you might detour west through Greece and cross the sea to Italy and walk northwards from there.    Embed Quote