★Why don't airplanes follow the shortest route?I have noticed this in various flights. Airplanes don't follow the shortest route. Why do they deviate so much from the shortest route? Are there any way-points that they must pass through?
The shortest route is not always the best route for the itinerary. There are number of things that factor in when a route is decided Revenue A direct flight from point A to point B may not be that profitable as compared to a hopping flight. Consider an airline starts a new route from point A to point B. However judging by experience and statistics suppose not many people fly from A to B, chances are many seats on the flight might remain unoccupied, thus revenue loss. But the traffic from A to C is dense(assumption: C is not way off course the the path from A to B). now the airline decides to modify the itinerary to A-C-B. Here a fixed amount of seats are reserved for the end to end journey only, rest can however be sold for the A to C leg of the travel, this implies more revenue for the airline. Cargo is another factor that brings in lot of money for the airlines. This way the airline can service cargo/passengers from A to B, A to C and C to B as compared to just A to B in case of the direct flight. Now the passengers travelling on C to A leg are a bonus, more revenues. This escalates to form the hub and spoke model detailed nicely @Nikunj Bhatia's answer to Why do airlines follow a hub and spoke model? For example, why do Emirates Airways flights go to Dubai first and then from there go to other destinations? Restrictions Every country has its own restrictions on its air-space. if the flight travels over a number of countries while flying from point A to point C, their air space restrictions need to be taken care of. While flying via the shortest route one may have to fly over a country where the air space is not that relaxed, thereby requiring the airline to chose a different(and may be longer) route. Fuel Capacity and Economy There is limit on how much fuel an airline can carry. In case of long journeys the flight may have to stop-over and refuel. The airline will prefer airports where cost, taxation on aviation fuel and also stop over charges are on the lower side, all while not deviating from the original itinerary too much. Fuel burnt is proportional to the net weight of the aircraft(including kerb weight, passengers, luggage, consumables like food and also fuel) Hence quantity of fuel carried is a balance between requirement and weight of fuel thereby requiring the aircraft to re-fuel after a certain distance rather than carrying the complete fuel necessary for the journey to maintain the fuel economy. Hope this answers your question.    Embed Quote