★Has anyone done any of the SF2G bicycle routes?http://sf2g.com/ What was it like? What was the speed 'type' and how hard was it for you? How many people did you ride with?
I've done it with Wayne Pan and another friend about 2 years ago on a Sunday morning.  This was probably my 10th ride ever since purchasing my first road bike.  We started in Santa Clara and worked our way to Google and then up the Bayway trail.  http://sf2g.com/bayway.html  Repeating myself:  This was my 10th ride ever, so I was still a newbie.  Starting from Google, we worked our way through some of the office complex roads.  Most of the roads were rather smooth, and low in traffic.  Eventually, we made it to E. Bayshore Rd, parallel to 101 in MV.  I got a flat tire and had to make a change.  At this point, I felt pretty good, and powered on through MV into EPA.  We eventually rode into East Palo Alto, passing the Palo Alto airport on a trail, then right into some of the surface roads in East Palo Alto, onto 84.  That's where it got a little windy, but the wind  helped us when passing the former Sun HQ, new FB.  That was a nice ride as it was straight, and no lights all the way to where 84 crosses 101 again. We eventually rode down the past Carlsen Porsche then past Sea Port.  That's where the roads got a bit rough as we passed by Malibu Grand Prix. We had to walk some of that over a marsh area as it was not paved.  (We are on road bikes).  Got back on to surface roads, and got to ride a nice straight bike road with no cars towards Belmont passing the Hiller Aviation Museum .  The wind was picking up again. After passing Oracle, we made it to Foster City where we took a quick break at the BridgePoint Shopping center.  A refuel of Starbucks and off we went again.  Passing through Coyote Pt began the start of pain.  It was clear, sunny day, but the wind started picking up as we got closer to SFO.  Through Burlingame, we powered through, and tried to do a mini Peloton through that area.  Pretty tough.  Passing through SFO though, that was another story. The winds picked up and we granny geared it through there with 30mph+ headwind, all the way to Oyster Point.  Peddling through the business parks again, then into Visitation Valley, we were met with some hills.  After 50+ miles of riding, those hills get steeper than it originally looked.  But it was nice an downhill through Mission Bay and right to the Ballpark for some tacos.  We Caltrain'd home.  Total Time:  4 hours, 57 minutes Distance traveled: 56 miles Tacos consumed: 4    Embed Quote