★What was your route to becoming a Product Manager, and how do you think it helped you to become a better PM as opposed to other routes?
I guess I'll add my story to the collection, but I have to go back a little further than others, because it all starts with me finishing law school... Graduated with honors in 2000, planning to go into criminal prosecution.  Unfortunately, an initiative was passed that year that basically put most of the open prosecution positions on hold throughout the state, so I had to start looking elsewhere.  It turns out it's not so easy to turn from criminal to civil practice, especially since I didn't have a strong network there, my entire 3L internship was criminal, and I hadn't passed the bar yet. So, after seeding my resume around and looking pretty much everywhere, I wound up with a call from a recruiter for a legal-oriented startup -- at the same time that I wound up with an interview with a law firm back home (small town).  This turned into competing offers, both at roughly the same salary.  The startup-ish place was going to send me to Dallas for 8 weeks on the company dime to take a lead customer service role in a transition team to take the product from Dallas up to the Seattle area.  The law firm job was going back home.  Needless to say, I took the adventure. Now, that was "just" a customer service position, but I worked it.  I very quickly learned about how the product managers worked at the company and thought that it was a perfect fit for someone with my legal background and problem-solving skills.  So I inserted myself into the process - I basically became the voice of the customer for the product that I was the lead for.  I inserted myself into meetings, made sure that problems the customers were talking about were addressed, and even started to get involved with strategy discussions. From there, I just made it clear that I wanted the job, so eventually I got the chance to be an assistant PM for both of our main products, where I was really doing more project management than product management.  That led to a lead PM job on a new product, which then led me to another product, another company, and so on.  And now I'm a senior PM mentoring new team members at the startup that I currently work for.    Embed Quote