★What was your route to becoming a Product Manager, and how do you think it helped you to become a better PM as opposed to other routes?
Product Management is an interesting career, which typically has not had a formal career path. Neither is Product Management taught as a career choice in MBA schools (with the exception of University of Wisconsin -Madison) So you will find many have traversed different paths. My early career was dabbling in Graphic design (Photoshop, 3D Studio etc) and Web development (Everything from HTML, JS to writing VB dlls or JSP) I worked for a consulting services arm of a product company. This role required me to primarily work with multiple customers, understand their problem and deliver a solution using our product. This involved a number of activities such as business analysis, requirement definition, project management, solution design and development. Very often this meant being infront of the customer, many times during a sales cycle and definitely after it, to understand the business, the issue and creating a solution. This exposed me to several industries, customers and their business issues and developed an innate understanding of how to solve a problem for many many customers using the same solution set. This laid the ground for functional expertise and deep understanding of the problem space across various industries. One of the most important skill a product manager has is his ability to see patterns in the market which otherwise might not be obvious and ability to relate this into a solution that addresses this opportunity (How do you identify a talented product manager?) And having been a consultant solving problems across various industries enabled me to develop that. That said I landed into product management by accident than by choice. Another product company operating in a similar space wanted a product manager who could come and build a product and they tapped me because of the prior experience and expertise in similar space. Prior to that I was solving problems for customers, one at a time, and now I had to understand the problems of many customers and solve via one product. No route to the PM role is greater or less, but some of the stereotypes that I have seen are 1. The Engineer to PM - this is a Tech heavy PM 2. The MBA to PM - Spreadsheet driven PM most of the times and the last one would be 3 - Sales to PM - this is tough one where someone decided to come and fix stuff instead of selling vaporware!  Product Managers require to work across several cross functional teams, and having strong credibility is a must. Having been in the field brought instant credibility from a market perspective, background in graphic and web design enabled me to quickly create wireframes, prototypes etc. A deep understanding of web development and technology allowed me to have articulate and credible conversations with engineers. And all the time spent on pre sales duties helped me as a product manager to clearly understand and empathize the job of a marketeer and a sales person.    Embed Quote