★Rock Climbing: What is it like to free solo a route?I'm curious about the motivation, thoughts, fears, emotions, focus etc. involved.
For me the main motivation is to experience the feeling of focus that I sometimes get when leading a route. The feeling of total focus, to the exclusion of all else is, I think, many people's primary motivation for climbing. Free-soloing allows me to immerse myself in that feeling for much longer stretches than roped climbing can. I also really enjoy the sensation of moving very quickly (like 12 pitches per hour) over moderate terrain. When leading easier routes (for me that means 5.8 and under) I find the pitches to go by too quickly, and the overall feeling is broken up by belaying. Soloing long routes solves that problem. Obviously anyone who solos a lot has experienced the "Holy shit, I think I may be in over my head!" feeling. Pushing through that is...incredible. It's also scary, and everyone has a different level of tolerance. Personally, I like to solo stuff that is easy but still "real climbing" (about 5.7). For me this means that I almost never really feel scared out of my mind (though that has happened when I've gotten off route), but allows me to have enough challenge to keep the focus. I have soloed 5.10, but for me that is just too risky--the difference is that I feel like on mostly slabby 5.7 pretty much any limb could blow at any moment and there would be another one that would hold me on; on 5.9 and up it's just too tenuous. Others have different views on this. Honnold (who solos at least .12d) is a MUCH better climber than I am, but I think he's also just more comfortable with risk. Then again, there's Derek Hershey... I have tried a lot of sports, and am fairly good at several. Nothing compares to the feeling of moving quickly and smoothly over stone on a beautiful long route like the Matthes Crest or Venusian Blind. Perhaps the danger is an integral part of it. (Disclaimer for the idiots out there: climbing is dangerous, and free-soloing even more so. You should not try it because you'll almost certainly die.)    Embed Quote