★Is it physically possible to walk uphill to school both ways, using the same route?Apart from having a hill in between your house and the school and forgetting to mention that.
What if there's a valley between your house and the school? :) Assuming the usual understanding of "same route", you're saying there's some given path from A to B over the earth's surface. You apparently want to exclude hills (and presumably also valleys) between A and B, which means you want the derivative of the gravitational potential along the path to never cross the X axis. Now your question reduces to: Can the derivative of the gravitational potential along the path from A to B be positive when you go to school, and negative when you come home from school? There are only two ways this could happen: 1) The path physically changes while you're in school. There are many ways this could happen, but all of them are unlikely and probably emotionally unsatisfying as a solution to the puzzle. For instance, maybe you live on a boat in the harbor, and your path to school is a wooden plank connecting your house to the shore. As the tide changes, the relative heights of your house and the school will change, and it might be uphill both on your way to school and on the way back. 2) The gravitational potential field changes while you're in school. This is also unlikely to have happened to your parents, but it is theoretically possible. As the moon goes around the earth, it slightly perturbs the earth's gravitational potential field in your town by adding its own potential field. It's possible that the path could be very very extremely slightly uphill in the A-to-B direction while the moon is on one side, while it is very very extremely slightly uphill in the B-to-A direction while the moon is on the other side. Of course, this would hardly be noticeable by a human, who would simply feel the path as flat, so again it's not an emotionally satisfying solution to the puzzle. Anyone got any other ideas?    Embed Quote