★What is the best route (or tips) for a 25 year old who is focused on becoming financially free?
If by financially free you mean you can completely support yourself with the salary you make and be debt-free, then I can give you some advice from my own experience, you'd have to see whether they can apply to you. I was financially free after 2 years of working and had enough for a down payment for a small property. 1. Research the financial tools that will help you save and invest. I researched all the account types in major bank and only used ones that require no/minimal monthly fee or transaction fee, has good interest rates for savings accounts/GICs, and charges no fees for transferring between banks. With all the competition among financial institutions, there is really no good reason to have to pay bank fees. I opened accounts in 3 banks to take advantage of their various offers. including savings accounts that calculate interest based on daily balance. 2. Save aggressively. When I first started I saved more than 50% of each pay cheque. As soon as I got my pay in the bank, I move most of it into a savings account to accumulate the daily interests. I only move money out if I needed extra money at the end of the month, but the goal is to never move them out. This means living within a budget; it doesn't mean that you can't enjoy life, just means you have to decide what is an appropriate budget for you. For example I am willing to spend money on taking courses and having good food, but less on buying other material stuff. 3. Reduce debt aggressively. Each month I also pay back student loans, and whenever I have extra money at the end of the month, I put it towards the loan (but if it has high interest rate, put more money to pay  it back than towards your savings. Mine was interest free for 6 months). I always, always pay off credit card bills each month. One thing I do is that I don't use automatic payments (this may not be good for everyone), so that I can keep the cash for as long as possible to accumulate interest, and once the interest is paid at the end of the month that is when I pay the credit card. I changed the timing of my credit card payment to be a few days after the end of the month for this purpose. This may seem a bit excessive but a few bucks was a few bucks for me. 4. Start your retirement fund immediately. The younger you start, the faster it will accumulate due to compound interest and tax savings. Depending on where you are (I am in Canada), this money may be used as part of your first down payment without penalty. 5. Monitor your money closely. Back when interest rates are good, I would move money between banks to take advantage of the offerings of competing banks, this can mean interest rates, GICs or other investment opportunities.  If one bank has higher rates, I move my money there.  6. Research investment opportunities, diversify your investments into different institutions and low/med/high risk products, because investments can be risky and you don't want to lose everything. Build up 6 months of emergency cash funds before you start investing in riskier products. Pick ones that don't require a lot of management fees. 7. Work really hard and build up your reputation in your career so you can increase your salary quickly and NEGOTIATE. I started out with a low salary but improved it by 50% in 2 years. Partly it is because I worked in a small company and they will give you a raise if you earned it, and partly because I then used that experience to find a better-paying job else where. Don't be afraid to ask what you think your work is worth. I didn't negotiate much when I was younger, but I think I should have.    Embed Quote