★Is it physically possible to walk uphill to school both ways, using the same route?Apart from having a hill in between your house and the school and forgetting to mention that.
I was going to suggest the theoretical scenario that Michael Wolfe actually gave a physical example of! And then I realized that my own school probably qualified as an example, too. It was built on a hill (well, a series of hills, really, having quite extensive grounds), with different buildings at different elevations. If I entered the school at the highest building, Upper School, and left it via the lowest building, Lower School (I guess the names were quite appropriate, though they actually related to the age seniority of the student forms based in each - 1st-3rd years in Lower, 4th & 5th years in Upper), then it is probably true that I would be walking uphill both on the way to school and on the way home. Of course, I wouldn't be using exactly the same route for both journeys, so this is not really an example of the scenario posed by the question. But in the general theoretical scenario with two geographical points A and B (rather than more extended regions, like my school, that can vary in elevation), it is not possible for the routes A->B and B->A to both be 'uphill', because this is both logicallly and physically absurd. It is logically absurd because this would imply that if I picked an arbitrary reference point C, of a known fixed elevation, then simply by walking back and forth between A and B I could theoretically attain any height whatsoever above this reference point, which is clearly nonsensical. In addition, if I am walking 'uphill' when going forwards, then I should, logically, be able to walk 'downhill' by walking backwards, if these terms are to have their usual meanings. But in this imaginary scenario, I would be walking 'uphill' in both directions, which can only be true if I am momentarily at a point that is a local minimum of elevation on the route. For this always to be true, anywhere on the route, every point would need to be a local minimum. If we define the term 'local minimum' to mean 'no neighbouring point is lower', then this can only be true in the mathematically trivial case in which the route has constant elevation - which contradicts the assertion that it is 'uphill', so again we have a logical absurdity. And if we define 'local minimum' to mean 'every neighbouring point is higher', then even this trivial case is ruled out. The scenario is also physically absurd because when we talk about 'uphill' and 'downhill' we are making an implicit statement about gravitational potential energy; it increases as we go 'uphill' and decreases as we go 'downhill'. Now, most people (with the exception of skydivers, downhill skiers and so on) are not normally aware of their gravitational potential energy, so you might think that it would not matter to me personally that mine was constantly increasing as I walked back and forth betwqeen A and B. But if I am always walking 'uphill', I have to exert myself and do work in order to increase my gravitational potential energy. So I should be getting quite tired, merely walking back and forth between those two points. And if I know anything about gravity, I will realize that this makes no sense, because gravity is a conservative force [1], which means that the total work done by the force on a particle (or person) that travels around a closed path is zero.  The route A->B->A can be regarded as a closed path, and so I should not be doing any net work in walking around it. So if I am getting strangely tired, I must conclude that either I am not walking around a closed path, and am never returning to the same points twice, even though they look identical on each visit, or there is something seriously wrong with gravity in my vicinity! The only other possibility is that I am actually walking up a vertical helical path, with multiple identical copies of the routes A->B abd B->A, where all points on the route segment A->B are repeated, in reverse order, in the next segment of the helix, and then reversed again, and so on. But my knowledge of the topography of the Earth, combined with external reference points, would presumably rule this out. Of course, what I would actually observe is that my energy expenditure, in terms of calories burned and muscle fatigue, is no more than I would expect if the path A->B->A were actually closed, and my gravitational poterntial energy were therefore not constantly increasing. I would therefore conclude that the paths A->B and B->A cannot both be 'uphill'. :o) [1] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Con... Addendum: HAHAHA! I've cracked it! A person can walk 'uphill' both to and from school, even if their home and their school are on the same level, if their home and their school are connected by a tightrope or slackwire. Whether they are walking forwards or backwards, they are always walking 'uphill'. Guaranteed local minimum elevation everywhere (even if it's dynamic and not static)! Theoretically, you could adjust the elasticity and tension of the rope/wire so that this would always be the case, regardless of the actual elevations of the endpoints.. Of course, it might not always be possible to physically reach either of the endpoints due to the steepness of the rope/wire :o)    Embed Quote