★What cross-country route is the longest road trip in the world?
From Magadan, Russia to Cape Point, South Africa. Longest Roadtrip on Google Maps This 24,000+ km journey is very difficult from a political and safety point of view. But possible. Certainly there are better nationalities to try this, such as Japanese, South African, Indian, to ease travel through the Middle East and parts of Africa. Caveat: While it is possible to drive the entire route on the ground, it comes down to illegal border crossing or off-road desert travel in the Sahara to actually do this. It is recommended, while the border between Egypt and Sudan remains closed to ground traffic, to use the ferry between the two countries instead of figuring out how to drive across. Unless Darfur is really high on your go-to places. You will NEED to start up north if you plan to go through Iran. You won't be able to enter Iran if you go through Israel first. But if you pass through Syria, you will be able to start at Cape Point and work your way north. Probably. You should take this as a long, but incompletely researched itinerary through Asia, the Middle East and Africa. Far East Russia Starting in late October for the first leg might be best, as the roads in Siberia can be impassible in the summer. Flying/shipping to Magadan (on Wikitravel) would be the first step. There is a seasonal road (winter only) from the port of Magadan, Russia that goes west to Yakutsk. Kolyma Highway - Wikitravel. A very dangerous route where caravan travel is the only way to insure you don't die alongside a frozen road if you break down. From Magadan you can travel eastward, but only to local communities. -  2025km (about 4 days). Ewan McGregor and Charley Boorman rode part of this stretch on motorcycles as part of their documentary series Long Way Round, in which they drove around the world. (Magadan was their easternmost point in Russia. From there they took a flight to Alaska.) You can follow the M56 from Yakutsk south to Never and then west to Chita, this last stretch more or less along the Transiberian Railroad line. Be aware that in 2006 this road had the distinction of being called "the world road in the world" because if its state of disrepair. -  total 2085 km Your real crisis from here is the Zilov Gap. It is an essentially roadless region in Central Siberia. Most travel avoids it by using the Transiberian Railroad, which is the route that the Long Way Round used. Another endurance motorcycle trip, Mondo Enduro got bogged down trying to cross it and eventually gave up and took the train. It was later successfully crossed in 2001 by Terra Circa. You'll be most worried about the section between Never, where the M56 starts, and Chernyshevsk, from what I am reading. However, the roads into the region have been extended since then, so this may be navigable now. From Chita, you drive southwest to Mongolia. I don't know the best place to cross from Russia to Mongolia, but it seems that the border towns of Kyakhta and Altanbulag might be a good place (727km from Chita.) The Long Way Round team crossed there. [Total so far: 4,735km] Mongolia A detour all the way south to the capital Ulaanbaatar (on Wikitravel) (351km) might be in order to take the best roads west toward Kazakhstan. As the national capitol, it is really the starting point of travel in the country. You would be traveling west toward Mörön (on Wikitravel)  and then reaching the border with Russia again near Tsagaannuur, 1,567km from Ulaanbaatar. [Total so far: 1,918km + 4,735km] Kazakhstan You will actually need to travel another leg through Russia to get to Kazakhstan. From Mongolia to Kulunda, Russia is 1.095km. From there you have 571km to the capital of Kazakhstan, Astana (on Wikitravel). From here your course will diverge based on which countries you want to travel through later. You can go west around the north end of the Caspian sea and then south toward Georgi... (more)Loading...