★What is the best route (or tips) for a 25 year old who is focused on becoming financially free?
Measure twice, cut once. You need to develop and refine your financial skills now so when in the future when you possess substantial wealth you manage it efficiently. Practice makes perfect. In addition to the other answers keep these thoughts in mind. Carefully choose your own investment model, never change it, never panic.  Everyone has a different personal risk tolerance, honor and observe yours.  Everyone that sold in early 2009 was a fool or a poor planner.  Never be forced to sell.  Have a large multi month cash reserve. "The market can remain irrational longer than you can remain solvent" keynes Live as modestly as possible especially early on.  Categorize needs vs wants, do not confuse them.  Prioritize spending.  Debt and interest payments are bad with the possible exception of mortgage debt to eliminate rent. Compound your wealth, that is the basis of investing. Take managed investment risks such as large scale broadly diversified stock index funds with low annual fees.  The risky investment is cash savings such a deposit accounts and CDs.  Inflation makes these instruments certain losers.  Ditto for ultra risky sick options, individual stocks and day trading.  There is no real viable get rich quick scheme. Use tax efficient investments, retirement plans, iras, 401ks, index mutual funds, etc ... Follow people like warren buffet, jack bogle, ben graham, etc ...   For myself I like to keep it simple and efficient.   For instance Ben Graham famously posited that the ideal investment model was 50% stocks and 50% bonds.  He realized that a stock heavy portfolio would do better in bull markets and worse in bear markets.  If you could adjust the mix at the correct times you could increase returns.  He also posited that no one could predict bull or bear markets because all market participants lack sufficient information to do so successfully. Graham like myself believed that timing markets is an exercise in futility.  Some people get lucky with respect to timing markets and others do not but it has nothing to with skill in the end.   One's investment model can be fixed in the sense that the asset allocation with respect to stocks / bonds / cash slowly and gradually changes as one grows older.  Typically stock allocation declines monotonically over time with a corresponding increase in bond allocation.   Make no sudden moves and no one gets hurt.    Embed Quote