★What was your route to becoming a Product Manager, and how do you think it helped you to become a better PM as opposed to other routes?
I will add my story: Starts a while back since I believe my upbringing has a lot to do with this topic. I was born and raised in Mexico and like most people there I have a big family. I grew up around tens of cousins, aunts and uncles on both sides of the family. Given you were around people all the time you were forced to be a social person; there was no going to a room to play with a computer by yourself, you had to be around people. This fact meant you were constantly talking and negotiating/influencing people to get what you wanted (what game to play, what  food to eat, what movie to watch, how to get the last popcorn, etc). Thanks to this experience you became a social person (I never met introverted, quiet guys that did not talk to anybody and prefer to chat through a computer until I came to Silicon Valley) and guess what? Social skills, being able to influence people and able to speak in their own language is extremely critical to be a successful product manager. Of course, at the time I did not know this was a good thing to have for my career. It just came as part of growing up in Mexico. I got an Apple IIe in high school and loved it but I never spent crazy hours on it, (there were all the cousins and friends to hang out with, remember?). I liked the experience so I was already partial to computers. When time came to select a major in college I selected Computer Science based on the Apple IIe experience and the fact all the other engineering majors looked BORING!!  I had a great time in college, anything from doing your compiler to using databases to programming in whatever and, at the same time, had great training in the obscure arts of programming weeks and weeks with minimal or no sleep. The thrill you get from seeing your code work was great but even then I knew I did not want to code for the rest of my life. After college I worked for a year at Oracle as a consultant/SE and saw that was not my gig, I'd rather be creating the software instead of just installing it. I decided to come to the US for a MS in CS to get some depth and to have a fall back plan. The BS in CS gives you a taste of everything (programming, networking, OS, algorithms, etc) but nothing in depth. The MS in CS was to get some depth in a one or two areas. At that time I figured I could try 'other stuff' but could always go back to coding if everything failed. After that I decided to go for an MBA with the idea it was going to give me the base and inspiration to discover all the 'other stuff' I wanted to do. In the MBA I still did not know about Product Management and was just taking a bunch of different classes when, finally, in my third semester I had a 'Brand Management/Product Management' class. That's when I discovered and fell in love with Product Management. I loved the whole class, the process of designing the product, rolling it out, selling it, etc. You could say I found my passion. Once that happened, a Silicon Valley company came to interview on campus, they offered me a job, in that job I met a few people who lead to another Product job and here we are, 12 years doing Product Management. I have to say it still feels like the best job in the world. Now, to answer the last part of the question: I think this route was perfect for Product Management, it gave me: People Skills: Growing up in Mexico gave me the ability to meet, talk, relate and influence people. To my surprise, I found out that a lot of people here in Silicon Valley lack that skill; in Mexico everybody has it, I would imagine it would be the same for someone from say, India or anywhere else where family plays a strong role. I would rate the people part as the most important skill a PM can have. If you cannot influence people then you will not be successful as a Product guy. Technology Foundation: The CS  degrees helped immensely with many things. Some of them are: understanding how something is built, to know what an engineer is going through when you ask for a feature, to understand explanations on why something is going to take a long time, to do some QA testing, play SE if needed and, in general, get dirty if there is need. Business Grounding: the MBA, to simplify it greatly, allows you to see things from another point view and lets you understand why the business side works the way it is. That way you can translate for your engineering buddies what happens on the business side. It also gives you, among other things, the tools to  take concepts and turn them into products. I think having the 3 aspects above are essential for any Product Manager; you can learn some (i.e. technology or business) but one (people skills) is very hard to learn, it has to come naturally. I would imagine if I was an introvert or not a people person I might be able to be a successful PM but having the people skills make it so much easier.    Embed Quote