★Rock Climbing: What is it like to free solo a route?I'm curious about the motivation, thoughts, fears, emotions, focus etc. involved.
I've not done anything on rock harder than middling 5, but have been runout all or most of a pitch on stuff up to 5.8 (mostly by accident).   Ice/alpine climbing you never get more than a few screws in (sometimes 1,2,3) because they're time consuming to place, so it's pretty similar except that you're twacking in a couple of aid placements (the axes) every step. I think John Bachar said it's like being the quarterback in the last 30 seconds of the superbowl.  Not sure if this counts, but we had the last pitch of Pinnacle gully in New England to climb.  Nice balmy day at 15F (unlike the -10F and 100++mph when we did it the previous month), but sun had just set, and the wind is now hitting 80 gusting 100.  We bust out the headlamps. Last pitch is a 45 slab, with maybe some bulges a little steeper.   An easy pitch out.     On a good day, one might just unrope and climb off.  Here is a picture from someone else at the top with the ice all nice and icey. http://neice.com/2010/12/winter-... Only problem, the ice is all honeycombed and shattering unless you tiptoe on it.   2 attempts to place a screw ended with comical results.   Plus there is a stream of water running a foot back behind it and several inches of loose snow and slush plastered on the top of it and the rock off to the side.   I don't know how it could be so frigging cold and yet there is liquid water running back there. Hindsight would have said to do a few single rope raps off of good screws and be done with it, but Hindsight wasn't climbing with us that day and Hindsight wasn't paying for my ice screws. Our 1st gen "dry" rope was frozen stiff to the point that rapping probably wouldn't have been too much fun anyway About the time I get out a little from the belay, I realize that ice screws and rock protection and all those pretty pictures of natural anchors and rock horns and slinging ice pillars in the books aren't going to work at all and things just got really serious.   You're all of a sudden doing something that you didn't practice or prepare for, and a WI1 pitch just got far harder than that WI4 lead you were patting yourself on the back for last week. At this point, everything gets very focused and quiet.  My memory of it is serene despite the violent wind.   Time really does seem to crawl.   You tend to notice little things like your breathing, or a funny icicle but you're analyzing events and actions in a very disconnected, objective manner. There is a bubble of vision of the 10' around me that form a sort of immediate awareness zone.   You're scared ****less, but you consciously dial back the panic mode because you know it's not going to help. I get to the end of the rope, a full 180' out and haven't gotten anything in, AND now have no real way to belay.   I did manage to smash a hole into the ice enough to wedge my leg back behind into the running water and give my partner a "belay".   (hey, if it was scary to lead, it should be scary to follow).    The descent gully was verglass, so we took an alternate 10 mile walk out that was a whole nuther story.   I found out years later that there were pitons and some fixed junk under all that rime and snow. Of course mountain goats and monkeys do this sort of thing everyday without peeping about it on Quora. BTW, my local gym has failed me on the "lead" test (usually 8-9 bolts in 35 feet) twice.   They think it's unsafe if you don't pull the rope up from the bolt at your chest and clip the bolt up above your head.    Embed Quote