★How do airlines design their routes?Do they just look at their hub-and-spoke model and make changes around the edges or do they think about maximal connectivity of their network?
Airlines long ago deemphasized the development of new markets, focusing on the conquest or domination of existing routes/markets.  The airlines carefully watch the passenger volumes carried by other airlines into/out of cities that are part of their own route system.  Occasionally, an airline will extend an existing 'spoke" to a city that serves significant origin/destination traffic into/out of its network, or somewhat less often, will extend a new 'spoke" from the hub. Hub-and-spoke networks maximize the utility of the airline's enormous capital investment in aircraft and support facilities by offering a central location for them.  Hub-and-spoke networks offer the largest, most economical means of serving the greatest number of origin-destination city pairs, despite the desirability of direct non-stop services to travelers. Most new direct services to new origin-destination city pairs come from airline start-ups, although these airlines also must centralize as much as possible on hubs in order to control costs and maximize their ability to serve more points.  Thus, Jet Blue innovated in the Washington, DC-to-Long Beach, CA market, extending the ends of the route at both ends to serve its traffic from/to Sacramento and Portland in the West and Boston & beyond in the East. A city that wants/needs airline service or service to a new traffic origin/destination must convince the airline to provide the service, either marketing itself  or cooperatively marketing with the desired partner city.  A good example is the years-long effort by the city of Newburgh, New York, its chamber of commerce and its airport staff to attract a trunk carrier to serve the former Air Force base that had been turned over to the city.  The airport's marketing director finally convinced American Airlines to extend a spoke to Stewart Airport to serve the significant passenger traffic volume that had to travel 50 to 80 miles to reach the NY/NJ Port Authority's airports serving greater New York City.  Now, 20 years later, Stewart Airport is served by flights from/to the Atlanta, Philadelphia and Detroit hubs. Airline companies' economic imperatives and operating strategies clearly conflict with the greatest utility for consumers and their communities, which would benefit from the maximum number of flights (with best quality and lowest cost) to the greatest number/variety of other cities for leisure travel and business opportunities.  Only rarely does an airline compromise in favor of the competing needs.    Embed Quote