★What is the best route (or tips) for a 25 year old who is focused on becoming financially free?
The best advice I can give you is to live below your means no matter what it takes.  Whether you own a business or are employed by company, having a clear budget is critical. I recommend saving 30% of your income.  However, every individual is unique as well as their budget. This will allow you to see where your money is going and adjust accordingly within your means. A budget is a basic foundational document that clarifies: where you get your money where you spend your money Do you know where your income is going on a monthly basis? Most know what they make but have no clue where their money is going. If this applies to you then you are in the majority. By the way, you are also most likely in the majority of Americans with no long-term financial plan. Creating a Budget Can Be Simple Use these 4 steps to create a budget which help provide financial clarity and peace of mind: Step 1 - List your sources of net income. Net income is what you make after taxes are taken out and it can be found on your pay stub. This will be called “After Tax Income” on your budget.   Step 2 - List your expenses. Obvious expenses would be rent, mortgage payments, auto insurance, utilities, food and gas. Don’t forget the small expenses most overlook. These can be daily coffee, dry cleaners, highway tolls, lunches out, hair cuts and other miscellaneous expenses. An easy way to find expenses is to simply look at your credit cards and bank account statements. You may also want to use one of the phone apps to help track incidental cash payments or keep an envelope for receipts handy. Step 3 - Make sure you include an emergency cash expense category. This is your emergency fund for unexpected expenses. Step 4 - Take your total income and subtract your total expenses. This will reveal a surplus or deficit income How Do I Track My Budget to Make Sure it is Accurate? You must work with your budget over a period of at least three to six months to ensure accuracy. This will show you on average where your money is really going.  Is There a Way to See if I Am Spending Too Much Without a Budget? If you are looking for a shortcut to measure whether you are spending too much watch your bank account and credit card statements. If your bank account increases over a period of months your budget is most likely in line. Be careful though. If you are not paying off your credit cards every month this information is flawed because you will be accruing expensive debt instead of paying it off.  My suggestion is to create a budget. It is well worth the effort to add this simple document.  The benefits are massive as it provides clarity and a segway into planning prudently for your money.  It can be the foundation to clarify how much you have to invest. I hope this is helpful to you!  Rick Torrington    Embed Quote