★Has anyone done any of the SF2G bicycle routes?http://sf2g.com/ What was it like? What was the speed 'type' and how hard was it for you? How many people did you ride with?
I spent the better part of four years riding regularly with SF2G.  I switched jobs so I don't have to commute in that direction anymore but, I miss all the people that ride with the club.  Rides can be small especially in the winter on foul weather days but, they can be huge too.  Bike to work day had something like 500 people on the ride.  It's not uncommon for there to be 20+ riders on a nice day in the summer. There are several different routes that can vary depending on how the ride is called.  In general this club was one of the best places for me to engage regular cycling.  Of course, I only commuted to San Mateo so I my distance was short enough that I could ride 5 days a week.  Rides can be tough but for the most part they are as advertised by the style guide on the website.  You might get Chang'd so, if you do just make sure you know the route to work. Bayway is the easiest and most common route plus it stays relatively warm in the winter since it is so close to the bay.  This is the best place to start.  Skyline is significantly more difficult but has great views and less traffic in parts.  Plus it avoids east Palo Alto if you commute that far south. Half Moon Bayway is the queen the stage and is both challenging and beautiful.  It's great but, pick a day that you can arrive late at work.  It's probably best in Spring or Fall when you can enjoy clear skys and see the coast.  Also it can be down right frigid riding down Kings Mountain road in winter. Once you join you will get emails from the group and rides are called often.  Pick an easy first ride or join the Friendly Friday Frolic which is the first Friday of every month and is a no drop ride.  If you are fit and cycle a lot it is a great place to train and exercise.  If you are new to cycling as I was it is an excellent place to gain strength, build endurance and meet fantastic people.  I lost 40 lbs during the time I rode with the club.  It was fantastic and now I am a cyclist for life. Some key things about riding with the club.  Be prepared and bring all the equipment you need to get to your destination.  Dress for the weather and temperature.  Make sure your bike is tuned and ready for the trip.  The website is full of great info covering everything you need to know so check it out!  Have fun and be safe.    Embed Quote