★Can Ripple credit routing develop into an actual currency?
It depends on what you mean by 'actual currency'. If you mean "I want to walk into a coffee shop and hand you some XRP [the Ripple currency] to pay for my coffee", then no; BUT If you mean "I want to settle a $500 debt with my friend instantly and for free", then yeah probably. Here's some background to give you a sense of how Ripple could become a major medium of exchange for online transactions: Currency is a language. Think about the exchange of money as a metaphor: When you pay someone in cash, you two are basically agreeing to communicate value using the same language. You can 'talk' to one another in US Dollars, Euros, Yen, Yuan, Zloty, etc. This gets even more complex [1], but for now we'll keep things simple. ("Got a buck?") To extend the metaphor, it's difficult for two people to communicate when they aren't speaking the same language. I speak English and you speak Japanese; I use USD and you use JPY; in other words, we're going to be sitting here for a while until someone helps translate... Bitcoin is easier to understand when you consider it in the context of the Language Metaphor: "Your language sucks. Use mine" -Professor Bitcoin -Prof. Bitcoin:"Hey, you'll never understand each other because someone keeps screwing around with your language. Use my language - lots of stuff about it is great, and it's definitely wayyy better than your crappy language." -Everyone else: "But I don't speak Bitcoin. It seems like nobody speaks Bitcoin..." -Prof. Bitcoin: [interrupting] "Whatever!" (The good Professor; PS Gene Wilder is a legend, a comic nucleus) Sounds a bit like Esperanto doesn't it? Of course it would be great if everyone spoke "the best" language, but it's challenging to get people to switch languages just because you tell them yours is better. So where does Ripple fit into the metaphor? Excellent question! Whereas Bitcoin is basically another language (yes, perhaps its far superior than all others), Ripple provides a common grammar that helps those speaking different languages understand one another. In other words, keep speaking in your preferred language, but consider getting Ripple's help to communicate better with those who don't speak your language. ("Transaction action, what's your traction...") Moreover, Ripple helps provide translators (what are called "market makers"), as well as a common language (the currency XRP) to help when the languages available just aren't good enough to handle the situation. OK so who cares about this weird common currency? Well, think about a situation where you (an individual, merchant, bank, whatever) you want to speak to someone in another language - from English to Swahili - but you can't find an English-Swahili phrasebook to help translate. Instead, you have to find an intermediary language - say French - to help bridge the gap; and even this would require translating from English-to-French and then French-to-Swahili, and then the reverse... What a waste of time! (A: "Bonjour". B: "Huh?") Instead, it's easier to establish a commonly-understood language (XRP) to help intermediate any two languages. In fact, you might find that it's simply easier to rely on this language all together for types of conversations that you have over and over and over. In the context of financial institutions, this is really really important if you need to transact with other institutions in other countries dealing with other currencies and rules of exchange. In short, Ripple helps to bridge these differences. Voulez-vous traiter avec XRP, ce soir? Perhaps the world would be a better place were everyone to drop their Dollars, Rand, Kroner, etc. and start using Bitcoin. But this seems like a big leap. What seems more realistic is that people keep speak their own language, but recognize there's a better way to communicate with others. Quien sabe? Je ne sais pas. [1] Even within the same language, you find separate dialects. This is the case when financial institutions are using the same currency, but different methods to communicate, e.g. notice how wiring money from your Wells Fargo account to your friend's Bank of America account takes three days to complete?    Embed Quote