★Can Ripple credit routing develop into an actual currency?
I would tentatively answer that question with YES. Ripple is an internet protocol actively under development. The idea is that IOUs, or our trust in people we know, can actually serve as a means of exchange. The protocol, as it is being developed, puts emphasis on finding a trust route from one person making a payment to another accepting the payment, where the intermediaries are a chain of friends of friends. As far as I understood the original concept of Ripple, the idea was that of using IOUs, with Ripple finding a path between two terminals who do not know or trust each other. Each one of them trusts one or more friends, but they have no direct contact. The payment routes an IOU all the way through to destination. Now how could this system function as a currency? Imagine every participant in Ripple issuing a small or large, but permanent, IOU (a "Trust limit") to each one of their friends who are also on the network. That willingness to trust a friend (and to bail her out if ever necessary) actually creates "liquidity". It creates amounts of trust or credit that are sitting around unused in the system. Participants can now use trust (credit) they have obtained from their friends and "spend" it. They can also receive other people's trust (credit) in payment. All that happened is that some trust got moved around, in exchange for goods or services. And that is what a currency does. As long as there are enough people (and businesses) participating, and as long as each participant creates liquidity in the system by specifying whom they trust, and to what degree, a network can form, inside of which exchange can be mediated by the simple expedient of moving trust or credit from one person to another. Here is an introductory text ( from the Ripple site at http://ripple-project.org/ ) that explains in more detail: Money as we know it is made from promises, specifically bank promises, in the form of bank account balances. Ripple's goal is to make your promises as useful for paying people as bank promises are. To start with, let's look at what happens if you tried to use your own promise as money. Suppose you went to the store and tried to pay with an IOU. This might work, except for two things:  1. the store owner may not know you are trustworthy  2. even if the owner trusts you, many others don't, so she can't use your IOU to buy things Ripple solves the first problem by finding one or more people who can exchange your IOU for one issued by someone the store owner trusts. For example, if the store owner trusts your friend Alice, and Alice trusts you, you can give your IOU to Alice, and Alice can give her IOU to the owner. This can all happen instantly over the internet. The cool thing now is that the store owner can actually use Alice's IOU to buy things, because Ripple can convert it into IOUs that are useful for paying other people. That solves the second problem. All Ripple needs to work is for people in your community to sign up for the Ripplepay system and let the system know who they trust and how much they trust them to be able to repay. You can also sign up and use other Ripple sites.    Embed Quote