★What are the best cycling routes in Tokyo?
A lot of variables involved (type of cycling, target distance, time of day, etc.) Any time of day, for cycling in a more serious (fast/training) mode, I'd suggest starting near Tsukiji and going along Harumi dori towards Ariake/Odaiba. If you go right at 484 (near Shin-Toyosu) you can cruise along the new bike paths as you head to the far side of Ariake and then do a loop around Odaiba and back. If you want a few extra kms, you can zip down the container/port roads over on the Aomi side of Odaiba. If you want to do something a bit longer, go east from Ariake over through Shin-Kiba towards Kasairinkaikoen, but zip up the bike path on the Arakawa river just before reaching the park and then loop back. If the idea of the nasty bumpy bridge over to Kasai JCT is not so appealing, you can zip down to Wakasu koen, to the foot of the Gate Bridge and back. If it's early morning on a weekend (before 8:00 AM), a loop through the city is fabulous - I'm over near Tsukiji, so I occasionally do Ginza-the Imperial Palace-Yotsuya-Shinjuku and back or Ginza-Tokyo-Kanda-Akihabara-Ueno and back. Again, these types of city loop rides need to be done early morning or else they're rather unpleasant. If you're over on the west side (I used to live in Nakano), from Shinjuku out to Zenpukuji Koen is a nice ride. If it's early, you can do the bulk of it along Ome-kaido, but, if it's later or you want a more leisurely ride, you can also navigate your way along the Zenpukujigawa cycling route (which, be forewarned, has lots of twists and turns and can be easy to get lost on at times). I'm not sure the above answers the questioner's question. If it's just sort of shorter, leisure cycling rides, you're interested in, I'd say just get on your bike and go. Exploring the small streets and local areas of Tokyo via bicycle is always a great way to spend a few hours. The big parks (Ueno and Yoyogi) are, of course, also nice for easy leisurely rides. I've cycled most of the city on either a proper road bike or a "mamachari" for many years, so let me know if there's a specific type of answer you're interested in.    Embed Quote