★What is the easiest/cheapest route to break into banking?
I am surprised I was asked to answer because I have never worked in banking and I don't have current practical knowledge in how to get into the field. I also don't know much about modern program languages and why the average bank would tend to need people with one specific background or another unless they are all using the same software. I suspect, depending on bank size, that there are three most common packages or ERP systems that include great security and encryption for their online customer interface. You might want to learn something about security in general. But first, ask yourself if you really want to be in banking based on salary levels. Like most fields, you pay your dues for a while. It is a highly regulated industry, therefore, I would guess that those that make it to the top start in operations or accounting and then buy stock. Not easy to get to the executive corner that way in under 20 years. If you do decide to go into operations, you could work part time as a teller. The PT teller position is one of the highest turnover positions in the entire world, as banking has no profit margin to speak of since 2008 and they need to keep costs down. If you already have a Finance degree, an intern position seems reasonable, and your college should have some pull there. If not, go visit the bank you want, preferably where you have an account. If not, open one there. Small and regional banks should have reasonable access, but it helps to know someone. I don't know, but I suspect that banks have something like a compliance department, or, an internal audit unit, someone who knows all the regulations, and documents how systems work, trains the external auditors, both FDIC bank examiners and their independent public accounting firm, on how their internal processes work. That might be a good place to learn about and potentially a department to work in the short or medium term. Banks value relationships. If you are a people person that helps. If you are not, reconsider your career, or develop skills via reading Dale Carnegie, joining Toastmasters, get involved with Rotary, or some social service club as it builds your networking skills and shows community involvement to your future employer. The reason banks value relationships is because they don't want client turnover, therefore you have to schmooze them to keep them plus it is the only sure fire way to keep on top of your biggest customer's real business value, because quarterly financials don't tell about risks and opportunities and when a customer needs an increase in their Line of Credit, you want to be able to explain to the committee what is really going on, and to answer questions sometimes stirred by community rumor mill. And, it shows you may have potential to be on a nonprofit board, a desirable thing in the eyes of bank management and possibly even serve on a corporate board in the long-term. You need to relate well to people of all backgrounds because, and memorize this, banks don't make loans to companies; they make loans to people (at companies). Character is still the number one component, not credit worthiness based on ratios. The profitable way to get into banking is in the Loan department. I know a regional President fairly well, but with 30 plus years experience, he doesn't make much more than I do. I saw one of his coworkers' income in the local business journal, a 40 year old, and he made three times as much. He was the head of the loan group. Do you want a successful interview. Learn to talk like a banker. Read what bankers read. Go to the library and read some current banking magazines so you know what they think about, what hardware they buy, what companies they buy from, what software they buy, what was the hot topic a year ago, what are the new schools of thought about the field, (ie do all banks with less than $xxx billion in assets have to merge or be bought up in order to survive, or whatever they are writing about this month, and, why would that be? What are the exceptions? Is there a business model that would change the dynamics?). Learn to read a bank financial statement. Get a full version in an annual report and learn why the Notes to the Statements have the schedules that they have. Memorize the structure, ask yourself questions, come up with the answers. Can't do it? Find an auditor friend that can tell you, preferably one that works for PeatMarwick or a local CPA firm that specializes in banking clients. Know something about CFDIs and credit unions. Learn something about TIFs and NMTCs and Development organizations that do tax exempt bond financings. The above may seem like a lot of work but the person getting hired that gets promoted will definitely do this. And when you talk to that CPA about banking, find out what local VAR or consultant helped local banks implement new software. Consider getting hired by that firm, at least interview with them so that you can pick their brain.    Embed Quote