★How is Digital Ocean providing free bandwidth?I came across Digital Ocean's (Simple Cloud Hosting) offering of Free Bandwidth. Will they be able to provide it in long term, and won't it prove to be bottlenecks as number of users increases.
The story behind free bandwidth at DigitalOcean is rather simple. When we first started developing our cloud we got to piece that would do bandwidth accounting but it began to take up more development time than we would have liked. Given that we had much larger features to tackle that were the core of our service we decided to launch with unlimited bandwidth because the majority of customers do not use a significant amount (1TB+) and it would make our lives easier. One of the issues is of course that unlimited bandwidth web hosting companies have a very negative reputation in the space and rightfully so because it's impossible to provide truly free bandwidth to everyone without any limitations. In our case we did it simply as a development decision and figured as we would get traction we would introduce simple bandwidth pricing that would be in line with our pricing on virtual servers. When we hit that growth a bit earlier than expected we updated our plans to reflect this and grandfathered our early adopter customers into free bandwidth plans. We often launch new features sooner rather than later in beta mode where we do not charge for them so we can collect analytics on usage and improve the feature and then eventually switch it over to a paid service which stays in line with our pricing model. This allows us to develop new features quickly where our customers can provide us invaluable feedback not only in uncovering bugs but also in giving us feature requests on how a particular item should function, and then we switch it out of labs into 1.0 status. In some cases services that we launch remain free, such as DNS management, in other cases where there are scale costs associated (more users = more infrastructure = more cost) we have to offset that by charging our customers to ensure that we can continue to provide a reliable level of service on that feature.