★Why did Enron's bandwidth trading business fail?
At the guy who originated the whole "bandwidth trading" thing, I think I have a handle on that, which can be summed up in one word: HUBRIS I'll get to the "what happened" part in a minute, but for people that don't know, first a primer, and then some backstory A Word on Commodities Trading commodities is a complicated business. The key takeaways here are some terms that I'll use later: commodity, naturally long, naturally short, future, option, and delivery point. A commodity is something that a good for which there is demand but which is supplied without qualitative differences across the market. It is essentially fungible, and who produced it is not discernible nor important. Commodity markets exist to resolve economic pain between parties who have divergent but linked interests. On the one side, you have a naturally long position - that is, you own a lot of the commodity and will benefit if the price goes up. On the other side, you have a naturally short position - that is, you consume a lot of the commodity and will benefit if the price goes down. Futures and options have existed since the 1800s to allow the parties to hedge their positions. If you've got 10,000 tons of corn that cost you $3 per ton, and you want to make sure that you make your money back on it, if you can sell a future contract to deliver 5,000 tons at $6 per ton to someone, you can be sure that you at least won't lose money on the corn. You'll make more money on the remaining 5,000 tons if the price goes up; you at least won't lose money if it goes down. Futures contracts say that you'll deliver a certain quantity at a certain price at a date in the future. There is typically a "delivery point' and the buyer and seller are each responsible for paying for shipping to and from that point. Thus, when trading futures, you don't have to worry about factoring costs of transport and storage into the price, it's just the price of the commodity. Options on futures work like options on stocks. On the buy side, it's the right, but not obligation, to buy at a certain price on a certain date. If you think the prices are going up, and you want to lock in a price at a point in time, you can buy the right to do so for an option premium. If the price actually goes down, you can just buy on the on the spot market and let the option expire; if the price goes up, you win! On the sell side, it's the obligation to sell at a price but no guarantee that the buyer will actually take. If you hope to lock in some volume of your salable commodity at a price, you can sell options. If the price drops below your strike price, you have at least made the option premium as well as whatever market price is; if the price rises, you left money on the table but you reduced the risk that you wouldn't make anything. Original Vision Back in the early 90s, I was running a company called NetSmiths which was a joint venture between the IBM Thomas J. Watson Research Center and Unipress Software to market the DRAGONS subscribe/publish framework. In my tour there, I ran across Agorics, Inc., a firm in Los Altos that was working to promote frameworks for agoric systems. I liked it immediately and saw how you could use it to solve a plethora of network management and bandwidth allocation problems. While it wasn't front and center, it constantly percolated on the back burner. While building out massive fiber networks at Metropolitan Fiber Systems and Level 3 Communications and Genuity, I pondered the long term economics: you spend billions of dollars today to build a network to provide a service that will decline in price and that would have been cheaper to provide if you'd bought the hardware at some future point due to Moore's law... how does this make any sense whatsoever? And then it hit me, that this was a classic commodity market problem, and I saw a way to do something with it. On... (more)Loading...