★What is bandwidth?I don't understand the way signal is transmitted on a wire or a transmission line. How is it related to the frequency of the signal?  What limits the bandwidth? I am real confused. What kind of physic lectures do I miss？
There was a famous professor who accompanied Napoleon in 1798 on his Egypt expedition. And afterwards Napoleon posted him to the position of Prefect at Ecole Polytechnique. At the beginning of 19th century, he was studying heat propagation. His name was Joseph Fourier and today this name conjures up images of difficult classes in advanced engineering.  Fourier was the one who came up with a principle that in mathematics, any function of a variable, continuous or discontinuous, can be expressed as a summation of [math]\sine[/math] series.  You do not have to go to Engineering school to understand this because I am going to explain it to you now. Ever heard of terms like "top view", "side view" in your Architecture 101 class? In case you haven't, it means looking at the same object from different angles. Because if you want to convey all information about a 3D object in your 2D paper by drawing it, you should draw it from more than one angle. Signals are like that. Based on Fourier's work, over past 2 centuries, we have built lot of mathematical tools (and some college courses) that shows you how you can view the mathematical representation of a signal, from different points of "views". Just like your Architecture 101. So, what is a signal? For now, let's just assume, it's a fluctuation in some electric voltage levels and it can be transmitted over long distance. A signal is not always simple, cute-looking, non-menacing sinusoid like the one below this: Because signals can be as non-uniform, weirdly-shaped, spiky as this, occurring in nature. See? Now, remember that cool dude named Fourier? Here's what his formula entails -- all the above signals, and any other signal you can find or draw - can be expressed as addition of some simple signals, like the first image. Yes! Sounds too simple too believe at first. But you take enough sinusoid signals, slide them over one another, flatten or tighten them, tweak some amplitude - and impose over one another (mathematically, add the sinusoid signals). And you can get any signal on earth mathematically possible, no matter how complicated. Of course, their phase would differ (remember I talked about sliding one signal over another?). In the above figure, is the phase difference. And frequency too (flattening or tightening, but it would still be a simple, curvy, smooth sinusoid. I generated the above image using sin theta vs sin (2*theta). The purple signal has twice the frequency (it repeats the same value twice as fast) of the blue signal. Now, take an example. Say, you want to decompose square-shaped wave Notice how sinusoid signals of various frequencies and amplitude (height of the signal - not all of them are of same height.) The mathematical computation process that is used to break down any complicated-looking spiky signals to fundamental signals, is called Fourier transform. You don't need to know how that actually works - all that integral calculus (Learned this for 4 semesters in college), but just know that this works for any real signal. Now, real signals are far more complicated and random than a square signal. Hence, the sinusoid signals that make up those, are going to be of varied frequencies. In fact, the frequency values are continuous. It's more like a range of frequency. Before I proceed further, let me bring up that Architecture 101 stuff again. Just because you are breaking a signal to its fundamental components using Fourier Transform technique, does not mean you are getting more information from it. It's like your viewpoint has changed, and now you are viewing the signal focusing on different information first. The frequency information. And here comes the idea of Bandwidth: Bandwidth is the difference between the upper and lower frequencies in a continuous set of frequencies. It is typically measured in hertz, and may sometimes refer to pa... (more)Loading...