★What determines the bandwidth of optical fiber versus copper wire?
I like Jacob VanWagoner's answer but I feel that he didn't convey the really basic reason why a single optical fiber can transport 100,000 times more information than a copper cable. You see, the word bandwidth has two definitions, and they're closely related. In computing and digital electronics, bandwidth means how much information can be transported over a channel, usually measured in bits per second. In analog electronics, a band is a range of frequencies, and the bandwidth is the highest frequency minus the lowest frequency in the band, usually measured in Hertz. For example, the band of frequencies from 100 Hz to 130 Hz has a bandwidth of 30 Hz. These two concepts share the same word because are very closely related. If you have a band of frequencies with bandwidth of 500 Hz, and you use those frequencies to carry digital data, the maximum amount of data you can transport is about 500 bits per second. (Well, it might be 1000 bps, or it might be 250 bps ... it depends on details like how the data is encoded, how much noise and loss and dispersion there is, etc. etc. But for very very rough understanding, this is a good starting point. To learn more, look up "Sideband" and "Spectral efficiency".) Now, when you send information down a copper cable, the frequencies that travel well (not too much loss) go from DC (0 frequency) to maybe 1 GHz. That's a bandwidth of 1 GHz. When you send information down a fiber-optic, the frequencies that travel well (not too much loss) go from maybe 175 THz to 250 THz. That's a bandwidth of 75 THz = 75,000 GHz. Not coincidentally, a fiber can carry about 100,000 times more information than a copper cable. [If you are a telecommunications expert, there is a lot more that can be said. This is just the big picture as I see it. In particular, the number 100,000 is very approximate, and keeps changing up and down as technology progresses for both fiber-optics and cable.] TL;DR -- Fiber optics transport infrared light, copper cables transport microwaves. Both infrared light and microwaves are electromagnetic waves, but infrared light has much much higher frequency. That's why fiber optics can carry much much more information.