★What is the real cost of Bandwidth to Cloud hosting providers?What are the facts and your experience says about the real cost of Bandwidth and their High prices from Big Cloud Hosting Providers like Amazon, Rackspace....etc, Reference Link: CLOUD BANDWIDTH: THE BIG RIP-OFF?
Bandwidth is expensive, even at scale. Maybe PARTICULARLY at scale. I built the first purely commercial T3 "backbone" network for MFS Datanet, the first network at Genuity, the Enron Broadband network and data centers, and have contributed to various other projects over time. There are three components, the bandwidth INSIDE the hosting center, and the bandwidth INTO the hosting center, and then TRANSIT to "the Internet". Inside the Datacenter Design has changed radically over the years, but you have top-of-rack devices that interconnect all the servers in the rack, and then you have bigger switch fabrics that interconnect all of those devices, so that basically, any physical server anywhere in the facility can connect to any other physical server in the facility at wire-speed. Pretty much everyone uses 10 Gb Ethernet for that, with two network interface card per server for redundancy. So, think about the hardware involved. Let's say you have 12,000 sq feet, let's say that of that 50% is "usable" (i.e. not filled with power, backup, HVAC, spare parts closets, restrooms, walkways, etc). A "standard rack" takes up about 6 square feet.  That means you could put in 1,000 racks. A 6 foot rack is 72U high. Allow for power distribution and top-of-rack switch, and you can get call it 60U of usable space. So, that's 600Gb/s of bandwidth right there, per rack, times 1000, making it 600 Tb/s total bandwidth in the datacenter. Think it might be expensive to have a backplane that would let you connect 60,000 servers at 10 Gb/s, redundantly?? Yeah. It would. Your cost may vary. Clearly companies that do this in vast volume (Google, Facebook, Rackspace, Apple, etc) get better prices than companies that do this on a smaller scale (BlueHost, etc). But it's going to be SERIOUSLY expensive. And we haven't even gotten to the TCP/IP routing yet, we're just talking about Ethernet level connectivity. Next step up is to make some portion of that bandwidth routable, which means giant IP routers. In theory, you could have traffic from all 60,000 servers accessing the Internet at the same time. In practice, that's actually fairly likely, though not at "full throttle." So now you need routers that will take that kind of load, as well and handling interconnect to the multiple different IP service providers that you'll be using to provide transit (as well as any connections to your other data centers, if you have any). That's going to get expensive, fast, too. And we still haven't left the building. Getting INTO the Datacenter OK, how you have all your ducks in a row inside, how about getting "to the Internet?" To paraphrase Neo "We're going to need fiber. Lots of fiber". And that's a tough proposition right now. The dark fiber market is pretty much dead. Level 3 sold a lot of IRUs on fiber to companies that didn't make it, and they re-bought those for pennies on the dollar out of bankruptcy (or in some cases to prevent bankruptcy). There are very few "national broadband fiber networks" these days. You can't get fiber, but you can ge a 10G "wave" (unprotected optical path) from LA to Ashburn for about $5k/month right now, in the middle market. At Google-size volume that goes down to about $2k or so. Prices to less traveled paths are higher - Houston to Miami is likely to be more like $7k, for instance. And the market is all over the place, with near daily price changes as carriers offer promotions to try to fill in the gaps as they are forced to deploy new line cards for the first circuit on a path, and need to get to "enough" to justify the capital expense of having done so, and price increases on high-demand heavily travelled paths that are essentially out of capacity until an upgrade happens. But that's just a PATH. It's not "transit". And that's from established "points of presence" to other "established points of presence" - if you are in a building that's off the beaten path, then you will likely need to have a fiber build-out to get your building "on-net" -- which can cost as much as $250k per block to do. And you'd need the optical equipment to light that, and interconnect it with other carriers, and rack space in their operating centers to host that equipment, and guys to run it. "Local Loops" - the connection from a building that already had a fiber presence into these "established points of presence" is a big business. There used to be a a lot of competitors in the space, but the options are limited these days. Level 3 pretty much has a lock on the market, but Zayo is making a serious run at that at least in the tier 2 and tier 3 markets. There are specialty players in every market, you just have to know how to find them. But, that $5k a month you pay for a transcontinental link will get dwarfed by the bill you get for the cross-town link to connect to it. Getting into the Internet Once upon a time, this was the easy part. You'd just pull a leased line to one of the MAE's, connect to the big Ethernet switch there, and ask for free peering with everyone (and get it). In the late 90s, that shifted, and these days, free peering is just about completely dead except among the highest level players, and that's only on private interconnects. So you'd going to be paying for "transit" -- the right to send and receive traffic on the Internet. Just like you would pay for Internet at home, only on a bigger scale. Prices vary all over the place, and big volume deals depend on how much you're sending versus receiving -- if you wind up putting the provider's network out of balance, you'll pay a premium for having done so. It used to be the case that things which generated outbound bandwidth (like a YouTube data center -- small HTTP request comes in, 30 minutes of video goes out) -- paid much more than things which generated inbound bandwidth (like an apartment building full of people watching YouTube videos). Things are much more evenly priced these days, but it's still expensive. For mid-tier work, Cogent is still the cheapest out there. I recently got a quote for $1250 for a 1Gb/s connection. If you're buying in bulk, that obviously goes down, a lot. But let's be really egregiously ridiculous and say that you can get it for 10% of that rate, and that you're willing to bet that you can get by with 10% of the maximal load you'd see coming out of the data center. That still means you'd need 600Gb's at $125/Gb, for let's call it $65k/month. Connecting the Dots So now you have the bandwidth inside the data center, the bandwidth to get the data center connected to the multiple IP service providers, and the transit that you're buying. So that's $X million inside the data center, and probably a fiber build plus equipment to avoid $100k+ per month in local loop charges, plus whatever your long haul charged are, plus at least $65k in transit. Then you have staffing costs, all the costs of running the datacenter, etc on top of that. And as you monitor usage, guess what? You'll discover that you're "peaking out" more frequently as time goes on, Time for more bandwidth, all the costs go up (outside the datacenter at least, I'm going to assume that you get the internal stuff right the first time). Conclusion I think the "prices for bandwidth" that you pay are just and fair. I know just how expensive it is to build and operate the networks that make it possible for service providers to offer the services. I think there's a big opportunity to create a disruptive player in the local bandwidth market, particularly given the needs for more bandwidth to LTE cell sites and medium sized enterprises. And I'd be willing to take a shot at doing that. But not trying to compete with the guys currently doing this stuff "at scale" for mass consumption. They have it on lock, and it would be a billion dollar play to compete.