★What is bandwidth?I don't understand the way signal is transmitted on a wire or a transmission line. How is it related to the frequency of the signal?  What limits the bandwidth? I am real confused. What kind of physic lectures do I miss？
This is a really important concept so it is important to get it right (and there are some subtleties). Think of frequency starting from Hz (DC -- Direct Current) then increasing. You get Hz and Hz (AC mains), Hz (musical A), KHz (high treble), MHz (AM radio), MHz (FM radio), MHz (cellular),  GHz (WiFi), GHz (weird next-gen WiFi), then THz (infra red), visible light, UV, X rays, etc All measured in Hz (Unit of frequency, named after Hertz). The bandwidth is the width of the band of frequencies you are interested in / that you are using. So, for example, a GSM system has a channel bandwidth of kHz (each radio uses that channel) with a collection of channels in a block with a bandwidth of MHz (so the radio must be able to tune anywhere across that bandwidth and select out the KHz) located at a carrier of MHz or MHz. The difference between bandwidth and carrier is important! Nowe a signal can change its bandwidth - this is modulation. So a 3KHz audio bandwidth (dc to 3kHZ) gets AM modulated (mixed with an RF carrier). That moves it to the carrier between 526.5 kHz to 1606.5 kHz (MW). But importantly, it increases the bandwdith: the mixing creates "sidebands" and a wider signal. Amplitude modulation   has the maths and some nice animations That is good - it makes it more robust. FM makes the bandwidth even bigger (and some scarier maths) Frequency modulation And more modern systems do even more (WCDMA can turn a 9Kbps audio stream into a 5MHz radio bandwidth, sitting on a carrier at 5MHz). There are a LOT of other things going on, to be fair, but remember that 5MHz bandwidth. A related concept is data rate (or information rate - they are not the same). This is measured in bits/second. This is the number of bits sent within that bandwidth: the ratio of the two is a measure of efficiency (bps/Hz). The Shannon–Hartley theorem gives an important fundamental limit on how much information you can squeeze into a given bandwidth. Considering all possible multi-level and multi-phase encoding techniques, the Shannon–Hartley theorem states the channel capacity C, meaning the theoretical tightest upper bound on the information rate (excluding error correcting codes) of clean (or arbitrarily low bit error rate) data that can be sent with a given average signal power S through an analog communication channel subject to additive white Gaussian noise of power N, is: where C is the channel capacity in bits per second; B is the bandwidth of the channel in hertz (passband bandwidth in case of a modulated signal); S is the average received signal power over the bandwidth (in case of a modulated signal, often denoted C, i.e. modulated carrier), measured in watts (or volts squared); N is the average noise or interference power over the bandwidth, measured in watts (or volts squared); andS/N is the signal-to-noise ratio (SNR) or the carrier-to-noise ratio (CNR) of the communication signal to the Gaussian noise interference expressed as a linear power ratio (not as logarithmic decibels).