Which Business Intelligence tool is best in current market?
I think you need to narrow down your parameters a bit. Instead of rambling a list of BI tools which you can find all over the web, below I've outlined a couple of criteria that I have considered for me and my organization. Some factors include: End to end set-up: this basically is asking how far back and how far forward do you want the tool to help you manage your data. Do you need to manage ETL processes because you have tons of regular routines you need to perform with incoming data? Or are you an individual power user just looking for a better way to analyze/visualize data? Does it have experience with integration with your existing database/infrastructure? Customer support: more important than it seems. Each tool has it's own nuance and you will need the vendors help. Assume at least 5 hours as an individual and 20 hours as an organization. Does it have web browser accessibility? If it doesn't immediately move on. Not worth your time. Charting features: this is the visualization component and what the end user really focuses on. Make sure it has all the basics (line, bar, multi-axis [I've met vendors that have missed that somehow]. I typically use excel as a reference. Tree map, map navigation, and multi chart creation on the fly a plus. Make sure you can change colors, change names of metrics, etc as well as you cannot anticipate what the end user needs and the last thing you want is for someone to pull the data out and just manipulate it in excel. Table features: if a vendor does not have a pivot table, move on. Honestly not worth your time. Metric creation and changing formats of fields should also be mandatory. Conditional formatting, pivot charting, creating groups of data on the fly a plus. User control: sometimes you have limitations with who can see what type of data. How does the tool manage that process? Folders? User groups? Also, how much of the existing data needs to be managed by an IT/DBA? Does it allow for a workflow where users can make requests to add a new standardized reporting metric/field? Note: you definitely do not want all users to have that ability. You would be surprised at how many people can mess that up Price: here's where you need to think about how many features you need and can do without. If you are looking for a starting point, Qlikview and Tableau are great options for small groups with a not so robust tech support. They can be a little pricey once you start talking more users as you lose functionality when you move into read-only dashboards/reports. I'd stay away from the traditional enterprise ones (Microstrategy, Cognos, etc.). There are some great open source vendors like Pentaho and Jaspersoft, but learning curve is steep if you are setting up as a small shop. Pentaho has some of the best visualization components and are easy to set up - you would need a DBA though as ideally you should be working off of star schemas to optimize performance. Jasper is known for their pixel perfect dashboards and you can make some awesome dashboards with them, but they are not easy to make (requires coding background) and their Analyzer (pivot tables) need some work. Both vendors have a CE as well. Birst is also a pretty interesting vendor as the charting functionality gives users recommendations on how to create charts. No pivots though... And finally, I'd recommend looking at PowerPivot. Best features of excel, easy to learn, and can handle millions of rows of data which is the only thing wrong with excel honestly. Free if you have Microsoft 2010+.    Embed Quote 