How do Jasper and Pentaho compare as business intelligence solutions?
I agree with Rama. Both solutions can be compared favorably and provide similar functionality and features. I have seen both products in action and they both are solid. Both provide fundamental BI capabilities as Rama has mentioned, with the addition of a Data Mining module in Pentaho. Both provide access to Big Data and NoSQL sources. Jasper also provides native FusionCharts integration for its reporting (Flash) as well as a mobile API which can allow developers to create mobile applications. Pentaho currently provides OpenFlash charts and provides native mobile capabilities for the iPad in its Enterprise Edition and iPhone via a community plug-in. Some significant advantages for Pentaho, IMHO, is its Pentaho Data Integration (ETL) is part of the core Pentaho BI Platform and developed and managed under the Pentaho umbrella of core engineering. JasperSoft provides ETL capability designed by Talend. JasperETL only bundles the "Talend Open Studio" version  (so certain features are missing) and it is not available as a standalone offering. So, if you want ETL only or Enterprise like ETL features - you will need to get that from Talend as I last heard. Some other advantages with Pentaho is the complete end to end integration with its BI Suite. Taking you from Data to Dashboards rapidly using a process dubbed "Agile BI". This is possible due to the integrated modeling and visualization perspectives provided in the Pentaho Data Integration tool. So you can create BI applications quickly, collaboratively and iteratively and turn raw data into actionable information faster. Pentaho and Jasper both use the same analytical OLAP Server Mondrian, http://mondrian.pentaho.com/. So speed of thought analytics is available for both, but provide different tools (UIs) for slicing and dicing. Finally, I like the extensibility within Pentaho due to its Action Sequence architecture and Plug-In Framework. This allows me to add my own content and customize the out-of-the-box experience by developing plug-ins and content objects easily. I know the "it depends" answer does not always help, but the due diligence of finding out what “is right” for you and your budget is your own, as you know what will be best for you and your organization. http://blog.pentaho.com/2011/09/... Regards, Michael Tarallo Director of Enterprise Solutions http://blog.pentaho.com/2011/04/...    Embed Quote 