How should one begin career in data mining/business intelligence?
Business Intelligence is a pretty big field.  One of the things you'll need to do is figure out which side of it you want to be on.  There's the functional side, the people who determine what needs to be measured/reported, and the technical side, the people who build the solution.  You can even go further down from there and be a front end person who specializes in specific reporting tools or a back end person who specializes in ETL an databases. The best way to get into the field as a final year undergrad is to get an internship working in an analytics group with a great company that takes interns (I know companies like Facebook, LinkedIn, and Google do).  There is a lot of competition in that space, however. The path I took was to land a job with a big systems integration consulting firm out of college.  Accenture, Deloitte, PwC, and IBM all have great entry level options for new college grads.  From there, you will want to work hard on getting on projects that have a BI component.  Usually, as entry level, you tend to do a lot of project management (the tedious parts of it) and testing, which you then work your way into doing BI. To get ahead of your peers in this space, I strongly suggest reading Ralph Kimball's book on data warehousing (the bible of BI): http://www.amazon.com/The-Data-W... I also strongly suggest having great SQL skills.  You can also get some hands on experience with some reporting tools as several vendors make their free to download and develop/test with.  Here's a few of the major BI players (couldn't find SAP Business Objects): Oracle Business Intelligence (OBIEE): http://www.oracle.com/technetwor... Microstrategy: http://www.microstrategy.com/fre... IBM Cognos: http://www-01.ibm.com/software/a... Tableau: http://www.tableausoftware.com/p... The best way to get involved in this space is to make yourself valuable to potential employers.  Having some hands on experience and knowledge will make you very valuable, especially as an entry level college grad.    Embed Quote 