Business Intelligence: What's the BI software/application landscape going to look like in the next 5 years?
I think the number and types of BI tools will continue to proliferate. There are two macro trends that I am basing that on.  Everyday we have more data than we did yesterday and everyday someone finds a way to make money off of better analysis of data. Some trends that have emerged that will probably lead to more innovation in the BI market: 1. Security - States are passing very punitive laws about cthe ompanies' responsibility for a data breach.  BI systems have to be secure if you are going to personally identifying information (PII) outside the firewall.  Firms wants to continue to engage their customers with interactive, highly personalized experiences, so there will be solutions which do that.  2. Advanced analytics on BI platforms - Forward Looking BI (reporting on  sales results and projected sales in the same chart) is now required for any enterprise BI solution.  Now that customers have seen what mixing advanced analytics with traditional BI can do, they want more or it.  Show an executive that a cluster analysis produces completely different customer segmentations than the 'logical' one that BI system has been reporting for years, and two things happen. The company gets re-aligned to meet its customer needs, and the BI report that everyone has been ignoring for years, gets tuned-up to display data that really impacts business decisions.  3. Big data - Managers and executives want meaningful big data graphics incorporated with other relevant information on one dashboard.    They want to see the costs and activities associated with the latest marketing campaign, they  want to to see Twitter and Facebook volume and sentiment updating with online sales data - and they want to be able to tweak the campaign based on the social and digital data streams.   Filtering big data is becoming much easier, but getting sentiment analysis correct seems to be getting harder.  Have a report ready that correlates big data, social media and traditional data for a review after the campaign is over, they are going to expect that. 4. Cloud-based data - Enriching consumer profiles in the marketing data warehouse, piped right in from the vendor - that saves time and money.  Updated credit scores synch'ed online - risk management and increased sales in on API.  Data vendors are making more data available faster and if, you let them more cheaply.  See my note above about security... 5. Self-service - I think Eric is correct, that management now expects that the data scientists have got everything so tuned-up that data is available in a manner where they can create ad-hoc reports.     BI has become the opposite of ad-hoc, and it should be the great enabler of it.  Put Watson Analytics in from of your manager, and just watch as the get stepped through report creation, with multiple alternative analysis at each step.  They won't ask for another new dashboard - they have their own ad hoc system that they like better,  IBM will eventually expand the connections beyond Cognos, SPSS, Excel and flatfiles.    Embed Quote 