What is the future of business intelligence?
I would have phrased the question better. Will try to provide short answers to all questions part by part from my perspective: Where is BI going? Short answer: BI is going places, and gong there fast. In my 2010 BI model, we valued the BI software market at about $7.2 billion, growing at a global rate of 6.5% on an average, which is significant compared to more established enterprise technologies. I expect BI to increasingly make an entry into emerging markets, especially China, India, and Latin America. BI is going to every single enterprise application and delivering more value than the sum of parts. With Ent. Search, it is helping answer casual user queries. With BPM, it is providing perspective to CEP. What are the biggest problems with the existing established players, and how are startups trying to disrupt them? As with all establishments, the problems are of sustainable growth, keeping BI relevant to the needs of a changing demographic of end-users, being on the forefront of business issues, and noticing trends. Some of the common issues are: Dealing with semi-structured data, and how to include the same in analysis How to best use user-generated social content How to deal with the sheer growth in the volume of enterprise and social data How to better integrate into other information management technologies and enterprise applications How to come as close to real-time (right-time, if you will) as required How to deal with Big DataThis is obviously not an exhaustive list. Startups: One very successful startup that came into prominence in the last few years is Qliktech, which defined a radical approach to data analysis doing away with OLAP cubes. Some other companies are trying to come up with newer ways of data visualization. Some such as Jasper and Pentaho are open-source representations of BI. Newer players have BIRT as a starting point, so building a solution becomes less cumbersome. Still others are innovating with in-memory, in-database, MPP driven architectures and analytical databases.    Embed Quote 