What are key factors that drive success in deploying Business Intelligence?
ATA. Very good answers here already. So let me just 'append' a couple of points instead of rehashing everything. My points might be biased to smaller projects with not that many people involved and who usually take only a couple of months though. Know what you don't know. And this counts for everyone involved. The BI integrator should acknowledge his lack of familiarity with the business and thus talk to them. Business users should be aware that they're not familiar translating business needs into scripting rules and thus talk about their needs and do the translation together with the BI integrator. Managers should be aware that they may not know well how BI is done. And thus focus on the high-level management instead of meddling with the details. Get end-to-end buy-in. Don't settle for a corporate champion. If you rely on him/her to do all the massaging of stakeholders involved, it won't go smooth and you're underestimating the willingness of some people to torpedo a project they don't like. Every part of the chain needs to derive some value from it and needs to be able to understand what is passing through at his level. Related to this, it is important to always first consider the why. Why do people want this? Why is the current situation not ok? And only then move on to the what. If you define the what immediately and deliver exactly that, you may have spent a lot of time on helping the client realize that it's maybe not what they wanted after all. (i guess this is where the agile methodology comes into play) Reduce distances Cut out man-in-the-middle stuff as much as possible. Every person between the 'clients' and the ones implementing it, is an extra layer that introduces miscommunication and makes it easier to think of the other side as 'them' instead of 'we'. Get people physically close if possible. If you can run over to someone's desk or call him/her in no time, that will make collaboration smoother than having to schedule a meeting for everything. I know there are many technical challenges as well, but they are discussed in other answers. Also, having the above points right will go a long way to preventing technical issues as well as getting through technical issues in one piece. And let's be honest: most of us in the field of BI and/or analytics are techies at heart. It's unlikely we'll not give enough consideration to the technical side. ;)    Embed Quote 