What is the difference between business intelligence and business analytics?
Let me try and make it as simple as possible! Let us assume you have chain of grocery shops across the country. You generate too much data but too less insights. You wish to understand how your business is performing.  Like for example, Which shops are doing more business ? Which shops are more profitable ? Which products are selling more? When are your shops making more money (in a year/month/week )? etc. You would bring together all the sales & operations data from all your shops to a common location( Could be as simple as an excel file in your laptop), do some necessary aggregations (For example you will sum total sales made by an outlet or sum the sales of a product category etc.) and draw a bar chart or a graph to understand what is happening to your business. Everything till this point is what we call Business Intelligence. (Bringing together all the data = Data-warehousing; Choosing appropriate graph/chart to help understand data better/faster = Data visualization! Group of visualizations for key performance indicators  = Dashboard) Set of tools and techniques that provides visibility into your complete business operations is Business Intelligence. Now you have understood which days of the week your shops are performing better and which days they are not. Now you want to understand WHY shops in a locality X are performing badly on Wednesdays. If you understand that, then you can probably make them perform better or at least you will be able to predict your business outcomes better. Now this is what we call business analytics. Answering the 'WHY' always takes you into the realms of data sciences/statistics! All those tools and techniques that helps you statistically answer your business questions falls under data analytics. For example you may want to understand if the sales performance of those shops are correlated with advertisements & promotions. You run a statistical test and the results suggests a strong correlation. You now realize that the sales dip on Wednesdays is because you don't advertise on Wednesdays like you do on other days. What you just did is descriptive analytics or explanatory modelling. Now you increase your promotional spending , start advertising on Wednesdays and monitor  through Business Intelligence systems whether or not the sales performance improves. To summarize, WHAT is happening to your business = Business Intelligence WHY it is happening & What will happen in future = Business Analytics Data-warehousing & Visualizations = Enabler of  Business Intelligence Data Analytics/Data sciences = Enabler of Business Analytics I would also like to point out here that Business Intelligence provides the backbone to monitor your business operations end to end and hence should always be the ideal starting point for any predictive or prescriptive analytics! Better to walk before you start running! Disclaimer: Above explanation for 'Business Intelligence' refers to the popular industry terminology coined for better and easy reference  and NOT the common meaning represented by those English words.    Embed Quote Updated 13 Apr. 565 views.