Are small businesses interested in Business Intelligence (BI) software?
In general, all organizations require Business Intelligence at some level. When we founded our company – Qualia – we have no ERP system and in the beginning we have no transactions. But very soon, I started to ask myself typical questions like “What is in my sales pipeline and what is the percent of success rate”, “What is the average invoice amount and what can I expect if trend continues?” and so on… The point is, even the smallest companies need some form of intelligent report or data analysis. BI in small and midsized companies Mid-sized and smaller companies (SMBs) have the very same reasons for using BI as do large enterprises. That is, to be more competitive, to better understand the performance of their business, to support decisions for future direction or to identify potential or real problems. Maybe SMBs will have smaller BI project, but the impact of the intelligence outputs will be just as valuable as in large enterprises. Problems In fact, there are big chances that every SMB company is using some form of BI tools whether it knows it or not. The most often it is in form of Excel. There are several problems with that approach though. Often there are several employees with several excel spreadsheets serving the purpose of a data warehouse. They create reports often without any coordination, resulting in multiple versions of one truth. When the C-level manager asks a simple question like, “How is our revenue compared to last month?” he or she gets several different answers. Moreover, it will probably take a few days to deliver an (unreliable) answer. Then, as the company is growing, the number of transactions and different sources of data can quickly be too much for a few individuals who has been tasked to produce reports or analysis.Resolution That problems can be resolved with defining of Key performance indicators and Key metrics for business, with the implementation of data quality procedures, data warehouse and business intelligence reporting tool. Let’s imagine we are the owner of a retail company and we can analyze our customer list. We then realize that customers from north part of town are more often my product buyers then customers from the south. If we then use that information to market to those parts of town differently, we clearly performed and act of Business Intelligence. We don’t need an expensive software package to do that. That was in our minds when we created BusinessQ. With the help of new technologies such as open source, cloud, in-memory technology, Web 2.0 interfaces, and new visualization technology we made a BI tool much more friendly to SMBs.    Embed Quote 