What are the most cost effective Business Intelligence tools?
I am admittedly 100% bias,  but I think www.yurbi.com is the fastest, easiest, most cost effective way to secure, collaborate, and integrate data.   We've built an enterprise quality BI platform that has the ease of use and a scalable price model to be cost effective for the smallest business and the security, scalability, and value to support the largest enterprise (Fortune 1 - US Government). The key to being cost effective in the BI space, in my opinion, is to be the opposite of what the large BI vendors traditionally do when they sell enterprise software (https://http://www.yurbi.com/blog/agile-bi-vs-traditional-bi-which-is-best-for-my-business/).   Those keys are: Subscription based recurring pricing and all the benefits that come with that: lower cost of entry easy to budget  (operational funds vs capital) lower risk of lock-in Allow customers to buy what they need: User Based licenses  (buy what you need now,  add when you need it) Role Based Licenses (pay for the functionality you need to have, not one size fits all) A platform approach  (don't make everything an "option", include all the tools needed for an organization,  not parsing all the features out as options) Looking at the broader market,  there are lots of great cost-effective players,  including on-premise variants like Qlikview, Tableau Software, JackBe and pure SaaS plays like Gooddata, Indicee, Birst, and others. Most of the great pure web-based platforms are SaaS based only and I think what differentiates us is that we are 100% web-based but on-premise (private cloud).   As much as SaaS BI is gaining "momentum" the reality in the enterprise and high secure environments is that companies don't want to copy data to AWS and view stale info, they want to connect real-time to their on-premise data and integrate, visualize, and analyze.    However,  there is a huge market of customers and markets where doing BI in the cloud makes perfect sense and when the time is right we will offer our platform that way as well. So a biased view for sure,  but I also listed some of the other players you can research and I am sure others on Quora will chime in.    Embed Quote Updated 6 Mar. 400 views.