Business Intelligence: What's the BI software/application landscape going to look like in the next 5 years?
I've taken a (manipulated) extract from a blog I wrote yesterday to start answering this. I like to think of the data world in terms of three (over-simplified) layers: The back-end: hard-core statistical and programming tools for engineers, statisticians, data experts and the like. Generally developed and used by people with significant quantitative skills. Huge technical progress has been made on these tools recently for unstructured data, whilst structured data analytics have used statistical packages for many years. These tools are the most capable at crunching data. Middleware: usually called business intelligence tools and are developed by engineers for the use of highly analytical business analysts. Generally not as data sophisticated as the back-end tools, but more complex to use than the front-end tools. Business analysts usually develop standard reports and dashboards using middleware, for commercial decision-makers to then use. Some data savvy non-analysts also use middleware in their work. The front-end: easy to use presentation/collaboration tools that require little or no statistical knowledge. Many companies use social collaboration, dashboards and/or spreadsheets at this level. These products are generally ‘powered by’ back-end tools, so whilst they are easy to use they are also statistically and data robust.Overall, whilst there are many companies operating in the BI space they are not all competing for the same client or client outcomes. As companies generate increasing amounts of data they also want to start using their data in the most effective ways. What is effective BI to one company or company division, may not work for another. I think this is where industry or discipline specific tools will become more normal across all the above categories. Indeed, integration with other specialised tools will become normal as BI can never stand in isolation, it's always part of a broader business process (whether that's finance, marketing, analysis support and so on). So to re-phrase the above categories. Hard-core statistical/programming tools will continue to advance in terms of volume, speed and diversity of data analytics. Front-end tools will advance in terms of user friendliness, social collaboration and visualisations. Middleware will take some advances from the aforementioned two. All will still have clearly defined markets in 3-5 years time, although consolidation is likely to occur as smaller specialised players grow and bigger players want to protect market share and enhance product ranges. Dominant players are still likely to be dominant! Link to full blog article...(aimed at marketers!) The marketer’s guide to big data    Embed Quote 