How do Jasper and Pentaho compare as business intelligence solutions?
Pentaho is currently our corporate BI Solution. We periodically evaluate Jaspersoft and compare what we get now with Pentaho Suite 4.0, with what  they offer Jaspersoft 4.1. Jaspersoft 4.2 was just released and we have not evaluated it. You will see a favorable bias towards Pentaho in the writing because it is where most of our experience (2.5 years) resides. Here are our findings and opinions so far: Pentaho innovates much and documents little. Jaspersoft documents much, innovates little. It appears that Jaspersoft realizes this and it trying to innovate more. The continued commitment to innovation was a purchase driver for us. Pentaho continues to make more available 'free' in community editions than we perceive Jaspersoft releasing. Support and education are key quality metrics for any BI Project. We stick with Pentaho enterprise subscriptions for the following reasons: * You will get stuck and need help learning, working around obstacles and getting bug fixes. * Support is fairly high quality in comparison to other organizations * Product education classes are a critical feature of the subscription. We understand Jaspersoft also provides excellent classes. If their classes are half as good as their software documentation, we believe it. At the end of the day we looked at these BI Suites as they are, tools. We want to spend more time creating content than fighting with tools. Subscribing annually for tools bothers us. Subscribing for support is a gem. There are 'plugin' feature differences between Pentaho Enterprise and Pentaho Community Editions, but that is it. This is in line with what Pentaho calls the "Open Core" model. In fairness we did not evaluate Jaspersoft Community Edition. If you examine our production BI deployment, you would notice that we stick closely to 'core' and truly opensource functionality. We could drop Enterprise Edition tomorrow and be no worse off in functionality terms, but potentially worse off in our ability to reach the next level. There is a relationship you get with Pentaho that allows our sticking points to both elevate our ability to provide solutions as well as appear as functionality in a future suite release. We have no experience with Jaspersoft’s ‘Customer issue to suite functionality’ lifecycle, but in as much as we have identified  it with Pentaho think it is an advantage to have if you can get it.  To us, the more you can balance that equation in your favor by having the bulk of your solution based on freely available technology, the better your trip will be on the ROI side. As long as Pentaho continues innovating and doing a good job of supporting our efforts to deliver solutions, we will stick with them.   Unless you have a rockstar development team sporting skills in data warehouse design, javascript, CSS, html, SQL, user experience design, and information work flow and presentation, you will likely spend many times the subscription price each year in either internal salaries or consultation fees to create your deliverable.  We see this true in all BI Product offerings.  There is no BI Solution magic pill for sale.  Solutions like Tableau comes in pretty bottles, but every BI Solution takes a lot of work and attention to detail. Configuration: Jaspersoft is stronger than Pentaho in this area. Their tendency for visual interface integration resulted in the ability to define and manage many kinds of datasources and permissions for BI content in a much easier to use way than Pentaho’s product. Pentaho configuration can be done almost exclusively in text files, which is not bad, it just imposes a higher knowledge requirement on administrators. Some, but not all, of the configuration can be handled in a separate "Pentaho Administrative Console" which presents itself through a web interface and runs separate of the BI Server. It may also be called Pentaho Enterprise Console at times, but they are the basically from the same tree stump. The enterprise version of it exposes more configuration options and monitoring etc. Business Rule support aka scripting: Pentaho supports scripting (xactions) and scheduling of script execution. This allows you to implement business rules. Our example: "Query a database, evaluate result set for condition against threshold using javascript, email a report PDF attached to an email demonstrating the situation approaching or surpassing a threshold. JasperSoft has no scripting. You can only create an iReport and schedule it individually or at an administrator level. Documentation: Hands down, Jaspersoft kills Pentaho on documentation. You will think it is the only thing they spend their time on once you see the functionality comparison of the product suites. Mobile device compatibility: Jaspersoft is mobile device friendly interacting with the BI Suite and its default interface. They have gone so far as opensourcing an Apple iPad/iPhone application, which we have not seen ourselves. Pentaho is not. The Pentaho User Console does not work well at all on devices like iPads. Out of the box, only Pentaho Analyzer works on the iPad, We did not test with an Andriod device. Pentaho's savior comes from an external company, Webdetails in Portugal http://webdetails.pt, who developed and opensourced 'Ctools' a dashboard framework, data access layer, data cache manager, dashboard editor all gratis. They provide excellent consulting services and the dashboards created perform wonderfully in all browsers, including those on mobile devices. We use these dashboards extensively.  Ctools are so superior in quality and functionality that Pentaho itself uses them as the foundation for Dashboard Designer, an Enterprise Edition Plugin that allows drag and drop, rapid, dashboard design. Drag and Drop OLAP browsers: Pentaho has "Analyzer" in their enterprise subscription and Jaspersoft has "AD-HOC Reporting" which are similar in concept. Both are drag-and-drop OLAP cube browsers. The critical difference for us is that we can embed an Analyzer report in dashboards. Jaspersoft cannot embed anything in a dashboard that is not created or embedded in an iReport. Essentially, in Jaspersoft everything must be an iReport or it must be consumed as an entirely stand alone piece of content. Pentaho also has an opensource OLAP browser called Saiku. Saiku is a new development, just like Jaspersoft's "AD-HOC" reporting feature. Saiku is ahead of AD-HOC at this point. Saiku is not as polished with functionality as Pentaho Analyzer, but it is getting there rapidly and can be embedded in dashboards. ETL: Pentaho's ETL tool called, Kettle or Pentaho Data Integration PDI, was organically grown. It feels more natural in the way that all the functionality is exposed and presented to the user than the ETL tool put out by Talend and appropriated by Jaspersoft for inclusion in their suite. It appears to us that Jaspersoft is trying to integrate everything inside the Eclipse development environment. Our impression was that everything looks the same. There may be some benefit there, but it felt like using a hammer for every creation and repair task instead of having other tools available. OLAP Analysis: OLAP, MDX, Excel - Both of these products use 'Pentaho Mondrian' for their OLAP functionality. It is unlikely that Jaspersoft would be more capable, because we know where the driving source of inspiration and software comes from. Lets say they are the same because they will keep current versions of Mondrian in their products. Where Jaspersoft has an advantage is they sell the ODBO Connect driver which allows MS Excel to connect to Mondrian. It's $250 clams per user each year. This is more competitive than Simba's ODBO driver which it pitched to us for $10,000 per year for 10 users minimum. We cannot say if they are the same product OEM, but we can say that Jaspersoft's driver works with Pentaho Suite 4.0. It's unlikely to change because it would mean Jasper having to mutilate the driver or Mondrian or both, breaking XMLA spec at the same time. We hope Jaspersoft would spend more time innovating than making their product more proprietary for their own sake. Metadata Layer: Both products have metadata layers available for reports only. Parting notes: BI Subscriptions can be advantageous for the lower cost of entry.  Most of your money will be spent creating content.  No system is a magic pill. Report bugs, be active in the community helping others, no matter which future direction you go.    Embed Quote 