Make or buy BI (Business Intelligence)?
In a world of unlimited resources, you’d probably want to develop your analytics platform in-house to retain full control of your product and include the exact kind of functionality you feel that you or your clients require. However most businesses don’t operate in such an ideal environment, and the reality is that Business Intelligence isn’t one of their core competencies. Hence it would take years of R&D work, as well as immense financial investments, to develop the same kind of platform that is readily available to purchase from vendors who live and breathe BI. Nevertheless, it’s important to take note of the type of software you’re purchasing, and to make sure it will be easy enough to implement and use without incurring extensive and unexpected costs. Factors that support purchasing and embedding out-of-the box BI software: It’s important to note that Business Intelligence is about more than just displaying fancy visualizations on the user’s screen: It handles joining multiple data sources, running fast queries on large datasets and allowing users to explore their data by questioning it in a wide variety of ways. This type of analytics platform is no cakewalk to develop. Building a robust BI system that can handle the demands of Big Data would require immense resources (in terms of time and money) and might still fail to achieve the same level of functionality as an out of the box solution. Factors that support developing an analytics platform in-house: Problems with integration between your own software and the embedded analytics platform have the potential to greatly increase your costs and production time. This could mean prolonged periods that will have to be devoted to development and iterations between you and your BI provider. Additionally, some BI software is so complex to implement and use that it will require extensive training on your end before the system is actually up and running, further extending your costs, time to market and proving to be a major headache on its own sake. I've actually just published a blog post about Embedded Business Intelligence which you're also welcome to check out for more info. Best of luck,   Eran    Embed Quote 