★Why did Facebook buy Parse?Facebook blog: Welcoming Parse to Facebook Parse blog: The Future of Parse
Will throw in my two cents: Facebook API sucks - it is very painful for developers to keep updating and changing apps every time Facebook or Twitter deprecates some API method or  changes something w/o backward compatibility. mBaaS play like Parse's and ours is all about keeping developers happy - creating an ecosystem where developer's time is precious. You get SDKs, code samples, documentation which helps you get started in minutes, all is designed to simplify life and save time for DEVELOPERS. Nowadays it's all about mobile (and web) apps so no surprise if Facebook want to boost their apps ecosystem they have to leverage the platform created by one of the most established mBaaS players. Chat - this is more speculative but - Facebook has launched their own XMPP-based chat and later video calling powered by Skype. There have been rumours around Facebook phone and Facebook OS. Chatting, video calling and VoIP are getting second birth now - we feel it from the demand of our own chat and video calling SDKs. Now, if you want to leverage Facebook's Social Graph and allow developers to build their own IM / chatting apps such as WhatsApp but tied into Facebook authentication system / social graph then you need an established cloud backend and again - SDK, code samples, documentation, hackathons to get this going. One thing that doesn't fit into picture is that Parse doesn't have any chat proposition at all, as far as I know our QuickBlox is the only mBaaS that provides chatting SDK and code samples (for iOS, Android, BlackBerry, Windows Phone and web including Facebook and Wordpress widgets including video calling SDK lately) but maybe Facebook hopes to take their own stuff, take Parse, Whatsapp and glue them together. These are clearly just speculations on my end especially chat one as I'm really excited about the space. It could be that Facebook is simply throwing IPO money after shiny things they stumble upon in the Valley. Still, interesting discussion.    Embed Quote