★What is Firebase's comparison with Parse and MongoDB?
Parse and Firebase are PaaS (platform as a service) which means that they offer developers quick backend setups. Unlike Amazon Web Services (AWS) or Microsoft Azure which are IaaS (Infrastructure as a service), parse and firebase doesn't require setting up the computers and installing a web server and programming your own backend. Instead when you create a parse or firebase account you're given empty tables or data structures and the REST API or SDKs to access the data structures. You don't have to set it up yourself. In Parse you create the tables (called Classes) on their online dashboard and then use the SDK in your mobile or web apps to access and write to these tables. Firebase is different from Parse in that Firebase uses A different data structure scheme (JSON blobs in fact) and Firebase and other similar services like Pubnub offer you a push-based interrupt drive system vs poll-based systems to get the data quicker when a change occurs. So let's say you're making a messaging app, you might simply start with Parse to store the users information and the messages. But then on the clients you'll have to periodically check the Parse tables to see if there's a new message. This means that your app will have a delay from when one user writes a message and the other user get the message. But with Firebase or Pubnub, they use sockets and other methods to notify you when something on the database changed. So when one user in your messaging app writes a message and it gets stored on Firebase, Firebase will notify all other clients listening to a specific key in their JSON that there was a data change and there might be a new message. That way you get data instantly on the clients and so the messaging app will become more resoponsive and real-time. MongoDB is a database architecture. It's not a service like Parse, Pubnub, AWS, or Azure. It's more similar to SQLite or Hbase. It's a no-sql, distributed database system that you can choose to install on your IaaS like AWS to manage your data. Unlike sql, mongo deals with objects, not rows on a table. And unlike sql as well, it's distributed meaning it's designed to communicate between multiple computers where it's installed and store data in such a way that it's much faster to access large amount of data and do calculations on them (map-reduce jobs and etc).    Embed Quote