★What is it like to work at Parse?I'm especially interested in how being owned by Facebook has affected their business and culture. Are they considered a part of Facebook, or are they pretty independent? Do Parse employees have access to the Facebook codebase and resources? What's the long-term goal for the relationship between the two?
Parse (cloud backend) has merged itself pretty well with Facebook. We're just another team, we share resources, we work with other teams for mutual interest, yet we have our own culture and make our own product. I think there are 6 types of person that might interest you to provide a different set of answer to this question: Parse founders / co-founders (Ilya Sukhar, Kevin Lacker or James Yu) Parse employees who were previously employed at Parse and are still employed now after acquisitions Parse employees who were previously employed at Facebook and now working at Parse after acquisitions Fresh Parse employees Facebook employees who work outside of Parse Non Facebook / Parse employees.I'm going to give the answer as one of those no. 3 people. Personal Experience Some background: I have only worked at Parse for around 4 months. I did two internships (6 months in total) at Facebook. So you might realize that I've not been in any of them for long, but I'll try to answer the question with the best of my knowledge (and limited to what I can disclose). To sum up my experience: one word, overwhelmingly awesome (wait, that's two). Working at Facebook was an awesome experience. Let's skip the perks, the benefits, the people, the challenge and the culture of working at Facebook because we have its own thread (What is the best Facebook employee perk, and why?). Working at Parse is even better! First, you get ALL the greats of working at Facebook. Second, you get to avoid to work at Facebook gigantic-unimplementable-in-side-project code base (this is personal preference). You get to use what you accomplish on workdays to aid your side-projects on weekends. You're even encouraged to do side-project because we need to have some context on how developers actually use the product and find out what can be added to it. Third, you're exposed to multi-platform technology with lot of untapped opportunities. Bored with Python or Java? Play some Go, code some Ruby or just fiddle with JavaScript. Wanna try some Android or iOS development? Or multiple .NET Platforms development? They're all in relatively good shape thanks to the team constant effort to keep the code's health green. Culture Feels more startup than Facebook. We have stand-up meeting almost everyday where everyone share what they've been working on and the progress. Some of us have 1 on 1 meeting weekly/bi-weekly with almost everyone (even non-manager) to talk about almost anything from work related stuff, weekend projects, books we've been reading, or heroes we've been playing on LoL. This is quite different from Facebook, especially on a bigger team, where we typically only have single 1 on 1 with our manager and one weekly meeting. For work, we use Facebook internal tools to communicate (Groups, Events, Task tools, Phabricator). But most of our internal communications are in HipChat. We also make slogans related to Facebook's, mostly for jokes. One of my favorites: Facebook: "This journey 1% finished" Parse: "This journey would be 99% finished were you using Parse" Connection with Facebook We are somewhat detached but somehow connected to Facebook. We develop and nurture our own product, in my best knowledge, without Facebook intervention. We're in progress to leverage existing Facebook infra to back our products. We're working pretty closely with some other teams which means both Parse and Facebook have access to each other code base. Employees can come in and out of the team, just like any other team at Facebook. I'm sure we have some long-term goals ahead, but I'm probably not the right person to talk about it. So if you please excuse me, I have some code reviews waiting for me ;)    Embed Quote