★Why did Facebook buy Parse?Facebook blog: Welcoming Parse to Facebook Parse blog: The Future of Parse
I could ramble but this comment from cletus on Hacker News made a lot of sense: This doesn't surprise me in that it seems like a natural fit for Facebook, who has a Mobile Problem [tm]. As much as people fear Facebook becoming The Internet (in the AOL sense), Facebook is actually really late to this party. Apple has a mobile OS, a content and payments ecosystem and a deeply integrated set of products. Google has a mobile OS, GMail, a search engine, a burgeoning content ecosystem and its Maps/local properties. Amazon has a content and payments ecosystem, a limited mobile presence (Kindle Fires basically, which are of course tablets not phones) and cloud infrastructure. All of these things are (IMHO) pieces in technology's future. Facebook really is a one trick pony (although an 8000 pound pony if you want to stretch the metaphor). It's why you saw them panic about Instagram (if a ~2 year old company with 13 employees is an existential threat then your position is, by definition, precarious). It's why rumours of a Facebook Phone have circulated for a year or two (eg Project Spartan) and why Facebook launched Facebook Home. It's trying to get the benefits of having a mobile OS without actually developing one and building market share (ask Microsoft how hard that is). Facebook's strength really is being a closed silo/platform for The Internet (or a version of it at least). So buying Parse makes perfect sense as they want to extend the reach and power of the Facebook platform. Congrats to the Parse guys. Disclaimer: I am an engineer for Google. (formatting mine) I disagree that Instagram being a 2yo company with 13 employees shows a threat your position, small startups disrupt established companies all the time. The Parse acquisition makes a lot of sense if you consider Parse the Heroku for mobile apps; I was suprised when Facebook wasn't the one to buy Heroku. I guess they're making up for it now. This doesn't surprise me in that it seems like a natural fit for Facebook, who h...    Embed Quote