What can I learn/know right now in 10 minutes that will be useful for the rest of my life?
Okay, I am no Yoga expert, not even a daily practitioner. A better way to say that would be: I am as much an expert at Yoga as Russel Peters is at making non-racist jokes. (Need I say more?) But since you are primarily looking for an easy & quick to learn "something useful", I am sure this deserves to be an answer here. 10 minutes? Much less, it will most probably take you much lesser time to learn and can turn out to be extremely beneficial if practiced regularly and correctly. I wonder if you have heard about Pranayama—an ancient yogic practice primarily concerned with breath control. Now, there are different pranayams with different benefits to offer, but the one I want to recommend here is: Anulom Vilom / Alternate Nostril Breathing. Why only this? Because it is definitely the easiest to learn and practice, simplest to understand, and yet one of the most beneficial ones. And I say this from personal experience. I will just introduce the basics (since that is all I know). The web has a pretty good amount of information available in case someone is interested in knowing more. What does it look like? What is the procedure? Sit up straight and close your eyes. Form this mudra (gesture) with your right hand: Keep the middle finger and the index finger straight and place them in the middle of your forehead (that's where the ajya chakra is). Close your right nostril with the thumb. With the right nostril blocked, exhale through the left nostril. Inhale back through the left nostril itself. Now, close the left nostril with the ring finger and the little finger and exhale through the right nostril. Inhale back through the right nostril. Loop. Benefits?Each one adds one. A Google search on "benefits of anulom-vilom" will lead you to hundreds of pages and articles. Everywhere you will find a new point, primarily because pranayams affect each one differently and have been seen to cure (or pace the treatment of) diseases ranging from common-cold to cancer (since it essentially enhances the oxygen intake—which is a BIG benefit in itself). This I speak from what I have seen and heard people say about themselves on television. Here are some references that should be convincing. To know more, Google is waiting for you. :) Anulom Vilom and Ekapadasana can prove to be an effective alternative modality for treating children with ADHD Effect of anulom vilom and bhasrika on vital capacity and maximal ventilatory volume on Academicjournals.org EEG signal analysis during anulom-vilom Alternate nostril breathing (ANB) prāṇāyāma, also known as Nadisuddhi prāṇāyāma, is one of the beneficial prāṇāyāma for cardiopulmonary functions. Regular practice of ANB (Nadisuddhi) increases parasympathetic activity and lowers systolic blood pressure as well as respiratory rate.[30] In fact there are a number of studies indicating that pranayama causes changes in the cardiorespiratory system including a lowering of blood pressure and of heart rate.[31][32][33] (Wiki) All blood vessels and veins are cleansed by the practise of Anulom-Vilom Pranayam. The energy in the body starts flowing upwards. It cures diseases of the muscular system and is beneficial in arthritis, flatulence and varicose veins, acidity and sinusitis. Your thinking becomes positive and you learn to overcome tension, anger, worry and forgetfulness, anxiety, uneasiness, high blood pressure, migraine and lack of sleep. With regular practise of Anulom-Vilom Pranayam, your concentration, patience, resoluteness, decision-making ability and creativity will soon increase. (Renowned Yoga Guru, Surakshit Goswami) The exercise of the Anuloma Viloma produces optimum function to both sides of the brain: that is optimum creativity and optimum logical verbal activity. This will make both sides of the brain, the left side which is responsible for logical thinking and the right side which is responsible for creative thinking to function properly. This will lead to a balance between a person's creative and logical thinking. The Yogis consider this to be the best technique to calm the mind and the Nervous System. (abc-of-yoga.com) Here is a video: Doesn't this qualify on all your benchmarks? And yes, it's a great way to start the day! (Best practiced early in the morning). Note: I have not added the precautions part since I am not completely aware about that area. Although a person of normal health should have no issues to worry about, it is still wise to cross-check. I could have put in a little research and probably added that too here, but I think the answer is already quite long. Updated 134w ago • View Upvotes