What is wrong in the data collection programs by the NSA and United States?
The greatest threat to freedom is the absence of criticism. --Wole Soyinka What NSA is creating is a database of relationships in the US.  What they're doing is called Signals Intelligence, something the military and spy agencies have been perfecting for hundreds of years.  WHAT is being said in the conversation is pretty much irrelevant.  What matters are the RELATIONSHIPS.  Consider this:  The gun folks were up in arms about the possibility of background checks being retained as a "confiscation list."  But the signals from two cell towers (two, so you know where the signals overlap) that both cover a gun store or gun range is even better.  Grab every phone number (metadata) connected to the tower and store it.  Relate positional information to the gun store or gun range. Then begin tracking what NEW telephone numbers the telephone numbers you collected at the gun store/range contact and who they contact.  This collection cascades into a master relationships database: some deadends, some "of interest," but all keepers because all data has value.   You'll also have their movements via cell tracking (even if GPS is turned off).  So you can determine who met with whom, where and when.  More importantly, the government will be smoking out those gun owners who'd purposely flown beneath the background check radar by only buying from individuals or at gun shows.  Instant confiscation list.  With powerful HADOOP processors in an array of servers with nearly unlimited storage and using sophisticated NO SQL search engines, you can, within a short time, pull together all the RELATIONSHIPS you should target.  Then, add in and link to web and email traffic (not the content, just the relationships) and the government has a nearly complete picture of your and your movements, your core beliefs, and your contacts.  It's also been revealed that the USPS has been electronically recording the address information on the outside of mail, so add that to the relationship mix, too.  Finally, the police have been deploying license plate readers on patrol cars.  These readers process every plate the police car encounters in traffic comparing it with wanted and stolen plates.  However, the data is retained.  So, when linked with DMV records and your cellphone, add that to the data pile of what the government knows about you and can track....even if you turn off your cellphone.  Notice all the traffic cameras around: at intersections, along freeways.    License plates are easy to read and catalog and the software is getting better all the time.  Now, if you believe that the government is benign and you've got nothing to hide, that's naive.  Maybe not this administration, but some administration --maybe some administration in your child's adult days--  will be tempted to use this information against the citizens...or more likely, some subset of citizens.  Add in the various "watch lists" the government maintains and you should be concerned, at the least.  You'll notice how quickly the politicians and the administration are to label some person or group a terrorist.  So, who can be targeted as "terrorists" using this data: Gun Owners Occupy Wall Street protesters Anti-G8 protesters People of religion or a subset of some religion anti-war protesters animal rights activists school reformers the poor the rich business owners environmentalists oil-frackers soccer moms Republicans Democrats All it takes for your government to turn on you is for you to join some group actively opposing what government or some subset of government is doing and you, too, can be labeled a terrorist.  And, because this information is actually in the hands of security contractors, any business can come after you as well.  All of us would have trouble trying to account for every movement, every verbal shot fired in anger on the internet, every meeting, every telephone call.  They --business or the government-- can break you just by keeping your in court for years.  The real danger is that you let the fear of being targeted keep you from participating, from correcting the government when it's wrong.  All it takes is a few highly publicised examples to have a chilling effect on any resistance to the government's will.  Sure this Texas kid was dumb, but this is what happens when the government turns the full weight of the system on you because of an immature joke:  'LOL, JK': Texas teen faces 8 years in prison for making 'terroristic threat' online 'LOL, JK': Texas teen faces 8 years in prison for making 'terroristic threat' online    Embed Quote 