What is wrong in the data collection programs by the NSA and United States?
It is not about whether you have something to hide or not. The main reason why it is wrong is because it is a violation of the Fourth Amendment, which guarantees our protection against illegal search and seizures (violation of privacy). The Government is overstepping its boundaries, and acting in a way in which it is not authorized . This is a dangerous precedent to set. This is made even more dangerous by the fact that the word "terrorist" is very poorly defined. If the government is able to spy on American citizens, it could conceivably persecute people for expressing opinions (for example if someone voices support for a terrorist act). This might sound like a stretch, but something very similar to this happened in the 1950's with the word "Communist" replacing "Terrorist", and it is not inconceivable that this could happen again. (this is known as McCarthyism; here are a few links to wikipedia pages that can get you started looking into this piece of history if you are interested: McCarthyism Joseph McCarthy House Un-American Activities Committee Hollywood blacklist People take for granted that the government is inherently good/moral, but this is not the case. Our system of Government is, in my opinion, very good/moral, but not necessarily the people running the government. When injustices are carried out by our leaders, the American people are empowered to make changes. By spying on its citizens, the American government is threatening one of the tenants that allow us to make these changes should we need to (and when the government is directly violating the constitution, I would assert that we most certainly do need to make changes). Its not a matter of whether or not you have something to hide, its about keeping the government in check, and protecting our civil liberties; there is no guarantee that the leaders of our country will always behave in our best interests (although they may or may not mean well), unless we make sure that they do. Thats why we have the system of Checks and Balances, and the Bill of Rights, which are vital to preserving the American way of life. On a final note, keep in mind that the goal of terrorism is to spread fear. If we allow the threat posed by terrorists to scare us to the point that we sacrifice our constitution, then we are allowing them to do so, we are, if you will, allowing them to "win". Keep in mind that the United States Government was warned about the Tsarnaev brothers and the 9/11 attacks, and that this information was not sufficient to stop these people from carrying out attacks, making the effectiveness of spying on American citizens questionable. The proposition of the government setting a precedent of violating our constitutional rights is to me, much more worrisome than any sort of terrorist attack.    Embed Quote 