★How did our generation become the helicopter generation?My friends and I think about this, and we have some theories.
When I was a little girl, (we're talking 9 and older) I would skip school/spend summers to take the subway into the city, ride considerable distances on my bike, wander building projects and private wooded areas, chase after frogs in drainage ditches, spend the cold days at the library and swim in THIS river. All completely unsupervised. (I live in an urban state teaming with natural beauty.) It's interesting that I didn't get drowned, accosted, or severely injured. I would never let my children do a single one of those legal activities unsupervised, even if they weren't autistic. However, most of my peers were in activities and clubs. Organized activities were just as prevalent back then with sports, scouting, and the arts taking up much of the middle/upper class child's time. Occasionally they would ride bikes in the street but in general you didn't see them. I do not think the over-scheduling is new. What has changed?? There is more scrutiny on parents in terms of supervision and care I believe because: There is less a sense of safety. Whether or not children are in more danger now than we were is irrelevant it just FEELS that way Because... The nature of work as well as relationships among neighbor has changed. Neighbors know each other less and there is less of a sense of community. I have heard neighbors used to look out for each other and each others kids. No more. There are less stay at home parents. Extended family lives farther away now, so there is less community supervision in one sense. We have children who run the streets here, quite independent and financially industrious street gangs. They get into an enormous amount of trouble. I wish their parents would be more protective. There is a perception of less time. We tend to longer work hours,and have busier schedules than previous generations ever did.  Family meals and activities are looked on as extras now. The lack of time leads to more dependent children because It's just easier to do things yourself. We do children a disservice when they don't learn to do chores, or cook, or manage their free time (to their developmental ability). However there is often so little time for that it makes sense for many parents to just do it themselves. Societal expectations have changed.When I was young and a kid got a fever, or the flu they stayed home from school for a day or two to see if things improved. Now you need a doctors note for everything. Society expects the constant supervision of children for safety sake, and people who have money ARE often made to feel bad if they don't provide endless activities and what not, and yet also, as Sonnet points out, made to feel guilty for the exact same thing. For me, I think I am a mix... I don't give a flying fuck what my neighbors think or some generalized view on the childhood. We're quite unconventional round here.  Free play is vital to development. and for the most part except for when a definite interest presents itself, we do not do organized activities so that there IS time for that. We have meals together and play together. HOWEVER, this is no longer a world where children can roam unsupervised and mine do not. For me its a matter of safety. It's how things are now.