★Is lead generation a dying business?There have been a number of articles published stating that because of more efficient internet advertising platforms, and for other, similar reasons, online lead generation is "dead."  Agree or disagree?
The implication of the question is that inbound marketing will totally replace outbound sales across the board. In most industries it will not. As long as companies are employing salespeople to make calls, shake hands, and pitch, there will be a demand for lead generation. As a matter of fact, many marketers are starting to use what you might call lead generation services for hyper-targeted messaging, especially for higher-priced goods and services. However, it is correct to assume that 'traditional' lead generation techniques such as buying canned lead lists are going by the wayside. One reason is that the data is moving too rapidly. According to the Bureau of Labor and Statistics, monthly hire-separation rate can be over 6% in some industries. This means that after 1-year,  48% of the people in that industry - potential leads -  have changed jobs. Canned lists from services like Data.com or zoominfo.com can already be months old by the time salespeople get ahold of them. Stale data leads to lower close rates. Moreover, these lists only offer discrete and limited information: names, email addresses, job title, some company info. This 1-dimension data is not enough to qualify buyers. Thus, the question, "is lead generation a dying business?" Lead generation is not dead, but smart companies are approaching it differently. Some now call it 'demand generation.' In any case, the new approach is building custom lists based on buying signals specific to each company. Hiring sales development reps (SDRs) to comb through LinkedIn pages, company websites, government data, etc. is one way. There are also services like LeadGenius.com that offer on-going, custom lead generation. Lead Genius uses a combination of software, private data sources, and remote workers to comb through data and create custom lists. So, lead generation is not dead. Because these is so much more data out there today, there is actually more value in lead generation than ever before. The challenge is finding a way to get actionable data in a cost effective way. In my opinion, the best way to do it is to hire a service like LeadGenius to do it for you.    Embed Quote