★In programming, is a random number generator truly random?Or are the random numbers generated by a hidden algorithm?
Short answer: No Long answer: Randomness Randomness (statistics) (links to: /Randomness-statistics) is a very complicated thing. No number generated by algorithm is truly random. Many pseudo-random number generators use external input to enhance their randomness. This, however, can be expensive depending on the amount of randomness necessary. Thus, the amount of randomness necessary often depends on the reason randomness is necessary. The random input into a pseudo random number generator is also known as a "seed", and usually a relatively small seed is needed to generated a large, unpredictable bit stream. In general, there are two classes of (pseudo-)random number generation. The first, casual PRNGs, as used in games and monte carlo Monte Carlo (links to: /Monte-Carlo-Techniques) simulations, simply need to exhibit properties consistent with randomness. These are often seeded with the system time to create unpredictablility. They do not have any security requirement. An example of such an algorithm would be , where is the nth random number, A and B are numbers, and P is a large prime. is set to the seed for the stream. This exhibits decent properties for very casual applications. Computer simulations usually go a bit farther and apply a Linear feedback shift register. The second type of randomness is for cryptographic and security applications. In these case, all the properties of random number generators, but especially unpredictability, become crucial. For example, if you managed to somehow find out half of a secret key generated using a pseudo-random number generator, you should have little to no information about the other half. These generators will use hardware inputs like keystroke timing and disk latency to seed the stream. The algorithm itself will something more heavyweight. An example of a very cryptographically secure random number generation algorithm is the Blum Blum Shub algorithm, which IIRC is too costly and therefore not used in practice.