★Did the Baby Boomer generation commit generational theft?
Not individually. I was born in 1983, so my parents were Baby Boomers and were great parents. You can't take a two-decade block of time and declare everyone who was born in it to be assholes. It's just unreasonable. That said, if you evaluate the Boomers with a focus on "the 1 percent" or the "Power Elite", you get a crop of absolutely worthless assholes who, yeah, pretty much fucked the country. Average people in the Baby Boomer generation weren't any worse than average people in any other but, for some reason that I'm sure is hotly debated, the Boomers who got into power (starting in the 1980s) were absolutely horrible. That generation put its best foot forward in the 1960s and '70s, but turned into a disaster post-1980. I'm not sure that I blame this on the Boomers alone. They held the reins when America fell to pieces, and with Xers taking the helm, the country seems to be slowly getting better, but I think it's obvious that not everything can be blamed on them. The Strauss-Howe theory (which has some merit, though I wouldn't swallow it wholesale) indicates that every 4th ("Civic") generation gets the role of redefining society. (If they're to be believed, the Millennials will get that job, after 2030 or so when things have gone to shit.) Two generations after that is a "Prophet" generation that challenges what exists. Last time, it was the G.I. ("Greatest") Generation who set society up (in the New Deal era) and, while they achieved a lot, they also completely dropped the ball on civil rights and gender equality, not to mention getting us into a needless war (Vietnam) far worse than that one in Iraq that a Boomer got us into. The society that they created was great at building stable, respectable, powerful institutions but those were often soulless, conformist, and exclusionary. Of course, no generation is all good or bad, and the "Greatest" Generation had its share of assholes, too. In midlife, they accelerated service organizations like the Rotary Club, but they also revived the Klan. The Boomers were the ones to announce the failure of the G.I.-led society exemplified by the American 1950s and early '60s (see: Mad Men). You had the civil rights movement, you had left-wingers ranging from moderate socialists to dangerous radicals, and you also had the (incoherent, impractical) hippie movement. Then something happened in the late 1970s: Boomers started getting into positions of power, and we saw an almost instantaneous switch in people from radical leftism to arrogant, militant conservatism. This gave the generation a bad name, because it showed an ugly picture: selfish, arrogant leftism in the young, turned into selfish, arrogant rightism once power was acquired. Of course, there were plenty of Baby Boomers who still believed strongly in their causes (racial and gender equality, social and economic justice) and who fight for those causes to this day, but the focus wasn't on them. In the 1980s, the popular eye shifted to the yuppies: the people who dropped acid in the 1969 and were earning six-figure salaries in 1977. We also saw "leftists" turning into neoconservatives, even though most of the people who changed in that way were never liberals, civil rights protestors, or hippies. Most of them, if you study their trajectories, were the aggressive, often violent, communists and socialists (i.e. authoritarian leftists) who'd stepped into the authoritarian right in middle age. That's actually not a large step at all. Controlling people might change their attitudes on economics, especially as they become wealthier, but their core character remains the same. Even though there wasn't always overlap in the various crowds, the stereotype of a hippie or a civil rights activist turning into a "greed is good" Wall Streeter and a slimy Enron executive stuck. Never mind that they were often different people. There were and are a lot of good people in the Baby Boomer generation and they don't get enough exposure. For a variety of reasons, though, the G.I.-built "Great Society" started to fall apart in the 1980s. While racism and radical religion were not new, Republicans (starting with Nixon in '68) set a precedent that made it acceptable to exploit those, bringing a generation of angry white Southerners to vote against their economic interests (even to this day). Corporate cultures began to fall apart, as storied, long-term institutions were forced to manage to the short-term in an era of leveraged buyouts and hostile takeovers. R&D investment shrank (in CS, this is called "the AI Winter", but it affected all of science) and academic jobs became rarer and the politics of getting them got more competitive. Ethics in the professions became looser in a more competitive world. Now, all of this started in the late 1970s when the oldest Boomers were just coming into their 30s, so it wasn't just them who dismantled society. In fact, the father of corporate stack ranking and therefore the indirect murderer of corporate ethics (Enron) and numerous technology companies (Microsoft, Google), Jack Welch, was a Silent (born 1935). What I think makes the Boomer "1 percent", meaning the current corporate elite, so heinous is that, while they didn't start the destruction, they accelerated it and they profited immensely from it. The G.I. Generation, for all their faults and oversights, had a sense of noblesse oblige. The Silents (Mad Men era) relaxed the rules a bit and let some clubby moral sloppiness through the gates. The Boomers? Well, they just went wild. They became the creators of real estate bubbles and the university presidents whose massive staffs necessitated obnoxiously high college tuitions. They blew up Enron and got us into Iraq and fucked up Katrina and gave us the Patriot Act and a world where $800/month health insurance is normal. Why so? The 1980s was a time of ethical "relaxation", meaning organizational dismantling, but it was subtle. You wouldn't have seen it if you were a politically-oriented person. If you were a hard-working researcher in Bell Labs, or a physician with a private practice, you'd have had no idea. Most Baby Boomers were in their 20s and 30s and just trying to get started with career and family, but the slowly decaying civic environment gave an advantage to those well-suited to exploiting dysfunction. The people who are current our corporate elite are those who, 20-35 years ago, excelled at finding profit in organizational, civic, and ethical decline. As they grew older and more powerful, they began accelerating this decline and profiting even more. By the mid-2000s, it was evident that they'd thrown our society into the shitter. We had grown an elite that brought itself up not by building new things, as in the G.I. Generation; but an elite made by stripping copper off the pipes. That's why, even though most Boomers aren't assholes, the ones running Corporate America are so horrible. So, yes, the Boomer elite are a bunch of assholes and if there is a hell, there'll be a detectable change in temperature/pressure as they fall into it. Are they guilty of "generational theft"? I'm not sure. A lot of Baby Boomers are aging and suffering right now. The people getting robbed by their health insurance companies are mostly Boomers, and so are the people getting perma-fired by age discrimination. Sure, you have a few overpaid, worthless corporate executives, and you have the douchebag anti-vax California NIMBYs who lucked into houses now worth $2 million, but average Baby Boomers are just as fucked as Gen-Xers and Millennials (and probably won't have time to recover, because they'll be dead before society has recovered from its current sorry state.) Yes, there's been a lot of theft over the past three decades, and Baby Boomers have been at the helm for much of it. Is it "generational" theft? I'm not sure that I'd make that distinction. 99-percenter Boomers are suffering from it just as much as anyone else, and while a certain small set of Baby Boomers did do immense damage to this country, I disagree with the portrayal of that generation as being full of assholes. Many of them have done a lot of good, especially toward racial and gender equality.    Embed Quote