★Lead Generation: Are there lead generation businesses for plumbers?
There's a ton.  Most offer shared leads that go out to 3 or 4 plumbers total, or some combination of shared and exclusive leads. Here are a few: TheHomeFixers.com (Full Disclosure - I work here).  Plumbing leads sell for $15 each, with no signup fees, monthly or annual premiums.  You simply pay for what you get.  We don't differentiate by jobtype, we charge $15 a lead whether it's a remodeling lead or a toilet repair lead.  An intro rate of $7.50 a lead is available, which I believe is the cheapest price per lead available anywhere on the internet for plumbing leads.  Exclusive leads entered in a plumber's profile page on the site are 100% free of charge. ServiceMagic:  They charge a $100 sign up fee, plus a per lead fee that very much depends on the type of lead.  They also offer an exact match service, where they send you leads exclusively for 150% of the cost of a regular lead.  Watch out though - the way they generate exclusive leads is by creating directory listings for your business all over the internet with a fake intercept number that routs to them.  This can be hell on your Local SEO strategy (inconsistent NAP, but that's an answer for another question.  See the Local SEO board (Local SEO) Networx: (Full disclosure - I worked here 3 years ago): They offer a monthly subscription to lead gen service.  You get a listing in a city, and they send you leads with no guarantee as to volume, but they're usually pretty consistent in an industry like plumbing.  On the other hand, if they have a bad month with few or no leads, there's no discount.  Also, the service area you sign up for is area code based, which doesn't always make the most sense - see the 301 area in MD or the 508 area code in MA, and you'll see why.  Price varies by city/area code, and they offer some discounts if you take multiple areas. Elocal: They offer more of a directory based listing where you pay per zip code that you are the exclusive or promoted sponsor in.  I'm not sure exactly how their pricing works, but they do send some leads out.    Embed Quote