★Is lead generation a dying business?There have been a number of articles published stating that because of more efficient internet advertising platforms, and for other, similar reasons, online lead generation is "dead."  Agree or disagree?
Lead generation is not dead, but it certainly is evolving beyond the old style, drive them to a form or phone call and close the deal. I would agree that the name is changing, mostly because of the old school/style of lead generation that is evolving to a more sophisticated, multi-step process. While the advances in advertising platforms have made all sorts of targeting available, and retargeting of course, this does not replace the lead generation process as much as cause the process to adapt to the new and more precise forms of targeting. Lead generation used to involve asking the right questions, or having one shot ads driving to a form - and this model is still alive in certain markets. Now with all the social tools available, you want to approach groups of interested folks - so you could do this with a simple online event or promotion, and then weave your lead generation message around that initial event. What's happening with lead generation is the creation of a pre-lead step, a qualifying step. Some of the qualifying can be done with current advertising platforms, yet even that has to be re-qualified and directed to a solution. So this involves longer Q&A's up front, a payout mechanism that can blend the traditional CPA of filling out a form with a CPS if a purchase is made (or increase the bounty paid upon successful purchase). Google "online education" or "U of Phoenix" and click on a PPC ad - the funnels for that market gather pre-information and build to a lead. Educational and financial services lead generation are alive and well, though many are not using the name "lead generation", in some ways because it has a bad rep (and the source of these articles, hoping that technology can replace a process that must be customized constantly by the lead generation company). The name change is also indicative of how a lead is generated, and the varying forms and levels of qualification available now with social media and with the amazing tracking we get on advertising platforms. Now lead generation can be called: 1. Per inquiry, generating sometimes a shorter response for follow up; this is just short of the "call to action" step, and is like a traditional, no sales first contact in lead generation. 2. Per Engagement - to me this is one of the most hyped and over used measures, because what is an "engagement"? Is it simply taking an action like commenting, or liking, or voting, or somehow participating in a game scenario? Once the party defines what an engagement constitutes, they goout and get it, and often drive these back into the traditional lead funnel. 3. Per Action: if the user takes an action that shares some data, or by taking an action shares further data, then a payment per action. Here is where some of the social actions are filling in - ie, buying LIkes for example as a pay per action - the gaps of lead generation by creating an initial action that can be measured, paid for, and should lead to the lead funnel when done. I don't think lead generation is dead, only the name, and while what companies do today is not the old style of lead generation, is is an evolution of the same process of contacting, qualifying, and closing customers, with a few more social steps thrown that expand the reach of traditional lead generation to something new, something hopefully more qualified. Now the challenge is, with smaller more targeted audiences, it's hard to get the volume you need. Volume versus quantity is still the battle in lead generation, or whatever you want to call it.    Embed Quote