★How can I generate website traffic with $0 marketing budget?My Startup is out of cash and we are 2 days before launch. I don't think we will see any investment coming in next 3 months not even from a family members so we need to start selling quickly.
Before using any of the tactics below, you’ll want to first understand the specific demographics of people who will absolutely love your product and have a product that they will love -- because if you’re on a budget, you can’t afford to spend time or money acquiring the wrong users or acquiring users to the wrong product. Check out my blog post on customer development (How to Deliver Effective Customer Development Interviews) for more advice on this topic. 1. Search Engine Optimization (SEO) SEO is the process of affecting the visibility of a website or a web page in a search engine's un-paid search results. Find out what your customers are searching for and create copy, landing pages, and content that answer their queries. But be aware that if/when Google changes its algorithm, your traffic can change considerably. To learn more about SEO, check out SEOmoz’s “The Free Beginner’s Guide to SEO.” (The Free Beginner’s Guide From SEOmoz) 2. Referrals Referrals can be a valuable source of user growth because people are more likely to convert when they have a recommendation coming from a trusted source. Some tactics for encouraging referrals include: incentivizing  users with premium services or content allowing people to brag about their accomplishments allowing users to create content that they want to share with friends making their experience better  in some way by having more friends use the productIt’s important not to force referrals, and instead have it be a natural use of the product. 3. Press Getting covered in a major publication that your target market reads can lead to a lot of traffic to your site. Some tips for getting press include: When reaching out to journalists, keep e-mails short and personalized and have a differentiated subject line See who’s writing about your competitors, reach out them, and differentiate yourself Be a thought leader in your space - reporters will reach out to your for data or your opinion Position yourself as part of a trend that media companies are frequently covering Use LinkedIn to see if you have mutual connections with the reporter you want to get covered by and ask for introduction 4. Hit the streets Call your friends and family - if they’re in your target market ask them to sign up, if they’re not, ask for introductions to people who are. Figure out where your target market hangs out and go there with an ipad and ask them to sign up. This is obviously not scalable, but it can be a great way to get your very first users and provide a nice base for users you acquire through other channels. 5. Content marketing Content marketing is a marketing technique of creating and distributing relevant and valuable content to engage potential customers. Become a thought leader in your space. Offering something of value will drive customers to you. Quora is a great place to reach many target markets and get recognized it. By asking questions, people are taking a proactive approach to consuming content marketing. Tweeting something self-promotional is annoying, but tweeting something interesting or valuable will get people to engage with you. 6. Strategic partnerships A distribution or other strategic partnership with companies or organizations that serve your target market can be helpful in driving user adoption. Identify those companies and organizations and find a way to make a deal mutually beneficial. Partnerships are usually structured as a fee per acquisition or revenue share -- revenue share is lower risk. 7. Split testing split testing or A/B testing compares the effectiveness of two versions of a web page, marketing email, or the like, in order to discover which has better response rate or better sales conversion rate. Examples of tests on a signup page include length of the sign-up form, types of fields in the form, images, display of privacy policy, etc. Scaling up Don’t dump too much money into user acquisition until you’ve confirmed a positive ROI for a given channel. Or before finding product-market fit, because you don’t want drive people to the wrong product, or drive the wrong people to the product. Use cohort analysis to determine where your best users are coming from. Your best channel is not just the ones that drive the most traffic...it’s the one that drives the best users. To learn more... I tried to keep this short and practical - it’s not an exhaustive list and I don’t cover each tactic in detail. I'm covering these tactics along with many more, and in much more detail at Increase Website Traffic | How to Increase Website Traffic    Embed Quote