★Is the emerging generation of American adults a bunch of "spoiled, entitled, lazy, whiny, unappreciative brats"?Some context for those who don't know... The Baby Boomers are those born 1946-1964, Generation X were born 1964-1981, Generation Y/The Echoes/The Millennials were born 1981-2000's. Do you think what the media, and older generations are saying about The Echoes is true?
I'm glad you used the terms you did in your question, as they seem purposefully outdated. And I think , possibly out of my own tone deafness, I'm hearing irony. And here's why I think so. Here is a generation who were herded into a massive housing glut. Here's a generation who are sold so hard on accruing debt immediately upon high school graduation, that they almost automatically end up 20,000 bucks in the hole before completing half an undergraduate degree. They can no longer go into manufacturing, because we've shipped those jobs. They could go into building trades, but those job opportunities are at a low ebb and shrinking. They almost have to invent a job for themselves, build their own random set of skills and grind for the best outcome. I'm forty now, and a Canadian. And for some reason, I was essentially guaranteed a high standard of living, with mediocre effort and with essentially no need to save money with any real discipline. I have 'worked hard.' I'm completely happy with all this world has offered and I have taken enough to secure my future. But I have two kids from the generation of which you speak. And I was dead scared for so long. They were lazy, I thought. They didn't appreciate anything, I thought. But it wasn't true. It was me, in my thirties, who was lazy. I lived in a time of plenty. I brought my kids into a world of plenty. I could buy them things whenever I wanted. I could take them places whenever I wanted. I could put them in front of screens whenever I wanted to play. It was too easy for me. And my kids became seemingly lazy slobs. They seemed incapable of rolling up their sleeves and accomplishing physical work. But it wasn't true. Here's what happened. We sold our house and had to get the place ready to hand over. When I first handed my son a basement job he accepted and I found him sprawled with the cats on top of the washer and dryer. He was slow and mostly useless. But them I told him what was a stake, and he almost immediately evolved into a kickass labourer. I gave him measured words and I was encouraging and he repaid me five fold. He became a hard worker. I was positive and encouraging and he easily picked up on the physical stuff. He mastered the physical stuff in a week. But then I thought about the work he's been doing all along. We got a smokin computer twelve years ago. He learned how to edit video and then he taught himself to do clay animation on iMovie. He taught himself to use Garage band and then to compose music on that application. He taught himself to sculpt in every medium possible. Candle wax, tin foil - whatever was at hand. He taught himself keyboard and to play music by ear and to play guitar and base guitar in a punk rock band. And these are all things I wish I could do but remain afraid to commit to learning. He did all that. But he was a 'lazy little bugger' in my eyes much of the time, because he was slow at tending the yard. So I pressed him with phoney moral bullshit, when I knew better. And I knew the truth. These kids can do anything with their hands that I ever could. But they are so adept. They are so aware. They are conciliatory. And if their parents really want it, they can grind the dirt, if you ask them the right way. And here's the world I handed to my kids. Nobody can have any faith in government - bought and paid for. Because of my complacency, they'll have to scrap like bastards to recover our democratic rights. They're almost gone now. The ecosphere is almost damaged beyond repair, because of the greed and selfishness of me and my generation. These kids are no longer offered wealth. They are offered debt. All those institutions which were ironclad in my youth: utilities, cable, phone -  they are now a money-grabbing political scam. Their governments are spying on them. Their governments are suspending habeous corpus. Their governments are killing people without charges. Their judiciary came up for sale. Everything broadcast to them is a complete lie. Every two months, on cue, they see a bloody massacre. They hear their government worshipping violence as the solution to all human problems. History is taught to them through ridiculous video game narratives. It's ludicrous. And it's harder than the world I faced at that age. No, the kids ain't lazy. They're just brushing us off because we were such crappy stewards for our democracy, our economy and our environment. They're capable and adept and aware. And those are the skills they'll need to give us our democracy back. I wish them the best.    Embed Quote