★What's the best marketing automation tool for B2B lead generation?"B2B Marketing" lists the following available tools: Pardot, Eloqua, Silverpop B2B Engage, Marketo, Aprimo, Neolane, Manticore, HubSpot, Swift Pages and Vertical Response.
In four years of constantly evaluating marketing automation technology at a B2B marketing agency (http://thestarrconspiracy.com), I had three favorites. I was never all that impressed by Marketo or Eloqua if you're into agile (moving freaking fast) or Agile (capital P, meaning the Agile methodology). If you want to move fast, with a clean UI and user-friendly, intuitive processes, these were my favorites: SharpSpring — http://sharpspring.com — really intuitive marketing automation for agencies. They were recently acquired, so definitely ask how that would impact service delivery, but when I demoed the software, it offered really clear lead nurturing processes, anonymous data capture, and dynamic content. They have a killer white label option and (I believe) their own CRM. Hubspot — http://hubspot.com — this is, far and away, the most fitting marketing automation software I have ever used if you're into inbound and/or content marketing. With the ability to publish, share, email, monitor, and report on your content from one simple, user-friendly dashboard, you'll find it easy to figure out how your content marketing is working for you. They also support dynamic content, social sharing, and they have a killer customer community for support. Act-On — http://act-on.com — Act-On has a few really cool features that none of the others have and a competitive price point. Honestly, you can learn a lot about which marketing automation technology will support your specific goals by checking out the range of options at a site like Trust Radius — http://trustradius.com — or G2Crowd — http://g2crowd.com — and then taking demos of the top 3 or 4 on your list. I know it can be annoying to open the door to salespeople this way, but my experience with each of the three above was very good — their salespeople were understanding and patient, easy to talk to, and knowledgeable about our marketing needs and industry.    Embed Quote