★What's the best marketing automation tool for B2B lead generation?"B2B Marketing" lists the following available tools: Pardot, Eloqua, Silverpop B2B Engage, Marketo, Aprimo, Neolane, Manticore, HubSpot, Swift Pages and Vertical Response.
A lot of the information on this post is outdated (circa 2011). I just posted the following (below) to a similar question. https://www.quora.com/What-are-s... Pricing can be misleading in the space - many providers have a variety of costs around integration with CRM or certain feature usage. The biggest surprise to most buyers is when services get layered on, and often you'll hear about "I ended up using <provider name> only to send email - it was too hard/too expensive to do the complete implementation." I think everyone in the space will tell you they sell to every size company, but often they are not set-up to deliver excellent service to every size company. Generally, here's how the market plays out. The top three players all have similar capabilities and features, but lean toward certain types of customers and needs. I've tried to be objective, downplay my employer (Silverpop), but I'm sure every provider is itching to correct my assumptions. Eloqua - expensive, better for large B2B buyers, struggles to deliver high volumes of communications (B2C) and generally has a large services implementation cost. Requires a CRM system (like Salesforce.com) for the marketing database. They tend to focus on very complex integrations and business processes. Over $80M in revenue. Silverpop - (where I work) Entered Marketing Automation in 2007 as a very large ESP and built MA capabilities into the platform over time. Priced minimum of $500/mo up to $millions/year. Strengths are with companies that are starting with email needs today and desiring to add increasing MA functionality over time. Because of the email legacy, deliverability/web tracking/multi-channel-device/and social are core to the platform - focus is behavioral marketing. Pricing is generally lower because it's often based on send volume not on database size, unless you send a lot. Does not require a CRM system, and integrates easily with most systems. Over $80M in revenue. Marketo - priced mid-range, but generally focuses on high tech companies with modest level of sophisitication and lower email requirements on deliverability. Has "Marketo Spark" which is a pricing solution for small companies, but most buyers seem to end up with the more uprange package. Strengths in RPM and backoffice reporting - geared more toward sales and less toward marketing use cases. Not high volume, and requires a CRM database (like Salesforce.com) for your marketing database. About $35M in revenue (2012 est). Pardot, Act-on, Genius, Loopfuse - generally similar in that the feature sets are lighter, the customers are smaller, and platform stability and scale may be a challenge. Usually flexible contract terms and trials because of the "app" like nature of the solution. Good for companies that need auto-triggers and light capability. All under $10M in revenue. I hope this helps. /Eric    Embed Quote