★Will Facebook ever generate more revenue than Google?If so how will Facebook do this and when will it happen?
Absolutely no time soon. And because this question is explicitly asking about revenue, the answer is almost certainly never. Why? Well consider first some critical data from 2011: Google: $38B revs, Y/Y rev growth 29% Facebook: $3.7B rev, Y/Y rev growth 88% So Google has 10x Facebook revenues as of the end of last year, but, hey, Facebook is growing much faster, right? Well.... There are two completely unrelated sets of mitigating factors here: Facebook growth is actually slowing -- at least somewhat This answer will be partly out of date shortly when Facebook announces its second-quarter 2012 results. But even without those, we do know this: That 88% year-over-year number looks a bit less impressive when viewed through the lens of the last three quarters. It's still impressive, but consider these comparisons: Q3 2010 vs. Q3 2011: 954M vs. 467M, 104% growth Q4 2010 vs. Q4 2011: 1131M vs. 731M, 54% growth Q1 2011 vs. Q1 2012: 1068M vs. 731M, 46% growth So, significantly, aside from the fact that growth is now slow enough it doesn't automatically overcome seasonality, there is also the fact that the rate of growth itself is clearly decelerating. Now, no one is suggesting there is nothing Facebook can do to change the slope of the curve ever again. However, the company is doubtless closing in on 1 billion users and those users already are regular users -- roughly half of Facebook's users log in each day. The next billion users are going to be a lot harder to come by and since they are less likely to be in the world's most advanced economies, less easy to monetize at the same level. (There is already strong evidence that Facebook's most valuable users are in places like the U.S., where advertising is the most lucrative). Furthermore, while Facebook is currently only beginning to monetize mobile, more and more of the traffic is moving toward mobile and there is a strong emerging consensus that advertising on mobile is less lucrative than advertising on the web. Again, please don't misinterpret any of this. I -- and others -- believe Facebook will (a) monetize mobile (b) will do so well (c) will grow and add users. But these things are all headwinds and the idea that growth is going to accelerate significantly from here on a top-line basis is somewhat absurd. Keep in mind, also, that Facebook already gets a significant piece of the online advertising business which, while growing, is no longer growing like gangbusters. To be honest, if Facebook can manage 50% revenue growth for any significant period from here out, that achievement would be extraordinary, be more than satisfactory to build one of the most valuable businesses on earth (more so than they are already one of those), and is probably a high-end scenario unless the company develops entirely new lines of business. Could it do this? Sure it can... but then, the other company in this question could too. And what they've learned is how hard it is to turn those new businesses into money. Speaking of which... Google bought Motorola Mobility So the part where Google was only 10x as big as Facebook? That's last year's news. Although growing the revenue line was precisely none of Google's motivation to buy Motorola's mobile-device company, it acquired a $13 billion business when it did so. Effectively, what this means is that Google -- which would likely have approached $50 billion in revenues this year -- will be on its way toward being a $60 billion company instead. So what does all this mean? It means that by the end of 2012, Google will still be approximately 10x the size of Facebook in revenues (as well as earnings). If Facebook grows revenues at a compounded 50% for the next 5 years, it will reach the size of Google 2011. There are people who believe this kind of growth is possible. Let me say this: I'm one of them, but not based solely on Facebook's current moneti... (more)Loading...