★What's the best marketing automation tool for B2B lead generation?"B2B Marketing" lists the following available tools: Pardot, Eloqua, Silverpop B2B Engage, Marketo, Aprimo, Neolane, Manticore, HubSpot, Swift Pages and Vertical Response.
Most of the players in the field today are in there because they've got something going for them. There's no right or wrong answer to the question of which is the best automation tool and the real secret is that you've got to ask yourself a couple of basic questions to decide which platform is best for you. Based on those questions you can start to narrow down the options and from there you can find the solution that's right for you. 1. What's your budget? Are you a big enterprise that can afford $5,000 or more a month? If you can scratch Neolane and Eloqua off the list already. If you're looking for cheap solution, you're going to want to check out Ontraport which offers a really robust set of features for a decent price as well as Spokal particularly if you're site is a Word Press site. If you're in the middle, and you've got some budget but you're not made of money then unfortunately for you, you've still got too many options to make a decision. 2. What features are important to me? If you're all about customization and sophisticated marketing wizardry, Marketo is an awesome solution which can give you the ability to wow over and over. But marketing wizardry has a cost and that cost is the level of effort and particularly the elusive expertise required to actually work the magic. Think of the analogy of an air show. If you've ever seen the roulettes, or the blue aces, perform they make flying fighter jets in close formation and pulling off amazing stunts seem like child's play. What we're seeing though is the results of years of study, of training, and of experience making something that's incredibly sophisticated seem simple. An amateur in the same position, well... It's not going to end so well... Marketo is a sophisticated piece of marketing machinery and having a marketing engineer to help you with it is a must if you want to get the awesome results you hear about. On the other hand, platforms like HubSpot simplify the implementation of marketing processes. They restrict your ability to think outside the box, but that also helps you turn it into a game that anyone can play. Combined with their cool reporting tools, this makes them a great solution for marketing teams with a bit of budget, but not enough to get an ace to help pilot their system, and who have relatively straight forward marketing needs. Pardot is definitely going to be one to watch in the next year or so. Having been acquired by Salesforce.com, and with a decent underlying platform, it will be very interesting to see what sort of platform they can turn it into in the next 12 months. If what you're looking for is an email platform that allows you to trigger emails based on behavior but doesn't need a sophisticated backend and isn't the going to be the hub of your marketing universe SilverPop offers a an attractive solution. It's not quite marketing automation, but it is a very advanced email marketing platform and that could work for some companies. While I feel as though I should include a third question for the sake of copywriting, really those are your big 2... There's plenty of drilling down to do within them, but if you figure out what your company's needs are, and what your purchasing power is, you'll probably narrow the search down to one or 2 options. As always, if your problem persists, just seek out expert help :) There's a few people out there that don't work for any of these companies and will be happy to give you an objective needs evaluation and help you in making the right choice. Good luck    Embed Quote