★How can I generate website traffic with $0 marketing budget?My Startup is out of cash and we are 2 days before launch. I don't think we will see any investment coming in next 3 months not even from a family members so we need to start selling quickly.
Making your product/ service or platform discoverable and increasing its visibility across the web is one of the most difficult yet the most important task for an entrepreneur or a blog owner. The best way is always to try out all the channels available to you and then gauge the conversions from each of those channels so that you can invest more time and money on the ones that’s giving you the best results. The strategy that’s best for you would also depend on your product and the niche you are operating in. You could split the strategies you could adopt into push and pull or paid and non-paid strategies. All of these strategies would require plenty of your time and effort. Nothing comes for free! J 1) Blogging Blogging is one of the most proven and effective strategies for gaining visibility and establishing yourself as a thought leader. If used in the right way and provided the quality of the content is awesome, it could easily be the best channel to drive traffic. You would want to have blog posts that are read and shared. So ensure that you create quality content, try and analyse what sells or are the most popular blog topics in your niche. Take note of the ones that’s trending and write your own version. One can adopt various Blogging strategies including what the content and theme of the Blog should be. It’s more important to understand your target audience before you decide on the contents of your Blog to drive maximum traffic. You could either create your own Blog Page or else you could get to post a few as a Guest blogger on Blogs having your target audience as readers. I would suggest you to definitely have your own blog but also try and get yourself a space or two on a few of the more popular blogs in your niche. The advantage of guest blogging is that you open up your thoughts, ideas & your product to a large audience in one go. All along try and build a your blog as well, because there is nothing like having a large following on your blog as you have complete control over your blog. You don’t necessarily have that control over someone else’s blog and can’t aggressively push your product or services for an eternity on someone else’s blog. You can always try and exchange blog posts as well with bloggers in your niche. This Is a good strategy to employ to grow your audience faster. The advantages of Guest Blogging are: Builds natural links Increases your online authority Builds Relationship Opens up your product/ service to a large audience quicklyI’m a big fan of Kissmetrics, Buffer & Moz and each of them have taken the blogging strategy to an all new level to drive traffic on to their service/ product. Kissmetrics, is an analytics platform. It has its own blog and the contents on the blog are super awesome and cover a wide variety of posts related to SEO/ Analytics/ Digital Marketing etc. They have steadily built up an extremely impressive reader base. They also encourage guest bloggers on their blog page. Buffer on the other hand grew phenomenally in its early days using the Guest blogging strategy. Leo Wildrich, co-founder of Buffer admits that using the guest blogging strategy alone, they were able toacquire 100,000 users in the first nine months. That’s like quite incredible. Two sites that you should definitely consider for getting guest blog opportunities are MyBlogGuest and Bloggerlinkup. Moz similarly used blogging as a tool to build an ever growing subscriber base and with it a healthy base for it’s products. 2) Infographics: Infographics is a great way to engage your audience and create something that is extremely viral in nature. Creating one is not that expensive either. You can do it yourself or hire someone on fiverr who could create an awesome Infographic for as much as $5. They are visual, useful, entertaining and sharable. Check out these great free tools for creating awesome Infographics :http://www.infographicsarchive.c...http://www.infographicsarchive.c... 3) Social Media: Social Media is one of the best channels for getting visibility for your product/ service. It’s also very often the most cost effective and viral of channels. Infographics are content and Social media provides the best possible channel to make your content viral and with it bring a truck load of traffic. Understand that your activity on Social Media is for the long run. Build great engagement and brand awareness and slowly you will start seeing results. Content is King - Create great sharable content that would in turn enable you to reach more people. Always be responsive to questions or comments from your followers. Build a healthy community. Depending on your content decide on which of Facebook, twitter, Pinterest, Stumble Upon, Instagram, Google+, Reddit, Youtube, Linkedin or any other platform would work for you. Try and stay active on the ones that give you better engagement and reach based on your content and niche.Cracking visibility and engagement on each of these channels is an art in itself. I will cover in detail the things one should avoid and the things one should follow to build a community on any of these platforms. ( Check my earlier post on Stumble Upon. Will be covering each of Pinterest, facebook, Twitter and Instagram). 4) Influencer Marketing: Influencers are gold! Most of us are quite aware of what Influencer marketing is. Let me explain if you aren’t aware. Influencer marketing is marketing to influencers in your niche be it bloggers, journalists, consultants or Industry analysts. And If you spend time and effort there is nothing better to build credibility and visibility. The first step is to identify influencers in your niche. There are a number of ways by which you could create a list of Influencers. Relevant keyword search on Twitter or Linkedin would give you a great list to start with. PR Tools like Vocus and Cision are also great for finding list of Influencers. Google Blog Search and Technorati can be great tools for finding bloggers in your niche. Set Google Alerts on keywords that you want to track. It will enable you to keep track of all new posts related to those keywords and with it identify the person posting the same. Try and scan Forums/ Communities in your niche to find influencers and be active on those forums so that people start noticing you. I for once find Mom Bloggers almost always a great way to influence women and it’s almost unavoidable in niches like Fashion, Interiors, Gardening, Cooking etc. Try Blogher.Remember that influencers are almost always busy people and it’s difficult to get their attention. You would have to spend time and effort in building relationship with them. Follow them on twitter and connect with them on Linkedin if possible. Share their content and try and start a relevant conversation on any of their posts. This would slowly make them take a note of you which you could leverage when needed. Or else try and email them either asking a question or appreciating them for their latest content/ post and start a conversation. It might be difficult to get email IDs of influencers as very often they tend to not put it out in public. Use a tool like Rapportive to try a few combinations until you get the right one connected to any of their Social Profiles or read this article to find the best way to find someone’s email ID. Sending gifts to influencers is another great way to build relationship with them. Brands in fashion, food categories more often than not send their products to Influencers who tries them and almost always writes about their experience. It’s a great way to improve credibility and reach a large user base. Creating a list of top influencers in your niche by actually ranking them and sharing it with the masses is a slightly expensive and time consuming exercise but is a great way yet again to reach out to the Influencers. If possible generate a widget as well so that the bloggers could use it in their blogs and very often they would do that as well giving you credible back-links. I have covered the entire list here in this article : Growth Hacking : It’s about being creative, smart and a lot of hard-work! Hope this helps! :-)    Embed Quote