★Is the emerging generation of American adults a bunch of "spoiled, entitled, lazy, whiny, unappreciative brats"?Some context for those who don't know... The Baby Boomers are those born 1946-1964, Generation X were born 1964-1981, Generation Y/The Echoes/The Millennials were born 1981-2000's. Do you think what the media, and older generations are saying about The Echoes is true?
Our youth are no longer playing by the same rules as we were forced to.  At first, I felt that they were lazy, spoiled, arrogant, and idealistic, but now that I can literally see them changing the world to fit their vision- I am blown away and excited. What we perceive as laziness is actually a demonstration of their intelligence. Why not work from home in your pajamas making an app instead of working at McDonald's?  Is one really better than the other?  If anything the  digital option makes more sense to me. Is there a sense of entitlement in our younger generations?  Yes.  Is this bad? Not really, because they truly walk around knowing that their way is better than our way.  They know all people should be treated equal and that bullies are dicks.  They engage in online vigilantism and movements like Occupy Wall Street in order to make a difference.  Online they spew forth their gospel of inclusion, fairness, and meritocracy and if nobody will listen they are capable of disguising their thoughts in 'up worthy' soundbites, videos, and memes. Above all they resent hypocrisy which is why they come across as unappreciative.  They don't care if you are President, Queen, or Pope because if you lie to them, they will rub your nose in it and mistrust you.  They do not passive-aggressively wait for elections like most of us. If you thought they would end up illiterate you are also wrong.  They swim in words more than any other generation in the history of mankind and they do not accept that learning can only come in boring textbooks and from apathetic teachers. They are changing our language and then putting their words into online dictionaries for the rest of us to follow.  They write more than any generation in history and it does not matter to me if they use your father's grammar or syntax because I get to see my beloved English language as a living thing again after many years of stagnation. If left with no options they teach other.  We grew up with TV, but their screens are one click away from every piece of knowledge and every person they may wish to interact with.  They are powerful and yet they try to reach out and accept everyone. My children belong to this generation and I look forward to how they will change this world.  Forget Web 2.0, World 2.0 is coming!    Embed Quote