★Did the Baby Boomer generation commit generational theft?
No.  They're less poor because they've had longer to invest and pay off their homes. Start with $3662 like the 2009 under 35 year old, invest $119 a month, achieve the S&P 500 50 year historic average 7% real returns with dividends re-invested, and after 30 years you'll have $171,000 in current dollars like the 2009 over 65 year old. Buy a median price home, pay the mortgage for 30 years, and with the historic 0% real appreciation on housing you'll be worth $203,500 more. Note however that "not poor" by the time you retire means an investment portfolio big enough you can sustain the same standard of living without working indefinitely (unless you plan on committing suicide when the money runs out).  At the same cash flow (you're no longer saving for retirement, but should be buying things like long term care insurance so $80K/year for a nursing home doesn't destroy you) that means accumulating 25X your final salary in constant dollars so you still do OK when Social Security becomes means tested. That's $1.3M for the median household earning $51K/year and $1.7M for the median household with a bachelor degree earning $69K in 2003 which is out-of-date. "Not poor" early in your career is having enough set-aside that disasters like sickness, injury, or job loss won't ruin you or cut into you retirement savings and delay that.  Emergency funds totaling six months salary or $25-$35K are a good idea in the median case. Naturally smart people do what they can to advance from not poor as a young person to not poor as an old person. Money doesn't go as far now in essential areas like education (up 4X inflation since 1980) and health care because BOTH parties are bought and paid for by corporatist interests. The average successful senate campaign runs $10.5 million for a six year term which is $1.7M a year.  The job pays only $174K a year.  That arithmetic only works because  organizations pay for the campaigns.  They pay for the campaigns because they get something more valuable in return, like special treatment of student loans in bankruptcy so private lenders can loan more than graduates can comfortably repay and college costs can follow. People also don't do as well today because businesses are more successful selling them crap they don't need.  Families don't need the 2169 square foot median new house of 2010 and can do just fine in the 1565 square foot median size house of 1985.  People don't need newer cars where a couple with two average sized car payments for 30 years can be $1m behind one that doesn't. Finally there are structural issues.  Emerging countries provide much less expensive labor, even for some types of knowledge work which were historically high-paying.  Robots which replace semi-skilled assembly labor are becoming much more affordable.  This has big effects on how many middle class jobs are available and who can do them.    Embed Quote