★What's the best marketing automation tool for B2B lead generation?"B2B Marketing" lists the following available tools: Pardot, Eloqua, Silverpop B2B Engage, Marketo, Aprimo, Neolane, Manticore, HubSpot, Swift Pages and Vertical Response.
First, I would like you to know that I am a blogger at The Self Made Businessman Blog and the owner of digital marketing product Ninja Outreach - Influencer Outreach Software. I've been a digital marketer for a few years now, and by and large the most effective thing I've ever done to launch a product, build a brand, bring traffic, get links - whatever it is, is build relationships with people. Frankly, this is not just good and true for business, it's true for life as well and it will be an ongoing trend for years to come as more people build highly engaged audiences and the usual blackhat methods disappear. The fact is there are very few ways that you can get the amount of exposure, so quickly, as you can by building relationships with other people and having them willingly promote your stuff. Most other things are just linear. If you want to grow your social media or links, you often have to linearly do it. Linearly put in a lot of time and effort and engagement. It doesn't scale well and it often doesn't last long beyond that initial campaign. However with every online influencer you connect with and build a relationship with, you now have access to their audience, and that helps you grow exponentially. They will include links to your blog or website in their posts. They will share your stuff on social media. They will send it out to their newsletter. (of course not every single person will do all of these things, but in general, that's how it works). Bottom line, this is clutch. So for me, the most important tools I use are the ones that allow me to develop relationships with people, specifically online influencers. A few of the tools I use are: Ninja Outreach - Influencer Outreach Software - An influencer outreach tool at a reasonable price. It's effective at identifying influencers and helping you engage with them. Aweber - for email management ($19 a month) Helps you build a list which is an incredible asset. Hootsuite - for social media management (free version) Helps me manage my social media accounts The Self Made Businessman Blog Ninja Outreach - Influencer Outreach Software(appears twice sometimes) AWeber Email Marketing Services & Software Solutions for Small Business Social Media Management    Embed Quote