★Is the emerging generation of American adults a bunch of "spoiled, entitled, lazy, whiny, unappreciative brats"?Some context for those who don't know... The Baby Boomers are those born 1946-1964, Generation X were born 1964-1981, Generation Y/The Echoes/The Millennials were born 1981-2000's. Do you think what the media, and older generations are saying about The Echoes is true?
Hmmmm....I'm not sure.  The polemic quote definitely catches attention in this question. Here's my 27 year old's take on my generation (I realize anecdotes don't make data so I could be way off): I got to UW Seattle all excited to join the university of the mind, to share ideas, and have amazing discussions.  It shocked me how little people really seemed to care about the world.  Most of my classmates didn't really seem to care too much about the subjects they were learning.  I got the sense that next to no one felt engaged or bothered much to read about issues surrounding their majors outside of school. Most of my classmates just did whatever they could to check the boxes to the get the grades and spent the rest of their time on Facebook (during class).  It was so disappointing for me.  I thought University was the place to share ideas. When I was growing up in Washington State, it was amazing how few of the other boys my age were allowed the freedom to get exploring the woods and mountains.  I think the abductions and the media frenzies around them of the 90s really scared the heck out of boomer parents and even in places like Bellingham, WA (safe as it gets), kids weren't allowed to go outside. Add to this to whole craze around doing the right extracurriculars, getting the right test scores, right everything to get into a prestigious college and you have kids who were not only not allowed to play but were force fed a schedule of music lessons, SAT prep, etc. to build them out. Add to this the level of student loans that my generation has...I can look at the contacts in my phone and rattle off in my head how indebted they are "140, 80, 66, 40, 20, 90, etc"  Those numbers are in the thousands of dollars... My point?  This generation's childhoods were overprotected, overstructured and were then followed by very expensive uninspiring college times.  As young adults, many of them took their parents advice of "just get the 4 year degree no matter what" and got themselves well in the debt hole.  And now they are coming to age in the top of recessions, wars, corruption, stagnant wages, skyrocketing inequality (and a sense that things are rigged at the top).  Most of us were prepared and leveraged for a world that no longer exists.  You can't go get 60k in the hole for a psych degree and expect that you'll be able to make it as easy as you could in the 90s and before.  The rules have changed. Don't listen to what your parents told you!  They're playing by the old rules! Add to this social media, which often encourages you to think that people see you and think you're special (and their parents definitely told them they were). My generation didn't get to play freely (in nature or otherwise) as kids, didn't learn how structure their own activities very much, didn't get to think for themselves very much, believed their parents when they said any degree was worth any cost, are told constantly on social media that they are important and seen, and now find themselves in a very challenging world. If they are a little whiny, entitled, and unappreciative, it might be worth looking at where they came from/how they grew up.    Embed Quote