★Why is the younger generation so opposed to capitalism?
As with most systems, capitalism worked until people realized how to game the system.  By now, it's been so thoroughly destroyed that it will practically take a global revolution to make it treat people decently. Until about the late 1980's, capitalism worked fairly well. There were abuses, but there was also a general sense of limits and duties -- things people just didn't do for a buck, even if it meant leaving that buck on the table. Then a few corporations happened to hire leaders who were... flatly sociopathic, to be honest. They had no sense of empathy, no conscience, and no capacity for guilt or remorse. And they made more money for their corporations than the traditional leaders did, because they saw that, if they "invested" in breaking policies which had traditionally protected those weaker than themselves, they could have fatter bank accounts than if they didn't. Other corporations saw what they'd done, and hired their own sociopaths. (The percentage of sociopaths in the general population is considered by psychologists to be about 5%; the percentage of sociopaths in the CEO and CFO class of major corporations is estimated to be between 30% and 50%.) They "invested" in changing the law, by buying up legislators both locally and nationally; and they got enormously more money from doing so. Then they invested that new money once again in buying more power, and the spiral climbed higher and higher. In the United States, the Citizens United Supreme Court decision made it vastly easier for them to pour money into corrupting Congress, and they effectively took over the government entire. The United States is considered a plutocratic oligarchy now, not a democratic republic, according to studies from Princeton and Columbia. Having made abuses of their workers, their customers, and the environment routine, and taken over our government, they finally pulled off the most ambitious heist in history. The "Great Recession" of 2008 was managed -- by the same legislature which was owned by the corporations by now, lock, stock and barrel -- in a way which transferred almost half of the total wealth of the bottom 90% of the population into the hands of the top 10%. Half of everything almost everyone owned; half of the savings they worked their lives for; half their homes; half their pensions -- all were gone, sucked up into the hands of people who called themselves Capitalists... although they are definitely not "free market capitalists," but corporate-totalitarian capitalists; they do their best to suppress the market, so that new and upcoming companies don't get a realistic opportunity to compete with them. The major international corporations are on the fringe of their final global coup, which will take place with the signing (if it happens) of the TPP and TPIP, which together put more than 2/3 of the world's markets under the rule of the multinational corporations. The corporations can sue any government which tries to pass internal laws protecting the environment, consumers or workers, in special courts which are solely for this purpose (and which are probably expected to be run, de facto at least, by the corporations rather than the governments). If any law a government passes can be shown to limit or reduce a company's profits, in any way, they can sue and win in these kangaroo courts. One U.S. congressman who's seen the text of the TPP (which most of them have not; it's been kept fanatically secret, even from the people who have to vote on it soon) called it "a belly blow to national sovereignty." On top of all that, once a country has joined one of these treaties, there is no way out. If any nation attempts to withdraw from either treaty, the other signatories are committed to using their own power to destroy the offending nation's economy, and not letting up until they do enough damage to force the offender to cry Uncle, and creep back into the fold. So we're looking ahead to a world in which the sociopaths run the companies, the companies have absolute veto power over the governments of nations, and the governments -- no matter what they may attempt -- not only can't pass any law which a corporation might not like, but can't withdraw from the treaty and stop living under it. The narrow window for survival is between now and when those treaties are ratified. After that, it will take a global revolt to get out from under their thumbs. None of this has escaped the notice of Generations X and Y (at least not the more politically aware members). They see capitalists very plainly as no longer trustworthy. They see that the sociopaths leading the corporations are determined to suck every last scrap of wealth out of the world for themselves alone, whereas capitalism used to be a shared enterprise where, if a company was once doing well, it was expected that everyone involved in that company, from the laborers out on the line to the salesmen on the road to the secretaries in the office, would benefit from it. Businesses do not try to share the wealth when they do well now -- instead, they continue to keep wages as low as they possibly can, and keep all the incoming wealth for their top management or the company coffers itself. Many of the top companies which are making enormous profits for themselves have more than half their employees receiving food stamps in order to survive... and then the corporate-owned Congress cut forty billion dollars off food stamps, making people who were working full-time jobs at forty hours per week unable to support even themselves alone on what they earn. They certainly cannot support families on it. The children of the Baby Boomers grew up with an expectation of how the world would work under an ethical capitalist system. They thought that if they worked hard and were talented, it would be enough to get ahead in life. They thought that, if a company profited because all their workers pulled together, then the company would treat them right in gratitude (or at least the hope of getting it to keep happening; at that time, enlightened self-interest was considered to be more effective than un-enlightened self-interest). They were reluctantly OK with their pensions being turned into 401K plans even though it wasn't what they'd mostly wanted; but they didn't want those 401K plans losing more than half their savings thanks to the deliberate choices made by the corporate capitalists before they needed to use it, and then see the corporate capitalists who'd made those choices bailed out by the government, but then turn around immediately when it's their turn and say, "The national debt is the most important thing right now -- we can't put any more money into helping save other people who are ruined by the recession we created. Sorry, guys!" In short, if capitalists behaved ethically and responsibly, the way society expected them to do in the 1950's through 1980's (and which they therefore largely had to do, if nothing else to protect themselves from bad publicity), most of us would have absolutely no difficulty with capitalism. But that isn't what we are seeing. We've complained to the companies and been ignored or passed off with lying form-letters; we've complained to the government and received much the same treatment since the corporations own the government for all practical purposes. Worst of all, we have been doing everything we can to prevent then from destroying our environment -- which we will have to live in, long after most of the baby-boom age contingent no longer has to worry about it -- and we've been laughed at. By people who have literally stood in the pathway of the weirdest storms known, and declared that nothing's really changing. And we're starting to realize that the only way to get rid of the people who are destroying us casually, for their own profit, is to get rid of the system which allows them to own, not only most of the world's wealth, but most of the world's power also. Sooner or later, we are going to have little choice but to depose them and take back our planet, if we're not all going to die together because of their sociopathic greed. At that point, when we've remade our nations and taken back the power to control the corporations instead of their controlling us, we might be willing to run a modified capitalist system, with strict controls in place to prevent them from taking over again or mistreating people. The Scandinavian semi-capitalist, semi-socialist countries seem to have significantly the best quality of life on the planet right now; we might try to install something similar to that. But what replaces it is a secondary problem. The primary problem is to get control of our economy and our political systems back from those who are using them to harm us. Before our own governments have signed onto the treaties which force them to be ruled by corporate orders, even with respect to internal law -- and to doing each other massive economic damage when any of them start to realize that they have made a towering mistake, and try to escape.    Embed Quote