★Why is the younger generation so opposed to capitalism?
I have this debate with my daughter. She has a soft heart and hates to see people and animals mistreated. It is easy to find stories of faceless corporates and governments beating up the little people and much harder to understand how things actually work. Her first idea was to get rid of money - it causes arguments and conflicts so if there wasn't any it would be wonderful. I walked her through how difficult it would be to get fed, get toys, get schooling without money. Later we talked about how, even though people don't claim to trust the establishment, every time they buy something in the corner shop they are trusting in the benefits having an 'establishment' brings - stable currency; laws that protect consumer rights,  prevent adulteration or faking of goods, suppress bribery, corruption and theft; and the enforcement of those laws by the judiciary and the various organisations responsible. The entire difference between the average income in Somalia and a modern western nation is down to trust in laws, systems and enforcement. If you want to live free of those things, go live in Somalia. By this time she was studying politics, so we discussed the history of socialism in Russia and China, and how the USSR was dismantled by the inefficiencies of central control and the economics of the arms race. Also how China has effectively adopted capitalism, while Russia has become a corrupt and criminal state. She would like to stop all wars and get rid of nuclear weapons, so I told her that the most peaceful nation on the planet, Switzerland, is actually armed to the teeth and willing to destroy its infrastructure to make it useless to an invader. And how it was America's strong Republican leader, Ronald Reagan, that negotiated the only nuclear weapons reductions we have ever seen. She is a determined socialist, just as I was at her age - I was a union member and took part in a strike. I told her about my childhood, when Britain was the sick man of Europe with three-day working weeks because of strikes, rubbish piling up on the streets, bodies lying unburied, enforced blackouts - all because a few people were willing to hold everyone else to ransom to achieve their goals regardless of the impact. Ineffective politicians of both parties could not fix the problem. Margaret Thatcher got Britain back to work with some divisive but effective policies - not the most popular politician, but driven by what she saw as what was best for the country, which changed my politics completely. Unfortunately politicians mostly chase popularity, which  leads to populist but ineffective policies. I'm teaching her slowly that there are no slick answers to the difficult questions like poverty. She used to think economics is something invented by the Tories to keep the poor people down, but I'm showing her that it is about human behaviour, incentives and the best use of scarce resources. Hopefully she will keep her compassion for others while searching for deeper answers, and helping others to understand those answers when she finds them.    Embed Quote