★How can I generate website traffic with $0 marketing budget?My Startup is out of cash and we are 2 days before launch. I don't think we will see any investment coming in next 3 months not even from a family members so we need to start selling quickly.
I hope this answer doesn't upset too many people because it highlights ways to get attention which are at the very least grey area. "Marketing is the price you pay for being unremarkable". Not sure who should get credit for this brilliant quote. After reading all the other excellent answers though, I couldn't help but feel like you didn't get what you need from them for two reasons: (a) you already knew 90% of this stuff - you obviously started a Facebook group, reached out to reporters, employed SEO to the best of your abilities and asked your friends to help promote to their own friends through social channels; (b) none of that stuff works most of the time. Not because these are not good ideas, but because everyone is jaded. These techniques are performed thousands of times each day and your friends are just sick of posting stuff on their wall because someone asked them to. If you're in a competitive space, everyone is SEOing and your efforts are often simply cancelled out. So I felt would be an opportunity to offer a glimpse into what I like to call the "dark side" of online marketing. I wouldn't call these techniques "black hat" because I never advocate doing anything illegal or that harms someone else along the way. They are however, aggressive and controversial and some of the readers of this answer may get upset after reading because they take advantage of people being gullible. For this reason, and the other one (people who do these things tend to get upset when people share too much about it because you're "taking food off my plate"), I'll only point you in the right direction. From that point you'll need to be creative and resourceful. None of these methods come easily but if you do them correctly the rewards can be enormous. Side note. For the sake of this answer I will assume you did the traditional stuff at a reasonable level. This means you have identified your target audience, the channels you can use to reach them and most importantly your messaging which clearly identifies your value proposition (what's the benefit of using your product/problem you're solving) and differentiation from competitors. So lets get right into it. You're launching a new startup. You spent all your money on development. You now need to launch and you really have no idea where the users are coming from. Let's start with a simple method which I call the "grenade". 1. The Grenade The Grenade (tm, just kidding), identifies a controversial topic that is being heavily debated by your target audience and targets it. For example, lets say you have a product that targets housewives. And lets say its early 2011 and rumors are spreading around Oprah leaving her show. This is inspiring heavy debate between haters and fans. This is your opportunity! Many of those Oprah fans are housewives! So now you go on to all those discussion forums, Twitter hashtags and blog articles and start posting comments that are contrary to the popular opinion. For this to work, your "opinions" need to be controversial enough to spark interest and discussion, but not so controversial that people will dismiss you as a troll. You should have a blog post set up with an article providing support and credibility to your argument... and also packed with ads for your company's product. It goes without saying that the blog should not be on your domain or under your name. For example, here you would buy the domain "Oprahshouldhavequityearsago dot something" or something along those lines, create a blog post, and generate 20-30 comments/discussions to make it appear very active and have people feel like they need to join in on the argument. Now all you need to do every time you engage in a debate on a third party site, is forward people to the relevant blog where they can see "evidence". Did I mention that the blog should be plastered with ads for your product?... (more)Loading...