★How did our generation become the helicopter generation?My friends and I think about this, and we have some theories.
That's what I like about Quora - a concept like helicopter parenting pops into my head and lo and behold, somebody has already set it up as a topic.   Here are a few reasons why I think helicopter parenting has come about, presented with some disjointedness:   Communications: Email might have become ubiquitous two decades ago. Cell phones and texting, maybe a decade to a decade and a half ago. (I'm talking ubiquity, not prizes for early adopters.) Anyway, people stay in such a high level of contact with their kids because they can. It's also relatively easier to get hold of their teachers, professors, and potential employers compared to the old days.   The Idea That Loved Ones Are Also Your Besties: Look, I don't really have anything against being familiar and open and sharin' 'n' carin' with your family. With people getting busier and more over-scheduled, we may be overcompensating some. I think some people take the openness and empathy thing too far. It makes us less inclined to tell our kids to straighten up and fly right, and more inclined to intervene instead of letting them figure things out on their own, and more prone to try and fix problems by blaming others.   Tendency To Treat Children Like Product Rollouts: We put off having children to later and later dates. Both men and women are more educated. In the USA, we tend to think our kids are smarter. We pore over baby name books, searching for the name that says "unique, classy, educated, management material yet old fashioned" or whatever. By the time the poor kid comes around, some families have the best preschools, batting coaches, violin teachers, and math tutors on speed-dial. Kids often look like little accessories of their parents, whether it be the fabled Ramones onesie or sports gear or exquisite baby boutique stuff. Needless to say, how the kid fares in our so-called meritocracy reflects on the parents. But no pressure!   Decline In Upward Mobility: People are perceiving that after-school jobs, scholarships, internships, and decent-paying professional jobs are on the decline. College tuitions are insane. Retirement and health insurance situations for helicopter parents are often pretty bad. The rulebook that got kids through the long period of postwar prosperity is changing (tuition back in the day at Cal State was free or dirt cheap for many of the helicopter parents out there, for example). Needless to say, this can lead to more overprotectiveness of the kids. This ties in to...   Fear: Kids nowadays are the most supervised since the days before child labor laws were enacted. Whether it's by electronics (with helpful GPS so you'll always know where your kid is) or by proxies like teachers or coaches in their many supervised, scripted, and organized activities, or by micromanaging helicopter parents, the situation reflects our growing paranoia about stranger abduction and child molestation. My perception of two benchmarks in modern child protection paranoia are the (bogus) McMartin preschool case and the Polly Klaas murder case.    Embed Quote