★How can I generate website traffic with $0 marketing budget?My Startup is out of cash and we are 2 days before launch. I don't think we will see any investment coming in next 3 months not even from a family members so we need to start selling quickly.
In my experience, you can do a lot for little or no money, but it takes time and effort. It won’t happen in two days, though, so you should adjust your expectations right from the start. It would be helpful to know what type of product or service you’ll be providing (and which demographic you’re targeting), but below are some general suggestions for increasing brand awareness as you launch. Note that I didn’t say “selling” or even “generating traffic,” because those will (hopefully) come after proper marketing. Some of these are pretty obvious and I would assume you’re already doing or at least looking into them, but just for the sake of comprehensiveness, in no particular order: Start a Tumblr related to your field and post regularly (about the topic, not always about your product). Follow, like and reblog others. A lot. It’s actually quite fun (and addictive!) if you get into it, particularly if the subject matter is appealing to you, which presumably it is. Start a Twitter account. Follow people/companies in your field and actively participate in discussions. Use hashtags. Retweet, but not indiscriminately. Does your product or field lend itself to visual representation? If so, consider creating a Pinterest board, being careful not to use it as a product catalog but a resource for people interested in your field. Start a Facebook Page, and make sure you have a Like box on your Web site. Run a contest to win a widget or a leaf blower or whatever it is you’ll be selling, and “Fan gate” it, so people have to Like your Page in order to enter. Ideally also with a share feature, so users can earn extra entries if they get their friends to enter. Tweet and Tumble your contest, with hashtags so it’s picked up as much as possible. As your Page, follow other Pages related to your business. Post as your Page on those Pages (when you have something non-spammy to contribute). Again, I don’t know what you’re selling, but whatever it’s related to probably has various blogs and sites devoted to it? Spend time learning about each one and contact the ones you feel are most appropriate to potentially feature your product. Learn the names of the people you’re contacting and make sure you personalize each email. If it’s a product that’s reviewable, of course offer to send them one. Start participating in comments/discussions on those sites where applicable, and make sure you use your logo and have a link to your site in your profile. Obviously, again, I’m not saying spam sites – just comment if you have something legitimate and helpful to say. Don’t be that jerk who just posts a link to his Web site anywhere and everywhere. If you have even just a few dollars, look into StumbleUpon’s paid discovery service, which is really cheap (but effective). Also, you can run Facebook ads for not a lot of money, but you need to devote a bit of time to learning how to target and create campaigns to use them effectively. I highlight those two in particular because they have the potential to help spread your site virally. Of course, make sure you’ve got your site’s SEO in pristine order, and that you’re submitted to Google and set up with Analytics & Webmaster Tools. Don’t expect miracles. Do expect to work hard. Just my two cents … Good luck!    Embed Quote