★Is the emerging generation of American adults a bunch of "spoiled, entitled, lazy, whiny, unappreciative brats"?Some context for those who don't know... The Baby Boomers are those born 1946-1964, Generation X were born 1964-1981, Generation Y/The Echoes/The Millennials were born 1981-2000's. Do you think what the media, and older generations are saying about The Echoes is true?
As Margaret Garry and others have suggested, complaining about the younger generation is a popular and time-honored pasttime. In fact, Mental Floss devoted an entire article to past examples of elder complaints. Some of my favorites are: In Book III of Odes, circa 20 BC, Horace wrote: Our sires' age was worse than our grandsires'. We, their sons, are more worthless than they; so in our turn we shall give the world a progeny yet more corrupt. In Paris Fashion: A Cultural History, Valerie Steele published a letter sent to Town and Country magazine in November 1771 by a reader who wanted to get something off of his chest: Whither are the manly vigor and athletic appearance of our forefathers flown? Can these be their legitimate heirs? Surely, no; a race of effeminate, self-admiring, emaciated fribbles can never have descended in a direct line from the heroes of Potiers and Agincourt... In 1904, psychologist and educator Granville Stanley Hall published The Psychology of Adolescence, in which he warned that it was a dangerous time, particularly for young folk: Never has youth been exposed to such dangers of both perversion and arrest as in our own land and day. Increasing urban life with its temptations, prematurities, sedentary occupations, and passive stimuli just when an active life is most needed, early emancipation and a lessening sense for both duty and discipline, the haste to know and do all befitting man's estate before its time, the mad rush for sudden wealth and the reckless fashions set by its gilded youth--all these lack some of the regulatives they still have in older lands with more conservative conditions. Read the full text here: 15 Historical Complaints About Young People Ruining Everything --brought to you by mental_floss! As for me, from now on whenever I complain about Gen Y-ers and Millennials, I plan on calling them "fribbles"!    Embed Quote