★What are the best lead generation tools?
There are a lots of different tools. Most lead generation tools will enable you to start a conversation with someone....but then what? How do you turn a potential lead into a warm lead from cold? This is a brief extract from my post: The Ultimate guide on B2B Leads - how to generate and optimise  - JS-Marketing.com How do you turn those not ready to buy into a lead? I like to think of lead geneation as a set of tools.  If you only have one tool – then you will only get one type of lead..but if you have multiple tools, then you increase your chances of getting leads. THE SIMPLEST WAY TO GET LEADS IS TO HELP YOUR USERS BEFORE THEY BUY FROM YOU. Doing so enables you to build trust with your potential customers, It gives you a chance to educate your website visitor on the market and educate them on why they should use your company It allows you weed out those who are not serious buyers through a pre-qualification process Positions you or your company as an expert.A tool which does this, is called a Lead Magnet And a lead magnet will also work at a deeper level: one of those being the principle of  Reciprocity: HOW GIVING A GIFT PERSUADES OTHERS TO GIVE MORE TO YOU Dennis Regan of Cornell University tried a sneaky trick to work out if helping people or giving them gifts  would lead to reciprocal behaviour. Regan setup a an ‘art appreciation’ study.  Participants were taken to a fake art gallery and asked to rate the paintings (not knowing that cunning old Mr Regan didn’t care about their thoughts about art). During the time the participants were in the room, they were be accompanied by an assistant (we’ll call him ‘Doug’ to make things easy), and during the experiment, one of two things would happen: 1. Doug would walk out of the room and come back with a bottle of Coca-cola, giving one to the subject – saying ‘ I asked the experimenter if this was OK, and I bought you one too’, or: 2. He would out of the room and come back with nothing. Just before the participant left, Doug would ask them if they would buy some raffle tickets from him, to help him try to win a new car…. The result: Those who were given the bottle of coke, bought twice as many tickets from Doug as those who weren’t,  and the value of the raffle tickets was in excess of the value of the bottle they were given. Summary: Being nice and offering something of value will make your website visitors more likely to buy from you. For more reading on this – including how the Hare Krishna movement managed to generate millions in donations from giving away flowers, I highly recommend Influence by Cialdini. The Psychology of Persuasion: Amazon.co.uk: Robert B., PhD Cialdini: Books How should you help your customers?HELP THEM WITHOUT DIRECTLY HELPING YOU The easiest way to do this is to work out exactly what your ideal buyer’s biggest problem is – and then go some way in helping them solve it. So for example, if you’re trying to generate leads for a piece of software that increases sales – then helping your customers increase sales WITHOUT using your software – is a good starting point So for the software firm, it’s going to be helpful to provide guidance on something like:  ’10 ways to increase sales in just 20 minutes a day.’  – or ‘My 30 page guide on how to add 40% to your sales in 30 days’ which all would appeal to your end user. You can do this with any industry, any business, and it’s how some of the most successful online brands engage users. Makes sure it’s short, gives value and is aligned with the benefits your business provides.   THE PACKAGE So now you’ve got your hook, decide on your format. You can choose a number of formats for your magnet, or just one. Some examples: A series of emails A whitepaper A checklist A video or video series An audio file... (more)Loading...