★How did our generation become the helicopter generation?My friends and I think about this, and we have some theories.
I think there are a few suspects.  I think the women of the baby boom generation were the first generation in the U.S. that felt they had the freedom to choose whether to develop their identity in the workplace or in the home, but either choice necessitated justifications.  If women stayed at home they needed to justify their choice to their career "sisters."  Maybe the way they justified it was by being perfect moms, which meant raising perfect children.  If women worked they needed to justify their choice by also raising perfect children; this justified their choice in leaving their children everyday.  Either way there was pressure to show success with their choices. Obviously many women have had to work to survive, (as my mother did) but I think the size of the population who now seemed to have to justify their choices is the important factor here. This is also coupled with new developments in child psychology that stress the importance of a parent's actions in a child's emotional and intellectual development.  We were now more aware and as a result more responsible. There was more disposable income in America.  This meant more money for more toys.  If you weren't buying a plethora of toys why not? Very importantly though too--to leave the parents off the hook a bit--the pressure to get your children into university.  Your child forgets her homework--to bring or not to bring?  That's the beginning of the slippery slope.  Your child might still get into a university if you don't bring the homework, but do you want to take that chance? And lastly, my birthday and cupcake theory.  So one parent brings all her child's class nice cupcakes for the child's birthday.  Then of course the next parent brings nicer cupcakes and so on,  pretty soon you are a parent reject if you aren't bringing cupcakes with more fancy sprinkles than the last person. The birthdays were out of control in my neighborhood; it started with fire truck rides for the whole play group at age four and progressed to limo rides for the children at age thirteen. So did all of these things contribute to the phenomenon known as helicopter parenting?  Any other ideas out there?    Embed Quote