★Is the emerging generation of American adults a bunch of "spoiled, entitled, lazy, whiny, unappreciative brats"?Some context for those who don't know... The Baby Boomers are those born 1946-1964, Generation X were born 1964-1981, Generation Y/The Echoes/The Millennials were born 1981-2000's. Do you think what the media, and older generations are saying about The Echoes is true?
Like most things, the truth is more complicated than a blanket statement of "They're such spoiled assholes." I was born in 1984, landing me smack dab in the middle of Generation Y. As I've grown up (in a manner of speaking), I've come to realize that there are facts and there are myths. Generational Myopia: Why Every New Generation is Seen as "Entitled and Spoiled." It's an interesting phenomenon. Every generation, as they pass the torch to the young-ins, takes a look and pishposhes the younglings as the worst ones so far. I have a theory about why. Unless something goes terribly wrong, every generation benefits from newer technology and advances in education, science, and health. So, in that sense, yes--Generation X, Y, and Z are all spoiled compared to the older folks. We simply have more things because the older generation provided them to us. For example, I came of age just as computing and the Internet were going mainstream. That means that I had access to a computer (shared with 3 others) and educational games. I had access to better technologies, medical services and food. (Thanks, Mommy and Daddy!) You know what's funny? I look at the youngsters now. They have cell phones, iPads, and all sorts of crazy technology at the tender age of 5. At five, I was still playing with blocks. I catch myself thinking, "These kids got it made." It's just part of life. We have benefited from the hard work that the previous generation put into new technology. Future generation will benefit from our work as well. That's a good thing. If the new generation has less technology, education, and health care, something went horribly wrong and we're all regressing. The Facts about Generation Y: A Mixed Bag One thing some people may forget is that Generation Y isn't exclusively upper-middle class white children with CEOs and PhDs as parents who  had tutors and educational supplies since in utero. These folks are always spoiled, in every generation. Here are some studies and more verifiable assertions: According to Merril Edge, people from the ages of 18-34 are saving earlier and more aggressively than Baby Boomers.[1] The average Gen Y-er has held more jobs than the average Gen X-er, at least, in part due to expectations.[2] A Gen-Y worker is characterized by their tech savviness, but lower career ambition with an increased emphasis on personal pursuits. Moreover, they are much more likely to be in the professional or service sectors than construction or agriculture. [3] A majority of Gen-Yers have had at least some college education. [3] As of 2009, the poverty rate for Gen Y is higher than average (average: 13.2%, Gen Y males 13.4%; Gen Y females: 18.3%) The Millennia's are the most racially and ethnically diverse group in America's history. Moreover, interracial dating has increased dramatically. [4] The most politically progressive, but least devout generation.[4] Gen Yers apparently trust institutions more than Generation Xers and Baby Boomers.[4] Some studies suggest that today's teens and Generation Y-ers are more materialistic and less likely to work hard.[5] Generation Y women report seeing more gender equality at work compared to older women.[6] So, you can see, there are some good bits (more financially savvy, more diverse), and some bad bits (materialism and increased poverty). Frankly, most of the studies suggesting that Generation Y is spoiled and entitled seem to focus on the affluent whites. I'm not convinced that this is the face of a generation is the most racially and ethnically diverse generation in U.S. history. A lot of the attributes shown above are neutral. There, however, is a definite cultural shift. As the American culture and economy becomes digitized. It's no longer normal to do hard labor and work with your hands. I wonder if this has an impact on one's mindset. Generation Advice: What Should I Do? I've noticed one unsettling trend among my peers. I'll have to prefect this by saying that the sample group is skewed toward the more educated and  accomplished men and women in Generation Y. When I think of my high school years, I think about rankings, SAT prep books, and online forums that told you that they had the secret to getting into the best college ever. I've talked to enough of my peers to know that this is far from unique. Among accomplished, ambitious children, we all looked at what the most prestigious, best colleges, then graduate school, and then jobs. A number of us learned that from our parents. Some of this is  due to accessibility. All you need to do is turn on a computer to get some resources on a certain topic. Want to know the best way to peel a egg? Just Google it. If you want more examples, simply look around on Quora (especially the Dating and Relationships section.) There are now millions of strangers available and willing to give you advice. Beware of overly willing advice-givers...especially ones who charge lots of money for the advice. I find myself wondering if this easy availability of information has impaired some people's ability to "Just  Do It." I hear so many of my peers asking, "I want to do X, is that okay?" This tells me that the person lacks gumption, an independent spirit. Perhaps we're too connected to one another. This isn't to suggest that there are no doers and go-getters in the Millennials. You only have to look at the technology sector, as well as others, to know that there is some extraordinary talent here. Rather, I see the average ambitious person as fitting more into this Advice-Generation mold. The Internet giveth and taketh. ______ [1]: Generation Y Statistics, Spending Habits and Characteristics [2]: Kunreuther, Frances; Kim, Helen & Rodriguez, Robby (2009). Working Across Generations, San Francisco, CA [3]: Page on Metlife [4]: The Millennials [5]:  Today's Teens More Materialistic, Less Likely to Work Hard: Study [6]: Study: Gen Y Women See More Gender Equality at Work    Embed Quote