★What singer (any genre or generation) has the most distinctive, instantly recognizable voice?
This question has nothing to do with the sound of the individual voice. Having a recognizable voice in basically any popular music context has nothing to do with the voice itself and everything to do with the regionalisms/accents of their vowels, and the style of the music, which we associate with the voice. There is next to no acoustic consistency in pop singers. Consider the following spectrographs of Nina Simone (singing Feeling Good as exemplified in Martin Fox's answer) and Michael Jackson (singing Beat It a cappella): Can you tell me which voice is which? Of course you can't, and that isn't too surprising. An expert would have almost no way of telling these two spectrograms apart, because they're functionally random. Within these two tracks, there's enough variability in waveform that almost given sound might have been made by either singer for all we can tell sonically. That's because having a consistent way of producing sound is not as much of a priority in pop singers as is diction, or communication (or, for that matter, production). If you're curious, Michael Jackson's on top and Nina Simone's on the bottom. Compare that to the following two spectrograms of opera singers: The first of these is Juan Diego Florez, a very famous, very successful tenor singing today. The bottom is Luciano Pavarotti. These spectrograms are of the same moment (the high B at the end of La Donna `e Mobile), and you see a LOT less randomness than in the pop spectrograms. That's because, since these people are singing the same repertoire all the time, they need to distinguish themselves from one another with sound, more than with pronunciation and style. In some respects, these two spectrograms look very similar to one another. They both have their strongest activity on the second formant, around 1500Hz, and then secondary activity in a higher range of overtones (though, interestingly, different overtones from one another). There are other clear distinctions between the spectrograms, though, that a professional would be able to identify. The precision in the resonance in the operatic style allows us to pinpoint exactly the uniqueness of the voice. Of course every voice is unique, but good opera singing is the style that brings out the special, individual features to the greatest extent. And within these two spectrograms, which looks the most "clear" or "not fuzzy" (and thus who's voice is used most "distinctively")? The answer, even the untrained reader can see, is the second picture, Luciano Pavarotti, who I'd argue has the most instantly recognizable vocal qualities in the history of any recorded music genre or generation. Hopefully this is clear, but my point isn't that pop singers all sound the same (far from it!) but rather that stylistic differences are the major ones, whereas in operatic singing vocal differences are the major ones.