★What are skills the older generation has these days that younger generations lack?
As someone in the middle of my life, I am poised on the far end of my youth and the newness of such depth of experience which comes from more conscious years on this planet. It is a new identity for me, a new direction. The weight of having life experience really matters and I feel the responsibility to share it with younger people as I begin to look at older people in my life with more and more respect. What the younger generations lack that the older ones have is depth. Why is this important? What does this mean? It means that while the young may be fast, efficient, and tech savvy, the older generations approach their work in a completely different way. They have a different manner and method to what they do and how they carry out a project or plan. Yes, they can be slower at getting to results. Yes, the younger person will roll our eyes at the turtle pace that some older people display. But watch them. Just watch what transpires. It is quite interesting to see what happens. What I'm pointing to is a deeper sense of care and practice. We in the younger generations have been primed for fast results, immediate results made manifest and are drawn to fast company. It may sound like a cliche but around Harvard University, which is where I live, many people value fast talking. Get to the point. Be as prolific as you can. Sum up the point and show off your verbal pecs. Be quicker than the next guy. Be the one who makes the point in the group that lands as quickly and smoothly as Air Force One. Astound others with your laser sharp points. Older generations do not function this way. They take their time to develop their points. They have acquired years of experience and carry that passport deep within. These years, which younger generations tend to poo-poo, actually add up to something valuable, something immeasurable. I didn't believe it myself when I was in my 20's and 30's. Now, at 46, I do. I'm beginning to see for myself how 20 years of work can change everything. What I admire about older generations is how they can nail a problem, not with fast talking ideas, but with a full range of wisdom that encompasses a situation at hand. They are not fast bullets, but their solutions tend to offer more immediate relief, longer lasting effects. Yes, in short, they are quite effective. This is, perhaps, how I can best sum up my experience of them. The effectiveness is powerful, deeper, higher. It is a rare treat to be in the company of someone who can come from this place and, when you are old enough to appreciate it, you find yourself grateful for that experience.    Embed Quote