★What's the best marketing automation tool for B2B lead generation?"B2B Marketing" lists the following available tools: Pardot, Eloqua, Silverpop B2B Engage, Marketo, Aprimo, Neolane, Manticore, HubSpot, Swift Pages and Vertical Response.
I work for Marketo, and I think the best solution is...drum roll please...the suspense must be killing you...wait for it...you'll never guess...Marketo.  For reference, I was a Marketo customer prior to joining, and prior to using Marketo, I had used another solution, which I replaced with Marketo and never looked back. So this is coming not only from my clearly biased perspective as a Marketo employee, but also as a former user. While there are a lot of good solutions out there, I think Marketo offers many distinct advantages.  Here are some thoughts, in no particular order: Marketo has a truly unique combination of power and ease-of-use.  The proof is in our success in both SMB and the Enterprise.  Our case studies show an incredible range of company sizes that are all successfully driving results with Marketo. This means you can choose the version that is right for your needs at this moment, and have a solution that will grow with your needs. While we aren't the only Marketing Automation company that can claim this, our entire focus is on marketing. We don't sell ERP or CRM or any solutions not focused on making marketers successful.  We are a marketing first company, that puts marketers first. We have a 40,000+ strong user  community exchanging ideas and best practices through a vibrant online  community site where marketers are helping fellow marketers achieve success - both related to Marketo usage, as well as to marketing strategy and tactics. We  have a robust partner ecosystem with 200+ solutions represented, that  let you extend the capabilities of Marketo in many ways. Some examples include  integrated direct mail, scoring on consumption of video, database  cleansing, and much more. You may not need any of these solutions today,  or ever, but as your needs grow, you've got lots of options. Our Customer Engagement engine is unique in that it offers the power of more sophisticated lead nurturing solutions with the ease-of-use of drip campaigns. If you haven't seen our CEE, check it out: YouTube video. Our customers love it because they can build powerful nurture campaigns easily and painlessly. For example, traditional drip programs make adding new content hard, because leads in that program could be at any step in the workflow, and those individuals won't see new content you add to the top of the flow, and they will have to go through all existing content if you add content at the bottom of the flow. With the CEE, you can just drag your fresh content to the top of a stream, and the system will automatically deliver it next to anyone who hasn't yet received it, or hasn't downloaded it off your website. Then each individual will be placed back in the workflow at the appropriate step. As someone who has used a number of different vendors' nurturing programs, I can't tell you how much easier this makes life for a marketer. Our new Email Program makes email testing based on subject line, entire email, time/date or even sender really easy. It will randomly send each version to a set portion of the list, pick a winner based on criteria you set, and then automatically send the winning version to the rest of the list. Related to inbound, our Insightera acquisition provides Marketo with powerful capabilities that  let companies, among other things, personalize a visitor's web and  mobile experience, even if the visitor is anonymous - leading to higher  conversion rates. And most of your site visitors are anonymous, so the  ROI on this is really, really compelling. Marketo's reports let a marketer  truly understand the impact of their campaigns on revenue. If a  marketing automation solution is measuring success based on number of new names, landing page  conversions, or customer wins, that's a problem in my book.  Marketers  need to know how their campaigns are driving revenue dollars, not names. For any company with a longer sales cycle, Marketo is one of the few companies that offers true multi-touch revenue reporting, which let's marketers measure the revenue influence of all the touch points that influenced a win, not just the source campaign. Attributing 100% of the revenue for a win back to a single campaign doesn't reflect reality in today's multi-touch world, where customers usually engage with multiple campaigns before buying. I've heard data that indicates the average number of touches in a B2B purchase to be between 5 and 23! You can do things really, really fast with Marketo - with fewer resources. For example, rather than simply allowing someone to clone an individual asset, Marketo lets you clone an entire campaign, including all the landing pages, emails and workflows. A mechanism that lets you change the content that appears across all the landing pages, emails and workflows in one place, makes it possible to replicate things like webinars with different titles, descriptions, dates, etc., in a matter of minutes. We go beyond just web and email, with integrated multi-channel marketing features that let you reach your prospects and customers across social networks, tradeshows, roadshows, mobile and more. Our new responsive email and landing page templates make it easy to deliver a seamless experience for your prospects and customers, regardless of the device they are using. We offer unlimited scores, so companies can maintain multiple independent scores. For example, if a company has two different products, they can maintain a unique score for each in order to measure interest and fit for each individual product.  Note that unlimited scores are not available in our Spark package, but are offered starting with our Standard Edition. So like other more advanced features, companies that don't need it, don't have to pay for it. They can start with our Spark version. A powerful workflow engine, a core capability of any marketing automation solution, lets marketers setup basic automation workflows very easily using simple drag and drop, and an extensive set of real-time triggers and filters make it possible for a marketer to get much more advanced and create just about any automated workflow they can think of. We release new features and capabilities on a monthly basis, many of which  originate from our customers who can submit and vote on the best product ideas in our online community. Marketo does a great job making B2B sales teams more productive because our sales intelligence tool, Marketo Sales Insight, doesn't simply alert sales reps whenever an activity occurs (although it could if you set it up that way, which I don't recommend). Rather, we present sales reps with a "prioritized" list of leads, that we call "Best Bets" to follow up on. The list shows a series of flames and stars to show relative lead quality (based on score), and urgency. So instead of getting an endless stream of meaningless alerts that are quickly ignored, we help a sales rep understand which leads to call first, based on their win-readiness, so that they can use their time more effectively. I used Marketo Sales Insight extensively at my last company where it helped double our sales team's win rate. We are more than a Marketing Automation solution. We are a platform for marketers. Not only can you extend the platform through our partner ecosystem, but we also offer integrated solutions like Marketo Financial Management, which makes it easy for marketing to plan and track budgets across the team. We just had the Marketo logo put up on the side of our building. Ok, that's not really an advantage...but it's cool to see as I'm driving past it.  :-) I should stop here, as this post is getting ridiculously long.  Sorry, I had some pent up thoughts I wanted to share with the outside world... Whatever you choose, best of luck! Mike Berger Director, Product Marketing Marketo    Embed Quote