How do I look for perforator incompetence while doing a color doppler examination of extremity veins?
http://...VENOUS INCOMPETENCE (Varicose vein) ULTRASOUND - Normal Venous Incompetence (VI) and Chronic Venous Insufficiency (CVI) are interchangable terms FLOW DYNAMICS                    NORMAL FLOW   In the normal cicumstance, the superficial system drains the   subcutaneous tissues and periodically empties into the deep system via   perforating veins. Flow   direction should always be:   1.           Cephalad.   2.           Superficial to deep.             Normal venous flow and   valve movement,                         Click   image to enlarge.         INCOMPETENT FLOW   With distal augmentation, flow initially goes cephalad. It then   refluxes back down the leg through the malfunctioning valve.   An incompetent perforating vein also allows blood to flow from the   deep veins to the surface veins.   This combination of back pressure causes dilation and tortuosity   of the veins (ie varicosites).                 Incompetent valve &   perforator leading to venous reflux.                 NORMAL VEIN VALVE                               Normal venous valve.                                                A video clip of a   normal vein valve (LS)         A video clip of a   normal vein valve (TS)       LEG VEIN ANATOMY  http://... Nomenclature               For a comprehensive document on the   international  consensus of leg vein labelling.       REF: Journal Of Vascular Surgery, Special Communication, 2005. (215kB PDF file) We recommend reviewing this thorough document. Importantly, to avoid confusion, the 'Long Saphenous' is now the 'Great Saphenous'. http://... What are Varicose veins? Below is a basic outline of the anatomy and function of the veins and what constitutes venous incompetence. Be aware however that there are numerous anatomical variations. Valves The veins contain a series of      valves along their course, preventing retrograde flow back down the leg.      These valves operate like two plastic doors opening up the leg. If back      pressure is applied, they swing closed, pushing against each other,      blocking reverse flow down the leg. If functioning normally, it is a      competent valve. If blood is able to pass backwards though the valve, it      is deemed incompetent. Depending on the extent of      incompetence, this backflow will dilate the supple superficial veins      making them tortuous and dilated(varicose veins).Causes include: Familial factors with 'lax'      veins. These distend slightly allowing the valve leaflets to no longer      oppose each other. Injury or thrombosis. Both of      these can lead to adherance of valve leaflets to the vein wall, rendering      the valve useless.The Deep Veins Are the primary route for returning blood to the heart. They collect the venous blood from all the draining muscular and superficial veins. In the lower limb the deep veins are: (from groin to ankle) Common Femoral Vein (CFV) Superficial Femoral Vein (SFV)-      also called just the Femoral Vein. Popliteal vein (POPV) Anterior tibial (ATV) Posterior tibial (PTV Peroneal veins (Per V)The latter 3 are calf veins that generally run in pairs (venous commantantes) Click here for a diagram of leg deep vein anatomy.   The Superficial Veins There are 2 main superficial veins draining the subcutaneous tissue of the lower leg: The Great Saphenous vein (GSV) runs from the medial malleolus,      up the medial aspect of the leg, draining into the CFV at the groin as the      Sapheno-femoral junction (SFJ). The Short Saphenous vein (SSV) runs up the posterior midline of      the calf. It may drain into the proximal POPV above the knee crease as the      Sapheno-Popliteal junction (SPJ). Commonly however, it may continue up the      posterior thigh as the Giacomini vein. This will terminate either into the      mid/distal SFV or ascend to drain into the proximal LSV.Incompetence of the SFJ and SPJ are the two primary sources of varicose veins. Sapheno-femoral Junction The termination of the Great      Saphenous Vein (GSV) into the Common Femoral vein (CFV) in the groin. Is the primary source of venous      incompetence and varices of the lower limb.                  Sapheno-Femoral Junction Anatomy   Deep Veins   Common femoral        vein (CFV)    Superficial        femoral vein (SFV)    Proffunda femoris        vein (Proffv)   Superficial   Veins:   Long (Great)        Saphenous vein (LSV)    Medial accessory        saphenous vein (MASV)    Lateral accessory        saphenous vein (LASV)   Insert caption here               Sapheno-popliteal junction The termination of the Short      Saphenous Vein (SSV) into the Popliteal vein (POPV) in the popliteal      fossa. The SPJ is absent in 25% of the      population, continuing up the posterior thigh as the Giacomini vein. Only 15% of people have a      midline SPJ. The remaining junctions are medial/lateral, often via a      gastrocnemius vein.(BOTH REF: "The Vein Book" Author: John J. Bergan)                  The Sapheno-Popliteal   Junction   Determine competency and the relationship to the knee crease. The   junction is commonly into the lateral aspect of the popliteal vein. Common   variations are:   Via muscular        veins.    No SPJ - Giacomini        vein variant up to the SFV or LSV in the thigh.               Sapheno-popliteal (SPJ)   anatomy diagram.                                                Diagram of transverse   calf showing the 'eye-like' fascia containing the SSV.         Insert caption here                            The Short Saphenous Vein may terminate   in the Giacomini vein with no Sapheno-popliteal junction.   Alternatively it may divide, with a normal SPJ and a Giacomini vein (as in   this case).         Venous Incompetence Ultrasound -Protocol   *** NOTE: A comprehensive thorough scan can take an hour to complete. *** Role of Ultrasound To identify the source and      course of varicosities in the lower limb. To assess these veins      pre-operatively as a cause for: Venous ulcers   Lower limb oedema   Venous ezcema   Self image Limitations Ideally the scan should be      performed with the patient erect or as upright as possible. Some patient      will have difficulty with this. Markedly oedematous legs or open      ulcers will impede scan quality.Equipment Selection Use of a medium to high      frequency(7-10MHZ)linear array probe is preferrable to visualise the      superficial veins. You may need to resort to a      lower frequency probe to assess the deep veins, depending on the patient's      body habitus. Doppler settings should be low      PRF and low wall filter with medium to high persistance. Set the u/s machine to display triplex -      usually, when spectral doppler is on, there is a 'simultaneous' optionPatient position Ideally the scan should be      performed with the patient erect or as upright as possible. Some patient      will have difficulty with this, occasionally becoming faint or weary. Use of a tilt table will make      the scan easier for both you and the patient. Position the patient on their      back. Gently flex their knee and externally rotate their leg with their      unaffected leg kept straight to take the majority of their weight.http://...   Scanning Technique DEEP VEINS Post thromotic syndrome in patients with a past history of DVT can lead to deep venous incompetence. Deep venous incompetence or current DVT is important to exclude as a cause for the patients symptoms. 1.        Begining at the groin in transverse, identify the common femoral vein(CFV) at the point where it bifurcates into the superficial femoral vein(SFV) and proffunda femoris vein(PFV).Check compresibility in transverse and image in longitudinally with colour flow. 2.        The external iliac vein (and often CFV) do not have valves so need not be checked for incompetence. 3.        Check the competency of the SFV proximally:In longitudinal, using colour and spectral doppler. Ask the patient to strain down and make a fat tummy. If incompetent, flow reversal will be evident throughout the strain. NOTE: Due to valve spacing you can get up to 0.5 seconds of reversed flow in deep veins. 4.        Check the patency and competency of the SFV distally: If the SFV was incompetent proximally, valsalva can be used again, otherwise a short, firm squeeze of the proximal calf (called Augmentation) should be used. 5.        Check the patency and competency of the Popliteal vein(POPV). Place the probe transversely in the popliteal fossa at the knee crease. The POPV and artery will be easily seen (Be cautious not to mistake the several muscular veins in the area for the POPV). Check it's competency as per the distal SFV. THE GREAT SAPHENOUS VEIN (GSV)  Sometimes referred to as the Long Saphenous vein (LSV). Follow from the Sapheno-femoral      junction (SFJ) groin to the ankle using distal augmentation to assess for      incompetence. If there are changes in      competence, note the distance from landmarks such as the groin or knee      crease.THE SHORT SAPHENOUS VEIN Similar to the GSV, in      longitudinal, follow the SSV from the Sapheno-Popliteal Junction (SPJ) in      the knee crease, down the midline of the calf. Use distal augmentation to      assess for incompetence. If there are changes in competence,      note the distance from landmarks such as the malleoli or knee crease. The Sural nerve runs parallel to      the SSV from mid calf down to the heel. If the SSV is incompetent, make      note in the report if the Sural nerve is in intimate contact with the vein.      They can be confused one for the other in surgery.http://... PERFORATING VEINS A perforating vein joins the superficial veins to the deep veins. By definition a perforating vein must breech the fascia between the superficial fat and the muscle fascia. In transverse, scan in a methodical patternup and down the medial calf. Begin with the toe of the probe on the Tibia and do vertical sweeps until you reach the SSV. Flow should always be superficial to deep (competent). If flow is observed deep to superficial, the vein is incompetent. Any incompetent perforating veins (IPVs) or competent perforators >3mm should be noted in the report.         Click image to   enlarge             Common Perforators   The most common perforating veins are shown. The 'Cocketts' are by far the   most common. These are medial, paratibial in the distal 2/3 of the lower leg.       Basic Hard Copy Imaging A CVI study should include the following minimum images: CFV bifurcation SFV proximal and distal      demonstrating patency and competency POPV demonstrating patency and      competency SFJ demonstrating patency and      competency SPJ (if present) demonstrating      patency and competency Any incompetent perforators      noting their diameter, depth and position relative to a surface landmark Any significant or atypical      junctions of varices to the 'normal' system Any incidental pathology such as      thrombus, Bakers cyst or popliteal aneurysm. 