How difficult is it to understand the math used in theoretical physics?
I see many of the answers below are written by people, by virtue of content of their response, who clearly does not work in math nor physics. Lamenting the falling quality of Quora answers, I will offer my perspective, as an undergraduate student in both math and physics. Despite the fact physicists use math quite often, most often times mathematicians and physicists treat math quite differently. So when you say math you could mean physicist's view of math or mathematician's view of math. For mathematicians math is about rigor, abstraction and creativity. It entails carefully stating what you mean as definitions and probing the properties of objects with theorems and constructions. For physicists math is just a tool, it is the physical insight and phenomenon that matters. Hence as long as the mathematical machinery involved communicates the physical insights appropriately (even if it doesn't make sense mathematically) the physicist is happy to accept this answer. Well at least this happens very often in undergrad physics courses. An excellent example is how undergraduate quantum mechanics is often taught, there is a huge amount of mathematical machinery that goes into constructing the Hilbert space physicist know and love (the sophistication is to the degree that, I'm in my third year as a math student and I still have no idea how to build that space, I hear there's a grad course in the math department offered to math students on the subject, but remember, this is material included in a course taught to physics undergrads). However when introducing  quantum mechanics to undergrads the physics prof typically just casually mentions the Hilbert space "just behaves like a finite dimensional vector space" and moves on to describing the physics (ie how to compute the behaviour of particles and hydrogen atoms using this language) and ignores the inner turmoils of maths students sitting in on the lecture. This is but one example of how different math could mean to different people. So the questions is, how hard is math that describe theoretically physics. If you do it properly as a math student, the answer is: not so hard, if you put in enough effort. Math is the one subject that is guaranteed to make sense, since everything is built out of logical constructions. Hence while the concept may seem abstract, at the level at which I've been exposed (ie undergrad math) if you put in enough effort everything will make sense, and by make sense I mean make perfect sense to the extent that there is no ambiguity. I've had a prof say to me that he believes everyone has the capability to do math up to masters level, if they put in enough effort and do the math properly. if you take math from the physics perspective, it might be harder, or easier. many do this because they don't want to go through all the math courses. But because it's taught by a physics prof and the prof's goal is to get to the physics instead of getting caught up on the math, the concept introduced might be confusing and fragmented. two personal experiences: in high school I never got through linear algebra because I tried to do it with the physics perspective, The material was fragmented. It was taught like linear algebra was just the study of matrices which can sometimes be linear transformations, the similairty of matrix was completely obscured. but in university i took linear algebra with the math department, and everything was cast in terms of abstract vector spaces and linear transformations, and everything made so much sense that I wonder how people could learn linear algebra otherwise. Another example is when we discussed angular velocity and infinitesimal rotations in mechanics class, the prof just handwaved this away and said well it makes sense intuitively, whereas in reality infinitesimal rotations is really the lie algebra of SO(3) acting on R^3. the math description makes a lot more sense, but it is abstract and sometimes redundant for physics purposes. 