How can Voyager send a signal strong enough for us to receive, in spite of its enormous distance from us?
This was a question my Deep Space Network (DSN) boss had to deal with (she's still alive). It's a multipart answer which most of the other guys posted right, but some additional emphasis needs to be placed in comments Robert has written. The power (RTGs) and the signal strength are reasonably well covered, and RTGs like these continue to be used in missions like Galileo, Cassini, New Horizons, and MSL (Curiosity). And I was there when the Science Community (notice the caps) had to be convinced to adopt loss-less data compression. The Project had set up poster boards with Voyager 2 Jupiter images of the Red Spot in Building 180, 1st Floor, the main administration building (180), plus by this time I had met the main communication guys at the Lab (ex-Bell Lab circuit switching guys (yeah, I knew the guys like Ed Posner and Bob Tausworth)), and I had had an abstract algebra class as a senior just two years before, so I knew about error-correcting code (ECC), and had just been introduced to Richard Hamming at the NPS by chance (the start of a modest friendship). That was a big deal back then. And it remains important. The Reed-Solomon is basically all OK (data was still lost in a few cases to other problems). If you are trying just to read everyone's answers, that's a very linear activity, and you are bound to gloss over Robert's comment that the DSN (and Voyager) have parabolic antenna. And that's a big deal because those are non-linear (in fact quadratic) surfaces and topics. First, if Voyager just had any antenna, Newton discovered the cruelty of distance which goes by the name "inverse-squared-law". Lots of things involve the inverse squared law, including Moore's law (this is lost to a long of people who think they know Moore's law and never done photolith). Voyager's signal strength is lost by the square, if the distance doubles, the strength is 1-quartered. If you had analytic geometry (what my high school titled Math Analysis), you would know about conic sections and the importance of the focus (plural foci for ellipses). Newton used this to invent the reflecting telescope (almost inconceivable at the time), and the DSN used it for radio waves. Voyager uses a parabolic antenna to try to keep a more focused radio beam pointed toward Earth, and the shape of the wave (the signal and what are called its slide lobes) is important. So on the Earth side, the parabolae of the DSN antennas reverse the process and concentrate the photons at the focus in a synchronous manner. Again an O(d^2) shape. Radio telescopes and tracking antennas are one in the same; they just have to have motors move the dish to keep up with all motions. This is why conic sections are so important to learn. And Voyager also had contingencies to locate Earth should its antenna lose Earth lock. And it did on occasion. Updated 11w ago • View Upvotes