What would an ideal drug discovery/drug development process look like?
Great question. The short answer is "tumor heterogeneity". Most drugs have a pre-clinical (in vitro) rationale for using in a specific (or range) or tumor(s).  Often animal models validate the in vitro data.  Albeit, often the animal models are in non-human like milieus such as nude mice with tumor implants -- so not like de novo, over time developed, heterogenous tumors developed within hosts with intact immune systems. Phase I clinical trials are hope to show efficacy, but statistically designed to evaluate safety and a maximally tolerated dose (MTD) or more rarely the effective biologic dose. Phase II studies are to further define safety and evaluate efficacy. Phase III studies often are less strong or equivocal compared to "positive" phase II studies and "kill" drugs. Intelligent people and millions to billions of dollars are invested in drug development for a particular target or agent.  It is rationale and thoughtful.  The problem is what "should work" sometimes doesn't.  Part of it is that tumor may be heterogeneous between different people (eg HER2+ breast cancer in one person and HER2- in another) and may be heterogeneous within a given person/tumor.  Cancers may clonally evolve over time.  They may develop resistance. The non-cancer host environment for chemotherapy metabolism, ie, pharmacogenetics, may need to be considered. There is no one system or answer for how to improve drug development. A few suggestions: - thorough understanding of the biology of the system and signalling network (eg, Phase 0 studies conducted at NCI for PARPi development) - novel trial design - eg, Bayesian continuous reassessment model - Biomarker driven studies - Transnational embedded studies to help evaluate why a trial fails, or why certain subgroups do respond - Connect the "silos" of academics, biotech, pharma, NIH, advocacy rather than focus on keeping them apart - Continue scientific research at the lab all the way to community level. 