College Advice: Is 33 too old to get a master's degree, then get into a field that's completely irrelevant to what he has done before?
Short answer: No. I quit my decent-paying-but-soul-sucking job in my mid 30s, fell into a mini-mid-life-crisis, traveled the world, and found a new happy career in design, all within 3 years. Now I’m 38. Longer answer: No, you are not too old. In fact, you are pretty darn young. And I wouldn’t start thinking about possible fields that are “more welcoming”. Start thinking about the fields you love. “Oh here we go again,” I’m sure you’re saying. It’s ok. And I know, it sounds naive, maybe even simple. But it’s not. Straight up point #1: finding your passion is not easy. It takes time, persistence, experimentation, money wasted, time wasted, incredulous family members, incredulous cocktail party conversations … people will think you are nuts, they will judge you, they might laugh ... but you know what? They will be jealous of you. Because few people ever realize this in their lives. Straight up point #2: it's not just about your passion. It's about understanding what is being demanded. You can attempt to become an artist and sell your work outside your door, but that won't guarantee success. You need to put some analytical thought into how your interests might be channeled into a product or service that is being demanded. So it's not just ... And no it's not just ... ... but it's actually ... Yes, that's three tricky variables that need to be balanced. Just identifying one of those is tricky enough. The first two - talents and interests - can take several years to figure out if you're an adult who hasn't cultivated this (less time if you're a child as it's natural). These take introspection to learn and understand. Economic demand is tough to know too but in a different way. You need to think about economic trends. No, you don't need to be a professional economist, but you could to one or ask one here on Quora. Or you can get a rough idea just by browsing the Occupational Handbook at the US Bureau of Labor Statistics: U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics When I decided to go into digital design, it took me 2 years just to figure out this is what I really wanted to do. I literally just took two years to quit my job, explore the world, make some money on the side doing small consulting gigs, teach, read, and really invest into one thing: figuring out what made me tick. I took classes on tons of stuff. I took art classes, language classes, coding and design classes with people literally half my age, doing serious projects with them. It was humbling. I also read like crazy, I drew, I traveled, I took pictures, I swam at random beaches, I interviewed people, I talked with strangers from all over. Yes, this involved dumping thousands of dollars into books, videos, classes, paper, pens, lectures …. And yes, some days it will be like getting caught in snow drifts 20 ft deep. And yes, some days I woke up and thought I was insane. Some days I felt depressed and wanted to cry. Unless you've actually tried changing careers, no one really understands how uncertain things can feel, and the daily battle you have to keep up your confidence. But each day, I was narrowing into what really made me tick. And I slowly realized something too. All my years of study (BA, MA, adult education classes) and work experience (entrepreneur, journalist, marketing, economic analyst, financial trader), I learned something critical: all of your years of study and experience won’t really change who you really are. Said differently, if you really love design, then you always WERE a designer, and you’ll always BE a designer. If you always loved taking care of people, then you were always a care-giver, and you’ll always be one. If you loved to jump up in the air and swing your body, you always will be a dancer. Rip away all the verbal shackles our society puts on us to define what we are. They call it "a career" as a way to define you. Don't listen to it. Careers are man-made titles that try to fit you into a particularly mode. They are not natural. It's just about supplying something to your community - a skill, a talent, a passion. It's just trade - a trait that makes us human, that separates us from other animals.  Humans lived in hunting-gathering societies for most of their existence. Our brains and body evolved most during this time. So if we were designed for hunting-gathering societies, imagine what you'd be doing if you lived in a hunting-gathering society. Seriously, what would you be doing? Would you be the care-giver? The pack hunter? The solo hunter? The scout? The craftsman? The spear-maker? The fortune-teller? The spy?  Break down what those jobs really are. The hunt leader likes to take risks. The pack hunter likes to solve problems. The scout likes to explore new places. The craftsman imagines new objects for aesthetics and practical use. Every "career" is just some iteration of a role or task that humans have been doing for millions of years. Know that task, know what value-add you can provide. And no, I know, you don't just have ONE passion. So no, it's never a single green light, it's not just one thing. You're a human, you have lots of passions at this age, probably dozens, so go slow, iterate through them, put them each through the test (is this what I'm good at? is there economic demand for this?). Test it out, take classes, join a group, start a side business. Remember, this isn't a career, this is your life. You'll spend more hours doing this than you'll be doing pretty much anything else in your life. So spend some time to ponder it. Get a coach. Ask your friends. But by god, take some time to be thoughtful about it. Figure out what you are, why you do it, and ... yes, it's true ... you will never have to work a day in your life (B. Franklin or some similar wise soul said that). I talk about my own process in more details here: Career Transitions: I'm 42, and I don't know what I want to be when I grow up.  How can I find help figuring it out? If you are one of the lucky few to get there, things will become easier. I guarantee it. Sure, it will take you some time to perfect your craft. But you won’t feel it an uphill battle. It's not a dark scary cave, it's a wonderland, one that is opening up to you, and you will love every step. THIS will be the most welcoming feeling in the world. So should you get a degree? So maybe getting a masters degree helps you psychologically deal the change. It’s two years, highly structured, and designed to get you into the right mindset. And so yes, if you love it, you'll work hard at it, you'll put effort into it, you'll get good at it, and you will be respected for it. Is it worth the time and money to actually go through this process (masters or not)? Well, let’s step back and do the math … the average lifespan in the U.S is near 80. You are barely 35.That means you have best estimate 45 years of life in you. That’s a long time. In fact, that’s over twice your lifetime. Now imagine if you had to do work you don't like for 45 years MORE. Just think about that. Doing that one job every day. Now imagine a second life. Imagine in your obituary it says the following: “John Doe started the first 10 years of his career in X, but then decided to change to Y, and did that for 45 more years. And he loved every minute of it. ” The ratio there is 10:45. That’s still 4 x more of a life spent in a career you love. That first ten years of your life is barely a paragraph on the page, if even a sentence. Think about that. At the end of your life, 10 years gets summed up in one sentence. It's rather horrible. And liberating. So decide how you will fill up the rest of it.  And during my recent journey, I’ll tell you something else I found. Most people never even get there. Most people don’t realize what they love until they are 60 or 70. They don’t realize what really makes life work, what makes them truly happy, until it’s pretty late. So you, my friend, are way ahead of the game. You've found the secret well before that. You are not behind at all. You are already well ahead. Go for it. Updated 6w ago • View Upvotes