How is a proton beam produced?
To add to the answer of Robert Frost, it can be very space consuming to build a particle accelerator to create a proton beam with. As he mentioned, one could, like the Large Hadron Collider, make a circular accelerator and let the protons make multiple laps. In order to accelerate particles on a more manageable scale than by just puting electrodes in a very long row, called a linac, in 1932 Enerst Lawrence showed a concept that uses one big homogeneous magnetic field B and two large semi-circle electrodes - called dees because of their shape, even although recent incarnations of the cyclotron concept have more electrodes, which are wedge shaped - to accelerate the charged particle with. In this picture [1] the magnetic field points perpendicular to the xy-plane, creating a Lorentz force [2] pointing to the center of the accelerator, creating circular orbits if the particles would have a constant velocity. To accelerate a particle, a potential difference U is needed, creating an electric field between the electrodes - at the small between the two dees. As with the case of the linac, the potential has to change between the plates, to avoid deceleration when the particle passes the gap again after half of a lap. To do this, a high frequency alternating current is used. Luckily, because the particles is going faster, it takes a wider turn at each passing of the gap, keeping overall lap times constant. When the particle reaches the edge of the magnetic field a small electromagnet (shown in red) kicks the magnet - hence the name kicker magnet - out of its orbit into the tunnel that provides your proton beam. To give more control over the process of extracting protons from their circular path, sometimes Hydrogen with two electrons ([math]H^-[/math]) is accelerated up to the edge of the magnetic field, where a carbon film strips the electrons from the proton, leaving a positively charged particle, which would want to orbit the other way around, leaving the accelerator. [1] Cyclotron [2] Lorentz force 