Why are HOMO/LUMO/Band Gap values from XPS, CV, UPS, etc. different from each other?
By definition, we expect there to be some fundamental differences in the measurements even when trying to extract the same material property. However, the values should be somewhat comparable if the measurements are done cleanly, there's no degradation effects to the sample from the measurement, and there are no systematic biases. I'd check for these things first. But here's a quick run down of reasons why they'd yield different results. Photoemission techniques In XPS and UPS, you measure a valence band edge or LUMO calibrated to the Fermi level of the sample. These measurements are typically done in vacuum, and the nature of electronic states under this condition must be distinguished from electrochemical ones measured by a CV, which I'll discuss more later. This is the first and clearest reason why things differ. Beyond these differences, there are a couple of major challenges with getting the HOMO/LUMO gap or band gap from photoemission techniques: You have no information about the unoccupied density of states from photoemission -- only the occupied states. So there's no way to know the position of the conduction band edge or HOMO. The only way to obtain gap values is to use a complementary technique that probes unoccupied states. Historically, X-ray absorption (XAS) was used in combination with XPS. However, the comparison is a bit questionable since the measurements are on different energy scales (binding energy vs. absorption energy). Also, XPS is a predominantly one-state probe (free particle final states during the photoemission process) while XAS is a two-state probe (transition from a core level to continuum states). Ideally, one would use inverse photoemission spectroscopy (IPES), however there can be severe issues with charging in insulating samples that are difficult to compensate. Defining the band edge is difficult. There are several ways I've seen it in literature, the most frequent being to take a linear extrapolation of the topmost valence band feature and find its intersection with the background level. This can be a bit of a subjective process when dealing with weak valence band features. This process can also depend on broadening effects, which may be intrinsic to the material (core-hole lifetime broadening) or instrumental (energy dispersion of the beam). This is one way in which XPS and UPS can differ. The surface sensitivity of XPS and UPS are different. The information depth depends on the kinetic energy of the photoexcited electrons. The difference in kinetic energies can be anywhere between 300 eV (if using a soft X-ray synchrotron light source) to 1400 eV (Al source XPS), or even higher if using hard X-rays (HAXPES). The difference in information depth for XPS and UPS is easily on the order of a few nanometers. Consequently, things like surface defects that introduce midgap states, band distortions due to adsorbates, surface reconstruction, or surface contamination can all influence UPS measurements more strongly than XPS measurements. Cyclic voltammetry Cyclic voltammetry (CV) is done in solution, so the surface is already very different from in photoemission experiments. Because CVs measure electron transfer across the electrode-electrolyte interface, the nature of this surface plays an important role in the relative positions of the anodic and cathodic peaks. Although the simplest picture of electron transfer would suggest that the distance between the anodic and cathodic peaks is just the band gap (or HOMO/LUMO gap), this isn't really the case. A prime example is a fast, outer-sphere redox couple with a metal surface. If the redox peaks were strictly associated with the band gap, the CV would show perfectly reversible redox peaks with no offset. From Marcus-Gerischer theory though, we know that electrolyte interactions (specifically the reorganization energy of the solvent) play a role in the position of redox waves by modifying the energy levels of the oxidized/reduced species, thereby preventing a perfectly reversible redox process. Source: Dissertation -- Gustavo Pastor-Moreno. Electrochemical theory. Hope that helps! 