What would an ideal drug discovery/drug development process look like?
The issues are more complex than picking discovery or development as the reasons for low frequency of approvals.   Drugs fail approvals for one of two reasons: 1) they fail effectiveness or 2) they fail on safety.  They can also fail on other regulatory reasons like manufacturing, but these are issues that have a better chance of being worked out.   The relation safety and effectiveness are tightly coupled.  The discovery process requires having a selective target like a enzyme or  membrane receptor.  The ability to highly target this receptor reduces the potential side effects that one may see but it is not possible to eliminate them completely.   The models to test the drugs prior to clinical development are not linear in their translation to the clinic.  For example, cancer drugs have cured far more mice than people.  One of the most linear from preclinical to clinical are the antibiotics.  Antifungals are a bit more complex.   Targeting a foreign agent like a microbe is less likely to cause side effects if the enzyme or other receptor has nothing similar in the human system.   Selectivity is critical.   The ideal discovery would have a more complete matching of targets from humans and a separate system for toxicity.  The current preclinical toxicity in animals gives some evidence, but is not fully predictive.    The diversity of the patients is another factor.  Many populations may have differing genetic responses.  This can lead to variations of effectiveness or toxicity in that subgroup.   The ability to move to a personalized medicine approach would help some.  This approach would select biomarkers or other parameters that allow for selecting patients mores likely to respond to a therapy.  The stratification of the patients populations will greatly help in demonstrating effectiveness in patients.   At present, there is no ideal system of discovery.  There are rapid forms of screening, generation of leads, and selecting best lead candidates to mover forward.  This only moves things faster toward the clinic but not increase approval rates.    Maybe in time something new will come up, but not in the near future.  This is a long winded answer missing a lot of other info, but hopefully you will get the idea. Updated 135w ago • View Upvotes