How do each of the components in a 3D printer work?
Ok, so let's say you had to design something that can "print" in layers of plastic.  This type of printer is called a fused deposition modelling printer.  There are other types of printers out there, but I'll be talking about this one. (I'm going to include pictures from a range of different printers, these are just for illustration purposes.  I don't own any of the pictures). Well, first you'll need a way to melt the plastic so that it can be shaped.  You need a Heating element, either a coil of wire or power resistor, to pass electrical current through, that'll heat up the plastic.  You'll also need to carefully control this temperature to avoid burning the plastic, or not heating it up enough, so the heating element needs a built-in Temperature sensor.  The whole thing should probably be built around a Heating chamber that the plastic passes through, probably made out of some heat-conductive material like copper.  Copper is a little expensive, so brass or aluminium is a good substitute. Now, once the plastic is heated up and molten, you need to form the liquid plastic into the shape that you want.  Since you're designing a 3D printer rather than an injection molding machin, you want to squeeze the plastic out into a thin strand that can be used to layer things up with.  This is as simple as a very precise small hole at the end of a piece of metal, called the Extruder nozzle.  You might want to vary the size of this hole later, so a removable nozzle that could be screwed on would be handy. If you take your heating element, temperature sensor, heating chamber, and nozzle, and put them together into as assembly, you get what is colloquially known as the Hot-end.  You might want to include refinements like adding a heatsink to prevent the plastic before the heat chamber from softening and jamming up the entry; or use low-friction material like PTFE tubing to help the plastic move to the heat chamber. This is the business end of the 3D printer.  Now that you've established what it is that is going to be printing out the plastic, it's obvious that your plastic needs to come pre-formed into thin rod-form that can be easily pushed through the hot-end.  You need your Plastic fillament.  Since you need a lot of it, it's probably helpful to roll it all up onto a spool to keep things tangle-free. The plastic used needs to have the suitable characteristics, which gives you a few choices, but I won't go into that here. Now you need some system to push this fillament into the hot-end.  A system that would push the fillament through between two spinning rollers would give you the ability to have continuous movement.  You'll need the driving roller to have some method of gripping the fillament well because plastic is slippery.  It should probably have teeth, like a gear.  This will be your Extruder drive gear. To spin this gear, you'll need a motor that you can carefully control the exact speed and position of.  A stepper motor works great here, so this is your Extruder motor.  These motors are cheap, easy to control, and not particularly efficient (but you don't care about that). When you've assembled your extruder motor, and drive gear together, you've got your 3D printer's extruder motor assembly, or just "extruder".  You might have realized that you need some way to pull the two rollers (the drive gear, and passive roller) together to help grip the fillament and avoid it slipping, you'd need some springs to do it, this would be called the tensioner. If you attach your extruder motor assembly to your hot-end, you've got what you could call the print head assembly.  You might be interested in using more than one of these so that you could print in multiple different materials (maybe two colors, or one plastic and one soluble support material). Now that you have the print head that'll extrude fillament in exactly the speed that you want, you need to build something that'll be able to drag that head around in 3D space to build the model that you want.  You can either move the print head around, or move the model around (or both), it's a case of working out what's the most convevient setup to use.  Either way you do it, A set of rails and linear bearings will form the basis of the moving parts, allowing you to move things in one axis without risk of rotation or movement in another axis. To move things along the linear bearings, you'll need to attach the platform to a drive belt, which is driven by a motor.  Again, a stepper motor is great here since you need good control and aren't worried about efficiency.  The sliding platform is fixed to one part of the drive belt, allowing the drive motor to pull the platform along the rails using the belt. The rail and belt system is perfect for the horizontal axes.  The vertical axis is more difficult however, because you're working against gravity.  A belt system is no good because the motor must be constantly powered to keep things from falling.  You'll need to use a worm-gear-like system using a threaded rod. The threadded rod connects to another stepper motor at the bottom, which can rotate the threadded rod, sending the platform up and down.  This is your z-axis assembly.  You'll probably want a coupler between the motor and the rod to prevent overloading the motor in the case that the rod isn't perfectly vertical.  You'll still need to use linear bearings on the vertical axis to keep things straight. With all this, not only can you extrude plastic at a controllable rate, you can now also move that print head around in 3D space.   You'll need a nice flat print surface to print on, this will be the print bed or print platform.  This surface needs to allow the plastic to stick onto it to hold the model as it prints.  You might even find it useful to have the print bed be heated, to help certain plastics stick. One thing to be careful of when using stepper motors is that although you can precisely control their motion, you won't know the exact position of the print platform or print head.  You need some way to start printing from a known position, and not risk over-running the end of the rails.  You need a few end-stops which serve both to stop the platforms coming off the rails (or damaging the motor or belts), but also to allow the printer to zero its position before the start of every print.  These can either be microswitches, or photointerrupters. One added complexity is that your print platform is unlikely to be perfectly straight and level.  This will cause printing issues because the print head is not where it needs to be.  This is mainly an issue in the z-axis, where a print head too high off the platform will be printing in mid-air (not pressing the plastic into the print platform enough, resulting in warped bottoms), or worse: gauging a trench through your print bed, damaging both the bed and the print nozzle.  Alignment of the print bed used to be a highly manual task, involving a user moving the print platform around, manually setting the height above the print bed, or using a mechanical probe.  These days, it's possible to have this done automatically using a contactless induction sensor referred to as the autolevel probe This probe is best installed on the print head, and used to calibrate the z-axis before every print All you need now are the electronics, the control board, which contain both the motor drivers, and the controller that interprets commands to move the different parts of the printer. All the motors, fans, end-stops, autoleveling probes, heating elements, and temperature sensors are connected to (or controlled by) this board.  This board takes commands, known in general as the tool path information, either saved onto an SD card, or sent by a connected computer, and interprets them as control signals to be sent out. Finally, you'll need some software to turn your 3D models into the tool path, a process that for FDM is known as slicing, and the software is known as a slicer, due to the way the model is turned into individual slices to be printed out. That's all the basic parts of a low-cost fused deposition 3D printer.  You'll see a lot of variation on the design, but the general set of parts tends to be the same.  In the future you'll see more advanced methods, some of these parts will become replaced or eliminated by new technologies. 