What can we expect to happen to humans in 1,000  years?
Disclaimer: I'm neither a doomer, nor a cornucopian. I do believe in long-term and sustainable human progress, however my definition of progress is probably very different than most economists and politicians. I have four predictions that will help answer this question: 1) Life expectancy is increasing roughly linearly since 1900. If we can continue or exceed this trend, the average human lifespan should be somewhere around 300 years by the year 3000. With longer lifespans, we will likely see a deeper appreciation for long term thinking. 2) With a greater emphasis on the long term survival of the human race, we will likely have many technologies that allow us to send out panspermian spacecrafts. These crafts will allow us to spread humans to other planets over very long timeframes (possibly long after humans are extinct on earth). Also, long before we are extinct on Earth we will have sent out many different probes that will likely contain all the information necessary for a sufficiently advanced alien race to replicate humans. 3) The effective equivalent of telepathy will be widespread. For those who wish to do so, you will be able to merge your mind, (and that of your friends and family) with larger groups all around the world. Much like social networks, you will be able to set privacy levels thus allowing some people to be nearly identical to you. By this I mean that they will be able to feel everything you feel, share all of your memories and know what you are thinking. It may be possible to go in and out of the collective at will thus allowing individuality to be preserved. The advent of this level of a collective-existence will enable far better empathy and decision making that is ultimately more utilitarian in nature. Difficult global problems such as climate change will be tackled much more effectively as a result. 4) In the meantime, we will suffer many disasters related to the "limits of growth". For example, we may experience large drops in human population as a result of climate change. Resource wars may lead to bloody global conflicts. We may also suffer from long periods of economic stagnation due to the limits of our fossil fuel resources. However, I believe that that our scientific, cultural, and medical knowledge will continue to climb despite these disasters and that ultimately we will succeed at achieving #1-3 in this list. Our chances of us (and the species that evolve form us) surviving the next million years is somewhat dependant on it! 