Why is consciousness considered to be the final frontier of science?
We're all familiar with the sci-fi scenarios: artificial intelligence gains "critical mass" and becomes self-aware; robots are programmed to imitate humans so well that we can't discern them from real humans. I don't think such scenarios will actually happen for a very long time, if ever. As far as we know, the human brain is the most complex object in the universe. Despite everybody having one, we know surprisingly little about it. You think the Internet is complex? It doesn't hold a candle to the interconnectivity of the brain. With the advent of imaging technologies like CAT scans and f MRI, neuroscience has gotten a boost in interest and a glimpse of the brain's secrets. Yet we've barely scratched the surface of its mysteries. The inner workings of high-order phenomena, like consciousness, intelligence, dreams and critical analysis remain completely unfathomable to us.   Before the advent of life, the universe was 100% inanimate. Motility didn't exist: nothing moved of its own volition. Causality was strictly linear: every material effect was immediately preceded by a material cause. Now, life has produced the most complex object in the universe (that we know of). Thanks to the (human) brain, causality is no longer strictly linear: it's reciprocal . . . at least for us.   Intelligent human beings observe, interpret, analyze, understand, remember and anticipate causality. That's the survival value of intelligence. We dance with causality: anticipating its moves and maneuvering to meet and embrace it – on beat and on our own terms. Or, at least, that's the hope: it doesn't always work out the way we expect. Whether it be 5 minutes or 50 years from now, we routinely plan for the future. In a sense, our ability to anticipate causality gives us a temporal advantage over it.   Another temporal advantage we have over causality is our memories. Thanks to our memories, effects aren't necessarily direct or immediate. In the inanimate universe, cause and effect cascade in lockstep with the unidirectional arrow of time. But in the animate realm of life – particularly with humans – causality can be reciprocal or, even, recursive. Causes can take circuitous routes to effects or have many effects over time. Memories are like "causality batteries" – they are stored observations of causality from our past that we can tap as needed. Human creativity and innovation occurs when we solve new problems using our memories of prior causality. It was this reciprocal causality that inspired the first use of sails to move boats on the water. In contrast, linear causality is the effect of wind in the sails. With our "causality battery" brains, cause and effect is not as simple as it once was.   I'd like to note that consciousness is not just "all in the head". It's the interplay of 3 components:   The sensory organs/system: with which to perceive the external world The brain: with which to interpret our perceptions of the external world The external world: stimuli (causality in action) If we never had any one of these 3 components, we could not have consciousness (notice that #1 omits internal sensations for brevity's sake).   (Human) Intelligence is reciprocally transformative in that we can change the external world as it changes us. A major part of what we are conscious of is causality in action. Causality is the foundation of consciousness and intelligence because of its physical properties: consistency, repeatability and predictability. These properties provide our basis for rational knowledge.   We are complex systems of complex systems controlled by the most complex object known to science. Human intelligence is an emergent property of the brain that enables us to transform the Earth's topography, send men to the moon, rovers to mars and probes beyond our solar system. We demonstrate purpose and foresight in a universe compelled by the laws of nature. To suggest (as some do) that we can somehow master the inner workings of the brain is, to me, a tall order. It's going to take a whole lot of new technology to get us to that point: if ever. Updated 89w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Santhip Kanholy