What are the most clever hip-hop one liners of all time?
If you are willing to include battle rap then that's where you'll find the most clever one liners in hiphop. Pick any of the battle leagues like Grindtime, URL and KOTD or the Rap Olympics and Scribble Jam and watch their main events. There will be tons of lines that come out of sheer spontaneity and have absolutely gut wrenching insults laced with creative rhymes. Since the entire lyrics of these battles aren't really archived anywhere it's hard to search for them. After doing a few searches the ones I could come up with are "You talk shit ya mouth is gettin slapped so hard/ the tooth fairy will say fuck it and leave a mastercard" - Warbux vs Disaster. An improvisation on the original Big L's line. "I'll let a razor slit you till they have to staple stitch you/ and everybody in this fuckin place will miss you if you try to turn my facial tissue to a racial issue" - Eminem in the '97 Rap Olympics in response to fellow rappers picking on him for being white. "That shit is verbal slander, my homie's a soldier? he reports to Colonel Sanders"  - Soul Khan against a fat guy who called himself a soldier. Really creative connecting a soldier with KFC. "...it made him a tacky geek...with a fuckin' bloated belly and scabby cheeks...look like a decomposing body on the Iraqi streets...After a tank parade and an apache sweep...your face needs stem cell treatment, fuck acne cream" - Nocando vs Thesaurus. Especially funny because Thesaurus looks like this "I dont think this human ever had the torch, so what the fuck are you acting fantastic for (four)?" - Juice vs Johnny Storm. A brilliant pun on his name. "I got piranhas in my gene pool? I....got your daughter on my sweet tool while I'm walkin her to preschool" - Thesaurus vs Possessed (I guess). This was just some amazing rhymes in a brilliant flip because the other guy originally tried to make fun of his acne. "You broke, that's why you wanna come back and battle over here but you been wack your whole career/ Ain't it two billion people in China? You can't even go platinum over there" - Serious Jones vs Jin, a Chinese battler. "Give up your dreams of being the greatest rhymer, and don't blame me blame the fate decider that you're cursed to either work in an Asian diner or be a game designer" - Illmaculate vs Dumbfoundead. "I’ll put your DNA on display like the Maury Talkshow /With a blade that was made by Hattori Hanzo" - Illmaculate vs Bender "Me and your girl were chillin blowin kush in the sky, so in more than one way you can say your sugar was high" - Dizaster vs someone. Dizaster has lots of good lines but most of them aren't really one liners. Will keep adding more as I find them... Apart from battle rap, if there was one artist who I'd pick for the most quotables then it'd be Rhyme Asylum (Psiklone and Possessed). Even with an extremely limited discography they've put out some brilliant one liners. Their tracks are crammed with bars that will make you wonder how they could even think of stuff like that. And not to mention the fact that they have some of the freshest rhymes you'll get to hear. "Born with the birth mark of the beast, commander in chief March through Tartarus with blood soaked army fatigues Wear a diseased heart on my sleeve They say words are weapons, well I guess I'm armed to the teeth" - Straight Jacket Part 1 "I rob holy prophets to pay for my sins Time flies but not since I amputated its wings" - Event Horizon "I ejaculate sperm whales out of my moby dick" "Burying peace pipes, diggin up the hatchet Deepthroat my dick till it singes in your stomach acid" - Poison Penmanship "I got master degree burns after a heat stroke of genius" "I’ll blow my fuse and knock your lights out And push you head first off the top of your moral high-ground" - For The Hate "Tearing up vets, shouting abuse Don't respect my elders, i drowned them in the fountain of youth And I icepick my brain for rhymes, my frame of mind Turns food for thought into migraines of rice" - Iller Instinct "All-powerful being, during hours of sleeping I levitate between the ground and the ceiling Advanced lifeforms found in my semen Haven't started to rap yet; this is just the sound of my breathing!" - Poison Penmanship "You hate the fact we’re charismatic The world DOES revolve around me, my spinal cords are planet’s axis" - Attitude Problem "Embodiment of decrepitude Fuck sexual diseases, my ejaculation leaves exit wounds" - Unreasonable "Take drugs with no conscience My pupils dilate like Columbine killers with slow watches" - The Art of Raw (Take a moment to appreciate that one. If you don't get the wordplay check the lyrics on rapgenius) "Destiny’s physical form Chalk outlines for murder scenes minutes before the victims were born Force vivid subliminal thoughts I strangled my Siamese twin with the umbilical cord" - Solitary Confinement "The Devil just fell and hit the Bishop Cause Im so heavy when I turn in my sleep, heaven and hell switch positions" - Enemies Of The Faith "In a fit of rage i'll throw a discus with such force It won't fall 'til the next Olympic Games" - Next Level "Here's my declaration of war, praise to the Lord Name of my inner child? Damien Thorn Live by the way of the sword My name don't ring bells, it sounds Gabriel's horn" - For The Hate "I'm the angel of death Outpacing Olympic swimmers with the titanic s anchors chained to my legs" - Poison Penmanship "psiklone a sick psycho drink and spit nitro and sprint so quick i switch timezones" "Discovered by explorers in the remains of ancient ruins I grew angel wings by drinking holy water mixed with aviation fluid" - Dawn Of A New Species "I’m good minus an ‘O’ In fact minus an '0' from two different digits of binary code" - Straight Jacket (Take a moment to appreciate this one as well) Tired of copy pasting really....These guys are geniuses. 