College Advice: Is 33 too old to get a master's degree, then get into a field that's completely irrelevant to what he has done before?
I will offer you an example from my mother's life. My mother has been doing odd jobs from the age of 18. At 19, she went to get her associate degree in typography, but could only complete half the program. At 20, she got married. At 21, she had me. At this point, she has had hardly any work experience, she depended on that sperm donor (um... "biological father" has a word "father" in it, and that's something that he isn't) financially. And a couple months before I popped out, he left my mother. She had to go live with her parents. For a year, my mother stayed by my side. When I turned two, she started working as a nanny at daycare. We lived in a very small town of hardly 2000 residents, and a year later she decided she was going to go and make money in a big city. I will not tell you what she did, but she made some money. In essence, she has done odd jobs, that are absolutely unrelated to the business world, for six out of seven years that she has been  out of high school. The year she turned 24, she enrolled at a university to get her bachelors degree in international relations. In the country where we are from, it is highly uncommon for people to do "gap" years, and it is also highly uncommon for people to start universities at that age. She was a freshman in a pool of several hundred people, 98% of who were 7 years her juniors, never had children, and most likely haven't had any of her traumatic experiences. But hey, that's diversity for you. She went on to found a marketing startup of one person (herself) and an outsourced accountant. (Still during her freshman year.) In the coming years, she made enough money off of it to finance her and mine international travels, a new apartment, and a bunch of extracurricular activities for me. The key here was resilience. She was never put off by smirks. She was a monster workaholic (still is), and her lack of experience soon became barely noticeable. She graduated university the same year that I started my formal schooling. Fast-forward three years, she got bored. At this point, she was 32, I believe. She decided to go into a highly specialized niche business. Well, the market was small, but so was competition. She wrote a plan, got a loan from the bank, and started giving ads in the papers. The business is now 15 years old, and it has been feeding my family since. So, is it possible to become successful in a new field that you have no experience in, even though you're over 30? Yes. You just have to pursue it with all your might. How does it feel? Well... My mother did not bother with anyone else's opinion. It's irrelevant. If you want to change your career because of how other people see you, you have some things to work out. She just knew that that's what she wanted to do. And she did it. 