Why are so many psychology results irreproducible?
"Why are so many psychology results irreproducible?" I have not studied this meta study in detail, but here are my thoughts on the subject. Those psychology researchers lack understanding and training in math, stats, and design of empirical studies Many researchers in social sciences do not have a strong foundation for and training in thinking in terms of empirical experiment. (Social sciences are fields such as psychology, political science, sociology, economics etc.) They simply don't consider that their results should be reproducible, and even if they do, they might not be able to formulate them in a way so that they can be reproduced. Furthermore, a lot of these researchers could be stronger in statistics, mathematics and other fields. (Somebody has to say it.) You need to consider sample size. Your theory should hold equally well when you study Italy through the times or the fifteenth century globally. Your theory cannot be based on all the available data, or there would be none left to control the result. These are just examples. What is the meaning of an average (e.g. av. number of people with schizophrenia)? You need to be able to show the average holds in Greece as well as Ukraine, and in different times. If you use all the available data, then it's just an average, and there is always an average, whatever the value. That would be meaningless. Things like that. Social sciences are dealing with a moving target. For instance, I learned recently that I am a "blue" consumer type, based on where I live (it don't remember if it was blue; some colour). Blue consumers are described in a certain way in contrast with other colours. Now I have the choice to agree or disagree, but one thing I can only do with great difficulty: Ignore it. So I might, perhaps subconsciously, decide to act differently... Well, I might decide to act accordingly in the future, who knows. Even by publishing a 100% correct (historical) result, researchers might inadvertently affect and change the reality they are trying to measure. Especially in economics an otherwise correct theory may gradually be invalidated as new theories are taken into account. A few people trust that others will act according to theory, and they do, so these early movers are succesful on the stock market (etc.) by acting a little bit sooner than others. But soon others discover that they must follow suit or perish. The new theory still holds for historic data, but its predictive power may be weakened. In contrast there are a number of ways to measure the average distance to the moon. These are described in journals in a way that allows you to reproduce the experiments yourself, and if you do that faithfully, you will probably get almost precisely the same result. 