How do DO probes work?
There are indeed many kinds of probes to measure dissolved oxygen concentration, but they can be grouped into two broad classes: Electrochemical or galvanic probes - These probes use a semi-permeable membrane which allows oxygen to pass through it but not water and other electrolytes. An electrochemical cell is setup on the other side where oxygen is reduced, and the kinetics of this process is such that diffusion is the rate-limiting step for the entire process. A number of different materials can be used - the typical Clark electrode and its adaptations (Johnson et al., 1964) use platinum as the cathode where oxygen is reduced while Ag/AgCl serves as the anode couple. The membrane is generally made of Teflon. Figure 1 depicts the salient features of such a probe: Figure 1: Probe using a Clark Electrode The voltage magnitude is fixed so as to obtain a linear relationship between the measured current and the dissolved oxygen concentration. Hence, the probe can be used to estimate DO after calibration. Apart from the Clark-type system, other materials have also been tested both for the electrodes (silver-lead, gold-cadmium) and the membrane (silicone, gum rubber). For most of these probes, care must also be taken that consumption of oxygen by the electrode does not influence any measurements taken. Zirconia sensors are a sub-class of electrochemical sensors that have seen a lot of research in recent times. They are solid-state Nernst cells (concentration cells) that are exposed to the atmosphere on one side and to the solution of interest on the other. The difference in oxygen concentration between the two gives rise to an output voltage which is related to the oxygen concentration albeit in a non-linear fashion. One limitation of such probes is that they function only at high temperatures and hence are not widely used in bioreactors and the biotechnology industry at present. Photo-luminescence quench probes - These probes use oxygen sensitive molecules whose photo-luminescence decreases with oxygen binding. Typically, this photosensitive molecule is embedded in a polymer matrix and associates reversibly with oxygen. Figure 2 shows the possible excitation and de-excitation processes that can take place upon irradiation of such molecules with light: Figure 2: Possible Transitions after Photo-excitation (reproduced from Quaranta et al., 2012) The transition indicated by blue arrows corresponds to excitation from the ground state ([math]S_{0}[/math]) to higher-energy states ([math]S_{1}[/math] or [math]S_{2}[/math]) due to the absorption of a photon from incident light. This excited state can then relax without emitting radiation to the first excited state [math]S_{1}[/math] as indicated by the wavy arrows. Now, de-excitation back to the ground state [math]S_{0}[/math] can take place either by fluorescence emission directly (green arrows) or by phosphorescence (red arrows). In the latter case, an intermediate non-radiative energy-lowering transition is also required. Phosphorescence rates are usually negligible unless there are heavy atoms within the molecule's structure. In the presence of molecular oxygen, another non-radiative de-excitation path is added as shown on the extreme right of Figure 2, with oxygen being excited from its ground state to an excited state. [Note: There is a lot more underlying physics here (for e.g. spin-permitted and spin-forbidden transitions) which is not described here. The interested reader is referred to more detailed descriptions of the Perrin-Jablonski Diagram.] Based on these events, there are a number sensing methodologies that can be employed: Direct sensing - Measure the decrease in luminescence intensity directly before and after oxygen binding. The reduction is directly proportional to the oxygen concentration. However, direct measurements are prone to large errors and so this method is rarely used. Ratiometric sensing - Use a sensor containing both an indicator and a reference dye, the latter being insensitive to oxygen. The ratio of the luminescence intensities when measured at two different emission wavelengths allows the estimation of the oxygen concentration (Wang et al., 2010). One drawback of this method is that differences in light scattering at the two wavelengths will impact the measurement. Time-domain lifetime measurement - Excitation is given via a pulse and the luminescence intensity decay curve is plotted. The oxygen concentration can be extracted by calculating the lifetime, defined as the average duration for which a molecule is present in the excited state. Frequency-domain lifetime measurement - The phase shift between emitted and incident light can be used to estimate the lifetime, and using that result, the oxygen concentration. Figure 3 shows one such setup: Figure 3: Setup for Frequency-Domain DO Estimate (reproduced from Bambot et al., 1994) There are a number of other optical methods used such as multiphoton microscopy (Finikova et al., 2008) or other spectroscopic methodologies (McDonagh et al., 2008) but they won't be covered in detail here. After this brief overview of present-day methods, it is worth mentioning that both electrochemical and optical probes have been shown to have similar accuracy and performance (Hanson et al., 2007) though individual applications might prefer particular systems. Also, a new idea coming up for the future is that of single-use disposable sensors, so it will be interesting to keep track of forthcoming developments in this area. Hope you found this interesting! 