How will physicists verify fundamental physics after the LHC?
David's answer is great.  I will just add a little info on the linear colliders, ILC and CLIC.  As a particle Ph.D. student, I've seen (and signed) a couple of statements/letters of endorsement that were circulated regarding these proposals. ILC - What is the ILC - The project Welcome to the Compact Linear Collider Website Both of these are lepton colliders and so are much, much cleaner than a hadron collider.  Even at lower energies it is possible to learn new things.  Many of our most accurate measurements of physical parameters, especially in the electroweak sector, came from LEP (Large Electron–Positron Collider), which maxed out at around 200 GeV, rather than from something like the higher-energy Tevatron at FNAL, due pretty much entirely to the cleanliness of events in a lepton collider (LEP) compared to the messy events in a hadron collider (Tevatron, LHC).  This is just due to the fact that leptons don't interact with the strong force, whereas the quarks in hadrons do, and the strong force makes things messy.  The phenomena of Parton shower and Jet (particle physics) make final states of collision events very complicated and crowded.  In fact, figuring out how to deal with the jets at the LHC is a cottage industry among particle physicists, with things like "top-tagging, b-tagging, [math]k_T[/math] clustering, anti-[math]k_T[/math] clustering," and a lot more being some of the terms you might hear every day if you work in that area.  For more on all that, check out A Historical Review of the Discovery of the Quark and Gluon Jets and its Impact on QCD.   Just to give you an idea, here's Feynman diagram for a nice clean lepton interaction: They can certainly get more complicated, but with the weak and electromagnetic forces, every vertex you add (to make the diagram more complicated) decreases how much that diagram actually matters in your calculations.  However, the strong force suffers very little of this kind of penalty when we add a vertex, so complicated diagrams still matter a lot.  This leads to people drawing diagrams like this when talking about QCD (the strong force), jets, parton showering, etc.: or or or So, yeah.  Not having to deal with QCD (i.e., not colliding quarks/hadrons) can make things much easier to measure with precision. 