What is plasmonics and is it part of condensed matter physics?
This looks like a homework question but I will say few words for archival purposes. Plasmonics is the term that is coined by Atwater and co-workers (The Promise of Plasmonics) that refers to excitation of surface electron waves on metals with photons (or Surface plasmon polaritons). Similar to the naming of electronics (science and engineering of electrons), or photonics (photons). Its part in condensed matter physics is through light matter interaction. Light is an electromagnetic wave consisting of electric and magnetic waves. Visible and near infrared light wave oscillates very fast, at hundreds of trillions of cycles per second. At this rate, electrons at the outermost shell respond quickly but inner electrons and nuclei, due to total huge mass, lag behind, hence a net polarization is created where positive charges almost sit still but negative charges dance around. Fast moving charges are called plasma waves. Plasmon is quantum of plasma (just like photon is quantum of light.) If special conditions are met, visible and near infrared light waves can be coupled to surface charges (electrons), which together form polaritons (photon, interacting with medium is polariton).  Hence surface plasmon polaritons (SPPs) are created. SPPs are useful to confine light to tight places, focus the light beyond its diffraction limit (the best a lens can focus light is about half of the light's wavelength) [Surface plasmon subwavelength optics]. Which is nice considering light offers better information transfer rate inside logic circuits compared to electrons, however electronic circuits is now operating with 25 nm gate distances. Visible and nearinfrared light cannot be confined to 25 nm on its own, but in form of SPPs this is possible. However field of plasmonics is not focused on fabricating new logic circuits. Right now there is much more interesting physics going on from ultrahigh resolution microscopes to probing quantum oscillations of light on single molecule, from non-linear dynamics at the nanoscale to localized heating to kill targated malignant tissues. Of course I haven't discussed the politics of scientific naming conventions, which would take few more pages. 