What does your dream electronics engineering workshop look like?
I'd have every tool imaginable. From high end solder irons and hot air nozzles to presses for BGA desoldering ball bonding machine for packaging. Silica-epoxy delivery system (encapsulant for repairing chips) Hermetic lamar flow niche for working on contamination sensitive devices (HDDs) Optical microscopes, raw CMOS sensor (no bayesian) SEM with SE, backscatter and EDX modes. Ideally some 3 floors below the basement suspended in a vibration-free gyro cage. Selection of fine mechanical tools: all sorts of pliers, tweezers and screwdrivers, including unusual bits, probe heads, spring-loaded. Raw materials including aluminium, gold, copper and sheet versions. Several laminates for PWBs/PCBs including common FR4, and FR5 and more exotic ones like Alumina and AlN. Discrete and packaged transistors, common linear circuits and an assortment of all microchips from all ranges, SoCs, FPGAs. I'd also like several boards with fully featured FPGAs with optical interconnects so that i can have a better idea of an ASIC i'd be developing. Infinite drawer stacks with all LRC sizes, types and shapes. I wouldn't need the same for plastic spacers because i could make my own if i had these: Metal deposition machine, electroplating machine (can be self-built) Controllable UV lamp 3D CNC lathe including computerised control 3D PVA printer other sintering machine for bulk PP package making X-ray CAT machine ultrasound probe and analyser Etchant baths for several chemicals. Massive storage tanks for liquid nitrogen with piping on top of the lab. I wouldn't mind having a small cleanroom section with molecular beam epitaxy machine, but that might be stretching it. Several workstations with assorted EDA software preferably my Workshop would be annexed to Farnell's or RS's warehouse. I'd also like a tea room. Wiring and cables: all sizes, shapes, and connectors. For practicality, you can't ignore mechanical constraints - drills, taps from small to large, hand and computer-controlled versions 