How far can a probe be sent into space before it loses all communication links?
We cannot really fix a distance limit to radio communications.  Many visitors to my station ask me "What is the range of your transceiver?" So I explain to them, if I simply say "Hello" into the microphone, that word goes round the world 7 times or so in a second.  Therefore the range of communications depends on the sensitivity of the receiver - how sensitive it is to be able to receive very weak signals. The farthest any manmade object has reached in space are the VOYAGER space probes. Voyager 1 and its twin, Voyager 2, were launched in 1977. Both spacecraft flew by Jupiter and Saturn. Voyager 2 also flew by Uranus and Neptune. Voyager 2, launched sixteen days before Voyager 1, is the longest continuously operated spacecraft.  Operating for over 37 years, the spacecraft still communicates with the Deep Space Network to receive routine commands and return data. At an incredible distance of 132 AU as of April  2015, it is the farthest spacecraft from Earth. Even today, Voyager mission controllers send and receive data from Voyager 1 and Voyager 2 every day, though the emitted signals are currently very weak, the output at about 23 watts. By the time the signals reach Earth, they are a fraction of a billion-billionth of a watt. Data from Voyager 1's instruments are transmitted to Earth typically at 160 bits per second, and received by the 70-meter NASA Deep Space Network stations. Traveling at the speed of light, a signal from Voyager 1 takes about 17 hours to travel to Earth. After the data are transmitted to JPL and processed by the science teams, Voyager data are made publicly available. This is possible only because of the Deep Space Network - Each of the three Deep Space Network, or DSN, sites has multiple large antennas and is designed to enable continuous radio communication between several spacecraft and Earth. All three complexes consist of at least four antenna stations, each equipped with large, parabolic dish antennas and ultra-sensitive receiving systems capable of detecting incredibly faint radio signals from distant spacecraft. Engineers at NASA are of the opinion that communications with the Voyager spacecrafts will cease by about 2025 or so only because the power will not be available any more and all instruments will be switched off. 