How difficult is it to understand the math used in theoretical physics?
It depends on a lot of things such as what areas of physics you're studying, whether you learned the math in a course of pure mathematics, one of applied math or during the physics course that uses it.  E.g., I learned partial differentiation in thermodynamics, where it had somewhat of a magical feeling.  Later in teaching advanced physics in high school I came to understand it better, and now it seems fairly obvious.  With better instruction, this math would not have been difficult in the first place. Then I "learned" some of the 14 orthonormal coordinate systems and how to transform from one to another in my first semester of electricity and magnetism.  That was a disaster.  I really needed better instruction in this field of math before trying to apply it to something as difficult at E & M.  But the math isn't inherently difficult.  I just didn't have time to learn it properly when I needed to use it. I also had to pick up some particular uses of functions of complex variables while taking another course in graduate school.  Again, the math isn't that difficult.  It's just that I hadn't learned much of it before taking the course. Another math field that is essential in theoretical physics is group theory, but it is seldom taught before it is needed in courses like quantum mechanics, and quantum field theory.  Again the math itself is not that difficult. Assuming that someone has studied the background math in formal math courses that will be needed in theoretical physics, there is still the problem that physicists often use approximations that drive pure mathematicians crazy.  It's like growing up in one culture and then moving to a totally different culture where the basic institutions seem the same but all the traditions are different. The only mathematics needed for any area of theoretical physics that I personally find daunting at this time is Riemannian Geometry needed for the general theory of relativity.  You also first need a deep study of linear algebra, and that isn't easy, but it's not all that hard either. Basically, to work smoothly with the theory in many areas of physics, you need to learn a large number of mathematical system, and you need to learn how to use them in a variety of ways. 