If black holes have no hair, how come they have entropy?
As Barak said in his answer, classical black holes have three hairs, whereas semi-classical black holes have a large entropy (proportional to horizon area). But let me go further and comment on why this is. First, remember that entropy is a quantity associated with a thermal or probabilistic system. You can consider, say, a very large number of particles in a box, and ask "how many ways are there to configure this system?" Entropy is a way to quantify this. A classical stationary black hole is not a probabilistic system ... it's more akin to a single particle sitting in an empty box. When you go to quantify the number of ways to configure a box of N particles, the first thing to do is to understand the "configuration space": the mathematical arena of where we can specify all the different arrangements. This is a 6N dimensional space where we can specify the 3 components of position and 3 components of momentum for each particle. A really good question to ask is "what is the configuration space in which a black hole spacetime lives?" I don't really understand this, because it's an infinite dimensional space of all metrics on 4-dimensional manifolds ... anyway, it's complicated. Some infinite dimensional phase spaces are easy to understand, like when we fix spacetime to be flat Minkowski space and talk about, say, electromagnetism on this background (then we can decompose the fields into Fourier modes and talk about the occupation number of each mode—this is the Fock space picture). This actually works for linearized gravity (general relativity) on a certain fixed background, but I don't know the story for the full nonlinear theory. Then why are we so sure that semi-classical black holes really are thermal states? This all comes from Hawking's famous calculation of the now eponymous Hawking radiation. This calculation goes as follows. Fix a black hole spacetime and then study quantum fields on that fixed background. The calculation becomes precise by saying that physics at the event horizon should be regular (nothing blows up there) and that we're not throwing anything into the black hole. Then Hawking calculated what you see very far away from the black hole in the distant future. The answer is that you see a thermal spectrum of particles. In a sense, you can expect that these particles are in thermal equilibrium with the gravitational field. We didn't throw anything in and we see that (say) photons are coming out distributed as if there's a system with some non-zero temperature. Even though we don't understand quantum gravity, we understand low-energy photons and can use them to probe the quantum nature of black holes. So far all I've told you is that a semi-classical black hole has some temperature, nothing about entropy. But remember that from (a Legendre transform of the infinitesimal form of) the first law of thermodynamics, entropy is related to energy and temperature. To be exact, [math]S = - \frac{\partial F}{\partial T}[/math] where S is entropy, F is Helmholtz free energy, and T is temperature. Since we know that the temperature of a black hole depends on the mass (=energy), we immediately see that a black hole has entropy. The conservative interpretation is that in some microscopic theory of gravity (which coarse-grains to GR), there are many configurations that lead to the same macroscopic black hole. This is analogous to how there are many microscopic configurations of particles that lead to the same macroscopic variables (temperature, pressure) of a thermal gas in a box. 