What are some examples of non-linear novels?
Well, honorable mention for the "Choose Your Own Adventure" series of children's books, but Mark Z. Danielewski wrote the two least-linear books I've ever read. "House of Leaves" also happens to be one of the best books I've ever read.  It's about people stuck in a labyrinth, and the book itself is a labyrinth.  Hundreds and hundreds of footnotes referencing other footnotes, some referencing footnotes that don't exist, sometimes you get stuck in a footnote loop with no way out.  When the characters are lost, you're lost.  When the characters are squeezed in, so are you. Sometimes the words on the pages go backwards, or are typed in a circle, sometimes he'll start listing objects and not stop for several pages. Some parts conceal codes, and when you decode them you get new passages that conceal new codes. The whole book takes the format of a manuscript for a nonfiction book on the subject of a film that doesn't exist.  This manuscript contains lies by the author, and was then found and edited by a young man.  Each new set of hands on the book added a new layer of footnotes and dishonest changes to the original.  You'll go mad trying to figure out who made what lies where. All of this stuff could have been mere gimmickry in the hands of a lesser author, but in Danielewski's the end result is an amazing reading experience. Not to mention the writing itself is superb. "Only Revolutions" is Danielewski's other full-length work ("The Whalestoe Letters" is an addendum to "House of Leaves").  When you hold the book, the two covers are reflections of eachother, one green and one yellow.  This theme continues inside with the title and publisher's pages.  Inside is prose-poetry, two columns per page, one going up and one going down.  A little probing reveals the book goes one cover to the other in both directions.  If you read both page 1's, you'll realize it's the same story both ways, about a young couple traveling through time.  Slight differences in the phrasing set one of the directions in the 1800's and the other in the 1950's. *** If a linear narrative was a taut clothesline, "Only Revolutions" would be a möbius strip, and "House of Leaves" would be a...god, I don't know.  Maybe one of those big softcover books of mazes? 