Why is consciousness considered to be the final frontier of science?
I have to say up front that I don't think there's anything particularly special about consciousness. It's true that we still don't full understand it and we are hampered in studying it that it is ultimately personal: we cannot look at it objectively from the inside, we can only compare subjective reports with what we can study of brain activity. However, I find it much more plausible that the phenomenon of consciousness is an emergent property of a sufficiently complex neural network than that it is something distinct from the physical or a peculiar quantum state that collapses other wave packets. It's the simplest explanation until we have something that tells us otherwise. So could we or should we consider it the final frontier of science? Arguably yes. Consciousness is, so far, pretty much the only thing we have found that is unique in the universe. There are plenty of examples of life on Earth, but many of them do not have consciousness in the way humans understand it. There is no evidence of intelligent life elsewhere (yet) - but there is a tantalising possibility that we might be able to create some. It's not a certainty or even a probable event (it's long seemed close but always seems to recede from us as fast as we approach it), but it seems more likely than that we might meet and communicate with a lifeform from another planet. If we were to create an artificial entity that were sufficiently complex and consistent in its responses to be able to pass a Turing test (I don't think we have a better measure of consciousness than that), then it changes a lot of things. We would no longer be alone in the universe. There would be another, different intelligence that we could interact with and who would likely have a different perspective than us. There are a couple of other candidates - the very big (space travel, via something like an Alcubierre drive) and the very small (unified field theory) - that could have a similarly transformative effect. Would they change our day-to-day lives as much as artificial consciousness might? Probably not. 