How did space probes and other space craft like the Mariner 9 transmit pictures to earth in the 60s and 70s? How were they stored and processed?
Processing in orbit was and had to be minimized. Most image processing had to be done post-facto on Earth. Processing takes a lot of electronics real estate. I was involved with a lot of other people about whether or not to do onboard processing. It's a very complex subject. Electronics was not regarded as reliable or trustworthy for various reasons (ones you will commonly hear and see documented and for other reasons never documented). Part of the reason why processing is complex is because storage on space craft is expensive, slow, mechanical. In the 70s, it was magnetic tape which had to be rewound following every use. Disk wasn't flown until later. It was what was available. Some of the earliest imagery was actually photographic film which was developed (processed) in space, then digitized back to Earth. Communication back to Earth is typically done by a parabolic dish antenna. The signal would be received back on Earth by one of the 3 Deep Space Network dishes (I've visited Goldstone a couple of times). What we call now a file, doesn't use any format common to computers today. Some of the storage was again on film or 2 inch Ampex tape (I had a tiny hand on recovering some of that recently (helped recover old manuals, diagrams, and other engineering drawings)). In reality, none of this follows a nice linear narrative. This is all hindsight, and anything you read will likely be tinted with a degree of bias (I've worked in th storage industry while in college before I encountered this and know some of the principals in the DSN; I worked on a project which ultimately became Magellan where processing would have overwhelmed communication so onboard processing made sense to some: but that's not easily spoken: this is an oversimplification of a complex engineering discussion on radar imagery rather than photometry). Updated 91w ago • View Upvotes