How could/would sweat(ing) increase friction?
Here is a great discussion on this topic: Mad Scientist #4: Friction of Wet Skin, Lubrication, and. Probes? Typical coefficients for wet skin are in the range 0.2 - 0.65. The number depends on the condition of skin and location on the body, the material used as a probe, the geometry of the probe, the type of movement (linear vs rotation), and other factors. Dry skin has less friction than wet skin. Dry skin won't be discussed here except regarding the effects of poor preparation. However, it's interesting to note that the coefficient of friction for dry skin might not vary under load. (i.e. it obeys Amonton's Law.) Water softens the skin, so it's thought that this allows for greater contact with the probe. Wet skin swells, and becomes plasticized and more pliable. These make the surface of wet skin smoother (geometrically, not in terms of sensation). The smoother surface increases the contact area between skin and probe, which causes increases adhesive forces, which means more fiction. The amount of increased friction (due to the coefficient) seems to depend on the probe material, as well as the level of hydration. The effect of water only lasts for a few minutes, after which the skin returns to normal. It follows that friction should decrease for dry skin. This is the case, for example, when skin is treated with isopropyl alcohol. Increases in the friction coefficient due to wet skin are much higher than the decreases due to dry skin, compared to normally hydrated skin. Friction has two components: interfacial (slip, adhesion) and deformation (ploughing, surface roughness, etc.). The irregular surface of dry skin can cause a probe to slip or bounce because it doesn't have as much contact as it would with a smoother surface, such as wet skin. Slipping also occurs for probes on wet skin due to build up of water that gets between the probe and skin, causing the probe to hydroplane over the water. Deformation friction happens when the skin flexes, making it harder for the probe to flow smoothly--it's the energy it takes to move the flexible skin. All of this is similar to a tire going over a road. It turns out that the slip effect, which would lower the overall (bulk) friction, is largely countered by... well, possibly the additional adhesion from the larger surface contact made by the smoother wet skin. A variety of explanations are given. 