How did the Universe begin?
TL;DR: I don't know. What I do know is that the question itself is problematic. "Start" is a word that's inherently time-bound: for X to start it means that there was some time before X when it wasn't, and then there was. That's not an accurate description of the universe, since "time" is inherently part of the universe and it's not meaningful to talk about some "time before time". That's just a contradiction. It's a contradiction that's very hard to shake, since it's our everyday experience. Modern physics is very much not like our everyday experience, and it's difficult to explain the difference except in either (a) baffling amounts of mathematics or (b) handwavey mumbo-jumbo that usually ends up leaving people with either (1) total confusion or (2) a false sense of understanding. That last one leaves us saying things like Over very small amounts of time, energy is not conserved, and the amount uncertainty in the energy can be come astronomically large. Over very small amounts of space, time itself is uncertain. Particles don't really move directly from point A to point B but pass through every point in between (and in fact are never entirely at either A or B at any point in time, and for that matter there's no such thing as a "point in time".)We know that the universe was once very, very, very small, such that the uncertainties I mention above come to dominate the equation. To make matters worse, the amounts of energy and mass (mass=energy, remember?) are so large that our two key theories of physics start to contradict each other. So the point is that modern physics already makes the notion of a "start to the universe" completely meaningless, and even the conditions near whatever we thought might look like a "start" don't mean anything. So instead I shift to your other question: what else should you know about it? Honestly, nothing. None of this is even slightly relevant. We have enough to know that "Sky daddy say 'let it be' six thousand years ago" is just plain wrong and only morons even bring it up; they are not worth talking about, or to. Once they've shut up, we realize that none of this actually matters. Unless you're going to become a high-energy physicist or cosmologist, or listening to morons, this is never, ever going to come up in your daily life. My advice is to forget you ever heard about it and think about something useful instead. If you do want to think about it, you've got about a half-dozen or more years of very hard physics to learn, at the end of which you still won't know the answer. You will, however, be able to expand on "I don't know" at tremendous length, and explain why the question itself isn't actually a very good one. Which is an awful lot of effort. So you really should have stopped at the TL;DR. 