How will physicists verify fundamental physics after the LHC?
First of all, take a deep breath, we shall all just have to wait for the results of the current LHC run, at the full energy and luminosity! Who knows what may yet be found. There have been some hints seen of anomalous structure in the [math]W^+ W^-[/math] channel near an invariant mass of 2 TeV. But such bumps in the data can quite easily be caused by low statistics and are very common in experiment - in my experience doing nuclear physics experiments all sorts of structures would show up with low statistics that you would swear were real and significant, but which completely vanished once your statistics were better. So how to continue after LHC is very much dependent on exactly what is finally found. If they find solid evidence for supersymmetric partners that will be a huge thing and the masses at which these seem to exist will certainly determine what should be done next. If it is only an apparently standard model Higgs, and maybe a bunch of pentaquarks, after LHC is done, then the obvious short term way to go would seem to me to be to build a machine which could study the Higgs in very great detail and to continue the run of LHCb and maybe Belle and others  for as long as possible to obtain more information on these interesting pentaquark states, if indeed these are real. That is to say, one should build a Higgs factory and produce as many of these Higgs bosons as one possibly can and see whether it really is a standard model Higgs and what it is like in as much detail as is possible. This need not be a very high energy machine, given the mass of the Higgs. The projectiles should be leptons to simplify the theory in the incoming channel and to boost the luminosity as much as possible a circular collider is really preferred. So, and this is just my own bias, just because in the past I helped a little bit to work on the design of a muon collider, I would support building a muon collider at the energy of the Higgs boson resonance. You get a big boost in the resonant Higgs production at a muon collider by about a factor of 40,000 due to the higher mass of the muon relative to the electron, and for the same reason it is not physically a very large machine -  it could be built at CERN or, if the US wakes up out of its torpor, it could be built at FNAL. I don't much care where it is built in fact, at this point in my life, but it could be built somewhere. The muon decays in the ring can also be used to produce very intense neutrino beams, and the details of neutrino physics remains one of the burning and open questions, more or less within the standard model, and very possibly what is learned by studying neutrino physics may also be relevant to cosmology, via the matter-antimatter asymmetry. The technology to do this is not trivial, but developing it would be worth it, I think. Here is a talk by Carlo Rubbia, I know that he is a dinosaur now, but I remember his name still from when the W boson was first found. But here he is at CERN talking about a proposal to try to build a very critical element of a muon collider as a first step towards a Higgs factory. http://home.web.cern.ch/scientis... So this would be a next possible step in accelerator physics if the LHC comes up with only what it has done so far, and it is my theoretical bias that the LHC has found what it will find already. Don't get me wrong: I will be pleased as punch to be proven wrong about this, but I think that if signs of supersymmetry are found at LHC in the current run they are likely going to be only hints and probably not very solid ones. But if solid evidence of super-partners is found then the obvious thing will be instead to make a factory to produce those as copiously and cleanly as possible - and here probably the way to go may be a linear collider with electrons since the required energies would probably be 2-3 TeV and there are concepts around such as CLIC and ILC which just may make this feasible. But these are all very large machines. In the long term, if supersymmetry is not found at the few TeV scale, then the only hope will be to build a much higher energy machine. I once again lament the cancellation of the SSC very much in this context - it would have been a much lower luminosity machine than the LHC, but it would have been capable of reaching higher energies and it would have found the Higgs quickly. It is a great shame from my point of view that there was a bit of a pissing match between the US and European camps at the time when these two machines were first being seriously considered, which was actually when I was just a very young student. There will simply have to be international cooperation on any future accelerators that are built, if LHC comes up with nothing solid pointing to new physics to be investigated at an accessible energy scale. One probably needs to increase the energy of the LHC by at least a factor of 10 or more to be able to make a convincing case for building a new machine again to find supersymmetry, if it is not found very soon now. This would be an enormous project and it will require a very large scale accelerator if done with the current technologies for proton-proton colliders. So improvements in magnet technology and in increasing the accelerating field beyond what is possible with current klystron technologies are the areas to fund during the planning phase for newer higher energy machines in the range of 100 TeV or more. And the only future will be higher energy unless we are very lucky. Otherwise only precision experiments will remain to those of us who are interested - very rare decays and neutrino physics will be the only probes to employ. 