What would an ideal drug discovery/drug development process look like?
Some great answers covering a number of key ideas. I have a slightly different (slightly off topic) thought. I hope it can be considered relevant. An ideal drug discovery / development process would be one that is completely decoupled from the whims of investors and banks. Whilst there are many, many inefficiencies and pitfalls available for the drug discovery process to fall prey to (I speak from experience here!), the biggest step we could take to make the process ideal would be to remove all concept of return-on-investment / profit making from the process. This can be illustrated pretty simply: Average desired time-frame for an investor or VC to achieve  5-10 fold return on investment : 3-5 years Average "acceptable" tenure for a CEO within the sector : 3-5 years (?) Time to design and develop a successful drug, from concept through to market: 15-20 years It doesn't take a genius to see there is a clear disconnect here. Until the money required to perform the science is linked to a realistic time-frame and expectation, the drug discovery process will continue to falter: Scientific research is not a true process in the classical business sense and it's practitioners require time to actually, well, search. Bringing unrealistic (i.e. fixed!) time frames into the process is only going to result in low quality products designed to appease the money masters and ultimately result in a failure. Once we've solved that little conundrum (!), and to truly answer your question, I would say the ideal drug discovery process would look like this: 1) Smart academic group make significant, robust discovery concerning the involvement of a particular protein in a particular disease (Year 0) 2) Drug discovery groups (i.e. biotech / pharma / research institutes) discover a relevant means of interfering with this protein (biologic or small molecule starting point) (Year 1) 3) Medicinal chemists and / or molecular biologists turn the starting point into a product capable of being a drug (i.e. improving the potency, thus lowering the dose; modifying and stabilizing the product such that it can be administered in the desired manner with the desired dosing regimen) (Years 2-5) 4) Prepare the product for phase I clinical trials, including preliminary toxicology and establishing a means for manufacturing on the required scale (Years 6-8) 5) Phase I trials (Year 9) 6) Prepare for Phase II trials (Years 10-11) 7) Phase II trials (Year 12) 8) Analysis of Phase II data (Year 13) 9) Prepare Phase III (Year 14) 10) Phase III trials (Years 15-16) 11) Analysis of Phase III data (Year 17) 12) Regulatory filing and regulatory body decisions (Years 18-19) 13) To Market! (Year 20) 