What would an ideal drug discovery/drug development process look like?
The core problem is simple to understand, but is virtually never mentioned. Any product (precious metals, gems, fossil fuels, drug molecules) which is *discovered* rather than *designed* will experience ever-increasing marginal cost. The first items found are the most obvious, then those that are slightly less so, and so on. We stop looking not when there is nothing more to be found, but when the average cost of finding the next item exceeds the net present value of that item's future income stream. We're at about that point now for small-molecule drugs, but given the long time-constants in the industry it will take a few decades for that to become obvious. The cost of finding something depends on the size of the search space, or, stated another way, on the number of things you have to sort through that *aren't* what you're looking for. Most of the technological improvements to the discovery process are aimed at searching more efficiently. But this is largely a waste of time at this point. So-called "High Throughput Screening" systems can search upwards of a million randomly created molecules looking for those that bind to a target of interest. But the number of possibilities in the Lepinski space of "drug-like" molecules has been estimated at something like 10^50. To try to put these numbers in perspective without using exponents, a million is the number of grains of sand you can hold in your cupped hands. 10^50 is the number of grains of sand that would fit in a sphere the size of the orbit of Pluto. It's an utter mystery to me why anyone thought HTS would work. Design, on the other hand, produces results in a time which is independent of the number of possible solutions that don't work. Design proceeds more or less monotonically from a prototype through a series of incrementally better ones, until the specified performance is reached. When designing a new integrated circuit, or computer, or aircraft, or cell phone, success is pretty much assured, and the range of required time and effort is bounded. Here it's important to point out a terminology problem: With apologies to the many dedicated and brilliant medicinal chemists and biochemists in the pharma world, their work processes are simply not design, by any definition of that term that would have meaning in other contexts. By the time a lead molecule makes it to preclinical studies there have been thousands tried and discarded, and the processes by which they were chosen are at least in part by guesswork. In short "drug design" does not exist. The activities that go by that term might better be called computer-aided search. Successful design in the more usual sense requires one key thing which is missing in chemistry: A *model* of the prototype (mental, physical, or computer) which is a) predictive of the performance of the real thing, and b) provides *insight* into why the performance is inadequate and thus how to improve it. A nontechnical person, given tinkertoys made to match the strength profile of steel beams could design a bridge that would stay up under load, by simply observing where the model breaks and bolstering it until it doesn't. Unfortunately, there are at present no suitable models for biochemistry, and given current directions of tool development that will not change for at least 50 years, and possibly much longer. There are two broad classes of methods for simulating chemistry. One gives results on real systems in reasonable run times, but despite immense effort and a number of Nobel prizes the answers are so inaccurate they're not useful except in special cases. In my opinion they never will be. The other class of methods are so computationally demanding that *as currently structured* they cannot be used for systems of practical interest. The best of them (in my view) are the tools of a very distant field called condensed-matter physics. They are mind-bendingly accurate, but very slow. This could be fixed, but it would require cooperation among fields of science and engineering that have little in common and no other reason to even meet each other. And since development of such a tool would not result in a stream of incremental results suitable for existing pharma, biology, or condensed matter journals, there's no way to support the careers of the scientists with the skills to make it happen. If you're headed into pharma as a career, you have my sincere condolences. Updated 82w ago • View Upvotes