College Advice: Is 33 too old to get a master's degree, then get into a field that's completely irrelevant to what he has done before?
You are correct- its not too late, you can change careers late in the game, be successful etc. I made late stage career changes and have 2 children so my situation had the added element that I had to not only change careers but also make more money in the career that I was moving into that I had no experience in... that is a trick. Going to graduate school however is one of those great reset buttons that everyone recognizes and respects.  Also, at 33, you have a huge advantage because you can enter into your post grad career with applied skills and experience that many of your peers most likely wont have. You also asked if it is possible to be successful with no experience but no one is born with experience. Everyone started somewhere, even the folks that are successful. All that being said however I think you may be looking at the wrong side of the equation. You didn't mention why you were changing careers or what "success" means to you, BUT my guess is that the change has to do with lack of fulfillment or compensation? When you make a career change, it almost doesn't matter what you get into as long as you have a passion for it. Once you are doing something you are passionate about your learning curve will accelerate. If you are more left brain, forget the word "passion" and replace it with "interest". Keep your chin high. If you are ready to make a move, take it! There is nothing stopping you and the only failure in life is to freeze. There are no mistakes and there is no timeline you have to keep up with. I hope I am forging new territory when I am 80 and beyond. Ill tell you a few of my career changes to give you some context and maybe it could apply to you in some way. For me, the key takeaway is simply that even I made a number of radical hops it always worked out. In retrospect I learned that I : 1. ALWAYS worry too much and 2. ALWAYS underestimate the upside. that being said, I work hard at making generally 'good decisions' whatever that means. So here is a very brief rundown of some of my personal "Reboots":  I started off in Anthropology and global crisis management. I worked on the latin american team and we would extricate and negotiate the safe housing for people in 14 different countries. Rape, amoebic dysintery, political overthrow, you name it, my team dealt with it. I loved it and had dreamed of doing that exact work but it never dawned on me that  I would some day burn out.  Finally after years I had to move on and felt like I sorely lacked formal management and strategic training so I went into object oriented computer design and got an MBA. As I mentioned I had a degree in Anthropology and 2 other soft science degrees but none of them prepared me for an MBA. I hit the books and studied extensively and did well enough on my exams to get into a top 20 B school. After that I ran and Co-owned a Wireless telecommunications consulting firm during the cellular boom. This was a wild ride but one that ultimately also lead to burn out. Somehow during this career I also got a real estate license and started investing in commercial real estate on the side.  In my late 30's I took a very deep breath and made another radical departure. This time I developed metallurgical processes on steel which I turned into large pieces of artwork and sold (and still sell) to corporate and private art collectors. By my early 40's I had gotten married and with a growing family wanted a stable income. I had no interest in going back to any of my prior industries but always had remembered fondly managing  a nutty team of real estate negotiators when I worked in cellular. This to me was essentially sales so I looked into opportunities and ultimately took on Sales team management and ran a regional team of fiber backhaul salesmen for an enterprise level data transport company. Simultaneously I began taking weekly sales management training bootcamps that were exceedingly revolutionary in how I perceived "sales" and consulting in general.  One thing led to another and with that knowledge I entered into the startup community and started an ISP which I still own and then moved careers again to Global Enterprise Cloud consulting for IBM. Many of these twists and turns required serious "re-routing". I had to take extensive exams, loads of coursework, many many late nights studying, reading, learning, probing. Mine has never appeared to be a linear path however to me it has been. I learn tools which inevitably bring me to another interesting pursuit which I somehow am "just" prepared enough for to make a go of it.  I don't learn particularly fast but I love talking to people who are at the top of their game so that essentially is my learning process. It hasn't been a cakewalk. I have made some poor investment decisions along the way, had fall outs with partners, got my heart broken, suffered in stifling work environments... none of those were listed here but those happened too. When you fail, just figure out what happened and move on. There are no wrong decisions. I am excited for you- crossroads are some of the most important times in our life. They teach us to relax, listen, and take action all at once. I hope some of this was helpful- Best of luck! 