What are the most fascinating things researchers and scientists are working on?
The Tree of Life. There could be anywhere from 5 million to 100 million species on Earth - the best estimates say around 10 million+ - and yet we've only even named fewer than 2 million of them. Considering how interconnected all life on Earth is, and how useful humans have found knowing about nature to be, we need to know about the rest. The picture above (from http://www.evogeneao.com/images/...) shows what we know of the Tree of Life. It's just a fraction of the amount we don't know. E. O. Wilson has said that mapping the Tree of Life is one of the greatest scientific endeavors of all time, calling it "the third dimension of biology." I agree. I think it's more important that all the stuff going on at the LHC, and all the other Big Science projects that physicists talk about. This is the ultimate Big Science. It's been going on for centuries, and may go on for centuries more. It's an arduous process, and until recently, hardly coordinated at all. Wilson said in an article for the New York Times: The Encyclopedia of Life is absolutely vital in saving the environment. Because we’re losing the vast percentage of species; we are losing them. Whenever we focus on a particular group, whether it’s birds, frogs, whatever, we can just see them disappearing. So what happens among all these other groups, from beetles to ants to bacteria to fungi and so on? You know full well that they’re disappearing, too. But we don’t even know what’s disappearing. And we don’t know how to save most of them. And we don’t know how this is going to affect the environment. We need to have this information, this great database, in order to plan strategies that are maximally efficient, cost the least, square kilometer by square kilometer around the world, and save the most. And we can’t do that without a thorough knowledge of what we’re trying to save. We keep talking about finding life on other planet, but only now can we began to grasp the concept of understanding life on this planet. Updated 218w ago • View Upvotes