★What is the difference between MAC and routing protocols in general (or in WSN)?
The MAC (Media Access Control) is the lower part of Layer 2 of the OSI reference. The main purpose is to provide addressing, framing and perhaps error detection for the type of media that will be used, for example, 802.11G wireless, or 802.3 Gigabit ethernet. The upper layer of Layer 2 is called the Logical Link Control (LLC), which interfaces with the network layer (Layer 3) and forms connections with devices on the same physical network. Layer 3 is called the network layer, and forms internetwork connections. This is the layer that is responsible for allowing devices in one network to connect to another device in another network, for instance, on the Internet. Routing protocols work at the network layer to help it determine the paths to other networks, and how to route the traffic. It also helps to re-route traffic when paths are broken. That's it in general. Now for Wireless Sensor Networks, the WSN architecture uses the same OSI reference, but the protocols used are different as compared to data networking, for example IEEE 802.15.4 and ZigBee. I should say first that my expertise is in enterprise networking, and not WSN, which is still a technology in development. I'll still attempt to answer, and I hope someone will correct me where I am wrong. The main constraint for WSN protocols is efficiency and low power consumption as the devices may be small, numerous and battery powered. Because of the newness of WSN, each application may use it's own type of MAC protocol, but IEEE 802.15.4 and ZigBee has helped to provide standardisation. But since WSN uses OSI, the purpose is the same as any data network. The network layer performs the same job in terms of routing of data, but in this case, it's routing through the sensor network, and not to different networks. Data is routed through the network to a sink or base station where it connects to the data network. Networks at first used to be static, but as requirements for reliability and availability changed, techniques were needed for dynamic path discovery. And since a WSN tends to have many devices within the network, there is no global addressing scheme (such as IP addressing) and must communicate with themselves without any central infrastructure. It's self-organised. Sources: Ahmad Abed Alhameed Alkhatib, Gurvinder Singh Baicher, Wireless Sensor Network Architecture. IPCSIT vol.35(2012): p. 11-15, 2012 http://www.ipcsit.com/vol35/003-... John A. Stankovic, Wireless Sensor Networks. Computer Magazine, October 2008: p. 90-93 http://www.cs.virginia.edu/~stan...    Embed Quote