★What are some qualities you notice in people who consistently do successful experimental research?I'm an EE major getting started with experimental research. I'm not looking for shortcuts-- I know that hard work is the most obvious answer to my question. I'm just trying to get a sense of what sort of qualities/strategies I can try to develop systematically as I approach experimental research problems. Perhaps the professors and R&D people out there can offer some insights or personal anecdotes? Thanks
Interpreting the question broadly, I'd first emphasize technical background (including relevant math and HW/SW implementation skills) and being able to relate/use it. Sometimes a research challenge can be explained in simple terms, but viable solutions require heavy machinery, possibly from unexpected fields (such research results are particularly attractive). Without technical background, you are dead in the water. In practice, you don't need to carry the Wikipedia in your head, but you must have a lot more depth than the Wikipedia in several key topics. As a part of #1, I'd include being able to understand when you are missing relevant background and skills, and being able to pick them up quickly. A close second is communication skills (written and oral, including asking for help). Without them, you are also dead in the water as a researcher. But some Ph.D. advisors will rewrite students' papers, or at least heavily edit them, as they are also co-authors and would feel awkward if a poorly written paper is submitted with their name on it. Third, common sense and being strategic in your research. This is harder than it sounds --- many students and researchers lose common sense when struggling with advanced concepts and hard challenges. This shows up in failures and often in papers that pitch "successful" results. Having to work with a person lacking common sense is painful and time-consuming --- you end up fixing and redoing a lot of things. Some people are good at masking their lack of common sense with politeness or other social skills (some US-born students), persistence (some foreign students), or being hyper-critical (some European students and some Canadians). Such masking cannot be maintained for long. Fourth, creativity -- Ph.D.  level research must be original. You might be surprised that I didn't list creativity earlier, but given the large number of large system-building research projects, a strong implementer with mediocre creativity may have a chance. Fifth, being disciplined, focused and systematic. Think before you speak. Make sure to understand what technical background is relevant to your research, what the context and motivation are, what has been done previously, etc. Some people mention attention to detail, but attention in general is also very important in engineering. Be disciplined, do not drop prior commitments, eat well and sleep well to stay focused. Don't overlook new information as it arises unexpectedly in discussions, papers, etc. Sloppiness is a common problem with graduate students today. For some clear-cut examples, US-born students tend to write (scholarly papers) as they speak, while some non-native speakers do not bother to learn how to use plural forms in English. Persistence as a research quality can be important when dealing with complex systems and software. However, for a Ph.D. student with reasonable technical background and mental flexibility, common sense, and a reasonable advisor, persistence may be relatively unimportant until more advanced stages of their research. Very difficult problems aside, persistence is most commonly useful when a student is missing some relevant background or technical skills, but does not have the time or the high-level perspective to fully acquire them. An example would be a mechanical engineering student struggling with advanced computer science courses without having taken more basic computer science. Being able to make connections between distinct/abstract concepts and experiments, and seeing the big picture is important for senior students, but isn't really expected for beginners. I'll add more as time allows.    Embed Quote