★What are some qualities you notice in people who consistently do successful experimental research?I'm an EE major getting started with experimental research. I'm not looking for shortcuts-- I know that hard work is the most obvious answer to my question. I'm just trying to get a sense of what sort of qualities/strategies I can try to develop systematically as I approach experimental research problems. Perhaps the professors and R&D people out there can offer some insights or personal anecdotes? Thanks
This is a very insightful question. I'll try to concretize my intuition into a few bullets: 1. Persistence.  The most often error I see young students make is that they give up too easily. To them, everything seems impossible, because they try the obvious solution and stop when it doesn't provide the ideal result.  Being adaptable and thinking of ways to circumvent each obstacle rather than admitting defeat is a critical habit that takes a while to learn. 2. Attention to detail.  This is a personal thing with me, but IMHO, you cannot do sound research without paying attention to detail and digging in deep to understand the problem at hand.  Too often I see sloppy results that a student hands in because he/she thinks it's sufficient. But in reality, it's sloppily done, and when repeated carefully with attention to the small details, the picture usually looks quite different.  More interesting trends show up, as to bugs in the implementation.  In addition, your chances of publication (and others' opinion of your work and your skills as a researcher) directly hinge on small details in the presentation of your work. "Sloppy" work is just inexcusable. 3. Ask questions until you understand everything.  Never look at an experimental result and ignore weird anomalies or artifacts, or unexplained and unexpected trends.  Too often these little details hide either subtle bugs or key results.  Only interpreting the high level result often means you lose opportunities to discover key insights.  One of my officemates at Berkeley wrote a paper that was only possible because she was extremely anal when it came to analyzing data, and discovered a tiny little discrepancy in a routing protocol performance result that had been overlooked by hundreds of others in the field.  It turned out to be a huge result that led to multiple top-tier conference papers. That's just off the top of my head, I'm sure there's many more....    Embed Quote