★What are the benefits of using an ethernet cable over a wifi router?
If you are close to your home "router," or can run wire within your home, you should *always* use ethernet when possible. If you use modern CAT6 cable with a modern home "router," you can achieve speeds of 1000Mbps (1Gbps) A modern wireless access point/home "router," can achieve up to 450Mbps if you are close to it and there is little obstruction. The more devices on a wireless network, the lower the bandwidth available to the devices, which all share that one single 450Mbps (you are more likely to see 300Mbps from mid range and 54Mbps from more common low-end and long range commerical access points) connection.       WiFi is very succeptible to interference, and even in "ideal" conditions, dozens to thousands of transmission and receive errors occur every hour, and this rate will increase exponentially as you add more devices and if other access points are added nearby. WiFi can be interrupted by microwave ovens, cordless phones, and other devices that operate near the 2.4Ghz (or 5Ghz) range. UTP (or STP if you are using high quality cable) Ethernet cable is designed to resist such interference.  On ethernet, each device gets a dedicated 100Mbps connection (or 1Gbps if you use a more modern home "router" and cables) There are almost never errors when a good cable is used, and the rate never decreases like Wifi does as you move away from the access point.      From a security standpoint, by using ethernet, no one without direct access to the wires in your home can snoop on your traffic.         Ethernet consumes less power, for those who have a laptop or like to conserve energy.        Wireless also has to deal with the problem of sorting out traffic meant for others from traffic meant for itself. If you are connected directly to your home "router" you are on a switched, full duplex channel, which means that on that wire, you can talk you your router while your router talks to your computer, both sending and receiving at the same time, and there are no interruptions.      Wireless has to sort and buffer traffic, and wait it's turn to speak/receive in timeslots negotiated by the access point, whereas, generally speaking in a home network, ethernet connections have the enormous advantage of being a "full duplex" dedicated connection. What "full duplex" means is that the connection permits the device on each end to be sending and recieving simultaneously, rather than one way at a time. Thanks to this, your ethernet adapter rarely has to wait any significant amount of time to transmit, whereas on a congested wireless network, the wait period may become noticeable. Wireless is very prone to failure, and has to regularly check in with devices, and assign them time slots to talk. Once an ethernet connection is established, it is stable until unplugged (or the wire is destroyed and signal lost)       Because of buffering and timeslots on both ends, wirelss traffic takes an extra few milliseconds to travel as compared to ethernet. For those who play online games or are concerned with low response time, ethernet should always provide lower response time (in addition to being more stable and not dropping frames) For those not as familiar with networking who wonder why I call it a home "router," I would like to share that what most people think of as a "router" is actually several things. A home "router" usually contains a router, a 4-port switch (which has your four ethernet ports) and a wireless access point, all in one. In a sense, it isn't just a "router," it is a bit more, but it is also not at all equal to the much larger enterprise routers that large businesses and ISPs use, so it is an entirely different beast. Sorry to ramble on, but I hope this is helpful to those who seek to learn more about their home network and why they shouldn't give up on ethernet just yet :) To any home users, plug in as many devices as you can to your four ethernet ports, not only will those devices run faster, but your wireless network will be less congested for your remaining devices :) Cheers!