★What do engineers change in their houses that other people would not think of?Similar to Dilbert's Ultimate House, though it may be extreme. http://www.hwd3d.com/news/dilber...
Massive triple glazed windows on the east and west side of the main living space. 17.6 square metres on the east and 13.2 on the west. But only 2M2 on the south. They get the sun in the morning and evenings and warm up the 100mm thick concrete floors (which are also insulated below with 100mm thick PIR foam). Buried in the  concrete are wet underfloor heating pipes. The sunshine warming the pipes is circulated to my DHW tank to preheat water before secondary heating brings it to a useable temperature. This helps keep the house cool in summer when the solar gain would otherwise make the living space uncomfortably hot.  The system works in reverse  in winter to warm the floor. My aim is to keep the concrete floor at a standard temp summer or winter. Installed solar panels on the south facing roof. In summer the two systems combined give me all the hot water I need for free. The pumps are run by PV panels that will only run the system when there is enough sunshine to make it worthwhile. Secondary water heating in the winter comes from a 38kw Wamsler cooking stove powered  by wood. This provides most of our space heating needs via the wet underfloor heating as well as the convection heat from its huge  surface area. It also provides all of our cooking needs in the winter. In summer we use a gas range. For heating in Spring or Autumn,when it's too warm to run the big stove or if it's really really cold outside we installed a second 12kw wood burning stove inside a concrete room divider/fireplace that weighs approximately four tons.  This huge thermal mass is heated by the woodstove and once charged will continue to give off heat for a couple of days. The house is ventilated in summer by a passive system that uses air moving behind the wooden cladding on the outside walls on the south facing walls to draw air from the cooler North side into a vent space between the floors and out of ceiling vents in the main livingspaces. All the bedrooms are built in a wing  with a south facing aspect and have their own triple glazed doors exiting onto a long deck. In summer the rooms are kept cool by both shading the window/doors and by bringing in air from the north side of the house.  In the evening the doors are often left open. In the winter the cool air vents are closed and the solar gain on sunny days alone is enough to warm the bedrooms without extra heat being required.  Each bedroom has its own underfloor heating circuit and can be controlled separately if the weather is cloudy and after dark. My son,who runs a gaming computer in his room that gives off quite a bit of heat will often have to open his door in the middle of winter to avoid overheating! All internal walls are insulated with a minimum of 120mm rockwool insulation  and all internal ceilings with a minimum of 200mm. This allows us to treat each room as an individual zone that doesn't leak heat into any other area. External walls also have 75mm of  PIR foam as well as 150mm rockwool. Exterior roof is insulated with 100mm of PIR foam as well as 300mm rockwool. All lights are either CFL or LED, all appliances are low energy (except for my son's computer!) We don't bother with grey water recycling as we have a surfeit of rain here and no water meter. Our water comes from a small lake via a treatment plant around 500m from the house. Sewerage goes to a treatment tank where it enters a bubble tank that bubbles air through it to break down solids and encourage bacterial growth. It then goes via a gravel soakaway to a catchment area and is then taken around 400m out to sea where it can be discharged. You could safely drink the water we discharge! Our aim was to build a house that required very little in the way of electricity to run. We often have power cuts in the winter and we didn't want to rely on external power to keep warm, heat water, or cook. A small 5kw diesel generator can easily supply all of our lighting and appliance needs if the power does go off. So far it's working well, although we use a lot of wood in the winter. It's free, so I'm happy to use as much as we want. Electricity costs me around £35 per month (around $56). I haven't topped up the gas cylinders (LPG) in the two years we've been here (we use next to no gas).  Aside from phone and broadband, that's the only utility cost to keep our house warm in winter and cool in summer with as much hot water as we can use.