★What do engineers change in their houses that other people would not think of?Similar to Dilbert's Ultimate House, though it may be extreme. http://www.hwd3d.com/news/dilber...
My house has: Hard wired Cat-6 back to a wiring closet. 3 Wifi access points with the same SSID's on both bands (Airport Extreme's). Most drops have PoE for security cameras, or I power PoE inline Fully outfitted Insteon automation hooked to a MacMini running Indigo, software from Perceptive Automation. I have all the lights, the garage door, ceiling fans, the water fountain in the front yard, the thermostat and motion sensors wired in. I can do logic in the software to for instance turn on all ceiling fans when the AC turns on A few light switches are KeyPad Link which have four custom LED buttons on them. The one in our master bedroom uses those to indicate the garage door status and control it, as well as turn the reading lamps on in our room Indigo has plugins which also let us do "presence" indication for my wife and I. Using the HTTP endpoints for Find My Friends in combination with looking for our phones MAC addresses on the wifi, the house knows if we're home, and when we're approaching home. It configures itself automatically (ie, lights on at night when we get home, shut off all lights when we both are gone). We have a babysitter mode to suspend the above An iPad with a custom control panel controls all this. It sits in our entryway. Other plugins hook into the Sonos and our Denon receiver so they can be configured along with lighting, and lighting can auto-adjust when things on the receiver change (ie, switching to "Movie Mode") On the iPad is a shot of our kid monitor for our son. There is also a dedicated app for that that supports sound. It's a PTZ controlled IP camera Our phone system uses OnSip virtual PBX. It has rules set to turn away late night calls, forward to our cells, etc All our lights are LED now. We replaced the regular lights as they burned out. The MacMini that drives the house also has two DAS systems attached. One of them is a Drobo Elite with about 12TB and the other a regular high speed DAS with 4TB of drives in it. All machines in the house TimeMachine to that box. It also has my DropBox account synced to the 4TB DAS and time machines that to the Drobo. Lots of redundancy. We store raw BluRay rips on that, and down-compress them into iTunes for the two TV's in the house.