★What do engineers change in their houses that other people would not think of?Similar to Dilbert's Ultimate House, though it may be extreme. http://www.hwd3d.com/news/dilber...
My home currently has Large, operable skylights. A whole-house fan would be an alternative, but I prefer these because, once open (along with a selection of windows), they cool the house rapidly with no additional input of energy. They are also silent. As I live in an area with cooler nights and fairly dry air in summers, they are sufficient to do without air conditioning. Double-pane windows (we do not live in an area with temperature extremes, so this is sufficient). I believe they have a coating to reduce solar gain. Front and back yard timed, programmable irrigation. Cordless blinds. No dangling string, just pull up or down on the middle so that it stops where I want it. A programmable convection oven with a 100F dough proof cycle. As I build and remodel, I would like to add: More durable roofing, suitable for rainwater collection and, eventually, for solar panel installation. Rainwater storage with timed watering. (One engineer whose open house I visited was going on about his rainwater collection system, and his 2000-gallon tank. I asked where he put the tank. I was standing in front of it. It was a plastic tank, covered with ivy.) Systems to reuse graywater. At the very least, water from hand- and clothes-washing could be used to flush toilets. Instant hot water heater. Built-in CAT5 wiring from a central closet. Open tubing or conduit in the walls, so that additional wiring/fiber, etc. could be "fished" through easily Smart windows and/or blinds that could selectively reduce solar gain, so that south-facing windows could let in warm sun in winter but all windows could close out direct sunlight in summer. (Currently, this is a manual process of opening and closing blinds.) Passive solar heating, as a primary source of heat. Low-voltage DC lighting circuit(s) for LED lighting, assuming some consistent standard emerges for bulbs and fixtures. From Dilbert's Ultimate House, the one idea I would certainly incorporate would be the Christmas tree closet. No decorating and un-decorating each year, just wheel it in or out, and close the door.