★What do engineers change in their houses that other people would not think of?Similar to Dilbert's Ultimate House, though it may be extreme. http://www.hwd3d.com/news/dilber...
Here's what I've done over the years I have a DSL connection (specifically ADSL2+), and installed a DSL splitter & dedicated "homerun" from the demarcation point (aka MPOE) to the DSL jack where the DSL modem is, as opposed to in-line splitters installed at each phone jack that a typical self-install DSL involves. My download speeds increased > 2x (from ~6Mbps to ~15 Mbps) when the splitter/homerun was installed vs. using the in-line splitters, so something with my inside wiring was attenuating the DSL tones I wired the house with CAT-6 throughout (hooked up to GigE switches). Two 802.11n WiFi access points provide whole house coverage for wireless/portable devices (same SSID for both APs, set to the least congested non-overlapping WiFi channel at each location for maximum throughput). Stationary devices are all hardwired into the GigE network. Like Ethan Kaplan, I installed Insteon light switches, appliance modules, motion sensors, etc, but they are controlled/scheduled instead by a Universal Devices ISY994i Series dedicated controller. I can remotely control the Insteon switches using the Java-based desktop app or the MobiLinc iOS app.  Installed LED lights for the lights that are the most commonly used, connected to Insteon switches which are programmed with adjustable ON/ramp levels depending on the time of day (eg. late at night the lights initially turn on to 30% instead of 100% -- this is via the ISY994i controller) Since we love natural light, had skylight tubes installed in the bathrooms and in the main hallway (we've got a single story home) Installed additional attic insulation (from R-19 to R-38) to better insulate the home, thus reducing the need to run the A/C in the summer or the furnace in winter as often + sealed potential points of air leakage between the living space and the attic. Every single utility bill since has been lower than the same month from the year previous Installed radiant barrier in the attic, primarily to reduce summer heat gain in the attic, which in turn transfers into the living space (plus our AC unit and AC ductwork are mounted in the attic so anything to help lower the attic temps helps the AC & ductwork). Installed a Nest thermostat Configured ControlByWeb temperature module with 1-Wire sensors to monitor temps around the house, graphed using rrdtool (with daily/weekly/monthly/etc graphs). This was mainly used to plot the effectiveness of radiant barrier installed in the attic. I plan on adding the Nest thermostat data to the graphs (most likely via nest-api) since I don't currently plot the living space temperature or when the AC or furnace is running. The outdoor ambient temp is also uploaded to Weather Underground (though my weather station doesn't have humidity, pressure or wind speed that a dedicated weather station would have...some to put on my TODO list) Installed a Xceltronix AC100130 Garage Door Autocloser, for those times that I get distracted and forget to close the garage door. It's only happened twice, but one was during a trip to Tahoe from the Bay Area...thankfully my neighbor called and closed it for me. Auto closer installed soon after that incident. Hyloft garage ceiling storage racks for additional storage. Installed garage door insulation to reduce heat transfer into the (west facing) garage in the summer & heat loss in the winter. PoE security cameras, powered via a central PoE switch. They proved their worth when they captured someone stealing a package off my front porch. I should have paid for the option where the camera shoots deadly lasers at the thief :\