How do you deal with large data sets in Excel?
I feel your pain, and I think you need a business intelligence/ analytics tool is going to change your life. When reports have more data than Excel was designed to crunch, everything becomes slow. Some users start maintaining numerous worksheets, which is a headache to consolidate too. The good news is a BI tool can help you join all your scattered datasets and get a unified, accurate view of what’s going on in your business--without ever slowing down since it’s built to handle gigabyte to terabyte scale data. Basic tasks like creating  reports and organizational plans, consolidating multiple data sources like spreadsheets, and measuring KPIs will be made easy. There are more affordable, scalable BI solutions out there today than ever before, like SiSense Business Intelligence and Analytics Software, that runs on standard hardware and is easy for non-technical users to use--so you don't need to make a big investment. They are a rising star in the BI world and worth a look. Here are some benefits BI software will help give you: 1) Analyze and build reports from super large data really quickly and easily. 2) Join multiple data sets into a single version of truth  to build reports/dashboards with information that will show you a complete picture of your business   3) Give you actionable information by helping you gather data and analyze data sets to identify trends, discover useful insights, and adjust operations to meet KPIs and business goals. 4) Independence from IT since business users to build their own reports as well as have the flexibility to add or tweak any dashboard. 5) Data that is 100% accurate and FRESH - when numerous colleagues work on the same report it can lead to a debate over the location of the most updated, accurate version of data, as well as inhibit users from adding real-time data for the most up-to-date insights. With a BI tool that has web-based dashboards, managing reports and collaborating with multiple users is simple, and everything is updated in real-time. Hope this helps!    Embed Quote 