As a data scientist, how do you start investigating a data set?
For a long time when I start, I'm just thinking about data quality, cleansing, fitness for purpose, and proper interpretation. I start by looking at each data element. What does it mean? How was it measured. How did it flow from the point of capture to me? How would I have measured it? Is it a discrete variable or a numeric value or a free text value. If numeric is it an integer. If numeric, what are the units. If it's measured data, what is the measurement accuracy. How was the measurement calibrated? Was every row's measurement made on the same measuring device? What is the possibility for systematic bias in the measurement. Is that on a scale where I care? This comes up all the time with timestamp columns, for example. Is each row's value unique. Is it REALLY unique or "SHOULD BE" unique. Am I getting the raw data as captured or some aggregate of it? How would I audit a field value if I had to. I often pick a "favorite" record or two and explore it in other data sources. Then I start looking at the distribution of each variable. Maybe I do count(*) queries, maybe I plot histograms. Are their outliers? obviously impossible values? Special values? How often is the data null? What does null imply? Are there formating rules? Are they always obeyed? Can I make them be obeyed. Then I think about what population this data set represents. Eg: if it's for population A, why not A+B. Is it really A, or is A=B+C+D and I really only have B and D. What criteria were used admit records into this data set? Do I actually have row data for everything in the population? Are their duplicates? Is the "as of" date for all rows the same? Was this data set assembled all at once or in pieces. Can I sanity check the data population sizes and subsizes against some other source. I'll generally be writing a lot of queries matching up records. Only after all this, which is time consuming, thankless, and painstaking, do I start thinking about what the story in the data might be. Which fields might be predicted by the others? Which are correlated? Which are derivative of each other? Can I turn discrete variables into numeric. EG: if I have a monitored pass/fail variable, can I turn it into a score or time or "margin of safety"? Then after all this, I start thinking about statistical techniques.    Embed Quote Updated 25 Jul, 2013. 1,243 views.