★What problems in biology involve the collection and analysis of multi-terabyte data sets?
I'm surprised that no one has mentioned protein folding yet (e.g. stuff in David Baker's lab). Not just protein folding, but also drug modelling (especially when we want to see how each individual drug interacts with each possible receptor - including mutations of receptors that exist in the population). We'll also want to see how the interactions change if we add additional groups to the drug - how do they change if we add an -OH group on each possible side of the molecule, for example? Systems biology is also a rapidly growing field, so we're also going to see *a lot* of research like the Bayesian causal modelling of signal transduction networks (like those of E. Coli). Most of the "-omics" fields are very big on data. (e.g. the genome, proteome, epigenome, metabolome, lipidome, connectome and ultimately the interactome). We're only in the extremely early stages of characterizing most of the "-omics" fields. There's going to be data from both the simulation side (from projects like OpenWorm) and the empirical side (high-throughput genomics/proteinomics/metabolomics/etc). Ecological problems are often neglected here, but they, too, are moving into the era of "Big Data". Putting video cams (and sensors) on animals and trying to parse all the movement and temperature data on them - that's a pretty big problem. See http://www.spiegel.de/internatio... And while sensors placed on animals were once big and bulky like the junk piled in Wilson's office, the equipment today resembles delicate pieces of micro-electronic art. Just one of Wilson's 50 gram mini-loggers can save up to 128 million pieces of data. Up to 30 times a minute, for example, it records the diving depth, speed or the opening angle of a penguin's beak. The devices can stay attached to the animals for months or even years until they are collected by the scientists. The reward: Insights into an alien world that until now was hidden in the depths of the oceans. Even before they dive into the water, the birds plan how deep they want to dive: If they are hunting a school of fish at a depth of 30 meters, they will only breathe in as much air as they need to hunt. More air would force them to battle against their own buoyancy, a practice they have clearly learned to avoid And now look at this 2011 article (http://www.nature.com/news/2011/... The money could jump-start site preparation and construction as early as this year. Schimel says that NEON expects to begin work near its home base in Colorado and in the northeast and to expand from there. The first data, from sensors placed on towers, submerged in streams and buried in soils, should come next year — a trickle that project members hope will become a torrent by 2016, when the project will be fully operational. "It's a huge step forward," says Sandy Andelman, an ecologist who heads a network of tropical ecology sites through Conservation International in Arlington, Virginia. But, she cautions, NEON will create a massive new data set that few environmental scientists know how to use today. "Being able to manage and process and make sense of those data is going to be a huge challenge," Andelman says.    Embed Quote Updated 5 May, 2014. 1,267 views.