How should I prepare for an onsite SDE interview at Microsoft?
Although 2 weeks is really a short timeline, but you still can do a lot to maximize your chance. The high level idea of the strategy would be spending as much time as you can to practice with interview questions. But in detail, there are lots of things to keep in mind and I'll also recommend several resources to make it easier for you. 1. Make a timeline To start with, I always recommend people make a preparation timeline in the beginning, which is more important for people with short preparation time like 2 weeks. More importantly, you need to make sure how much time you will allocate to interview preparation per day. Apparently spending less than an hour every day won't work for majority of people. In addition, a big chunk of preparation time is always better than breaking into small half hour chunks due to context switch. 2. Prepare well for data structure and algorithms You'd better spend a lot of time getting familiar with these basic knowledge you learned at school, as they are the basic of your interview. I would describe these as your tools to solve interview questions. In an interview, you may encounter different data structures, you may be asked to analyze time and space complexity, and all of them are covered in this topic. Books like Introduction to Algorithms are great options and you can also check technical interview cheat sheet and Big-O Cheat Sheet. 3. Be familiar with coding questions The idea is to be familiar with how to use what you learned from those books to solve a real question and know about what kind of questions are asked in a general interview. Just delve into those questions and practice as much as you can. Resources like leetcode.com, glassdoor.com and Cracking the Coding Interview are very popular and you can find tons of interview questions online to practice. Since it's a very short timeline in your case, I would recommend go directly with Glassdoor and practice with past interview questions from your company. 4. Have mock interview Technical interview doesn't only evaluate your coding ability, but a variety of skills and abilities like communication skills, analysis ability etc.. Also many people will feel nervous solving a problem when someone is looking over his shoulder. That's why people may fail with problems that can be solved easily at home. The key point is to practice with a real person instead of yourself. A lot of people also want to get good quality feedbacks from experienced interviewers. With that in mind, we worked on building Gainlo - Mock Interview with Professionals, which allows candidate have mock interview with experienced interviewers from top companies like Google, Amazon etc. and will get real feedback to help them improve. All in all, I think you should make sure you are improving everyday and definitely you're gonna make it after 2 weeks. 