How should I prepare for an onsite SDE interview at Microsoft?
I would recommend dividing the preparations in following five stages: (1) Setting right mindset (2) Programming preparations (3) Being ready for the day of the interview (4) Approach during the interview (5) Followup actions after the interview (Disclosure: I have about 8+ years of experience working at Microsoft.) 1   Setting right mindset: As with everything else, having the right mindset while approaching the interview preparations would be the most crucial step. Here are few salient points I would like to mention as you begin your preparations: (a) Accept the fact that you will be asked questions which you have not heard/seen before. (b) Hone and rely on your ability to solve a new problems (as opposed to memorizing the solution to the problem you are solving during preparations). (c) Go with an open, honest mind set, if you don't know anything , say you don't know but you like to try. Honesty, Cheerfulness and positive vibe are just as important criteria. 2          Programming preparations: There are 2 parts to this. Preparing to answer programming questions and preparing for the non-programming part. 2.1               Programming practice There are 3 main resources here as mentioned below. (a) Programming Interviews Exposed: If there in only one book you can prepare from, then I would recommend this book. You should be able to solve each and every question from this book. It would be ok to discard puzzles section as I understand they do not ask puzzles any more. Note that I would highly recommend writing down each and every solution, I know lot of people who actually compile and execute each of their solutions. (b) Programming Pearls: This is a great book, which packs a lot of wisdom/insights considering the size. It has lots of good points on sorting, partitioning, string manipulations, suffix arrays etc. Compared to PIE,I think this is a much slower read, but very useful (not only for MS interview but for all dev interviews.) (c) Programming Interview Questions | CareerCup There are tons of questions here (including MSFT Dev questions). While questions are good, most of the answers in the comment section here can not be trusted. Note that you can not exhaust all the MSFT questions mentioned here, so just pick a few and solve them. It gives you a good idea on what to expect in real interviews. Few other points: Just to reiterate, use pen and paper to practice problems solving. If possible even use whiteboard, practicing on whiteboard will help improve you handwriting while using markers, and will help you manage WB space better. (Note that they might take picture of the WB at the end of interview, which may be used to discuss and compare candidate performance.) Also note that while you may not face the same problem(that you practiced) in the interview, there are lot of subproblems which are similar. For example, if you studied QuickSort well, next time you are faced with problem involving partitioning of an array, you can just apply for knowledge of quicksort partitioning algorithms there. So in a way all this practice will help you solve these smaller known subproblems of a real life unknown interview problem. Last interview in the loop: Generally the last interview (5th or 6th interview) would be the most important one, it is generally with someone who has decades of experience at MSFT. In most cases it is not technical, they will check soft skills, attitude etc and confirm if you are a good fit for the team and for the company. It would be a good idea to have few questions ready to ask this interviewer - high level questions, the kind of question you would ask to someone who owns a business. 2.2          Research and questions-to-ask Study job description very well, try to understand about the product and role. Have stock quesitons for each interviewer. Example questions:  - What would an ideal candidate for this position look like, what qualities would she/he have?  - What is the career path from this position. what would be next step in career from here.  - How is the culture in this team.  - What is relase cadence like? every week/month/qaurter/year?  - What is your role in this team, how long have you been here? what do you like about this role/team? Now that you have read  till this point, I will let you know an internal secret - a set of questions which you will be asked no matter what. These questions are your golden opportunity to impress them, prepare these questions well and it will set the direction and tone of the interview in your favor. -Tell me something about yourself. -Tell me about the last/current project you are working on . -Tell me about the most interesting project you have worked on. To address last 2 questions above, I would recommend providing interviewer with a very high level overview of your project(like you would explain your project to a 5 year old) and then pausing and asking them if they would like to dive into about any particular part of the project then go into technical details. Again, please prepare these questions as thoroughly as you can, as it is the only guaranteed part of this whole interview exercise and completely in your control. 3               Being ready for the day of the interview: Show enthusiasm and passion while talking to them, you would like to come across as someone who absolutely loves what he does and is really excited about this opportunity To this end, - Have a good night's sleep, - Have a heavy breakfast, they will test you for your stamina and tenacity on the day of the interview, to see how you respond to difficult/demanding questions at the end of a long day. - Dress comfortably, I do not think they give much importance to attire as long as it is not disrespectful. - Reach 15 to 30 mins early, breath, relax and find your "zone". - Do not be taken aback by some (perceived) negativity during the whole interview process, by one of the interviewer, it may not be intentional, focus on getting an offer, you can consider other inter-personal factors before actually joining the team. 4          Approach during the interview: Now, during the interview while facing a programming question, there are two main parameters: your approach and your solution. While actual solution to the problem would differ from problem to problem, your approach is something that can be improved with practice. I would recommend following this approach on facing each interview question and making this an intrinsic part of your response. Approach: (Once the interviewer posits a programing question to you) - Paraphrase and reiterate the question in your own words, this should eliminate  any misinterpretations. - Ask clarifying questions, clarify boundary conditions, clarify special cases, be double sure you are solving the right problem. - As you think through the solution, verbalize your thought process, how you reach a solution is as important as reaching the solution itself. - Provide 1st solution (rather quickly), this solution need not be optimal, nor efficient, it can be brute force, but nonetheless a solution that works.    Assert that you woul like to improve up on this solution. Interviewer may change the direction of interview at this point, be attentive to that. - Next, come up with a better/elegant solution.        - Then think about which DataStructure would you use to solve this problem,.        - Feel free to take a short break, use restroom, have water/soda if you need. - Explain the solution verbally, if needed write psuedo code. - Write real code. Start with function signature, choose descriptive names for function and parameters, ensure dataype of input and output parameters are as expected, confirm this function signature with interviewer. - Implement the solution. - Walk through the solution with sample input. - Walk through with a invalid input, error/exception should be thown. - Double check that there are no bugs (bug tolerance is almost zero for SDE interviews) - If things looks good, declare code complete :P. 5    Followup actions after the interview It is not over till you get a written offer in your hands, so immediately after the interview: - Send a quick thank you note to HR (or wheoever you talked to if you have their email addresses) , in this note                - thank them for their time and for what you learnt from them.                - show excitement and reiternatte you are interested in this opportunity. - Once you get an offer, tactfully play the salary/level/benefits negotiations game. Finally, If you do _not_ get the job, well it is a learning experience to be interviewed at MSFT, this experience itself prepares you well for other interviews. If you do get the job, remember, this is not an achievement, it is an opportunity - so make the best of it ;) All the best and happy interviewing!!! There are already excellent points mentioned by Zeeshan Hamid and others in previous answers, add here I am just adding my humble 2 cents. (Disclaimer: I do not take any credit for the images posted above, if these images belongs to you and would not like it to appear here, please send me a message and I will remove them from here. Thanks. ) 