Mathematics: What is a good book/ set of books/ Lectures on Tensors?
Two helpful books about tensors and tensor analysis (which ought to be successively studied) are the following : Vector Analysis, 2nd Edition: Murray Spiegel, Seymour Lipschutz, Dennis Spellman: 9780071615457: Amazon.com: Books This book starts with vector analysis , goes through differential geometry and curvilinear coordinates , and ends with a detailed long chapter dealing with tensors and tensor analysis . With course notes and many solved problems . Schaums Outline of Tensor Calculus (Schaum's Outlines): David Kay: 9780071756037: Amazon.com: Books This textbook covers many relevant topics :linear algebra , general tensors , the metric tensor , the Riemann curvature tensor , applications in mechanics and physics , tensor fields and manifolds ,... With course notes and solved problems . Other useful books include : Tensor Algebra and Tensor Analysis for Engineers: With Applications to Continuum Mechanics (Mathematical Engineering): Mikhail Itskov: 9783642308789: Amazon.com: Books The textbook above introduces tensors and tensor analysis with applications in engineering , physics and continuum mechanics . Manifolds, Tensor Analysis, and Applications (Applied Mathematical Sciences) (v. 75): Ralph Abraham, J.E. Marsden, Tudor Ratiu: 9780387967905: Amazon.com: Books The book above deals with tensor analysis , manifolds , differential forms , tensor products , and physical applications . Tensors for Physics (Undergraduate Lecture Notes in Physics): Siegfried Hess: 9783319127866: Amazon.com: Books The book above starts with mathematical explanations and deals with many applications of tensors in various branches of physics . And here are some (free) online courses and textbooks about tensors and tensor analysis : Introduction to Tensor Calculus for General Relativity: http://web.mit.edu/edbert/GR/gr1... Tensor analysis theory and applications : http://materias.fi.uba.ar/6760/s... An Introduction to Tensors for Students of Physics and Engineering: https://www.grc.nasa.gov/www/k-1... A primer on tensor calculus : http://ap.smu.ca/~dclarke/home/d... 