What are some iconic mathematical images?
Here are a few more: 1. Bride's chair (~300BC, Euclid) Euclid's geometric proof of the Pythagorean Theorem, known variously as the bride's chair, peacock tail or windmill. 2. Logarithmic spiral (1638, René Descartes) Self-similar spiral curve that appears widely in nature. Discovered by Descartes and investigated by Bernoulli, who called it the spira mirabilis. 3. Line graph (1786, William Playfair). Playfair also invented bar charts and pie charts. Scatterplots arrived only in the 19th century. 4. Fourier decomposition (1807, Joseph Fourier). Below is the Fourier decomposition of a square wave. 5. Normal distribution (1809, Carl Friedrich Gauss) Ubiquitous due to the central limit theorem; also known as the bell curve or Gaussian. [Source: Standard Normal Distribution Plushie] 6. Möbius strip (1858, August Ferdinand Möbius) A non-orientable surface with only one side and one boundary. Discovered independently by Möbius and Listing. 7. Knot diagrams (1876, Peter Tait) First classified by Tait in an attempt to better understand atoms. Escher's woodcut below depicts the trefoil knot, the simplest non-trivial knot. 8. Venn diagram (1880, John Venn) Used to illustrate simple set relationships and make ironic points. [Source: Using Cartoons To Make Sense of Your Data] 9. Poincaré disk model (1880, Henri Poincaré) An angle-preserving model for hyperbolic geometry in which a line is represented by an arc of a circle with ends perpendicular to the disk's boundary. Famously illustrated by Escher in his 'Circle Limit' drawings. [Also see: Hyperbolic Escher] 10. Petersen graph (1898, Julius Petersen). Designed as the smallest bridgeless cubic graph with no three-edge-coloring, this graph is a useful example and counterexample for a slew of problems in graph theory. [Source: 3D Petersen Graph by Joelbennett] 11. Koch snowflake (1904, Helge von Koch). One of the earliest fractal curves, introduced by Koch in his paper "On a continuous curve without tangents, constructible from elementary geometry". 12. Random walk (1905, Karl Pearson) Named by Karl Person in 1905, the same year that Einstein explained Brownian motion using similar terms. 13. Lorenz attractor (1963, Edward Norton Lorenz) The strange attractor arising out of a simplified mathematical model for atmospheric convection. [Source: Lorenz Attractor by Michelle Wilber] 14. Penrose tiling (1974, Roger Penrose) The best known aperiodic sets of prototiles. [Source: Interlocking Kite and Dart Penrose Tiles by Xenarthral] 15. Bifurcation diagram (1976, Mitchell Feigenbaum) The bifurcation diagram of the logistic map is the archetypal example of chaotic behaviour arising from a simple dynamical equation. 