What brilliant working methods, like DOE (design of experiment), are used in the industry?
I've witnessed a huge variety of methodologies in honing in optimization, or in refining a 'proof of concept' (PoC).  I've seen scatter-brained "I'll try this", and then this... with weak documentation, performed in a lab that looks like a bomb hit it, and often, performed at night... in someone else's lab, because they have better (cleaner, calibrated...) equipment. But all of the above would be in a non-FDA, non-ISO environment... of course... sure,... you betcha.    On the other hand, in contrast to the 'shot-gun' approach, I've seen tight 'chart recorder documented varibles ( concentration, temperature, time,), broadly spread out- at first... and then narrowed to tighter and tighter constraints arriving at quintessential factors of optimization... easily portrayed on a three axis graph. (These scientists are worth their weight in Platinum!).    I've also seen 'reaction' and 'process' design issues that were 'missed'.    For example, a sampling system that used the calibrated-created vacuum chamber for sucking in sample (uniform... device to device)... BUT WAIT... how does this system perform in a lab a few miles up the hill from Denver. (Answer: not well).    Then, there was the cuvette in which the (Cobas Mira) would do the 'hula' with a probe that mixed the reactants, and bubble in room air (to aid mixing, and maintain cleanliness of the reagent probe tip).  The bubbling of room air (and NOT the bubbling of Nitrogen) negatively impacted the subsequent reactions... they were highly sensitive to oxygen... that was the entire source of less then optimum performance.     As Eugene Petersen (specialist in catalytic reactions) told me, when he was paid by the DOD (!) to re-do the MOST BASIC rate of reaction, catalytic chemistry studies  to up-grade current chemistry book standards... he said "if they did the experiment using a wheel barrow, and there was a spider web in the wheel barrow... then you better figure out what kind of spider... because you won't get the 'proper' results without it. Period." 