Soft question: how did you learn to find counterexamples?
Here are a number of steps you can take: Try for trivial counterexamples. In number theory and elementary algebra, 0 and 1 tend to be good candidates (if you're dealing with prime numbers, try 2). In geometry, try making an angle 0° or 180° or 360° or try maying some length 0. In set theory, try the empty set; in group theory, try the trivial group; in analysis try f(x) = 0; in graph theory, try the empty graph; etc. Investigate the usual suspects. Each field of math has a handful of objects that have unique (or at least rare) properties which make them behave weirdly in certain circumstances. In graph theory, the Petersen graph comes up surprisingly often. In topology, try the discrete metric or the real projective plane. In logic, the Gödel sentence is a counterexample more often than not. In set theory, the Cantor set often does the trick. In analysis, e^(-1/x^2) can disprove a lot of conjectures. Look at a bunch of examples which don't disprove the claim and see if they have anything in common. Very often, the go-to examples you'll find yourself using are those that are "small" in some sense or otherwise easy to deal with, and consequently share some property of "small" objects. In number theory, try a really big number. In elementary algebra, try negative numbers, irrational numbers, or complex numbers if they apply in context. In group theory, go for something non-abelian (D6 is an easy choice). In geometry, it's easy to forget polygons can be non-convex. In graph theory, all your examples might be planar or contain 3-cycles. In analysis, you might have neglected to try a non-differentiable function. And so forth. Take the examples you've produced and use them to try to prove a more limited claim (turn "all X have property P" into "all X with property Q have property P") and try to disprove the more general claim by using something that doesn't survive the limitation. Attempt to prove the claim (using a constructive proof, preferably) and see where you have trouble. Often when you try to prove a claim you'll run into difficulty in some area: one particular case won't go away as easily as the rest, or one step requires dividing both sides by something that could be zero in certain cases, or the inductive step only holds under certain restrictive conditions. Most counterexamples are found while trying to find proofs, so if you reverse your goal you might have some luck. Research similar questions and copy the tricks used there. If a similar claim has a counterexample, the same object might be a counterexample to your claim as well. If that doesn't work, some related or analogous object might; try various relatives of that counterexample which have most of the same properties but differ in key ways. If the similar claim is true (that is, has no counterexample) try to mimic the same proof for your claim and see where the approach fails to transfer—see the previous step. If none of this works, the claim might just be true! 