What is Occupational DNA?
Stop Guessing, Hire The Right Person, For Right Job, and Insure the Right Fit. We’ve all seen it on CSI, when William Petersen playing “Gil Grissom” nabs the bad guys using DNA. But what really is DNA? It started around 1984, in England, when Alec Jeffreys, discovered, each human has unique DNA. DNA is found in white blood cells, which are in blood, skin, saliva, semen, and hair follicles. When the National Research Council said in a 1992 that DNA testing was a reliable method to identification of people, the technology rapidly entered our mainstream system. Fragments of human DNA are unique to the individual. These fragments are called polymorphic because they vary in shape from person to person. DNA profiling is the process of separating an individual’s unique, polymorphic, fragments from the common ones. DNA profiling as we know it is being used worldwide. Occupational DNA – Could it work? What if a similar process could be applied to the study of understanding people and how they will perform on the job? What if it was possible to identify an Occupational DNA of sorts for a particular job, in a particular company, geographically and under a certain management style or any combination of? Next, what if you were able to then extract the Occupational DNA of an individual and conduct a match to an Occupational DNA Profile or Performance Model of a job? What would happen next would be simply amazing. Employees would fit the job, production would increase, stress would be dimensioned, and turnover would virtually fade away. Think it’s all just a pipe-dream or something out of an episode of CSI? Well the fact is many of America’s Most Productive Companies have been doing it for years. I know this to be true because I personally have conducted thousands of Occupational DNA studies for hundreds of companies in just about every industry imaginable, and guess what? It works! There are three methods used in creating a company’s unique Occupational DNA job profile. Here are the methods. Method 1 – Concurrent Performance Model In Method 1 collect objective criteria, on a group of Top Performing Employees currently doing the same job. The top performing employees are assessed based on mental abilities, behavioral traits, and occupational interest. This data is processed resulting in a unique top performer Occupational DNA profile. Method 2 – Performance Model Matrix Using 26 years of research and the inclusion of 117,000 working individuals, I have access to over 1,200 validated Performance Models. This is an ideal method when a new position is created or top performers are not present. Next management is surveyed to gain insight to the position and customize the standard Performance Model to the company’s needs. Method 3 – Performance Model Analysis In this method I an analysis is conducted with one to multiple managers weighing in their opinions and views regarding a specific position. The result is a unique Occupational DNA Job Profile. Twenty Performance Indicators, revolving around thinking, reasoning, behavioral traits and interest covering the total person are used in this process. Eight different reports can be generated, which include: Performance Model Comparison, Interview Guides, Strategic Workforce Planning (Succession Reports), Candidate Matching, Individual Profile, Comparison Summary, Summary Graph and a Individual Graph. Occupational DNA can be used for Employee selection and placement, promotion fit, and succession planning Coaching, Developing Peak Job Performance Models, and Job Description Development. The good news? It’s not just for Fortune 100 Companies, rather your company has 10 employees or 10,000, the process is the same. Occupational DNA can be identified for any job, in any company, geographically, under a certain management style, or any combination of. When you are able to extract the Occupational DNA of an individual and conduct a match to an Occupational DNA Profile or Performance Model of a job, something amazing happens. Employees fit the job, production increases, stress is dimension, and turnover is reduced. Stop guessing and Hire The Right Person, For Right Job, and Insure the Right Fit. For more detailed information visit www.AssessmentCompany.com or call 800.434.2630. 