Who has used Periscope? How would you rate this tool compared to Chartio?
I'm using both (and Mode too). Why three tools? Chartio : for the data-consuming portion of the company.  Most of our small company has not learned SQL, so Chartio provides an easy, light-weight tool for some basic data pulls (eg "how many members are in New York?").  Also, the dashboard system and chart variety are both built-up and quickly-customizable, so we'll typically put complete analysis/reporting in a dash so consumers can visit it at their leisure. This is where our productionalized analyses live. Mode : for the data-manipulation portion of the company.  Great layout for querying, quick-and-easy tool for exploring our data set, easy to run queries and iterate.  Somewhat terrible system for finding previous queries (sorry, but the search needs work and the list/reports/drafts thing is something I struggle with).  But when you're prototyping a query, it's perfect.  It's graphing is pretty basic, but good for quick views.  This is where our prototyping analyses live. Periscope : for the data-reactive portion of the company.  We use this specifically for the alerts system.  eg "Is the site down?  Are mobile orders on-pace with desktop? Did Redshift load the latest data?"  I love the query tools and dashboarding, but it's "off-brand" for us and a bit less polished than Chartio.  It also is a downer that you can't really just muck about it, everything is in a chart.  This is where our alerting lives.So yeah, three tools for three purposes.  We've talked with each company to be very specific on how we use them and what their gaps are (from my humble perspective). The dark horse for us is Looker.  It seems to do it all, but it adds a layer of complexity with LookML that, in a team of 2, I'm not stoked about taking on. The nice thing about being a customer with all is getting to see the speed with which new features are added.  If this post is 3-months old it'll be out of date and any one of these may have made the others redundant. 