Is the United States' justice system flawed considering that the U.S. makes up less than 5% of the world population and yet almost 1/4 of all inmates in the world are in the U.S.?
Yes. As Joshua Nichols pointed out, we are in the middle of the road when it comes to treatment of prisoners, where we don't execute many, and the few we do take a long time to get to that point, but we also have relatively long sentences for minor offenses. I would disagree slightly with Tina Marshall's answer, because sentences for crimes are largely affected by how much money you have, which is a form of corruption, though a less direct one. Being able to afford an expensive attorney as opposed to having to rely on a public defender* greatly reduces your sentencing. Also, unpaid fees and fines can land you with a jail sentence, a situation which clearly affects lower income people more than middle to upper income people. Restitution is offered as an alternative to serving jail time (which is a silly trade off, but that's a bit off topic), but if you work 3 jobs, you don't have time to do community service, and if you have $200 in your savings account, you can't afford fines and payments, so those options are more geared towards people with money, accounting for the disproportionate amount of lower income people serving jail time. Bill Boland touched on the War on Drugs, although not by name, a program started in the late 80s and early 90s which introduced minimum sentences for drug crimes. An ounce of marijuana (which by all accounts is a drug that is less harmful to society than alcohol, an issue which is off topic again, but I can expand upon upon request, [that was a weird sentence,]) gets (got, past tense, I suppose might be more accurate given the push for legalization of marijuana and push back against minimum sentencing) you prison time, end of story. Marijuana and heroine are considered Schedule 1, the most severe of drugs, while cocaine is considered Schedule 2. (The whole classification of drugs is highly political and honestly bullshit on many levels. Peyote is Schedule 1, while Cocaine, which can and does kill people is Schedule 2, and Xanax, a highly addictive, heavily trafficked drug which can also be deadly, is Schedule 4. There is no denying that peyote, which has religious significance to several indigenous groups, was treated so harshly as an attack on Native people, not because anyone actually believes that (from the DEA website) peyote meets the definition of Schedule 1, which is "drugs with no currently accepted medical use and a high potential for abuse. Schedule I drugs are the most dangerous drugs of all the drug schedules with potentially severe psychological or physical dependence." Same with marijuana. In fact, there is strong evidence that alcohol and tobacco are more psychologically and physically addictive than marijuana, not to mention any psychedelic drug. (Yes, I have experience with those substances. No, I am not admitting to using any illegal drugs.) The way drugs are classed is ridiculous, and putting marijuana, which makes you want to eat a bag of Doritos and take a nap, with heroin, a drug that is highly addictive, but also doesn't make you violent, and then classing Meth, a drug that does make you violent as Schedule 2, and alcohol, another drug that is shown to make you violent (yes, really) as completely legal is illogical and a huge part of why our prison system is the way it is.) There is also the "School to Prison Pipeline" which is a legitimate thing, and refers to the fact that minorities are disproportionately incarcerated, and receive harsher sentences than white children, as well as the fact that PoC are given less opportunities for rehabilitation. See What is the School-to-Prison Pipeline? and Fact Sheet: How Bad Is the School-to-Prison Pipeline? | Tavis Smiley Reports | PBS The US also has the issue of high reoffending rates, largely due to the focus on punishment instead of rehabilitation. Being an offender leaves a mark on your record, and makes it challenging to get employment, housing, etc. There is also the issue of private prisons, which make money off of having people behind bars. Obviously, they would want to encourage people to stay there, so they are reducing the little efforts there were for rehabilitation. This is getting really long, and off topic, and I apologize. I could continue on and on about this. Overall, it's a multifaceted issue, based on misguided policies, politics, bad business, and racism. *Not bashing public defenders at all. What they do is important. Public defenders are overworked, underpaid, and understaffed. Large law firms have multiple levels of people to take care of paperwork, finding details of cases, etc, and private lawyers have few cases at one time. Public defenders have many more cases at one time (I've been told 20 or more at one time, with 100 a month, but that was a personal story, and I don't have any proof to support that statement) and less support staff. It's unfair to say the least. Some more information and articles (there is a mix of liberal leaning news sources, scholarly articles, and central/conservative news sources. Not all articles are directly related to prison, but instead pervasive racism and how the system is stacked against offenders): Why Are So Many Americans in Prison? A Provocative New Theory. Stop and Frisk: The Human Impact Why does America have such a big prison population? Six Charts that Explain Why Our Prison System Is So Insane Five things everyone should know about US incarceration Symbolism and racism in drug history and policy Symbolism and racism in drug history and policy Race and the Drug War Racist Drug Laws The Drug War is the New Jim Crow An article saying that drugs laws aren't racist Is The War On Drugs Racist? Stop and Frisk Practices Terry v. Ohio Discriminatory Policing Page on newsweek.com National Institute of Justice Once a criminal, always a criminal? Recidivism rate analyzed in new Bureau of Justice report Why America Is More Violent Than Other Democracies Are Voter-ID Laws Racist? 12 reasons Texas’ new voter ID law is racist Finding A Job With A Felony Conviction Is Hard. California May Make It Easier. For Americans Who Served Time, Landing a Job Proves Tricky Employment after Prison: A Longitudinal Study of Releasees in Three States The Prison Industry in the United States: Big Business or a New Form of Slavery? 10 Huge U.S. Brands Who Profit From What Americans Would Call Slave Labor - Criminal Justice Degrees Guide Violent Crime: The US and Abroad - Criminal Justice Degree Hub Why Our Homicide Rates Are The Highest Of Any Advanced Industrialized Country: It's Not Just About Guns America doesn’t have more crime than other rich countries. It just has more guns. Why Norway's prison system is so successful Incarceration Within American and Nordic Prisons: Comparison of National and International Policies Study: Prisons failing to deter repeat criminals in 41 states - USATODAY.com The Second Chance Act: More Evaluations of Effectiveness Needed Page on uc.edu A Fundamental Failure of American Prisons Private Prisons Banking on Bondage: Private Prisons and Mass Incarceration Victory: Columbia University Divests $10 Million From Private Prisons FactCheck: do black Americans commit more crime? Crime, Bias and Statistics New DOJ Statistics on Race and Violent Crime Sources for some of the information and facts I used (I'll admit to being lazy and not linking everything. Sorry.):  DEA / Drug Scheduling Erowid Peyote Vault : Legal Status Bureau of Justice Statistics Out of prison and out of work: Jobs out of reach for former inmates Served your time in prison and looking for a job? You're out of luck | Sadhbh Walshe When Halfway Houses Pose Full-Time Problems White People Commit the Most Heinous Crimes, So Why Is America Terrified of Black Men? 