What is your opinion of the Indian cricket team for ICC 2015 World Cup? Is it really a blunder?
No, it's a well balanced team. Best combination of youth and experience you can hope for. Face it, Sehwag and Zaheer are way too old to play ODIs anymore. It's a wonder they can play at home, never mind overseas. Sehwag wasn't even able to see the ball in the last overseas tour he played. I know he hit a terrific century in the ranji, but I also know he hasn't done anything noteworthy the rest of the year as well. If we're going to include one match wonders, we can also put in Sachin Baby who scored 200* a couple of weeks ago. Gambhir hasn't been consistent for close to 6 years now. It's only his supreme will power that he's still playing. Take a look at Alviro Petersen. He wasn't performing for his country, so he retired. That's what you should do. Harbhajan is also old news, he hasn't even been performing in the IPL which could have been a saving grace. The big question of Yuvraj Singh. Arguably the most in-form player in the Ranji. But the mistake the selectors made was not putting him in the probables. If they had put him in the probables, he would have been selected. If you're going to announce a 30 man team and then take Yuvraj who is not even a part of it, then why are you announcing the 30 man team in the first place? At the time of picking the probables, Yuvraj was not in form. He had not played any noteworthy innings throughout the year except for the MCC-RoW match and he was a super failure in the T20 world cup, so it was right of the BCCI to drop him. Even now, IMO Jadeja is not going to play in the World Cup, and so Yuvraj might be selected. But if he is, we are going to hear a lot of complaints from people because Yuvraj was not in the 30 man probables. That's where the BCCI went wrong. They should have included him on a hunch. Overall, the team is good. The combinations work. The backups are efficient. We've got a good team to go all the way. EDIT : I answered a question here : Yedu Krishnan's answer to Why do many people hate MS Dhoni? Look at the stats when Sehwag, Gambhir and Harbhajan were dropped and you'll know why. Gambhir : ODI : 33 matches, 1165 runs with 2 hundreds and average of 36. Sehwag : ODI : 30 matches 1182 runs with 3 hundreds and average of 40. Now, Sehwag's ODI records seems respectable. Now let's see his last 20 matches. Last 20 matches, 683 runs with highest of 219. So he has scored 219 in one match. Meaning if you leave that out, he has 464 runs in 19 matches, at an average of 24. Harbhajan : ODI : 49 matches, 57 wickets at an average of 35. This is their record from the middle of 2010 till the last match they played in ODI. Not the form chart of people you want to play the World Cup in, because let's face it, we were knocked out in the first round in 2007 with a MUCH better team who were in top form. 