What is your opinion of the Indian cricket team for ICC 2015 World Cup? Is it really a blunder?
The team that has been selected for the world cup. BATSMEN Shikhar Dhawan Rohit Sharma Ajinkya Rahane Virat Kohli Suresh Raina Ambati Raydu. WICKET KEEPER Mahendra Singh Dhoni. ALL-ROUNDERS Ravichandran Ashwin. Ravindra Jadeja Stuart Binny Axar Patel. BOWLERS Bhuvaneshwar Kumar Umesh Yadav Mohammad Shami Ishant Sharma. The selection was a fairly decent one and along the expected lines. I have highlighted the names of players whose selection could be debatable and would try to explain the rationale behind it. Ambati Rayadu. Captain of the U-19 side which included Suresh Raina, Shikhar Dhawan and Dinesh Kartik, much was expected and anticipated from him. Unluckily he drifted towards the ill-fated ICl. He is finally coming of age, averaging above 45 and has been a consistent performer over the course of the year. Moreover he has been tested at various positions and has done well to cement his place in the team.He can double up as the extra keeper as well. The contender for his place would have been Robin Uttappa. Robin has played well in the domestic circuit. He would have provided us with more aggressive option but to pick him ahead of Rayadu would have been fallacious. Robin, prefers to play as a opener and the team is already flooded with openers. So Rayadu it was who was selected. Ravindra Jadeja v/s Axar Patel v/s Yuvraj Singh. Sir Ravindra Jadeja, the man of the tournament in the champions trophy last year and Dhoni's go to man would have been an automatic selection but for his injury. Jadeja provides the balance in the team. He bowls 10 tight economical overs,more than a handy lower-order batsman and supremely talented fieldsman. He allows Dhoni to control the game during the middle overs and also pick up on the over rate. His injury was the only reason to worry though. But with the Bcci official coming out with a statement that he is expected to be fit by 10 days, we have no reasons to think otherwise. Axar Patel, the tall lanky off spinner has been in wonderful form. He has been a reserve player for the last couple of series. He even played ahead of Ashwin in the series against Sri Lanka and was the highest wicket taker.He has been around the IPL circuit as well and was among the contenders for the emerging player of the tournament award. He is a decent bat as well and can smack a few towards the fag end of the game. Yuvraj Singh, one of the biggest names in Indian Cricket and  architect of world cup victories in 2011 and the T20 world cup in 2007. He is also sadly also credited with the loss in the final of the T20 world cup to Sri Lanka. A big match player and a towering presence on the field, he can change the course of the game very rapidly. He has piled up 3 consecutive centuries in Ranji. But let's face it , there still are serious doubts over his match fitness and his ability to last the full tournament and also his weakness against the short ball might have gone against him. Stuart Binny. Medium pacer all rounder, grossly under used by Dhoni in the limited opportunities he has been provided. He has been selected only due to lack of options. Stuart Binny is expected to be nippy and swing the ball in windy conditions of New Zealand. I doubt whether he would be given an opportunity in the Australian leg of the tournament. His claim to fame has been his performance for Rajasthan Royals. He finishes matches for them. He can play the long handle as well. Binny also provides Dhoni with the option of playing an extra batsman if need be. But again, he has been selected only due to lack of options. Could Yuvraj have been selected ahead of Stuart Binny ? The fact that we already have two 2 left arm off spinners went against Yuvraj.That the tournament would be held in New zealand and Australia tilted it in favour of Binny. Also if  Yuvraj had been in the squad, you would have the pressure of compulsorily playing him which would not be the case with Stuart Binny.  Personally, i would have preferred Yuvraj but only because i have admired his batting all along and we tend to remember his past performances. All said, hope this team does well. I expect the team to reach the semifinals. Anything beyond,we would have played extremely well. 