Which have been some landmark STEM publications (papers or theses) that have either opened up an entirely new area of knowledge or completely finished off one?
One of the seminal works of theoretical computer science is Alan Turing's "On Computable Numbers, With An Application To The Entscheidungsproblem" (http://www.cs.ox.ac.uk/activitie...). The paper was motivated by solving the Entscheidungsproblem, a logic problem proposed by David Hilbert. In his search for an answer, Turing ended up laying down the framework for the modern study of the theory of computation. First, he defined Turing machines. These machines in their most basic form consist of a head and a string of squares with some symbols written in them called the tape. The head, based on a preprogrammed set of instructions, moves along the tape and fills in the squares with new symbols. Because of how easy it is to understand them as opposed to some other models like Church's Lambda calculus, Turing machines are the most ubiquitous theoretical model of computation. Of course, I haven't really explained what I mean when I say that Turing machines are a model of computation. Luckily, Turing answers that question as well in this paper with the Church–Turing thesis, or what I  like to call "There's a Turing machine for that". Want to add all the positive integers from one to one hundred à la Gauss? There's a Turing machine for that. Want to verify an even number can be expressed as the sum of two primes (Goldbach's conjecture) for even numbers up to one billion? There's a Turing machine for that. Want to factor the RSA numbers? There's a Turing machine for that. The thesis states that any function, no matter how complicated, for which there is an algorithm to compute it can be calculated with a Turing machine. Turing machines act as a "model of computation" since theoretically they can compute any function that is "computable". Unfortunately, as the quotation marks show, this notion of being computable by an algorithm is not very rigorous, so the Church-Turing thesis is not the Church-Turing theorem. As for some final food for thought, remember the Lambda calculus I mentioned earlier? Turing showed in another paper that this strange system and his machines are actually equivalent as models of computation. The respective sets of functions that they can each calculate are exactly the same! 