Should I avoid becoming an investment banker?
Like Jack Wei, I was an exception to the rule that the most direct route to an investment management position is via investment banking. I found my passion for investing right around freshman year of college, and I eventually figured out that I wanted to be in a seat where I could analyze companies, form investment theses, and be in a position to act on my insights to generate value for others. While investment banking is one of the best ways to learn the critical skills involved in financial analysis and modeling, it is by nature a transactional business where a lot of your time will not be spent actually analyzing companies. I wanted to spend zero time doing pitchbooks and 100% of my time analyzing companies and markets. It's not that I didn't want to work long hours and work hard (quite the opposite), I just wanted to focus all my energy and long hours learning/working on what really motivated me. What allowed me to land a job at a value oriented (Buffet-esque) hedge fund right out of college was primarily two things: 1) A hunger for gaining investing knowledge and 2) A series of experiences and internships that gave me the right tools for a "buy side" job. I read every book on investing I could get my hands on during college, from Market Wizards to One Up On Wall Street. I also tried my hand at case competitions, trading competitions, and investing competitions. I took as many investing related electives in school as I could. I targeted all three of my college internships toward banking, trading, and investing. In some of those internships my actual work was mundane, but I used every opportunity to learn from the people around me. I'd also spend some of my free time following specific stocks and investing what little money I had in a few of them. Eventually I gained enough knowledge to know what I was talking about in interviews. Actually getting interviews was one of the most difficult challenges. Most buy side firms don't recruit undergraduates, at least not on a regular basis. You are unlikely to see many on campus. Most buy side firms hire people with full time experience because they typically want you to be able to hit the ground running right away and contribute, rather than spend time training you. I was lucky because the fund I ended up getting hired by happened to like younger candidates with strong skills and investing interest that might need a little bit more experience/training. So while they are more rare, there are definitely firms out there who will consider exceptional candidates who can demonstrate real knowledge and passion of the field. You'll need to seek them out. If you snag an interview, understand that you will almost certainly be required to talk in depth and at a high level about investment ideas that you have generated on your own. That is very key and common across fund interviews regardless of your background. Classes alone typically cannot prepare you for this, it usually must come from your own self driven research. You will of course also need to demonstrate a strong grasp of accounting and financial statement analysis. You might try studying for and taking Level 1 of the CFA during your last year of university. It is a very difficult exam, but it is respected by many in the industry. Passing the first part would differentiate you and strengthen your analytical abilities. In short, if you want to jump straight to investment management, you might be able to get there if you want it badly enough. But you have to very proactive. (One last note: many of my colleagues went the investment banking route, and while it was very much a difficult grind, they were better for it. They were able to put a big respected name on their resume, received very good technical finance training, and got exposure to high level deals/people/mgmt. Many were able to seamlessly transition to jobs at some of the best funds in the industry because of their banking experience. The time/life sacrifice can be very valuable indeed if you are suited to it.) 