Should I avoid becoming an investment banker?
Since other people have answered the general question so thoroughly, I'll address a question you asked in one of the comments: "why would I not want to become an investment banker?" There are a lot of downsides, as I'm sure you must have already read about here and elsewhere: long-hours, competitive-to-cutthroat environment (depending on your personality, this may not be a downside), and less-than-fulfilling work. The last one is worth emphasizing, seeing how much you value work-fulfillment/satisfaction. Because make no mistake about it: as an analyst in an IBD you are at the shit-bottom of the pile*; so naturally, all the shittiest, dullest, and most mind-numbing work goes to you. If a roadshow is coming up, guess who gets to set up and oversee the hotel and travel arrangements for your bank, the client(s), and the other syndicate bank(s)? If your MD needs a pitchbook to look perfect, guess who** gets to go through and make sure all the font types and sizes are just-so, all the tables/charts/graphs perfectly aligned and labeled? Oh, he also needs it in half an hour; except at the 29th minute it turns out the client changed his mind, so you just basically busted your ass just for fun. In short, lot of the work will have very little to do with understanding and investing in 'real ideas'; the biggest benefit really just comes from having the access to look behind the scenes, to see how the culture functions and how deals actually get done. That said, it's still pretty common for people with your goals to work in IBD, because of the networking or 'exit' opportunities - it's very common for many analysts to jump to the buyside after just a year or two. This is of course not the only way to get into the buyside, but it is widely considered (rightly or wrongly) the most risk-free way to get into a lucrative and stimulating buyside*** job - the downside is that you absolutely must Pay Your Dues. Whether you consider it worth 2 years of your time is really the main issue. Edit: I highly recommend www.mergersandinquisitions.com if you haven't already found it - it's got some really good first-hand information on IBD as a career path and lifestyle. Informative and entertaining. If you don't mind sorting through a lot of chaff, you could also try the Wall Street Oasis forums. *Except for the summers, when the interns show up. **Though if you work at a large branch office for the bank, chances are you'll have a presentation center and be spared the full drudgery of being a powerpoint jockey. ***This is more true for PE/HF than VC though - if you happen to be interested in a particular industry and want to do VC for it, then it also makes a lot of sense to get a job in that industry first; operational experience is far more critical for VC than other investment fund-types. 