What are the best sources to learn web coding (in a short time)?
Here's what I learned from quitting my job and studying web development on my own: TL;DR, Best First Steps: 1) JavaScript (Introduction to coding from Codecademy) 2) Intro to Computer Science (Core CS concepts from Udacity) 3) Dash (CSS & HTML from General Assembly) 4) Eloquent JavaScript (Become a Javascript badass) --You've now gone from Complete Novice to Beginner-- Things you have to figure out for yourself now that you kind of know stuff: 1) How to run a server on your local computer using Node & Express 2) How to use a front-end framework to make cool stuff (ng-newsletter) 3) How to use Git and Github *It should go without saying that you should be making little websites between each of these steps for practice and fun Detailed Explanation: Javascript is relatively easy to learn, it's used by everything on the internet, and you can write full apps in it front-to-back while only knowing one language, so I would start by learning Javascript. Codecademy's JavaScript course is the best place to begin, in my opinion, if you've never coded before. After that you need to learn a little more about CS fundamentals, and a little more about how HTML & CSS work. That's where dash and udacity come into play. You can go in whatever order you want. If you feel like you want to learn more about how to design actual websites (as in make them look pretty) do these easy exercises from general assembly: Dash. They will teach you the fundamentals of HTML & CSS. If you feel like you want to learn more fundamental programming techniques, do CS101 on Udacity: Intro to Computer Science, which teaches you to make a simple search engine in python. It covers essential topics like using recursion, and making a hash table. Python has pretty similar syntax to javascript so you'll pick it up fast. After that I would download sublime text 2 so that you can practice coding without having to rely on a website for your editing sandbox and go through as many chapters of Eloquent JavaScript as you can handle (it's an e-book). If you don't want to download sublime text, you can use jsfiddle.com as your editing sandbox. By the time you've finished eloquent javascript you'll have gone from complete novice, to beginner. At this point you'll be able to start making little websites for fun and that's when you'll start learning even more. Go learn how to use Git from this tutorial: Brought to you by Neo and then make a github account. I don't have good resources for the rest of your journey, but you will want to use your existing knowledge to learn 1) How to run a local server using Node.js, 2) How to use a front-end framework like AngularJS or Backbone.js. 3) Start making stuff **Full disclosure: I didn't finish eloquent javascript, I just did up to chapter 5 and then attended Hack Reactor. Doing Codecademy will take 2 weeks. Doing CS101 on Udacity will take 3 weeks, and doing Dash via general assembly will take like 2 days. Eloquent Javascript will take like 3 - 4 weeks probably, I'm not sure. This is all assuming you don't have a job while you study. Updated 11w ago • View Upvotes