What are the best sources to learn web coding (in a short time)?
Mayank , above has given you a very exhaustive list of various options that you have at hand and the sources that will help you out. But I will try to tell you how I did it. You must note that some time ago I was in the exactly same position as you are, though I did not want to learn web development for what could exactly be called a startup at that stage. So things would be slightly different in your case. The most important thing of the learning process and the building process is that they go hand in hand. You want to build a site for your startup, then don't first learn web development and then start building it, rather start building your startup website from the word go. Break down you end product into different modules, pick the most basic module(that will form the basis of your website) and start building it. You must be having a lot of features in mind, but keep your first iteration the simplest. In the next iterations, when you have had some hands on experience and you are comfortable with the stuff you are doing then you can add more complex features. Coming on to the actual development part, I am pretty sure that you would not be having a static website. So the main problem is to figure out which backend platform you would like to use because HTML and CSS are very straight forward, and hence frontend is not a major problem. I am personally a huge Django fan, but I started off with PHP and that would be my personal advise to you. Primarily because more than 70% of the websites in the world are based on PHP. So whatever you are trying to build, has already been built by many people out there. It will be very easy for you to understand those things from their tutorials and examples. PHP will get you off very quickly. Once you are more comfortable with web development, you can shift on to a more robust framework such as Django (Python) or Rails (Ruby). Both of them have sufficient amount of documentation. For database you should be most probably using MySQL. Coming again to front end, the only thing about HTML and CSS is that you should read a few best practices guide for them. The thing is when you are learning you don't tend to focus on the best practices for HTML and CSS because their is always an easy and dirty way of doing things in them, but working on the best practices you will do yourself a great favor. Javascript can be tad tricky initially, but it becomes simple after you have experimented a bit. Personally I would advise not to focus too much on javascript in your initial iterations. Use ready made libraries such as http://jqueryui.com/, they will ease your task. Instead of adding too many dynamic features focus on keeping your site CLEAN and SIMPLE. You should read this book "Don't make me think" http://www.sensible.com/dmmt.html even before you start out. Finally if you don't have a very good designer on board you could use Bootstrap to have a clean design, but remember if you try to start off using bootstrap from the beginning it might be a little tough, so try out some basic css first. The most important thing is that you must start developing, that is the best way to learn. Don't worry you will find sufficient tutorials and guides on the way. All the best! Updated 153w ago • View Upvotes