What should I do to be a hacker? Is there any age to start learning hacking?
If I understand your question, you want to know about to find security related issues in any system(may be software, networks, servers or anything else) and then exploit the system. First realise that there is no any software that can fully automate the whole process. There are bunch of Linux distros(Like Backtrack, Kali Linux, BlackBuntu, Blackbox, etc) that can help you to make things easier, but if you want to really learn the things I would recommend you to install a basic OS like Ubuntu and install all the software by your own. Here are some rules to follow if you really want to learn hacking: 1. Never GiveUp(Because no software ever made which don't have any bugs, if software is good then there may be some platform vulnerability) 2. There is no any software that can fully automate the process of hacking anything, So first you will have to learn and the execute. 3. Follow OpenSource as much as possible, because buying all software cause you lot of money and cracks will first spy on you. 4. Never try to run any program blindly in your main machine, First try to find if the software is from trusted source then it OK but if is not then install it in Virtual machine. 5. Learn to test not to exploit, if you found anything report it to developers. 6. Avoid fishing and keylogging because they are not hacking they are a chip form of cheating. Hacking is the process you can start anywhere, first you have to know about what defect any system poses and then you can exploit as you want. If you want to follow some formal steps Step 1: Install Ubuntu and some most basic tools you can start with. I would recommend the following:  (i) Armitage with Metasploit{Penetration Testing Software, Pen Testing Security | Metasploit}: Metasploit contains thousands of exploits for almost all types of systems. You can use those exploits to execute on the system you want. You can find bunch of resources on youtube, Official website and (Page on securitytube.net) Security tube. Apart from this you can search on google blogs for more diverse list. (ii) Nmap{Free Security Scanner For Network Exploration & Security Audits.}: Best tool for scanning Networks or servers.You can search on youtube and google blogs for resources.  (iii) Wireshark{Wireshark · Go Deep.}: Best tool for analysing data packets in the same networks. Security-Tube(Page on securitytube.net) Has a whole mega-primer on WLAN security and network related issues, I think this video lacture is enough for anyone to learn about wireshark, WLAN Security, etc. (iv) SET(Social Engineering toolkit){trustedsec/social-engineer-toolkit}: Best social engineering toolkit which uses Vulnerabilities in windows softwares to perform Man-in-the-middle attack on the system.  (v) Air-crack{Aircrack-ng}: For wi-fi and related things. (vi) TCPDump{TCPDUMP/LIBPCAP public repository}: Very good command line data packet analyser.  (vii) Nikto{Nikto2 | CIRT.net}: Web server scanner.  (viii) THC Hydra: Good for brute force type attacks.  Apart from this you can find very good list at VulnerabilityAssessment.co.uk. You can also install Kali linux, Backtrack, BlackBuntu or Blackbox all of them contains the tools given above. Step 2: Dig deep and gather as much as information you can. This will help you to understand better about the system and the defects present in the system. Step 3: Always try to have latest tools and latest global vulnerabilities exposed in the systems. Step 4: Try every possible attack on system you want to hack. Some of the most recommended websites: 1. VulnerabilityAssessment.co.uk 2. The Hacker News — Hacking, Cyber and Internet Security 3. Exploits Database by Offensive Security 4. CERN Computer Security information 5. Page on owasp.org 6. Welcome to SecurityTube.net P.S.: Please do all the things for learning and testing purpose and in virtual machine as much as possible because some scripts may cause very harm for your computer. 