What is string theory?
First, let me answer "what is String Theory and what is its purpose?". Essentially, String Theory (ST) is a theory of Quantum Gravity (QG), basically meaning a way to link Einstein's theory of Relativity with Quantum Mechanics (QM), thus incorporating the fourth and final force (gravity) into QM. So, just what are Relativity and Quantum Mechanics anyways? Quantum Mechanics is the field of physics that studies the world at a quantum-size, meaning looking at just a few particles (electrons and photons for example). There are a lot of odd things that quantum mechanics observes, including the idea that an elementary particle can behave as both a particle and a wave (more formally particle-wave duality). Relativity is the theory of gravitation that Einstein proposed around the same time as Quantum Mechanics. General Relativity (GR) studies the construct of space-time and gravity, while Special Relativity (SR) studies special conditions and scenarios, such as length contraction (where an object is moving near the speed of light and its length actually shortens). Now, why do these two need to be combined? Well, because they don't really work together. Relativity describes macroscopic happenings of gravity, while QM describes the smallest particles and the other three fundamental forces (electromagnetism, the weak nuclear force [necessary for the buildup of heavy atomic nuclei] and the strong nuclear force [binds protons and neutrons together to form the nucleus of an atom]). The problem is that you cannot get gravity to play into quantum mechanics, the issue here is that QM has point-particles (particles that are literally zero-dimensional), so you end up with all kinds of infinities and/or zero-distances and you can't talk sensibly about relativity or gravity. Now, let's get to String Theory Historically, (after some earlier happenings) ST was meant to describe a relationship found in hadrons (a type of particle), but Quantum Chromodynamics (QCD) worked better. There was something important about ST though, and that was that it had a particle with zero mass and two units of spin, AKA the graviton (a theoretical particle that carries the gravitational force). That isn't all that amazing though, because Quantum Field Theory (QFT) could have gravitons too, it just didn't make much sense otherwise because particles are points. However, we don't talk about point-like particles in ST, we talk about 1D strings, so ST does work to incorporate gravity into QM! Now, what is a string, exactly? Well, it, as I mentioned before is like a QM point-particle, except for its a 1D string of energy that is near the Planck Scale in size (pretty much as small as it can get, about 10^-33 cm) and strings can be open or closed. Strings vibrate too though, and they are said to have excitation levels, due to tension on the string. It's a bit like a guitar string, but only as a rough analogy, and your string is in open space. I think that's enough for strings though, so let me just make a point about the variations of String Theory In all there are about 5 (Bosonic ST is typically considered flawed, especially for the presence of a tachyon particle [one with imaginary mass]) common ST variations, including: typle I, type IIA, type IIB, type HO and type HE. I actually don't want to say anymore about that, because we aren't talking technically here, but I just thought that I should mention there are many different string theories. Also, there are super-ST's and M-Theory (basically a grand culmination of all valid STs). How about we talk extra dimensions now Alright, so before the 20th century we thought we lived in a 3D world, and we were fine with that, but we were wrong. In the early 20th century Einstein showed, through Relativity, that we have a fourth dimension, the time dimension. Why? Because the math and physics called for it, and because we've observed relativistic effects now. So, what about ST? Same thing. The truth is, ST is, in a nutshell, tons of mathematics mixed with some physics concepts, so the answer is often "the math called for it". So, how many dimensions are there? Well, eh... it depends. Bosonic ST said 26, but we think that's wrong, so we'll go to the two more likely choices: 10 or 11. STs and Super String Theories (SSTs) call for 10 dimensions, while M-theory calls for 11. Now, why can't we see these other dimensions? Well, we have two ideas generally Compact dimensions. Here's an analogy that works perfectly every time for ST compaction: Suppose a garden hose, from a far distance. It looks 1D, doesn't it? Why, yes! It looks like a line! Now, move closer, how many dimensions does it have? Well, it looks like 2 now, because you see that the hose also has height. Now, move quite close to the hose, and now you see all 3 spatial dimensions!..... This analogy sums up what ST compaction is trying to get across. Branes (short for membranes) serve another explanation. Maybe, we're just isolated away from the other 6-7 dimensions, stuck on this little 3+1 dimensional "island" (brane really) of ours. Objects in our part of the universe are simply restricted to this and we do not interact with other branes, hence not seeing the extra dimensions.Now the hardcore stuff, the multiverse You know what's really unexciting though? I already told you about it. If we live on a D-brane and the other 6-7 dimensions are not reachable to us then they may have other universes, maybe even ones with different laws of physics and nature. This isn't all that new though, quantum mechanics has similar interpretations of a possible multiverse. So, yes, ST (& QM for that matter) allow for an infinite multiverse with crazy possibilities. Negative conceptualization of a bubble multiverse – again this only serves as a visual for intuition and imaginative thinking. Oh, and remember how I said that there's a lot of math, so we just use analogies and abstraction. Example: SO, let's recap for clarity Relativity is Einsteins theory of spacetime and gravitation, whereas Quantum Mechanics is a theory of the other three forces on a VERY small scale. However, introducing gravity into Quantum Mechanics was difficult until String Theory came along. Strings are very tiny unseeable 1D strings of either looped or non-looped (open or closed strings) energy that vibrates. String Theory along with its brethren Super String Theory and M-Theory all attempt to introduce gravity to quantum mechanics and make a theory of quantum gravity (so that each force will be explained fully). String Theory is based on complicated mathematical physics and has many abstract ideas, thus relying on poor analogies for intuition. String Theory says there are more dimensions than we believe, probably 10 or 11, which are either compacted or hidden away on another brane. String theory also leaves for the possibility of a multiverse, as we may be stuck on our 3+1 dimensional brane, but other universes (even with different laws of nature) may exist in other dimensions on other branes. Quantum mechanics also leaves the multiverse idea as possible. The Status of String Theory (including Super String Theory and M-Theory) today String Theory has serious potential for making breakthroughs in physics, but it hasn't really done that so far. There are also large questions surrounding the issues with testing this theory, because there aren't that awfully many ways to test or experiment with String Theory, it's mostly pure mathematics. String Theory isn't even the only idea, we also have Loop Quantum Gravity and other topics of interest that may be better than String Theory. However, String Theory is fun, interesting, very technical, possible and one of the best ideas we have so far (if not, then the best), so I like it! Other noteworthy comments While I'm hopeful you now understand how fun, complex and interesting String Theory is, this is far from you actually learning it. I recommend you truly learn the theory and the mathematics, and do so by starting with the basic physics to work up. That's just my advice though, as you seem interested and you can learn much more about this sort of thing by doing as I mentioned.. It should also be pointed out that I exempted many ideas and topics in String Theory because it seems you don't want a full description of Super-Symmetry and a ton of technical stuff, you want to understand the core concepts and analogies. Note: I have removed the video that once existed in this answer. The reasoning behind this is that the video is largely nonsense, but I was hoping the beginning of it, which is not so ridiculous, would help to provide some intuition about dimensions. However, I feel the net effect of having the video in this answer was negative, and despite my warning about the video, I feel many people likely came out of it with misconceptions about physics, which is counterproductive. Updated 29w ago • View Upvotes