Should I avoid becoming an investment banker?
I love investing. I really do. Anyone who knows me well (this specifically includes the Quoran who requested that I post an answer to this question) can tell you of my passion for the discipline. I fell madly in love with the capital markets the first semester of my freshman year at Berkeley, and I made it a goal early on to break into buy-side straight out of college. Being the obstinate person that I am, I wasn't about to volunteer myself for indentured servitude by entering into investment banking. I saw no value in it, after all. In the end, I was fortunate enough to skip years of bulge bracket banking and a top-tier MBA, and joined a $4.7bn hedge fund in the Bay Area upon graduation. While 2-3yrs at a top investment bank (Goldman Sachs, Morgan Stanley, JP Morgan) in addition to a top MBA are typically considered pre-reqs for ranked hedge funds, it is certainly not necessary; my journey is case in point. That being said, I have yet to bump into another individual who received an offer from a multi-billion Dollar hedge fund as early as I have, so I'd temper your hopes by noting that I was the exception, not the rule. I apologize in advance that I can't offer much commentary on the banking-related questions, but below is roughly the route I took and what I think made me an unconventional candidate. It primarily addresses your third question: Personal investing experience. I've never been a shopaholic, so by the time of my freshman year at Berkeley, I had $20,000 saved up in my personal bank account. After accidentally coming across CNBC on TV one day, I knew immediately something had clicked. To try my luck, I withdrew 90% of my savings and poured it directly in the stock market. I began by investing in TMT securities, with some modest luck. This was October of 2007. To quote a billionaire investor, "Put your money where your mouth is." I cannot agree more. I am firmly of the belief that I got to where I am because of my investing experience. I had survived the jungle, so to speak. Oh, and it certainly didn't hurt that I braved through the maelstrom that was 2008-2009 while most of my classmates who had money in the game perished. 2008-2009 separated the men from the boys. By the time I started interviewing with hedge funds, I had nearly four years of extensive investing experience under my belt and was managing north of $200,000. In all humility, I didn't know another person within five years of my age, including most Harvard MBAs, who understood the markets as well as I had, and I believe this was a central reason I edged them out during the interview process. Solid returns. With the notable exception of 2008, I have outperformed the market quite beautifully, if I may say. No one wants a serial underperformer. Granted, this was anything but a piece of cake. Read on for more elaboration. Unique ideas. Instead of investing in media darlings like Apple and Google, I looked outside the box for more obscure, though still liquid, stocks. I have yet to step into an interview in which the interviewer did not smile at the idea that I returned 400% for my portfolio in 2009. I should add that most self-proclaimed "investors" in college and their early 20s are truly clueless about the capital markets. I'd lump all of my friends, with the exception of one, into this group without a moment of hesitation. They think highly of their prospects just because they've stored money into Apple... to which I say, "O.K., that shows exactly zero creativity and no three-dimensional thinking. Why don't you generate 15 more ideas?" If you're going to invest in well-covered, easy names, you stand no chance at a hedge fund interview. Your job as a hedge fund analyst entails the generation of new ideas. You're not being compensated six-figures to sit around and go to happy hours. Don't ever pitch Apple, Google, Baidu, etc. It's a serious waste of time and shows you're half-assing your "interest." Explain to me why Mercadolibre was a phenomenal long at $67. Justify your reasoning behind why you thought AOL was a short at $21 last summer but a screaming buy when it plunged to $10. Show me your model that forecast NII Holdings would report a dreadful 2Q12. Defend your argument that Netflix was worth $40 when it was trading at $300 (extra kudos if you also nailed the day it peaked). In short, expand your horizon. Investing on behalf of others. As I noted earlier, I started with $18,000, which eventually grew to over $200,000 through a combination of organic growth and capital raised from friends and family. Because I had every incentive to generate solid returns so as to avoid straining any relationships, I did my homework and conducted rigorous research behind every security that entered into my portfolio. I wasn't ready to let my dad disown me or have my best friend push me in front of a car. Buy-side internship. I was beyond fortunate to have landed a buy-side internship at an $800m AUM value-oriented shop the summer of my junior year that lasted for a full year. Yes, that inevitably meant I was obliged to work three times a week during school, so I booked all of my classes on Tuesdays and Thursday from 8am to 5:30pm, nonstop. Lunch? No biggie - granola bars in between classes. Social life at my frat took a serious back seat to the point that the brothers were perpetually upset at my absence, and I severed ties with my then-girlfriend of 3yrs to free up much-needed time. This internship opportunity, if I recall correctly, was probably the only legitimate buy-side position on the Berkeley careers portal. Without it, I doubt my hedge fund would have considered me a qualified candidate. List of accolades. I participated in a number of case competitions at school in an effort to beef up my resume and to gain hands-on knowledge of companies. Luckily, my teams finaled for a few of them (Morgan Stanley, Bain Capital, Cisco, etc.). I was also the first recipient of the CFA Merit Scholarship in the Bay Area. Based on unconfirmed rumors, I was the only undergrad to have received the award in the past few years - it is typically reserved for MBAs. My finance professor e-mailed me one day and asked that I apply. Genuine interest. Indeed, this is highly subjective and difficult to verify. In my case, I devoted no less than 40hrs/wk during the school year to investing. Not another classmate who had money in the market pulled anything close. I sought out analyst and industry reports at the library, had CNBC turned on 24/7, taught myself how to construct financial models by borrowing books from my finance professor, and thought extensively about each mistake I had made to ensure it would not be repeated. The CIO at a renown $3bn hedge fund I interviewed with (and subsequently received an offer from) very specifically said to me, "I can see that you're very passionate about investing. It's extremely rare, and I really admire it." Don't fake your interest - it won't go undetected. I've also never done it for the money, but I can't say the same for the countless others hoping to break into the industry. I distinctly told my Portfolio Managers during interview that I would be satisfied so long as they paid me a salary above the level of subsistence. They ended up offering me the same compensation they handed out to the HBS and Wharton MBAs. But in all honesty, I would've been perfectly content with much less. Must you slave through a few years of banking? Not at all. But should you? I'd encourage you to do so, at least as a backup in case you do not receive an offer from a hedge fund. In fact, most of my banker friends at top bulge bracket shops have had little success getting their feet in the door. Should you decide to join the ranks of others in doing banking, then I'd recommend that you network well, particularly with the top-notch headhunters. Invest on the side, but only if you're legally permitted to do so. The above will make a difference between life and death. Alternatively, if you encounter no intial luck with hedge funds even after banking, then the next best alternative is an MBA from HBS, Stanford, or Wharton. All the top hedge funds recruit heavily from these schools, and you can hopefully build a track record during your MBA years. Why not VC or private equity? Base on my personal experience, these guys haven't been the sharpest when it comes to public investing, as the skills are hardly transferable. In all fairness, the same token applies to banking, but it just so happens that the headhunters I'm familiar with source exclusively from the banks. My philosophy: I only live once, so if I am genuinely passionate about something, I'm going to strike down every hurdle standing my way. My advice to you: If you truly love investing as you so claim (and not attracted solely by the jaw-dropping industry compensation like almost everyone else I know), then you'll figure a way out. It isn't mission impossible, but it surely wasn't an easy path for me either. Updated 181w ago • View Upvotes • Not for Reproduction