What are some good ways to improve English grammar and writing abilities for a non native speaker?
I'm writing this answer for everyone: those who want to polish up their writing skills, grammar and improve english as well as who need resources on English learning. Expand your vocabulary: when you learn a word, try to learn all the forms of that word and the preposition that usually goes with it. Use vocabulary.com/dictionary to look words. It  is the most comprehensive dictionary available online. Visit testyourvocab.com or any similar site to check your vocabulary strength. dailyvocab.com is an awesome site for vocabulary building. This site has been featured in many leading newspapers and magazines. "Check your english vocabulary for IELTS by Rawdon wyatt" and "Word power made easy by Norman Lewis" are the recommended books. Learn thesaurus (synonyms & antonyms): Instead of repeating same words while writing use a synonym of that word. For e.g. rather than repeating "friend" use chum/buddy/mate/comrade/homie, etc. 501 synonym & antonym questions is a good book to test your knowledge of synonyms and antonyms. Improve your use of collocations: Collocations are group of words that usually go together. When you read article in a newpaper or magzine mark the collocations. You'll often see the same phrases again and again. ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Use idoms: Idoms help you to sound like a native speakers. myenglishteacher.eu/blog has 1000s of useful idoms with infographics. everyday-idoms.blogspot.in also uses imfographics to teach idoms. Read everyday: Reading is a great way to get an idea of the different styles of writing and learn how to use diffrent word properly. You can read any book that interest you. Learning should not be boring. Get a good grammar book: Grammar not only improves the quailty of writing, it also enhance the way you speak. Learn how to use appropriate  punctuation, tenses and subject-verb aggrement. "Grammar in use 4th edition by Raymond murphy" , "The blue book of grmmar and punctuation" and "Practical english usage by Micheal Swan" are good books for it. I recomend these books to everyone. Write your ass off:  Develop a habit to write daily. You can write about anything. You can write about things you like, your day, your plans,etc. You can write a small story, poem or a song. To learn creative writing, check the book "Creativing writing for dummies". Edit what you've written: If you have a friend who knows english well, take his/her help in editing your work. You can also use online resources such as grammarly.com grammarcheck.net and grammarbook.com to proofread your work. Writing and editing are two diffrent processes and controled by diffrent part of brain. So don't do both at the same time. Common errors: English is a messy language. There is one thing every wordsmith love to discuss: errors; so avoid them. ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ "Common errors in english usage by Paul Brian" and "The grammar devotional by Mignon Fogarty" are the recommended books. Punctuation: Punctuating appropriately is difficult but not impossible. If you'd not polish up your punctuation, something like this can happen :P Let's eat grandpaa. Let's eat, grandpaa. (Moral: Correct punctuation can save a person's life :p ) Sites worth visiting: grammarly.com/handbook dailywritingtips.com grammarly.com/blog quickandirtytips.com/grammar-girl grammarist.com grammarcheck.net/blog englishleap.com/grammar ets.org myenglishpages.com ego4u.com grammarphobia.com/blog blog.oxforddictionaries.com perfect-english-grammar.com macmillandictionaryblog.com facebook.com/americanenglishatstates If you find this answer helpfull, please promote it. Good Luck ^_^ ​ Sources: ​http://www.perfect-english-gramm...ons.html http://www.englishtown.com/blog/... http://english-tonight.com/8-tip... Edit: Books I've recommended ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Updated 19w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Parth Sharma