What are the most advanced mathematics that apply to architecture?
Have you ever heard of Evolute? Evolute GmbH is a high-tech company founded as a spin-off from Vienna  University of Technology in 2008. Since its foundation, Evolute has  gained a wealth of practical expertise in enabling building projects  featuring complex geometry and in solving geometric problems in  automation and production technology. Evolute has built up a dedicated  and experienced team of mathematicians, computer scientists, and engineers. We offer creativity and are at the same time grounded in  practical competence. Our references include projects from highly  technical to highly spectacular. Source: About Evolute Here's the Dongdaemun Design Plaza and Park in Seoul: Evolute delivered the design of panelisation seams, and a classification of the aluminium panels. Evolute was also involved in the Eiffel Tower Pavilions project: Optimized cylindrical glass panelization for the freeform facades of the Eiffel Tower new pavilions and optimized developable strip geometry for the box section steel beam layout. Take a look at their list of scientific publications. Here's one example: Design of self-supporting surfaces (2012): "Self-supporting masonry is one of the most ancient and elegant  techniques for building curved shapes. Because of the very geometric  nature of their failure, analyzing and modeling such structures is more a  geometry processing problem than one of classical continuum mechanics.  This paper uses the thrust network method of analysis and presents an iterative nonlinear optimization algorithm for efficiently approximating  freeform shapes by self-supporting ones. The rich geometry of thrust  networks leads us to close connections between diverse topics in discrete differential geometry, such as a ﬁnite-element discretization  of the Airy stress potential, perfect graph Laplacians, and computing  admissible loads via curvatures of polyhedral surfaces. This geometric  viewpoint allows us, in particular, to remesh self-supporting shapes by  self-supporting quad meshes with planar faces, and leads to another  application of the theory: steel/glass constructions with low moments in  nodes." Source: Design of self-supporting surfaces (2012) You may also want to take a look at Daniel Piker's blog: Space Symmetry Structure. His page on rheotomic surfaces would be a good place to start. 