What is Biswapati Sarkar's (TVF guy) take on Comedy Nights with Kapil?
It is so unfair to start answering such a question, trying to dissect one of the most popular comedy shows in Indian TV history, pretending to be an expert in the matter. I don't think my 'take' is either important or relevant to the show. Yes, the stuff I write is mostly comic, but that in no way makes me a fair judge of the work performed by one of the most talented comics in this country. Since Indian Television programming works in an erratic way, it is unfair to judge a comedian and his show in the same spirit. My opinion therefore is purely as a spectator and a student of comedy. I believe Kapil Sharma is a fantastic comedian, and has probably one of the most wittiest minds in the comedy scenario of the country. He has near-perfect timing, great knowledge of delivery and has a great command of insult humour. I used to be an ardent viewer of the show when it started although I primarily watched it on YouTube. However, comedy depends a lot on the element of surprise. And for the past few months, there has been a set pattern to the show. The freshness with which the show started featuring characters like Gutthi has been lost over several hundred episodes. The characters follow the same usual tropes and the graph of every episode is somewhat similar. Even the feuds between characters often feature jokes which are variations of the ones used in previous episodes. And this is not unnatural. It was bound to happen at some point, unless the makers decided to consciously experiment with something completely different. Hence slowly, my interest in the show declined as the characters and situations became quite predictable and repetitive. And I think it's not just me.  Presently it feels as if they have even run out of guests. But even today whenever I chance upon a clip, I feel Kapil is fabulous on the show. He still manages to crack you up despite the show fizzling out now. I think any show which runs without season breaks, and with a fixed format is bound to have a dip in quality. The show definitely requires reinvention in terms of format and characters or a season break but I'm very sure Indian Television will never give the makers of the show that sort of liberty. I don't even know if the creators want that liberty. Comedy Nights with Kapil is facing the same problems  that several popular shows have faced before it. But it's always better to have an end like 'Buniyaad' than keep living like 'Balika Vadhu'. Like Harvey Dent said 'You either die a hero, or live long enough to see yourself become the villain.'  And Indian Television always catalyzes the latter. Updated 52w ago • View Upvotes