What are some good ways to improve English grammar and writing abilities for a non native speaker?
One tip that will instantly and dramatically improve your writing skills? Keep it Short & Simple (KISS) & edit, edit, edit. Good writing is 20% writing, and 80% editing. Even for professional native english speakers. Often, the better the writer, the better the editing. When you write and when you edit - specifically watch for sloppy writing. Aim for concise, conversational, and easy to understand English. Most readers don't have a lot of patience or time. If your writing is difficult for them to understand, they will give up. The main thing you can do to improve your writing abilities is to focus on deleting words that you don't need. Short and simple writing =  good writing. Use specific words and cut out elaborate words, long sentences, and fancy punctuation. They are not a sign of good writing. Shorter sentences and paragraphs are easier to understand. Use words that you know what they mean. If you aren't sure, look in the dictionary. Writing falls flat when it is rambling, vague, and foggy. Remove complicated prose and long sentences. Also remove filler words that don't actually mean anything. For example, don't write these long phrases, when a simpler word will do: Ruthlessly cut out the extra fluff and any words that will put your reader to sleep. Cut rid of repetitive words like these: unexpected surprise, local resident, regular routine, large in size, other alternative, purple in color, over and done with, etc. The more serious you are about editing out sloppy or necessary words, the better your writing will be. From George Orwell’s essay, Politics and the English Language: Never use a long word where a short one will do. If it is possible to cut a word out, always cut it out. Never use a foreign phrase, a scientific word, or a jargon word if you can think of an everyday English equivalent. Also, ask yourself: Could I put it more shortly? Have I said anything that is avoidably ugly? *** Finally, to improve English grammar, read a lot  -- including boring, but useful, grammar books -- and speak with native speakers. Immerse yourself in the language. 