What should I do to be a hacker? Is there any age to start learning hacking?
I agree with Stan Hanks that hackers are born, not made. And they are popularly viewed as a kind of Prestige Class of geek, mysterious and exciting, and as such are the object of many a fantasy. But you can be perfectly good at security without being a "hacker". (Note: It's typically not as exciting as portrayed in media, though it can have exciting moments. See my answer to "What is it like to be a hacker / member of a cybercrime organization?" for more info.) It's good to feel wanted But the hallmark of a hacker is the intense passion about their area of interest that drives them to learn and excel. They don't ask people "teach me to [x]" because learning about [x] is so fascinating for them that they wouldn't want someone else to infringe on the fun. They might accept tips now and then, but not roadmaps. If you want to hack, but you're not interested enough to make your own way, to learn and discover and spend the countless hours reading and exploring and experimenting without someone else to hold your hand, you're not a hacker. I'm sorry to be blunt about it, but it's better to just tell you that now. You can still work in security. You can still be a penetration tester. Hell, other people may still consider you a hacker. Don't consider it a step down in life. Everyone learns differently. Not everyone gets to grow up to be an astronaut, and not everyone gets to be a hacker. This discussion is as old as the 'net. Here's a rant that was published during my early learning days. Some of the references (Red box) are kind of dated, but the message holds true today: Take a little quiz for me today. Tell me if you fit this description. You got your net account several months ago. You have been surfing the net, and you laugh at those media reports of the information superhighway. You have a red box, you don't have to pay for phone calls. You have crackerjack, and you have run it on the password file at a unix you got an account on. Everyone at your school is impressed by your computer knowledge, you are the one the teachers ask for help. Does this sound like you? You are not a hacker. There are thousands of you out there. You buy 2600 and you ask questions. You read phrack and you ask questions. You join #hack and you ask questions. You ask all of these questions, and you ask what is wrong with that? After all, to be a hacker is to question things, is it not? But, you do not want knowledge. You want answers. You do not want to learn how things work. You want answers. You do not want to explore. All you want to know is the answer to your damn questions. You are not a hacker. Hacking is not about answers. Hacking is about the path you take to find the answers. If you want help, don't ask for answers, ask for a pointer to the path you need to take to find out those answers for yourself. Because it is not the people with the answers that are the hackers, it is the people that are travelling along the path. via Are You A Hacker? by ReDragon - original via Internet Relay Chat Related: Adrián Lamo's answer to How did Adrian Lamo learn hacking? Adrián Lamo's answer to Can you be a hacker if you can't code? Kevin Poulsen's answer to How does one become a hacker? Stan Hanks' answer to How does one become a hacker? 