How could I gain weight in a healthy way?
Update December 2015: This answer was a number of years old. I have several answers on gaining muscle mass that have all been combined and ended up largely here that I intend to combine into a more unified answer, similar to my answer to What are the best ways to lose weight? It'll be more of an FAQ style answer... First, because I make this recommendation to everybody. Seek out a coach. I can never highlight this enough. A colleague, John Berardi (co-author of the book 'Scrawny to Brawny,' which would also be a worthwhile read) runs an online coaching program for people looking to gain muscle mass, who have typically struggled to do so. It's like $99 a month, $99 down, a steal relative to hiring a decent personal trainer (which can be 3-4x that cost at least) and you'll get a ton of good mentorship. http://www.scrawnytobrawny.com/c... There are also a few other great trainers in this regard who run online membership sites that could be helpful, and many (including myself) do online distance coaching for a monthly fee at a fraction of our one-on-one cost. IM for other recommendations as I'm not presently accepting any new clients in this regard, but have colleagues who are. The #1 mistake with nearly anything people make is that they don't seek out some kind of mentorship. #2 - It's been my experience that 80% of the time guys who work with me, often tell me that they eat like horses; In their eyes, they might very well believe this and by other standards (to average people, who don't train) they might. Then we do a 3 or 5 day food log and the results come back revealing that they actually eat more like they want to maintain their weight and less like they want to gain weight. This may or may not be you, but it something to consider. Check out this quora answer I have on the calculations behind weight gain: What's a good calorie surplus for clean bulking? What most people fail to do, is address the additional energy needs from training hard. I try not to think too specifically in regards to 'calories' and prefer to think in the terms of 'energy' but generally speaking if you were eating enough, and training appropriately, you would put on muscle mass, even if you view yourself as a "hard-gainer," there is no way around this. #3 - The training program you describe sounds more geared towards building strength as opposed to mass and doesn't have a lot of programming consideration behind it. I'd be willing to bet that your training program probably isn't quite up to snuff either here, especially if you are adhering to #2. Here is an excellent free program (3 part series) for the basics of a training program for gaining mass while preserving athleticism, by a colleague, Joe DeFranco: It's more like a 'framework' actually and it's called 'Westside For Skinny Bastards,' which I think is funny... http://www.defrancostraining.com... http://www.defrancostraining.com... http://www.defrancostraining.com... That's a good place to start without spending much money, however, having a coach who can modify this appropriately for you is still well-worth it in my opinion. Here are also some training books (paid, so obviously you get a lot more detail than the above article series) focused around mass building: Chad Waterbury's 'Huge in a Hurry' http://www.amazon.com/Mens-Healt... Nate Green's 'Built for Show' http://www.amazon.com/Built-Show... Stuart McRobert's 'Brawn' and/or 'Beyond Brawn' (I think Beyond Brawn is actually better, but that's just me...) http://www.amazon.ca/Brawn-3rd-E... http://www.amazon.ca/Beyond-Braw... #4 - Back to nutrition, try out a super shake, complex shake, whatever you want to call it. High quality liquid food consumption can do wonders when you have a hard time eating enough food to pack on mass. Liquid Calories digest more quickly, so leave you feeling less full than whole calories. Try this: 1-2 Scoops (25-50 grams protein-ish...) Chocolate Protein Powder 1-2 TBSP's of your favourite natural nut-butter (organic? up to you...) 1 Cup frozen kale or spinach cubes (could also use fresh) 1/3 Cup Steel Cut Oats 1 Cup of Ice (less if you use frozen veggies, or do get the consistency you like) Instant Complex Shake with a huge caloric load. Try putting that between meals and see where it gets you, I've had people utilizing them up to 2-3 times a day with good results. **These questions were merged and my answer now collapsed at the bottom because it didn't have as many upvotes is still useful: I'd start by doing a search on Quora and applying a principle from any of the dozens of answers on this question (really this question should be redirected or specified). How do I gain muscle mass? What workouts should I do to gain muscle mass using only a barbell and weights? How can I gain 10 pounds of muscle mass? How to start gaining muscle mass? I'm 5'11 and weigh 140 pounds I would like to gain muscle mass, in addition to lifting how much should I be eating a day to gain weight. Also what specific foods should I be eating? How do I decrease my fat percentage without reducing muscle mass? How can I gain muscle without using weights? How can I lose weight and gain muscle without much money? How can I gain muscle on a low protein diet? There are a variety of scenarios already written about this topic, to a point where I don't think it really needed to be asked (but especially not without any specifics on the situation). Generally people who ask these questions are not already hulks, so the simplest answer for you is to start strength training hard and eating a lot of high quality food. You need to stimulate muscle growth with some kind of load, then use food to help it rebuild. Keep doing that over time and you'll gain muscle. If you don't you're either: A) Not eating enough (typically this one...) B) Not training well enough If you're still lost, buy the book, 'Mass Made Simple' by Dan John. Updated 7w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Frank Lin and Vivek Ponnaiyan