Why does Indian Railways still use the same dot-matrix printer?
Dot matrix printer is still used today because it serves a very specific purpose and does so very, very cheap for the thing it does. Order Food in Train..http://railrider.in Using  Check pnr status from website Rail Rider | Track PNR Status | Check PNR Status Dot matrix printing or impact matrix printing is a type of computer printing which uses a print head that moves back and forth, or in an up and down motion, on the page and prints by impact, striking an ink-soaked cloth ribbon against the paper, much like the print mechanism on a typewriter. Dot-matrix printers vary in two important characteristics: speed: Given in characters per second (cps),the speed can vary from about 50 to over 500 cps. Most dot-matrix printers offer different speeds depending on the quality of print desired. print quality: Determined by the number of pins (the mechanisms that print the dots), it can vary from 9 to 24. The best dot-matrix printers (24 pins) can produce near letter-quality type, although you can still see a difference if you look closely. In addition to these characteristics, you should also consider the noise factor. Compared to laser and ink-jet printers, dot-matrix printers are notorious for making a racket. A dot matrix printer can replace any other printer (for office uses); no other printer can replace the dot matrix printer. 1. Multiple pages printing: There are no printers that are cheap and can print on multiple papers at the same time. The dot matrix printer can be used to print one original and 3 carbon copies of the same document at the same time. This makes printing and keeping track of duplicates, triplicates and quadruplicates  very easy. 2. Versatile printing: There is no limitation on the paper dimension you can print on with the dot matrix printer. According to my estimates, Mumbai local train ticket is small enough that you can print upto six on a A4 page and the inter state tickets are such that one A4 can accommodate 3 tickets. One dot matrix printer can print the Local train ticket, the Inter state ticket, the official documents, and any other document you can think of. 3. Backwards compatibility: Indian railways system dates back to God knows when. They still have a MS-DOS style software they use to print out tickets. I doubt there is any other printer that can not only deal with that old software; but also be sure that it will work with the latest windows platform too, if they ever decide to upgrade. 4. Robust and heavy duty: The office printer has been there for 9 years. It had a full servicing done once when a lot of paper was getting jammed in it and it took 80 rupees. It was a one off problem because the clerk had pulled the paper out forcibly. 5. Ease of use: These dot matrix printers are extremely easy to understand. You can easily open one up and reassemble it if you have an issue. When you think about it, most of the people working with these printers are not engineers. It has just two or three troubleshooting procedures that anyone can perform. 6. Cost We have one black and white laser printer . It can not print multiple pages. It jams if the paper is slightly folded. 