How did the Chinese GDP increase so rapidly after 1990 as compared to India?
In 1980, the economies of China and India were almost the same in terms of gross domestic product (GDP). India's GDP per capita was, in fact, slightly higher than that of its much larger eastern neighbour. Then, the Chinese economy grew at the rate of of 10 per cent between 1980 and 2010, leaving India far behind. In fact, Chinese manufacturing sector is presently eight times the size of India's. There are many reasons for China's rapid growth. These include business-friendly environment created by the setting up of Special Economic Zones and business-friendly labour policies. The biggest advantage, in his opinion, that China had in the early 1980s was human capital. In 1982, The average years of schooling in China was far higher than that in INDIA,  literacy rate in China was 64.4 per cent, compared to India's 37.2 . In every measure, China was far better than India. In terms of healthcare - be it infant mortality, life expectancy - China had a far healthier population. Then there is gender gap. China has traditionally been a society that had encouraged gender equality. India, even today, fares badly on that parameter. Recent studies have ranked China at No.61 in terms of gender equality as against India's 113 among 134 nations. In another attribute - economic empowerment of women - China is holds the No.50 spot, compared to India's 131 today. Labour force participation by women in China is 74 per cent, while it is just 34 per cent in India. In women's education, China is at No.85, against India's 121. There are more reasons why CHINA improved much in growth than INDIA A strong manufacturing base China has become the world's manufacturing hub. The shelves of giant store chains like Wal-Mart are indication to the fact that most of the low-cost products today are made in China because it offers the cheapest source of manufacturing. In electronics and hardware, China is the manufacturing hub for companies like Siemens and Hitachi Global Systems,Xiomi nowadays is giving apple a run for their money. China's success in manufacturing has attracted companies from other sectors too. Michelin, the world's biggest car tyre manufacturer, plans to make its Chinese operations its biggest global manufacturing base. The strong manufacturing base means that China is able to offer employment to a larger section of its population, compared to India which has shown growth predominantly in the services segment. China's approach to acquiring technological expertise was very different. Through policy, it not only insisted that foreign companies share the technology with local partners but efforts were also made to ensure that this knowledge was absorbed by local engineers efficiently. The compensation package was designed in such a manner that the engineer who had acquired technical skills from a foreign company got better emoluments if he moved to a local company and shared his knowledge. A fast decision making  government Also, the decision-making in China is very localised. It is being said that it takes four and half years in India to start a business, three years in USA and just 18 months in China because decision-making is very local and fast. He also said that bureaucrats in China were incentivised in a manner that fuels growth. "Both the countries are corrupt but these are the reasons why China has grown much after than India," "Once committed to a focus on economic growth, some good policy decisions were implemented quickly and efficiently. From the time Deng (Xiaoping) set the direction 25 years ago, it has not been altered by party politics, ideology or leadership changes," While India's corporate leaders agree that this could be true, they are emphatic that India's vibrant democracy is the only way for the country to ensure that growth and development reaches all. We opened the gate for the world very late for doing business and investment which is 1991 High savings rate China has a high savings rate, which is recycled and concentrates wages paid to workers into four large state banks. This capital is in turn directed by the leadership, which concentrates this available capital into key projects. This capital has consistently financed more than 85 per cent of China's infrastructure investment. Investment in models and showcases China's leadership has always focused on investment in models and showcases. All this has helped greater foreign direct investment into the country and helped create local economic development. China created awe-inspiring gateways for visiting foreign investors: the Beijing and Shanghai airports, Pudong Development Zone, and Beijing's Financial Street are just a few examples. Creation of zones and infrastructure for businesses China has created many flexible investment zones, export processing zones, free trade zones, high tech zones, complete with tax incentives and good infrastructure. India has tried to replicate this with its creation of export processing zones and software technology parks. But the difference lies in some key areas like creation of infrastructure and quick approval of investment proposals. The business-above-all attitude China always set aside political, social, and ideological differences in the interest of getting investment, technology, and export channels," However, in India, trade and economic growth have never been paramount. India's economic growth has always given in to the sentiments of the local industry; like in cases where foreign investments have been restricted. In contrast, India has yet to counter the problem of brain drain or promote itself as a destination for entrepreneurs who want to set up companies. You can also read  my answer on@ How does Tokyo with a mere population of 13.35 million (1.3 crore) has almost same GDP as that of whole of India with a population of 1.252 billion (125 crore)? India vs. China: The Battle for Global Manufacturing ET Global Business Summit 2015: India definitely a country of the future, says Paul Krugman - The Economic Times Updated 51w ago • View Upvotes