What should I do to be a hacker? Is there any age to start learning hacking?
OK, You have to be back to basics. Don't dream about hacking into NSA, FBI on the very first day. Always remember Rome was not built in a day. So, If I were you I would choose this path. 1) Join some online hacking tutorial websites, Some of my favorite are as follows. Hack This Site! Welcome to Hellbound Hackers ThisisLegal.com - Are You? The Python Challenge Provided  if you have completed everything on the above mentioned website on your own which includes the following. Basic HTTP hacking Well known web vulnerabilities - RFI, Directory Traversal, CSRF, SQL Injection Some reverse engineering You know about IRC and its hacks. You can create PHP bots. FTP modes. PHP related vulnerable codes. A bit of stenography, cryptography and encryption. You have developed the hacker instinct and logical reasoning. You understand source code of every webpage is the first thing you start looking for hints and vulnerabilitiesIf all the above are True  - You are already half Kevin Mitnick. Reading is always good and beneficial. Read some books when you are bored doing stuff online. Hacking - The Art of exploitation Google Hacking for Penetration Testers - Volume 2 So now you are pretty good, but as you mentioned you want to become a security specialist, it needs more & learning doesn't stop here. Now you need to learn How to actually write an exploit and stop being a script kiddie. What is a Shell code ? How to write a shell code? How to use a shell code? Metasploit framework. Unix, C programming ( Socket Programming), Shell scripting. Databases , Union all and How login work and how DB values are authenticated. Port and services running on them Protocols and their bugs. PHP Robots.txt Tools like - Nmap, OWASP Most important of all you need - "Brains" to apply what you have learnt at the very right moment. After all this if you think the knowledge is still under the brim. You can always join some courses like. 1) EC - Council ethical hacking courses. That's it. Now you can go and break some laws ;) 