What are some good ways to improve English grammar and writing abilities for a non native speaker?
[This is a quick recap from my earlier responses to more or less similar questions on Quora.] First and foremost, writing alone is totally inadequate. You need to have the right frame of mind or mindset in order to attain English mastery. This is a harsh reality, by virtue of the fact that English is our global lingua franca today. As a matter of fact, it's the Language of the 21st Century! Putting    this mindset into tactical terms, this means that you have got to    integrate your learning of English from multidirectional and  multidevelopmental angles into your everyday lifestyle. Do  not approach your learning from the standpoint of ESL or EFL.  [ESL=English as Second Language; EFL=English as Foreign Language]. ENGLISH IS A LIFE SKILL! In    other words, you must not confine your learning of English to the    spending of prescribed hours you are studying or learning in a    classroom, within four walls of a school. It is important for you to understand that English mastery also involves the acquisition of five critical skills sets: - Reading; - Thinking; - Listening; - Speaking; - Writing; as applied in real-world communication with real people! Like     the five spokes of a wheel held all together by the rim with the  tyre    revolving around the hub, each of these areas need to be strong  in   order  for the wheel to run smoothly on the road, just as  you need  the   five  skill sets in order for you to attain English mastery. Seek every opportunity in your daily activities to learn and master English. - Reading an English story book regularly, or the daily English newspaper; better still, writing down what you have learned from the story or the news; in the case of news, expand your writing with your view of their implications, say politically, economically, technologically and/or social-demographically; - Watching an English movie without subtitles [you can always 'Pause" and/or "Playback" to recap/review useful dialogues]; better still, write down your impressions and/or feelings about the movie, say in the form of a movie review; - Listening to pod-casts in English, or the English news broadcasts, like the BBC; - Using your smartphone, fully loaded with "Learning English" applications, so that you can apply "just-in-time" learning or "learning-on-the-go" while commuting or waiting in queue; - Striking up casual conversations with random Caucasian folks in the queue, say at any Starbucks or in any supermarket; - Using FaceTime or Skype to converse with international friends who speak English; - Writing to international English-speaking pen-pals; - Calling up customer  service of any MNC's, and pretending to put forward your complaint, in English of course; -     Dropping by a large hotel reception, and pretending to check up the    hotel  for a forthcoming party of international friends, to seek    opportunities  to speak English; Sneaky, but who cares! -  Finding  one daily  news article in your native language, and  translating it into  English to the best of your ability;  this is  absolutely good practice  to perfect your thinking and writing in   English; [Get hold of a friend  who is a top dog in English so as to  elicit candid feedback, or your  friendly English tecaher, if any;] - Listening to,  and singing in the shower with, English songs, as a means to practise your pronunciation; -    Watching YouTube video clips in English, and pausing in between to    repeat what you have just heard; this is to practise your listening    skills; better still, write down your impressions by consolidating and summarising the key ideas and salient points, to practise your writing; I am just scratching the surface, and am sure you can think of more ideas. Meanwhile, I like to recommend you to carry a pocket notebook with you at all times. Whenever     you are on the streets, pay attention to the wall posters,   billboards,   window displays, bulletin boards, or even signboards,   where English is  displayed. If  you come across  new or unknown  words, jot them  down in your pocket  notebook for reviewing at home   with the aid of a  dictionary. Then, use the famed flash card strategy to master these new words. Make it a habit to learn at least ten new words a day. In a year, you would have learned more than 3,500 words! Look around you.  Can you identify all the places or landmarks in English. If not, jot them down  for reviewing at home. Likewise,    in the supermarket, ask yourself: can you identify all the items on    display, in English? If not, you can start learning to read the labels. Take  note of casual conversations around you. Go home and review them. Better    still, do a simulated conversation on your own, aloud, and in  front   of  a mirror. You can record, recap and review, too, but more   importantly,  to reinforce. You can use the famed 6W1H questioning toolkit often used by journalists to spur your questions and expand your thinking. Then,  grab a sheet of blank paper and start writing down your answers as you  think. In reality, all these initiatives offer great opportunities - and  practices - for you to think and write in English. Frankly, the  world out there is full of possibilities and opportunities when it comes  to learning English. It's an invisible university! Stay  alert. Be creatively resourceful. Follow up and follow through,  consistently and massively, in real communication with real people, as  much as you can! 