Where can I find an example of a perfectly organized Chart of Accounts for small business accounting?
I'm afraid there is no such thing.  Sorry. While a chart or accounts typically has some structure, you cannot just take the "perfect" one you're looking for and integrate it into your business.  The reason for this is because: each business is unique the way management views its financial results are subjective Broadly speaking, the skeleton of your chart of accounts should look something like this.  However, this is where the commonality to other companies end. Assets Liabilities Equity Revenue Expenses Of course, there will be accounts within these broad categories, ranging from a few (for simple companies) to many thousands for large, multi-national, complex companies. I assume you're not flying in the dark by operating without a budget.  Assuming you do have one, these are the expenses you are expecting.  They will be typical ones that are obvious. rent payroll telephone supplies utilities insurance auto etc. In the expense area, you should have one account for each "type" of expense you wish to track.  Generally speaking, more detail is better than not enough, but you want to be cautious against "too" much detail that you don't need, as it makes the administration of these accounts difficult with no tangible benefit. For example, most companies have one general ledger expense account called "office supplies."  Now, if you were crazy and wanted to track "paper clip" expense, you could, if you wanted to by adding an account called "Office Supplies - Paper Clips."  But why would you?  In some contexts, it makes sense.  Let's say your paper expense represented 75% of the offices supplies budget.  That might be a valid reason to set up a separate account, as it would make it easier to analyze later. If you are looking for some advice, mine would be to hire a qualified accountant to take care of this for you.  Building a logical and thoughtful infrastructure for your accounting systems is of paramount importance.  With a weak foundation, whomever is doing the accounting will have a life-long sentence of inefficiencies and cumbersome procedures. This is far too complex an issue to provide a thorough answer here.  My goal was to offer you brief overview and provide some direction.  However, if you have any specific questions, I'm happy to answer them here. Updated 141w ago • View Upvotes