How could I gain weight in a healthy way?
This seems to be a very popular question - and my answer may be similar to what I have already written on Quora previously, but here goes again (I may copy and paste some bits from previous answers, to save time): Building muscle boils down to two major basic rules: eat more and exercise smarter.  First, you say you eat enough - but if you are not gaining weight, it obviously isn't. Perhaps the measure of sufficiency you are using is based on irrelevant concepts (calories, etc.), perhaps you eat a lot in quantity, but low in quality or nutritional value, or perhaps your metabolism and activity levels just burn everything for energy - who knows.  But if this doesn't work - change it! Calories don't matter as much as the composition of the food you eat (it is MUCH more important to eat the right mix of macronutrients, rather than count calories coming from junk food).  In the end, you might not be eating enough OF THE RIGHT STUFF.  To build more lean muscle, your diet needs to shift to more protein, less carbs and more quality fats.  One of the precursors to testosterone is cholesterol from saturated fats, so eating more animal products (GOOD quality meat, such as grass-fed beef, farmed fish, etc.) and getting enough sleep is a must.  In our day and age, due to the prevalence of plastics, pesticides and phytoestrogens in food (all of which either mimic or promote estrogen production in our bodies) - most people usually have excess estrogen in their bodies which is not good when it comes to building lean muscle mass. Like I said, It may be that you are not eating enough - or rather, that the balance between protein, fat and carbs is wrong.  Carbs should be minimal - definitely out with junk food, sugary drinks, pasta, bread and - sorry - white rice, too (at least for the majority of the week).  Bring in more quality protein and more quality fats (grass-fed butter, grass-fed ghee, a bit of olive oil is OK, other vegetable oils are out the window immediately - they are bad for you).  With reducing carb intake you have to do something to fill in the gap, otherwise you will be hungry, irritable and miserable - bringing in those quality fats will keep you satiated and happy (and also, your brain will be more focused, your hormones will work better and insulin sensitivity will improve dramatically).  Increase protein because without it you cannot synthesize muscle.  Whether you want to do this in the form of a supplement (try protein powders made from New Zealand whey - it is considered one of the best in the world and it is used extensively in quality protein mixes; vegan protein sources might work too, but you usually need more of them by weight, as they are not as efficiently absorbed, plus they are more expensive) or natural foods (more meat, fish and eggs) - is up to you.  I recommend changing your breakfast completely - removing ALL carbs and just substituting them with, say, 4-5 eggs.  The egg yolk is an added healthy cholesterol bonus.  Play it by ear and see how you feel - if you have a lot of demanding physical activity during the first half of the day and you quickly run out of energy, you might need to bring back some carbs, but, generally, adding more protein and some fat instead of removed carbs is a better idea. Technically, if you eat enough during regular meal intakes, you shouldn't need to snack - if you are snacking, you are getting hungry, which means you don't eat enough :)  Use butter on your veggies, eat bigger portions of meat or fish - just don't increase portions by increasing carbs :)  Quality fat (I emphasize quality, because bad fats have a completely opposite effect and mess up your body) are extremely satiating and nourishing and you don't feel hungry any more.  If you absolutely have to snack - have a handful of raw nuts (almonds work well), but not too much.  Snacking on carrot sticks and the like - is counterproductive and useless, most of the stuff you consume is fiber and there is not enough calories to satisfy you, so you either stay hungry and miserable or reach for M&Ms later :) Now, about exercise: Free weights are the best for building muscle from all perspectives - they are the best because with free weights you can do compound exercises that target a lot of muscle groups at the same time and knock them off in very little time (plus the metabolic effect is much larger than for isolated exercises).  But barring that, body-weight or resistance-band exercises should mimic free-weight exercises in terms of the difficulty (to an extent and only up to a certain experience level, after which you must switch to free weights).  To build stronger toned muscle, do about 5-6 sets of 6-7 reps.  if you can do more - it means your resistance is set too low.  Use more bands.  If you are doing body-weight exercises - make them harder (with push-ups - elevate your feet; with pull-ups - hold a heavy book between your feet, etc.).  The tempo should be moderately-slow It is hard to boil everything down to just a few paragraphs, but key takeaways are: 1. Eat more (not more junk, though - more quality protein and quality fats) - this is important and usually insufficient amount of food is what slows down muscle growth 2. Exercise with heavy weights 3. Rest sufficiently (quality sleep is key; plus allow for sufficient recovery (at least 1-2 days) between heavy exercise sessions. You can read a bit more on the topic of building muscle in the most proper way in the following articles: How to build muscle mass: 10 not-so-secret bodybuilding tips for bulking up | The Ultimate Alpha Project Also, the 3-part series on muscle hypertrophy might help: How to Build Muscle - the Right Way (Part III - training for hypertrophy) | The Ultimate Alpha Project Or just go through anything that talks about muscles on that website (and subscribe to the newsletter) - it covers everything you would need to know. 