How should one balance teaching to an exam against ensuring genuine learning?
Short answer: If you successfully teach comprehensive conceptual (called "genuine" above) understanding, you don't have to worry because your students will rock the exam anyway. Easier said than done. In my former profession, I was a high school algebra teacher.  I spent most of my first year developing lessons, activities, games, and classroom management ideas intended to engage my students in as much practice as possible.  While consistent practice of math problems is essential to learning, I discovered the hard way that codified skills were merely the less important part of a solid 9th grade algebra education.  When it came time for ACT/SAT type questions and beyond, my students were in over their heads without high level and multi-step problem solving skills, not to mention the developed confidence necessary to even attempt challenging problems. While there is no substitute for deep conceptual understanding of an academic subject, integrating such a curriculum into teaching takes hard work and consistent reflection on one's craft.  Like differentiated teaching (teaching to different learning styles in one classroom), it is something that takes even the hardest working teachers more than one year to develop. Yes, as stated in the question, success metrics often boil down to exam scores.  This is not a bad thing.  The first action many good teachers take at the beginning of a semester is to produce final exams and tests of all necessary standards, or objectives, which then inform all further units, homeworks, and lessons.  This exemplifies how a teacher sets a concrete end goal and backwards plans to reach it.  If you have a great teacher you remember from your childhood, it is probably largely the result of him or her taking such a focused project management type of approach to teaching.  Good teachers don't waste time on whimsical lessons.  They have a plan to get through an impressive set of objectives, and they optimize how to best impart all that knowledge to their students.  Perhaps in their first year they focus on rote skills, and then in their third they are fantastic conceptual teachers. As one example, I taught graphing slope-intercept equations (y = mx + b) through rote practice my first year.  I didn't know how else to get students to a level where they could quickly rattle off lots of graphs.  Start at the y-intercept, b, go up and over using m.  Needless to say, even those with perfect graphs could not have articulated what a linear equation actually was. In my second year, I began their conceptual understanding long before we ever got to that unit.  Taking a hint from a colleague, I covered all units with multiple representations: graphical, equation, table, and real world.  While it wasn't perfect my second year either, my students now knew what a linear relationship was and it paid off when they were faced with challenging and unprecedented problems. Hence my initial statement.  If you are still worried about teaching to specific test questions, here is one tactic: At the beginning of the semester, make three tests instead of one.  One tests all the even objectives in your semester plan, one tests all the odd objectives, and one tests a random assortment.  You optimize to teach all the objectives, and when finals come around, roll a die to pick which test you use.  That way you won't teach toward a more narrowed set of objectives because you the teacher don't even know which ones would be tested. 