Who has used Periscope? How would you rate this tool compared to Chartio?
I haven't used Chart io - but I am an avid user of periscope. I'll recap why I am happy with them and share the value it's added to my current company. 1. Fund raising: This can be a shit show. If you've done it, then you know what I'm talking about. If you haven't, it's worse than you imagine. A big issue with raising at early stage companies is effectively communicating the opportunity to investors in a compressed time frame. I showed off our periscope dashboards in real time to every Tier 1 investor we pitched. If they had an obscure question about a metric I hadn't shown, instead of telling them "I'll get a dev on that and follow up in an email at a later date you likely will not read..." I just put together a new chart. Boom. Next question? Getting to truth is hard in life, when you have real world data in front of you and the decision makers it makes it much, much easier. 2. Responsive team. I've asked the periscope team all kinds of crazy questions.  • Can you make me a chart to show what investors logged into our dashboard and actually looked at the numbers? • Can you fix this query I clearly messed up, there is a left outer join missing somewhere but I don't have the time to debug • Can you help this other company I invested in put together a summary dashboard for their A round? • Can you add geo charts so I can do pretty heat maps? • Can you send me a no BS book on SQL to make our code tighter, clearly you know more than me and I want the cliff notes no bullshit content? • I'm down the street from your office, got time for a beer? (middle of the work day) In every situation the answer was yes. They have amazing support, they take care of us as a customer, and they embrace the human element. I believe business is personal, and the periscope team clearly gets it. 3. Truly real time. Back when I was at Apple I worked on the team that provided real time stats to Steve. He was a maniacal freak about that kind of stuff, and had a custom dashboard widget that would show the number of people that walked into each retail store and then compared it to the previous year. He actually watched that data . . . like a hawk. If someone told him incorrect data, he knew. What took us 2 months to do back then with Xcode and custom javascript and php and parsing all sorts of feeds takes me literally 10 minutes with periscope, and the charts are pretty by default. They nailed the UI, the product continues to improve at a pace that exceeds even my expectations. 