Why does Indian Railways still use the same dot-matrix printer?
It's simple economics. In India, the cost of labor is very low and the cost of capital is very high (very high interest rates on business loans). So it's MUCH more cost effective to keep fixing the old printer than it is to buy a new printer. It's not just the railroads. I think most businesses in India still use dot-matrix printers. The opposite issue in the US (high labor cost and low capital cost) is why they pursue the opposite approach of throwing away and replacing things that are often repairable/usable. All the other reasons listed are either side effects of the labor/capital cost issue or standard Indian excuses produced whenever someone suggests doing something there differently... Why oh why don't they teach economics in India??? 1) Multiple page printing: Excuses! It turns out computers are really good a repetitive tasks like printing multiple copies of the same thing. You're stuck on using carbon paper because it's what you're used to, but telling the computer to print 2 or 3 copies is actually a lot easier than constantly messing with the number of carbon copy pages you're forcing into the printer, manually lining up the pages to start printing, and then re-printing because it wasn't lined up correctly and part of the info printed off the page. Plus, separately printed copies are much easier to read than carbon copies. 2) Versatile printing: For economic reasons I suspect you're talking about the cheapest, least reliable, non-dot matrix printer ever created. Any halfway decent modern printer can easily and reliably accommodate a wide variety is paper sizes and types. Remind me, how well does the dot-matrix printer handle varieties of paper that don't come with holes along the sides? 3) Backward compatibility: This is half economics and half excuses. Again, you have MS-DOS because the cost of capital is high in India. It's cheaper to hire more people than it is to buy modern computers with automation software. The automated computers would be much faster, but the low cost of labor in India means time has almost no economic value in that country. On the excuses side, I can't believe any dot-matrix printer OEM supports windows 7/8. Most modern computers don't even come with the required parallel port! However, if (as I suspect) you're using some 3rd party driver and USB/Parallel port converter to make the printer work with windows 7/8 there's no reason you couldn't find/use an equally reliable 3rd party driver to make a laser or ink-jet printer work with MS-DOS. 4) Robust/Heavy-duty: A well made modern printer is equally reliable. Again, for economic reasons your boss is probably buying the cheapest piece of junk he can find. It's not a surprise that the cheapest ink-jet or laser printer on the market is unreliable. 5) Ease of Use: Excuses! Naturally the thing you're used to using is the 'easiest' to use; you're accustomed to using it! It's easy to fix because you're accustomed to fixing it. If you had been using a different type of printer for 20+ years you'd say the same thing about it too! 6) Cost: Once again this is just economics. The most common thing gets the advantage of economies of scale. In the US an ink-jet printer can also be easily refilled in 5 minutes for a few pennies (~0.10 USD) if your willing to refill the cartridge (just like you do with the dot-matrix cartridges). I'm not sure what type of laser printer you have, but it sounds like a cheap piece of junk. 