★Where can web startups learn about financial modeling that accounts for the important metrics and costs?
My advice: the best source of learning for your financial model is your business and I doubt what you find online will be very useful.  If the business is sufficiently developed, you should be able to identify what the costs and revenues are and what they are likely to be in the future.  Typically, the process looks like this: Guess out how much it costs to acquire users from each marketing channels (e.g. ads, Google placements, social marketing, founder salaries, etc)? Guess how many users you will get over time  Guess conversion rates for generating revenue from each customer Guess how much revenue you generate from each conversion Guess the costs of the business (cost of servicing each user, other per-unit expenses, office space, salaries, other fixed expenses) Ultimately, how much cash do I need?  How much do I generate?  And when? If you have real data, then real data is usually better than guesses If you are building a model for investors, it's not all that important.  Smart investors will not believe your financial model.  They won't even look at it unless they are already interested in investing.  In that case, they will probably build their own models according to their personal preferences.  They know that financial models for startups are usually completely wrong and not predictive of actual performance.  What they should be looking for is whether the numbers make sense: Do the founders understand the costs and revenues of their business model?  Does the model make ridiculous assumptions about the world? Does it seem like the business is going to be profitable and scalable?  What are the fixed and variable costs?  What are its profit margins as it grows?  How many people will it need and how much will they cost? How cash intensive will the business be?  How much investment is needed to get the business to profitability or an exit? When could it conceivably be cash flow positive and fuel its own growth? How big can it get?  How fast? How long before it needs more money? I think if you focus on making intelligent guesses about the answers to these questions, you'll have a much better financial model than anything you could find online or buy from a consultant.  And if you need to pitch it to investors, then you'll understand it and be able to explain it better. One last thing: Comps.  Because startups are not predictable and the data you need to make an accurate forecast does not exist, it's sometimes more helpful to study comparable companies.  If similar companies (e.g. on Crunchbase) reach an exit in 3 years for $50-70 million dollars, then yours might do the same.    Embed Quote