★Where can web startups learn about financial modeling that accounts for the important metrics and costs?
Don't look beyond the Startup Financial Model Startup Financial Model If I had to say it in one line - "it's the simplest, yet most comprehensive financial model".   Like most start-ups we were looking for a base model to model for our projections. Having worked in the financial industry I had access to fair-share of models from the non-tech companies, but most of the metrics dint make sense for our tech start-up and we really dint have time to build one from the scratch. That's when I stumbled upon the Startup Financial Model Startup Financial Model at first it looked like just another online model, but we went through the training videos and found the model to be exactly what we were looking for. I reached out to their customer care with some questions and within 30 minutes got a reply to all my questions and concerns from the founder Wade Myers himself. He was super nice about answering my questions in detail and was kind enough to offer assistance in guiding us through some parts that we dint understand.   1) The Model is built in a very clean and structured manner. 2) It's a 5-Year monthly build-up model. 3) All the assumptions are managed from one Assumptions Sheet. 4) All inputs and outputs are very well thought-out. 5) It makes you think through some of the small but very important expenses like Training, Recruitment Cost, Churn Rate, Lead Generation Fees, etc. 6) The model has plenty of extra spaces to add new line items to customize it to your specific needs. 7) The formulas are very well written taking into account small nuances like roudup, ifna, vlookup, and many more. 8) Summarizes on a quaterly and annual basis. 9) Automatically calculates key metrics and plots them into easy to understand graphs. 10) Has Scenario Analysis, so you can easily create multiple scenarios and see the difference between them. 11) Has a lot of advanced sheets if you are post-money like CapTable, Debt, CapEx, & Balance Sheet. (We dint use them, but they seem very comprehensive)   Overall, an excellent product and totally worth it's weight in gold!    Embed Quote