★Are there people who forecasted the 2000 or 2008/09 crises?I am not talking about people who are always bearish, but i am talking about people like Mark Cuban ( he was maybe just lucky, or he predicted it ), or people who are portrayed in movie called Margin Call.
yes. there are people who predicted the crisis. but nobody paid attention since everyone was making a lot of money. an example is Dr. Raghuram Rajan the current governor of Reserve Bank of India and a previous Chief Economist at IMF. This is an extract from his book Fault Lines, which i would recommend you to read : "Of course, it is incorrect to say that no one saw this crisis coming. Some hedge fund managers and traders in investment banks put their money instead of their mouths to work. A few government and Federal Reserve officials expressed deep concern. A number of economists, such as Kenneth Rogoff, Nouriel Roubini, Robert Shiller, and William White, repeatedly sounded warnings about the levels of U.S. house prices and household indebtedness. Niall Ferguson, a historian, drew parallels to past booms that ended poorly. The problem was not that no one warned about the dangers; it was that those who benefited from an overheated economy—which included a lot of people—had little incentive to listen. Critics were often written off as Cassandras or “permabears”: predict a downturn long enough, the thinking went, and you would eventually be proved right, much as a broken clock is correct twice a day. I know, because I was one of those Cassandras. Every year, the world’s top central bankers get together for three days at Jackson Hole, Wyoming, along with private-sector analysts, economists, and financial journalists, to debate a set of topical papers commissioned for the event by the host, the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City. Following each day’s presentations, participants go on long hikes in the beautiful Grand Teton National Park, where, amid the stunning mountain scenery, they talk central-banker shop: intense arguments about the Wicksellian rate of interest mingle with the sounds of rushing streams. The 2005 Jackson Hole Conference was to be the last for the Federal Reserve Board chairman, Alan Greenspan, and the theme, therefore, was the legacy of the Greenspan era. I was the chief economist of the International Monetary Fund (IMF) at that time, on leave from the University of Chicago, where I have taught banking and finance for the best part of two decades. I was asked to present a paper on how the financial sector had evolved during Greenspan’s term.The typical paper on the financial sector at that time described in breathless prose the dramatic expansion of financial markets around the world. It emphasized the wonders of securitization, which allowed a bank to package its risky housing or credit card loans together and sell claims on the package in the financial market. Securitization allowed a bank to get the risky loans off its books. At the same time, it allowed long-term investors in the market, such as pension funds and insurance companies, to take on a small portion of the risky claims that they, by virtue of having longer horizons and holding a diverse portfolio of other assets, could hold more easily than the bank. In theory, with the risk better spread across sturdier shoulders, investors would demand a lower return for holding the risk, allowing the bank to charge lower loan rates and expand borrowers’ access to finance. In preparation for writing the paper, I had asked my staff to prepare graphs and tables. As we looked through them, I noted a few that seemed curious. They were plots of different measures of the riskiness of large U.S. banks, and they suggested that banks had become, if anything, more exposed to risk over the past decade. This was surprising, for if banks were getting risky loans off their balance sheets by selling them, they should have become safer. I eventually realized that I was committing the economist’s cardinal sin of assuming ceteris paribus, that is, assuming that everything else but the phenomenon being studied, in this case securitization, remained the same. Typically, everything does not remain the same. Most important, deregulation and developments like securitization had increased competition, which increased the incentives for bankers (and financial managers more generally) to take on more complex forms of risk. Once I saw this trend, the paper quickly wrote itself and was titled “Has Financial Development Made the World Riskier?” As the Wall Street Journal reported in 2009 in an article on my Jackson Hole presentation:Incentives were horribly skewed in the financial sector, with workers reaping rich rewards for making money but being only lightly penalized for losses, Mr. Rajan argued. That encouraged financial firms to invest in complex products, with potentially big payoffs, which could on occasion fail spectacularly. He pointed to “credit default swaps” which act as insurance against bond defaults. He said insurers and others were generating big returns selling these swaps with the appearance of taking on little risk, even though the pain could be immense if defaults actually occurred. Mr. Rajan also argued that because banks were holding a portion of the credit securities they created on their books, if those securities ran into trouble, the banking system itself would be at risk. Banks would lose confidence in one another, he said. “The interbank market could freeze up, and one could well have a full-blown financial crisis.” Two years later, that’s essentially what happened. Forecasting at that time did not require tremendous prescience: all I did was connect the dots using theoretical frameworks that my colleagues and I had developed. I did not, however, foresee the reaction from the normally polite conference audience. I exaggerate only a bit when I say I felt like an early Christian who had wandered into a convention of half-starved lions. As I walked away from the podium after being roundly criticized by a number of luminaries (with a few notable exceptions), I felt some unease. It was not caused by the criticism itself, for one develops a thick skin after years of lively debate in faculty seminars: if you took everything the audience said to heart, you would never publish anything. Rather it was because the critics seemed to be ignoring what was going on before their eyes." There are numerous other books on the topic which you can easily find on the internet.    Embed Quote