★Why do business plans require a 3–5 year revenue forecast if everyone knows that these forecasts are never correct?Creating a 3 or 5-year forecast of how the money is going to be made is like predicting the weather for that same period - it is simply impossible. I've heard it said that investors want to see "the quality of the thinking" behind it. Isn't there a better way to prove that we are smart, than by spending time on a forecast that has no basis in reality?
I disagree. It's highly possible to calculate future revenue given certain circumstances. Of course, it's not exact calculations, but they can be rough enough to prove the overall point one is trying to make with the plan - that is, to show that the plan is worth pursuing and thus realistic. Furthermore, it's easier to plan your expenditure if you know your expected revenue - and for that matter, the minimum (worst-case scenario) revenue is what would apply. Let's take a step back and look at two examples, one theoretical and one from my own experience. 1) Imagine a company like Twitter. They could impossibly write something even remotely correct in their forecast, but they could at least define how much they would need to make in order to survive with minimal overhead. The forecast could also put the business itself in perspective for non-technical readers of the business plan, e.g. a generic banker. Here, the plan may serve as an illustration more than anything else, but it also sets the bar for overhead. Most bankers I've met have no clue what a 'tweet' is, and so I think it's safe to say that they have not the slightest idea what kind of revenue potential a start-up in the social media field would have. Hence, providing them with rough numbers (and especially if one can back those numbers up with data) will level the field between the one seeking investment and the one providing the cash. 2) Now imagine a retail store (this being my own experience). By looking at the market, the number of passing cars on the adjacent highway, the amount of people purchasing the type of product you sell, the amount of people living near your store etc. you can make a fairly accurate prediction of the number of customers you will attract under ideal circumstances. One simply has to evaluate the local circumstances and apply lessons learned from national statistics to find the factors that apply. Let's say you sell flowers. Now, if the average person of a certain age (X) flowers and typically on day Y, you can compare that data to the amount of people bypassing on day Y (a key factor in retail) as well as the local demographics (X), and so forth. In order to get these estimates to be more accurate, simply take it down a notch or two - one to correct for miscalculation and one for 'shit happens'. As I worked with a couple of retail start-up's a few years back, this strategy worked superbly. The 5 year revenue forecast differed ca 10% from the actual results on average. In some cases, it's admittedly extremely hard to estimate, but as long as you exceed the forecast, you're in the clear. If you can't meet the forecast, however, you should have done your homework better.    Embed Quote