★What is the difference between budgeting and forecasting?In a large organization who calculates each and how? I look at the monthly reports sent out by the company and the budget and forecast never match. Why?
The short answer is that your forecast and budget are similar, and inter-dependent, but serve different functions. Your forecast is your prediction centered around cashflow; your budget is your goal. To create your financial plan, you'll need to identify your objectives (in terms of revenue, product, market, overarching strategy), then consider your model from a programmatic perspective, by looking at the necessary resources to achieve your objectives (cost outcome analysis). This will lead to a tradeoff discussion in which key members of your team will discuss the total amount required as measured up against your milestones. Finally this leads to your bottom-up forecast in which you will project your company revenue growth and calculate the spending necessary to achieve your desired goals. Once you have your forecast, you're ready to build your budget. Budget on an accrual basis. GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) require that your  financial information be reported on a full accrual basis. In other  words, you need to report your revenue as it is earned, rather than  reporting when cash is paid. The difference between cash and accrual is  around capital expenditures. To create a full accrual budget, you will  need to estimate projected money in and out over a given period. Report budget by department and major cost drivers. Identify your true cost drivers and break down your budget into expense categories and revenue categories. Plan actions. Once you’ve broken down your budget, assess how quickly this will  impact your revenue. Also consider what you will be able to achieve  based on spending. Identify key variable costs. This  is the cost to make your products or provide your service (depending on  your business). These costs could include materials costs and/or  consultant salaries. Track these costs regularly to keep an eye on  profit margins. Identify and test key revenue assumptions. Your  budget is built upon assumptions rather than precise numbers. So it’s  essential that you identify your key revenue assumptions and test them  to validate and/or adjust your forecasting. Your key assumptions need to  be easily adjusted so that you can run different scenarios to see what  is working -- or not -- and make changes accordingly.    Embed Quote