★Who has the best forecasting software on the market?And why?  Ideally looking for a software package, not library for R or Python.
For modelling in general and especially time-series work, Stata is an excellent package, which is why it's so well-regarded by econometricians and finance shops.  Key reasons: Often in time-series work, you need to take differences between entries in a series or enter lagged values into a model.  Stata allows you to do that without having to create them as variables.  So, for example, you can just type L1.x (for "one-period lag of x") or L2D1.x (for "first difference between entries of x, lagged back two periods").  This facility allows you to try out lots of different combinations of lags and differences quickly, without any fuss, and without creating a lot of messy additional columns in your data set. It has the most advanced types of time-series models (e.g. GARCH, VECM) built in, without the need for buying extension modules or anything like that.  If there's a really obscure technique you want to implement that isn't supported natively, there's probably an ado file that someone has created that you can install for free. Stata allows you to create lots of different models and compare them quickly on key criteria, then delve further into the chosen model. Since Stata is command-line based, it is easy to to create a .do file that automates the process of re-running the chosen model on the next time period's data.  This is helpful for situations where a single analyst has to run the same model every day (e.g. Wall Street type situations, where the data are updated frequently).  It's also great for building an institutional memory, i.e. if the analyst who created the model is gone, they'll still leave behind their .log and .do files, so you can see how they arrived at their chosen model and how to re-run that model on the latest data. The documentation and support within the program are excellent, and there's a wider community of listservs, LinkedIn groups, university course websites, etc. that can help if you have no idea what to do.    Embed Quote