★What is the difference between estimation, extrapolation, prediction and forecasting?
Estimation is the calculated approximation of a result. This result might be a forecast but not necessarily. For example, I can estimate that the number of cars on the Golden Gate Bridge at 5 PM yesterday was 900 by assuming the three lanes going toward Marin were at capacity, each car takes 30 feet of space, and the bridge is 9000 feet long (9000 / 30 x 3 = 900). Extrapolation is estimating the value of a variable outside a known range of values  by assuming that the estimated value follows some pattern from the known ones. The simplest and most popular form of extrapolation is estimating a linear trend based on the known data. Alternatives to linear extrapolation include polynomial and conical extrapolation. Like estimation, extrapolation can be used for forecasting but it isn't limited to forecasting. Prediction is simply saying something about the future. Predictions are usually focussed on outcomes and not the pathway to those outcomes. For example, I could predict that by 2050 all vehicles will be powered with electric motors without explaining how we get from low adoption in 2011 to full adoption by 2050. As you can see from the previous example, predictions are not necessarily based on data. Forecasting is the process of making a forecast or prediction. The terms forecast and prediction are often used interchangeably but sometimes forecasts are distinguished from predictions in that forecasts often provide explanations of the pathways to an outcome. For example, an electric vehicle adoption forecast might include the pathway to full electric vehicle adoption following an S-shaped adoption pattern where few cars are electric before 2025, an inflection point occurs at 2030 with rapid adoption, and the majority of cars are electric after 2040. Estimation, extrapolation, prediction, and forecasting are not mutually exhaustive and collectively exhaustive terms. Good long-term forecasts for complex problems often need to use techniques other than extrapolation in order to produce plausible results. Forecasts and predictions can also occur without any kind of calculated estimations.    Embed Quote