★Why do business plans require a 3–5 year revenue forecast if everyone knows that these forecasts are never correct?Creating a 3 or 5-year forecast of how the money is going to be made is like predicting the weather for that same period - it is simply impossible. I've heard it said that investors want to see "the quality of the thinking" behind it. Isn't there a better way to prove that we are smart, than by spending time on a forecast that has no basis in reality?
I like that there are such strong opinions on both ends of the spectrum for a question like this. It's almost polarizing, like politics or religion, likely because it depends on the audience for which you are creating it. On why business plans call for revenue forecasts, I think it depends largely on whether or not you are try to secure funding. Angel investors or banks or whoever, will want to see what the opportunity is, at what speed its going to scale, how do you intend on running it, where are you focusing you time, etc. They are potentially giving you money and they want to see that it is real. And see your critical thinking, which that will also show. I mean, I would have a hard time lending money to someone who "didn't put some time in" on telling themselves [let alone me] how much money they intend to make over time, even if it's made up for now. It's essentially another way of goal setting. Now on the other hand, if you're not doing it to secure money, then I say don't bother with a full plan. Do -- what some call -- business planning on a few sheets in excel: Clearly define you goals, what problem you are solving, what makes it unique, and the the "basic" questions: who is it for, what what are you providing them, when questions [timelines, growth milestones], where will you find the customers, why they should buy, how many can you sell, how much will it cost, etc. The key operating questions. And clearly define your key goals. Basically, create a month snapshot of money in, money out and make sure it works. Have a some clearly define goals on where you are headed in year 1, 2, 3 and after that, get going. I think you can "look smart" with a killer idea, a succinct summary of the plan, a few excel sheets showing the operating model you think you can achieve, and then some questions for your investors: what do you need to see from me? for example. But if you want to hit a homerun, put in the time and do what they need. At the end of the day, let's be honest, if the idea is hot and they are into it, they will tell you exactly what they need to make it happen. And they will want it to happen.    Embed Quote