★What is the best way to do revenue forecasting for a startup?
I don't know if this is the "best" way as I can only do what works for my situation and everyone's situation is different. I'm not actively looking for funding, so I want real numbers, where if you're fund raising, some will say you should have the best case scenario numbers (though I don't agree as that road can only led to disappointment). I'll list out my process in steps: 1. Your numbers will not be accurate. Embrace this. 2. Download Andrew Chen's LTV spreadsheet here: http://andrewchenblog.com/2009/0... 3. Complete your first draft of the spreadsheet. Combine with social proof, customer interviews, existing product, and traction. Take a hard look at your idea/product & team. Make sure your early numbers look viable or revise the product, pricing, marketing or team until you do. 4. Create a spreadsheet with revenue and expense projections for at least 24 months. I created one with user numbers, revenue and ad spend (all from Andrew's spreadsheet) and then added in the rest of my overhead. I'll create a template and update this post with a link to it. 5. Get real data. For me, an initial Adwords campaign provided some real numbers to rerun my projections in the LTV model, which bleed to the "budget" spreadsheet. I now have total and paid user targets, for the next 24 months and have planned my expenses around these targets. If we're beating paid targets, we can accelerate, if below, I have to replan, maybe even pivot. 6. Continue to revise your numbers every 4-8 weeks, or when you receive a piece of solid data that could impact things. You will continually be able to see your runway and as you get more information your numbers will get better. They will never be exact, but you'll have a handle on where you've been, where you're at, and where you're going. Think of it very much like software estimates. When you start, you're wildly inaccurate. As you spend more time with it and have better information and experience, you'll get better. Eventually, you'll get 'good enough' while spending time doing the things that allow you to blow your projections out of the water.    Embed Quote