★What is the difference between budgeting and forecasting?In a large organization who calculates each and how? I look at the monthly reports sent out by the company and the budget and forecast never match. Why?
Budgeting is a planning exercise that takes place prior to the end of one fiscal year (and after a strategic planning/goal setting process) where revenue, expenses, profitability plus balance sheet items and cash flows for the next 12 months (or longer) are calculated. Estimated revenue and expenses are generally projected using a blend of historical data and inputs from key personnel re: new opportunities and changes in the marketplace or industry. The yearly goal is broken out into monthly targets (for revenue, expenses, profitability, etc) and is used as a guide to measure the company's progress over the year. In most companies, the yearly budget is used as the basis for calculating performance bonuses for sales teams and executives. The budget is also informs the company's ability to plan - i.e. was the budget realistic or "pie-in-the-sky" Forecasting is an assessment exercise that takes place as the fiscal year is underway. As sales and expenses start coming in, the company needs to understand if the budget goals are being met and if there are unforeseen opportunities or problems on the horizon. It's different in every firm, but it's most common to prepare quarterly forecasts and then monthly forecasts for key quarters. So, in practical terms, as month two of the fiscal year closes, a company may analyze month one and two results vs. budget and layer input from key executives and the sales and business development teams to determine, among other things if: a) sales are coming in faster or slower than anticipated, b) if there are big changes to the industry or in the marketplace, c) if expenses are higher or lower than expected, or d) if a vendor is underperforming re product manufacturing timelines. There are many factors to consider - and these will depend on the type of business you manage When reviewing financial results, imagine three columns where Column 1 is the Actual sales, expense or profitability value; Column 2 is the Budget value which was the plan for the year; and Column 3 is the Forecast value - a projection calculated as the fiscal year was underway The first analysis I would run is what is variation between the Actual vs. the Budget and the Actual vs. Forecast. I would want to see these for different periods - MTD (month-to-date), QTD (quarter to date), and YTD (year-to-date). This is important because, for example, you may have a weak month during a strong quarter. Personally, the most meaningful time period analysis to me is YTD because, depending on your business, one month can be too short a time period to derive meaningful trends or insights.    Embed Quote