★Are there people who forecasted the 2000 or 2008/09 crises?I am not talking about people who are always bearish, but i am talking about people like Mark Cuban ( he was maybe just lucky, or he predicted it ), or people who are portrayed in movie called Margin Call.
Yes there are, and the same people also correctly forecast many of the not-quite-so-major turns in the market.  You mentioned the 2008 crisis: let's look at the S&P 500 futures contract in 2007, which is a market top which several people I personally know forecasted well in advance: What's the first thing you notice about these two tops? - they're at almost exactly the same price value, just 12.5 points apart over a time period of 91 months. The S&P futures contract is one of the most liquid contracts in the world, so has lots of people watching it very single day.  Back in about 2005-2006, when the S&P was heading up, many MANY technical traders were aware of the old top from 2000, and were watching it very closely.  Coming into 12th October 2007, this is what the market was doing: That horizontal line near the top of the screenshot shows the old top from 2000.  Note how the market got quite close to that point in July 2007 before falling back, then came right back again.  To technical traders, that indicates that there was resistance at that old top, and a chance that the market would turn a 3rd time when it got back to the same level. Next, this shows what happened in the period after 12th October 2007: As you can see, the market turned down after 12th October, came back up, then proceeded to gather momentum on the down side. Just about any technical trader worth his/her salt understands the concepts of support and resistance - that markets often turn once the price gets near to previous highs (or lows).  This  is "Technical Analysis 101" stuff. If you accept my last statement as fact (and it should be easy enough to verify if you Google e.g. "technical market support and resistance"), then can you see how people watching this market could have forecasted the top of the market in 2007?  They might not have known that the top would occur, or known that the market would turn at this exact price and date, but they would have been watching for it to happen. Some may have even traded it    Embed Quote