★Why do business plans require a 3–5 year revenue forecast if everyone knows that these forecasts are never correct?Creating a 3 or 5-year forecast of how the money is going to be made is like predicting the weather for that same period - it is simply impossible. I've heard it said that investors want to see "the quality of the thinking" behind it. Isn't there a better way to prove that we are smart, than by spending time on a forecast that has no basis in reality?
I agree, revenue forecasts are tricky. I have seen literally hundreds of forecasts in my time and very few have been close to accurate especially 3-5 years out. I find though that when people pitch ideas with forecasts attached it allows you to see their thinking and the type of business they are hoping to run. For example its easy to find people who have great ideas but its much harder for people to find ways to make those ideas generate cash in a way that makes investors happy. When people pitch ideas to me im particularly interested in their forecasts because of this point. Its a good way of showing a balance between ideas and business sense and having that demonstrated on paper/screen. I find that those who give little thought or inversely are over excited about the numbers have models that seldom work out. Those that have put thought and analysis into their numbers and a) understand the changing nature of the technology, and; b) have adopted some flexibility into their approach, are usually the ones I like dealing with.  But as Patric mentions it depends on your field. I work in commercial software which has to show a genuine return on investment through licensing etc.  There are other fields where investors are looking for other things. You ask if there are other ways of showing if you are smart? Yes - there are literally hundreds of way to demonstrate you are intelligent but the issue isn't whether you are smart or not because there are lots of smart people. The question is whether you are able to make the idea work in a commercial sense. This is where a well thought out projection (even one that ultimately ends up being inaccurate which most investors know) can help you distinguish yourself.    Embed Quote