What is tail recursion? Why is it so bad?
When writing any recursive algorithm, you should consider the involved recursion depth because it may translate into stack space. You usually have a very good idea of that depth because any sane recursive  algorithm should be based on a well founded order (if not it is unlikely to work). As a rule of thumb if it's O(log n) (typical value for balanced binary trees traversal for instance) recursion is very unlikely to raise any run-time problem. On the other hand if recursion depth is O(n) this could lead to some troubles with stack... and if it's worse than O(n), you are very likely to crash the stack, henceforth you should think again. Some recursions can be easily removed by compilers: if the recursive call is the very last thing performed by the function before returning. These are called 'tail recursions' (or more generally tail calls, because you actually don't have to call the same function, it merely has to be the last action before returning result). These can be internally replaced by a mere goto (or loop) to the function... if the compiler/interpreter used is smart enough. For some languages  this optimisation is mandatory (ie: most functional languages). Others may or may not provide it depending on the compiler. In the end if your algorithm recursion depth is O(n), and it's a tail call recursion all will be fine if compiler replace it by a loop... but the stack is likely to crash if it's not optimised away. If your algorithm is O(n) and your recursion is no proper tail call you'll have trouble wathever the compiler/language. The nice thing is that if the compiler does not implements tail calls optimisation (TCO), it's usually easy enough to do it by hand and rewrite the algorithm to use a loop. For people used to recursion, the resulting algorithm looks harder to read and understand. It's not the direct answer to the problem any more but a transformation of it (and if you are not used to recursion, you likely didn't thought of the recusive solution anyway). Last year there was an hot debate on this subject in python community. Functional programmers asked for tail call, while others rejected it on the ground that the stack trace is too precious for debugging and that TCO implementation implied removing an explicit stack call and replacing it with a loop. The problem is that if we do such removal internally the function call becomes invisible in stack trace. As far as I know, Guido Von Rossum decided there would be no TCO in Python  and that developpers should use loops or list comprehension instead. So avoid any O(n) recursion when programming python. O(log n) recursion for balanced trees or similar data structures is still fine TCO or no TCO. 