Are you expected to write perfect code on your first attempt in tech interviews?
Depends on where in the pyramid are you interviewing at? As the question does not ask about a specific company, I will keep my answer about tech interviews in general. The pyramid figure above is a rough graphic about the level of challenge in programming interviews across different tech companies. As you can see, the more sought after the company is, such as Facebook, Google etc, the tougher is the programming interview. The answer to your question is yes and no : If you are interviewing at  a company with a low interview bar, yes, it is no big deal to miss some edge cases.  Been there, done that! As you progress up the pyramid, in companies with a medium interview bar, you are at least expected to find your own bugs by following the interviewer's hints. Writing bug free code is quiet challenging and it is just too much to ask here! Lastly, higher up on the pyramid, when you interview at companies like Google, Facebook etc, Yes, you are expected to write bug free code. So how to write bug free code? The  ability to write bug free code on white board, with someone watching over your shoulder, under rigid time constraints and mental pressure turns out not to be too too easy.  This is a skill that can be acquired only with practice. This is best done by regularly practicing programming interview questions on the white board and also actually coding it and testing it for various test cases. For example write code to check if the array is a set of consecutive integers. for (int i =0;i<array.length; i++) {   if (array[i] !=array[i+1] - 1)       return false;}return true; The bug in this code may not be obvious when you just write it on the white board, but when you try to execute it you will not only catch the bug for this program, but will also have a watchful eye when dealing with array edge cases. Performance in programming interviews is not related to how well you perform as a professional software engineer or in school -- In fact, I've seen many well experienced software engineers struggle to write decent code for basic interview questions like Break this string of numbers into a sequence of 1digit and 2 digit numbers without changing their relative order.Input : 1234 Output : {1,2,34} {1,23, 4} {1,2,3,4} {12,34} {12,3,4} Lastly, for more of my interview preparation related posts refer to Hacking the Programming Interview - 1 by Ash Moorthy on Random Rants Ash Moorthy's answer to How can I get a job at Facebook or Google in 6 months? Updated 31w ago • View Upvotes