Competitive Programming: What do working software engineers think of competitive programming if they are not competitive programmers?
I have pretty good perspective on this because of my career path -- which has been the following: Competitive programming during 1998-2004 Working in tech and finance as an individual contributor and manager, and not hiring any competitive programmers during 2004-2011 Working in tech and finance as a manager (and VP, CTO, etc.) and actively hiring competitive programmers during 2011-onward Especially during the second phase above, and as I transitioned into the third one, I got to see a lot of reactions from people who had never done competitive programming or never heard of it.  Often, this was when I was the only person around who had done it.  So the range of reactions of "Non Competitive Programmers" to "Competitive Programmers" is something like this: "That sounds cool.  Now let's get back to work." -- people treating it as the same as if I told them I was a Rubik's Cube champion, not seeing any relevance at all to technical work at hand. "That's really amazing, I wish I was smart enough to do that." -- people connecting the dots between the good work I am doing and the prior training. "Algorithms, that's just a bunch of mumbo jumbo, we need to ship this product and make sure it doesn't break." -- this reaction isn't that frequent (although I have seen it here on Quora) and it can also be simply avoided by not bringing up advanced algorithms when they are not needed, which is most of the time, and then just coding them yourself when they are needed. "Yeah, I heard about IOI a few years after I started college.  Wish I had done it." -- people who would have done very well in competitive programming and have many of the same traits, but just didn't participate for whatever reason. "This is a whole field I didn't know about, can you help me get started in learning it?" -- people who care about lifelong learning sometimes want to get into algorithms and competitive programming after hearing about it. "Why do we have to talk about competitive programming all the time?"-- this is one reaction that I agree with the "Non Competitive Programmer" folks with.  I personally never talk about competitive programming (the sport, not the algorithms, that is) in the workplace except for the one time when it is relevant -- sourcing candidates.  But those conversations only need to take place once and with the recruiting team.  Talking about past contests all the time, even though I enjoy doing that socially or here on Quora, is not professional.  Would you want an ex-baseball player to keep talking about the "big game" at work?  Probably not.  I would highly encourage past competitive programmers or active ones to stay away from that -- it gives us all a bad rep. 