What is twin paradox and how does it works?
It might help to keep in mind the closely related Odometer Paradox. Two guys stand shoulder to shoulder in a  large field, angled outwards at, say 45 degrees. Larry is on the left, Roger on the right. Each has an odometer wheel. They march forward 100 meters according to the respective odometers. Larry looks over his right shoulder and sees Roger off to one side and 45 degrees behind him. Roger looks over his left shoulder and sees Larry off to one side and 45 degrees behind him. They are each tempted to conclude that the other guy's odometer is undercounting. If Larry paused and let Roger continue until he was directly to Larry's right, Roger would have gone [math]100\sqrt 2[/math] of Roger's meters, and vice versa. But of course it's not really a case of two competing scales for a single intrinsically one-dimensional quantity. It's two quantities related by projection in a two-dimensional space. The paradox is ultimately driven by the fact that to see who's winning you have to go sideways first, and Larry and Roger have different versions of "sideways" to go with their different ideas of "forward". Up till now it's been symmetrical. But if say Roger changes direction, to face towards Larry at 45 degrees, it breaks the symmetry. Larry still sees Roger behind and to the right. Roger still sees Larry to the left but now in front. Roger turning changed Roger's idea of sideways and thus his idea of whether Larry is behind or in front. And when Roger crosses Larry's path he will have travelled further than Larry did to get to the same point. The Twin Paradox then is exactly the same except with key things reversed. Velocity is direction in space time, or forward. Einstein synchronization is sideways, except that as velocity changes in one direction sideways sweeps in the opposite direction. And clocks that go on a zigzag path have smaller, not larger readings than ones that take the direct route. Updated 109w ago • View Upvotes