What is twin paradox and how does it works?
Okay, this is long, but in 5-minutes you should understand the underlying physics of the Twin Paradox. The Twin Paradox is not "caused" by anything Our age, the time over which we age is our proper time. Nothing affects this: not speed nor gravity. Our age is a measure of the total distance we have traveled through spacetime. This distance, our age, can be made mathematically rigorous which shows that our age [math] \Delta \tau [/math] is only and explicitly  a consequence of the path we travel in spacetime. [math]\large d_{spacetime}= d\tau =\int _{\gamma} \sqrt{ g_{\mu \nu}dx^{\mu}dx^{\nu}}[/math] Like two ships that sail out of a harbor, or two hikers embarking on a trip in the mountains, they may both leave together and meet up together again at some later time - with each having traveled a different distance. It relativity the idea is the same: It's the geometry and path taken that results in the Twin Paradox (there really is no paradox of course!). Acceleration is the WRONG answer The Twin Paradox was first articulated in 1911 by Paul Langevin which featured the classic set up of a stay-at-home observer and their traveling twin, sometimes called the Langevin observer. It is true that in this scenario the accelerated observer comes home younger, yet this is still just a geometric consequence of the principle of extremal aging. **yes, in order for the principle of relativity to avoid being vacuous it is necessary (if not somewhat circular) to postulate a preferred class of worldlines, ie, inertial. The significant point to realize that the degree of acceleration can be changed arbitrarily or eliminated altogether, as in the Three Brothers version of the paradox, without altering the proper time lapse between twins. Here is a calculation where the accelerated twin ends up being the one who's older: Page on arxiv.org To make the point clear for readers with little background in relativity: Imagine 2 hikers walking along a path. The path forks; the easy path takes a shortcut along a level mountain pass, the other goes over the top of the mountain.  When they reach the fork in the road, one hiker pushes and shoves the other hiker onto the longer path.  The point here is that the "pushing" the hiker did not make the mountain tall, and the total distance over the mountaintop had nothing to do with how hard the hiker was initially pushed. In spacetime, pushing on something doesn't drive it into younger-hood, it just moves it onto a different path, a non-geodesic path, through spacetime and the proper time lapse then depends upon the details of the geometry. Anyway, in the years since 1911 there have numerous publications demonstrating the wide variety of Twin Paradox cases. There are examples on different geometries and topologies (cylindrical and toroidal spacetimes), and basically any combination of inertial and non-inertial observers that are uncorrelated with which twin is older or younger, save this one reality - the greater the proper time distance, the older the twin. Here are two interesting examples to consider: Orbiting Twins: Consider twins in orbiting spacecraft, one in a low circular orbit and the other in a large elliptical orbit. From time to time there orbital paths coincide (without crashing!) and their lapse times can be compared. Both twins equally have ZERO acceleration: it there any time lapse between twins? Twin Prisoners: A pair of twins is imprisoned, one in an empty jail cell on Earth, the other, in an identical jail cell on board a spaceship. Both twins receive the same 1g accelerations from the floor of their jail cell. Both twins experience identical NON-ZERO accelerations. In both cases it is the naive expectation that the Twin Paradox effect disappears because the accelerations are all equal. However in both cases the twins age at different rates, despite having equal acceleration. Building your Intuition There is nothing remarkable about different path lengths. , and the reason it seems so is just the conditioning of our intuition. From a young age we are exposed to the nice squares of Cartesian graph paper. This is reinforced over the years, with just a small percentage of students learning about, say, log-log graph paper. We likely evolved on the African Savannah and flatland is our inherited sense. We are both natively and trained Euclidean thinkers and the peculiarities of spacetime geometry are initially uncomfortable and take repeated exposure before they feel intuitive. Here are a pair of suggestions to help build a feel for the underlying physics of the paradox: Hypersurfaces of Simultaneity A surface of simultaneity is a surface that at an event or spacetime point, slices spacetime into the past and future and on it, all clocks can be synchronized. While there are many methods of generating correct answers for the TP, understanding simultaneity and how clocks de-synchronize (leading clocks lag) is the best, in my experience, Special Relativistic description that gives some sense of what is happening. The the image below is spacetime drawn up in what are called radar coordinates, an elegant representation of the surfaces of simultaneity. What I hope is a little bit intuitive is that different paths connecting common events will not necessarily be of equal length. For those needing a more gentle and thorough explanation could try here: Spacetime, Tachyon, Twins, ... General Relativity There is a really beautiful way of understanding the basic Twin Paradox using General Relativity. It does not necessarily involve differential geometry (unless you want to) but relies on just gravitational time dilation and the equivalence principle. I couldn't find a good picture or reference, but I did find a nice video: Ultimately, understanding the Twin Paradox involves taking the time to work through examples and convince oneself of the details. While there is nothing magical happening it is still worth the effort to understand how the effect takes place. Best wishes, Harry Updated 1w ago • View Upvotes