★What are the best practices for coding a categorical variable for a linear regression?Say for example you want to code for eye color among other variables such as height and weight to predict longevity? Would something like color frequency/wavelength work better than a randomly assigned code, e.g. green=1, blue=2, brown=3
I usually base these decisions based on 1. degrees of freedom 2. what information I'm looking for. They are different models whether you choose to code it as a categorical variable or as a quantitative one. As a quantitative variable, you share information among the levels, and assume there is a relationship.  If your assumptions are reasonable, this will be better because you use fewer degrees of freedom (thus gaining power) when you model a quantitative relationship.  This can also be necessary if you lack replication.  In the case of a linear relationship, that variable only takes up 1 degree of freedom.  However, you can have much more complex relationships. As a categorical variable, you allow for more flexibility - by using more degrees of freedom.  A categorical treatment, in a mathematical way, models the most complex relationship because you are fitting every level.  Each level occupies its own mean, and shares no information with its alternatives.  However, you can lose power because you don't have degrees of freedom. If you have decent replication and only a few levels, it usually works better to run the variable as a categorical one.  Keep in mind you can always run contrasts on categorical variables that will model the quantitative relationship if that's what you're interested in (e.g. "Is there a linear relationship?  Is there a quadratic relationship?"). Finally, 1, 2, 3, is a non-standard way to model the quantitative relationship.  0 should be used somewhere and be meaningful - either the level which represents a good baseline (reference coding), or the mean (effects coding).  The coding you choose has no effect on the math (I can prove it easily...with degrees of freedom!), but can affect how easy it is to interpret.    Embed Quote