★What are the most important questions to ask when examining the residual outputs of a standard linear regression model?Lets split the question in two: out of sample residuals and in sample residuals.  What insights can we glean?  What pitfalls can we avoid?  What should we always check for?
The first step is to think about where the errors are coming from. Why doesn't the data form a perfectly straight line? Is it because your linear model is a simplification and actually there are other factors involved that you haven't allowed for? Is it because the relationship isn't actually quite linear? Or is it simply that your measurements are imperfect? This is a step that people often miss out. There is no point just treating your data as a big list of numbers and trying to do some clever maths with it. You need to always keep in mind what the data represent. Let's say you are concerned that the relationship might not actually be linear. In that case, you might find that, for example, your first few residuals are positive and then the rest are all negative. There are tests designed to spot that sort of thing (the grouping of signs test, for instance). If you think there is some other factor involved, you can look for correlations between the residuals and that factor. If you think it is just measurement error, you can check the residuals fit whatever distribution you would expect your measurement error to fit. People often assume a normal distribution, but you should make sure that is appropriate for what you are doing (eg. do you really expect the error to be symmetrical?). Depending on the distribution, there are various tests you can use. If you are testing in sample residuals and are fitting the distribution to the errors, then make sure you adjust your test accordingly (eg. you may need to use Student's t rather than normal). The bottom line is to always keep in mind what the data is. Always ask yourself if your mathematical model actually makes sense compared to the real world. For instance, if you see a strong correlation between two variables that your real world understanding tells you should be completely independent, don't rule out the possibility of it being an amazing fluke.    Embed Quote