★What are the pros and cons of each existing, non-linear regression methods?e.g., kernel regression, polynomial regression, loess, spline or wave based methods? Is there a best one?
First of all, we can distinguish between two types of non-linear regression: parametric and non-parametric.  Polynomial regression and regression based on the "kernel trick", for instance, are both examples of parametric techniques.  That is: you are fitting either a particular function or functional form.  This means that if your data is not a good fit for that particular form, then you will not get good predictions.  The major advantage to a parametric technique, is that you typically get your answer in the form of a few parameters (e.g. function coefficients) that you plug into the form and thus you can evaluate estimates in O(1) (constant) time. Non-parametric techniques can fit any functional form, but they typically take in all of the data when making predictions or they use some clever method of reducing the data.  Either way, evaluation of estimates will usually have some dependence on the number of samples, e.g. O(n). The best example that I know of a non-parametric regression technique is kernel smoothing.  We need to distinguish between "kernel estimation", in which each training sample is weighted by a "kernel function"--essentially a linear filter--and the "kernel trick" used in support vector machines (SVM) in which a function is applied to the result of a dot product in order to implicitly transform the vectors to a larger-dimensional space. Kernel smoothing is probably best for very noisy data in which you have poor knowledge of the underlying functional form.  Also if speed is not a big concern.  If you know the functional form, then linear regression using a transformation to the known functional form is probably one of the best options.  I haven't used regression using the kernel trick, but just as in transformed linear regression, you will need to experiment with different kernels to figure out which one best fits your data.    Embed Quote