★What are the advantages of support vector machines (SVM) compared with linear regression or logistic regression?
UPDATE (IMPORTANT): My answer actually compares logistic regression (linear logit) with SVM (non linear kernel). As Anonymous' answer points out, you could also have a non-linear logit function and a linear kernel in SVM. My answer strictly speaking is not correct. This just like a dumbed down version about why linear models (linear logit logistic regression) are bad and non-linear models (SVM with RBF kernel) are good in some cases. --------- To my knowledge SVM is a classifier.. I have not seen it being compared with linear regression, and I believe it is incorrect to use linear regression for classification[1] However I'll give you an easy to understand intuition why SVM is better than logistic regression though. Say you have some red dots and green dots... the next time you're given a  black dot... you need to be able to classify it as either red or green. This is a very simple classification problem in Machine Learning. Example 1: You will try to come up with a curve/line that separates the red dots from the green dots. This is known as a decision boundary. With this decision boundary you will say that if it lies on one side i'll call the black dot as red, if it lies on the other side i'll call the black dot as green. With logistic regression, you can only achieve something like this (as it is a linear model): *Representational picture, not actual logistic regression. Example 1.1: You should also know that logistic regression can only come up with a straight line decision boundary. You can never come up with a squiggly curve kind of a decision boundary with logistic regression. With SVM you can do come up with a decision boundary similar to this (if you have a non-linear kernel): Example 1.2 You would clearly agree with me that the second decision boundary is better than the first one in separating out red from the green dots. But the real power of SVM is seen when you have data like this: Example 2: You'll be in a mess if you use logistic regression to separate out the data with a straight line. In fact, you cannot do it correctly with logistic regression. But if you correctly train your SVM you can achieve something like this: Example 2.2 Pretty amazing isn't it? But there is also a curse associated with SVMs, if you don't train it properly for the first example you could also end up with something like this: Example 1.4 This is pretty messed up.... you might not want to have these small bubble like decision boundaries which will harm your predictions. This is known as overfitting. Pic. Courtesy: Machine Learning [1] More on why not to use linear regression for classification can be found here Why not approach classification through regression?    Embed Quote