★Amongst CB Insights, VentureSource and IDC's Private Vendor Watch Service, which has the best quality database and what are the pricing differentials?Most curious in relation to enterprise software startups, venture financings and M&A/exit information.
I'm a co-founder at CB Insights so I'm obviously biased but will attempt to provide an objective'ish answer. First, the 3 services in question are not exact comps to one another so it's a bit of an apples vs oranges comparison in some ways. Let me address CB Insights and Dow Jones Venturesource first which are more analogous and then talk about IDC which is a slightly different beast. CB Insights and Venturesource both track venture capital financings, exits and emerging private companies globally.  Both of our goals are breadth of coverage in terms of geographies, industries and stage of company. PRODUCT COMPARISON - CB INSIGHTS vs. DOW JONES VENTURESOURCE Of course, each achieves these goals differently and to varying extents.  Some points on differences with relevant links at the end of this post: Comprehensiveness - On the financings side, CB Insights will generally track somewhere between 35-50% more financings on a daily, weekly, quarterly, etc basis.  We track more exits (M&A to IPO to Talent-Acquisitions) as well.  This delta is largely attributable to technology and some proprietary partnerships CB Insights has for things like angel data or which VCs submit directly to us. [1,2] Speed - We're crawling 100k+ sources daily for financing and M&A data and so in addition to finding more data, we find them quicker. Industry classification flexibility - VentureSource tends to rely on a more traditional industry classification schema (less granularity) so understanding things like investment in Big Data or Cybersecurity are not easy to do via their platform.  [3,4] UI/UX - CB Insights is built on a modern tech stack and our UI/UX reflects this.  We are built on our own API (built in Go) and leverage d3.js for data visualizations. [5,6].  Data accessibility - You can pull CB Insights data via our online portal but also via our above-referenced API as well as an Excel Plugin and Chrome browser plugin [7,8] Mobile, web traffic data - CB Insights also integrates in other data sources such as iTunes mobile app store data and web traffic data into its offering to bulk up company profiles and provide more context. [9] PRICING - CB INSIGHTS vs. DOW JONES VENTURESOURCE VentureSource is a traditional enterprise software sales model where pricing is opaque.  We've seen them in competitive situations and seen pricing as low as $4k for small boutique investment banks to six-figures for bulge bracket investment banks.  So in a nutshell, it will likely be a negotiation.  The driver of pricing also seems to vary a bit - seat or user license based at times and some time is consumption based (you can access X thousand profiles). CB Insights pricing is more transparent and as of Jan 2014, it is here (CB Insights - Pricing).  Our lowest plan is $12k per annum and goes up from there.  It is not seat or license-based but instead capabilities and consumption-driven. Please note: Our pricing has roughly gone up every 8-10 months since we started the company.  When we started, it was $2400/year.  But as the product and the value it provides have gone up and become apparent, we've raised prices while still maintaining 90+% renewal rates.  In other words, the pricing at the above link will likely change soon.  Customers, of course, do get grandfathered into pricing as we raise them. Generally, CB Insights will be priced at a premium relative to Dow Jones VentureSource.  This wasn't always the case, but as the distinctions and gaps between our two offerings have become larger, our prices have moved in different directions, and we've become the premium priced offering in the marketplace.  A classic case of you get what you pay for. Of course, VentureSource pricing does and can vary significantly from customer to customer so this is based on instances where we've gone head-to-head and have gotten to know their pricing proposal from the prospective customer.  Versus IDC Private Vendor Analysis We don't run into IDC Private Vendor Analysis in the market very often as they do something that is quite a bit different.  What you're buying with IDC PVA is access to industry analysts a la Gartner, Forrester, etc.  Per their site: "Each year, the service ("IDC PVA") produces hundreds of company profiles by conducting actual company briefings; each profile includes detailed company vitals, combined with expert IDC analysis on potential gaps, opportunities, differentiators, and much more." They go and do deep analysis of a few hundred private companies per year while CB Insights' coverage will be broader (thousands of enterprise companies) but doesn't have the analyst overlay. We do rate private companies as well but more algorithmically/programatically via a solution we have called Mosaic (Forward-looking intelligence into the health of emerging private companies) so it's a different approach to understanding vendors/private companies. Alright.  Hope that is helpful.  Happy to answer any other questions.  Not sure how well I did on the unbiased thing :) Links referenced above: 1 - A comparison of VC-backed exit data - Venturesource vs. CB Insights - Page on Cbinsights 2 - 2012 Tech M&A Report - Page on Cbinsights 3 - Big Data Investment Keeps Climbing in 2013 – Funding Hits $1.28B Across 127 Deals 4 - As Threats Increase, Cybersecurity Software and Hardware Sees Uptick in VC Deals and Funding – $1.4 Billion Across 239 Deals in Last Year 5 - CB Insights - Developers 6 - Industry Analytics - Industry Growth Rates and Trends 7 - Pull CB Insights' data directly into Excel 8 - Venture Capital Data - Chrome Plugin 9 - Identifying the Hottest Startups in the iTunes App Store Using Mobile Data Analytics