★What differentiated Infosys and Wipro from other IT service delivery companies that allowed them to scale their billions of revenues and 100,000s employees?most remaining below 500 employees.
Hey Kahlil, Thanks For the A2A. What separates TCS, Infosys, Wipro from the other IT service companies is their time of arrival on the scene. These companies came into being in late sixties or mid 80s, a period when IT was still in its adolescence. The 70s and 80s was the period which gave rise to the entire Software industry with companies like Microsoft and Apple taking shape by mid 70s. As the software industry moved forward, it left a slew of advancements. Those advancements over the years led to technologies which could be used by businees and governments to make their work more efficient and led them to streamline their costs. This where an IT company comes to the picture. The Aforementioned companies had the good fortune of being at the right place at the right time. By the time, the entire world realized that computerization and uses of software services can help them drive business and revenues, by which time these companies were at the forefront. It could easily have been that some of these companies could have collapsed. This is where the founding teams of these companies should be given credit for finding a way to scale their companies and provide service to the client in a way that the client then evangelizes about them to others. Once a service company comes to be known for a certain aspect, say quality,pricing, support etc, it markets it as their USP and along with their previous happy customers gets more clients.The companies you mentioned stood out from others by their unique value proposition and in due time, the bigger clients had more confidence in these companies because of their track record which is extremely important as the client needs to get his business transformed through IT and any question mark over the service company's quality will force the client to think twice. In IT, growing an organization is extremely difficult since it requires thousands of professionals, their training and as a result investment in infrastructure. A large group of marketing and sales is needed to keep hunting for new potential clients. The Older companies can attract better talent while the new entrants fight for the crumbs which is why they find it hard to scale. In today's world, starting a service company and then working on a Product in house and selling it to customers makes more sense. Service makes sure you don't go out of business(constant money through money, support) while a successful product gives you profits and money. If you think i haven't answered the question correctly, feel free to comment and point it out.