★What are the biggest challenges for incubator or accelerator programs like 500 Startups, Y Combinator, etc.?I'm interested in understanding the challenges that incubator programs face in continuing to grow. It seems as though there are more and more popping up each day and I'm curious about the challenges that they face. How big of an issue is deal flow for new applicants?
From a tactical level, the biggest challenges are, in order:  1. Funding - Where will it come from? You'll be percieved as a bush league accelerator without some startup capital to both run a decent program and to seed fund the startups. Taking government money will make you slightly less bush league than not having any money but not by much. Corporate sponsors are good, VC is great, angels are best. A self-funded approach results in the least headache by many magnitudes. Count on over $500k per year for two classes x 10. Can you do it without a millionaire founder(s) or a charismatic fund-raiser? Not if you want to compete. Accelerators have become too competitive of a space, at least in the U.S. and Canada. 2. Mentors - Do you have them? Like...really have a good selection that have started and grown true software and/or mobile plays? The good news is that even programs like Bizdom (Detroit) and Sproutbox (Bloomington, IN) have proven that they can attract companies without the ultra-rockstar list that Techstars and Founder Institute has assembled. It can be done. Whether the real guidance and Rolodex is there remains to be seen in outcomes (which is still a good 8 years away. You can't judge an accelerator's effectiveness after 2 years. It's scientifically void of integrity) but do yourself a favor and look at SproutBox's portfolio. It'll squash whatever silly stereotype you have of Indiana tech startup.  3. Early Stage Funding - Does your ecosystem have it? This is why an Anchorage or Mobile or Chattanooga probably won't build a robust accelerator program in the next decade. Yes, they probably have a few innovators. A few consultants / mentors. A few Rails guys. A place to do it. But they completely lack an active angel ecosystem that has the appetite and wherewithal for deal flow. If you can't find 10 angels that consistently do 3 deals per year in the X space every year then you should reconsider launching an accelerator. There's no sense in cranking out 18 companies per year if nobody's waiting at the other end of the pipeline ready to wire money. That first 250k has to come from somewhere. 4. Strategics - How do companies get acquired? They get noticed by acquirers. How do they get noticed? By either being the best or by forming the relationships early. If the type of companies you're trying to accelerate are a bad fit for the corporate ecosystem that is around you then this is a big neg. It can be overcome but the chances for exits just went down several percentage points. It also means that the companies will have to pick up and move once done with the program setting them back several months. Moving is not horrible, most of the time it's smart, but if you can attract the kind of companies that don't have to that means you've designed your program well. Chicago's Healthbox and NYC's Fintech Innovation Lab nailed this by going niche, which is brilliant. Oregon's Portland10 selects almost all B2B because B2C doesn't exist there. Cleveland's Launchouse has a health bent (but not exclusively) because the massive Cleveland Clinic sets the tone of that economy. The best accelerators will pass up the next foursquare if a udemy is a better fit for the ecosystem. Again, moving to The Valley or NYC post-graduation isn't the end of the world, but it will heighten everyone's odds if you can cultivate companies that don't need to. SV is a competitive space to start from scratch when you don't know anybody there. From a competitive level, the biggest challenges are, in order: 1. Dealflow - Of applicants. The good news (for at least two more years) is that even cities like Nashville and Atlanta and Salt Lake City get worthy applicants. Mostly regional. If they can do it almost anyone can. Is it a challenge year one? All three of these* have been around less than two years. If there's a decent amount of entrepreneurial activity in that ecosystem the accelerator won't have a problem. Also remember an accelerator can take however many they want. Only get four applicants that are stellar? Start with four. No harm done. Nobody will make fun of you -- they'll think you're just lean and highly exclusive. The Techstars Network will also be a solution for accelerators that want increased applicant dealflow. Soon accelerators who are members can plug into the combined applicant pipeline for a couple of grand per year. 2. Returns - Of the portfolio. Much like any business I think we'll eventually see higher returns for those programs that go niche (think Startl, Blueprint Health, or Joystick Labs). It's the only way to attract the top 2%. You can't be the MIT if you're trying to be all things to all people. *Where can I find a comprehensive list of startup incubators and accelerators in the US?