★What differentiates Lookout from Apple's existing iCloud services?Lookout Mobile Security seems to do the same things that Apple provides now with iCloud, namely: backup to an offsite location and the ability to remotely zap your phone with the Find My iPhone app So... what else does Lookout do that make them a viable alternative to Apple's integrated services? Lookout's website: https://www.lookout.com/
Firstly, while Lookout's description implies that it backs up ALL of your data, careful reading indicates that it actually only backs up your Contacts, which is quite a bit different than what iCloud does (all of your settings, app data, camera roll etc).  Even the Android version only adds photos and call history to that, and only with a paid subscription. The only other overlap between Lookout and iCloud appears to its equivalent to iCloud's "Find My...." device feature.  Presumably Lookout is now taking advantage of new APIs in iOS 5 to provide these features, but I'd still be more inclined to trust Apple's implementation as it's built into the OS -- it's unclear whether Lookout, as an alternate app, would work as reliably or what impact it would have on battery life (the App Store page has the standard disclaimer about GPS use and battery life).  It's worth noting that as an integrated service, Find My iPhone can basically stay dormant and only wake up when a location request comes in; I'm not certain that third-party apps would have that luxury -- they'd likely have to keep tracking your location in the background, although not necessarily with GPS -- the Significant Location Change API may suffice for this purpose. The upside is that this could provide a faster "lock-on" than Find My iPhone does. Lookout's core benefits, however, seem to be more related to security analysis and monitoring than anything that iCloud offers.  It can notify you of security vulnerabilities such as out-of-date software, open Wi-Fi networks, apps using location services and more.  Although much of this information is available in the built-in iOS 5 apps, Lookout appears to do a good job of consolidating and reporting on it in a single place.