★What are some top tips for making a competitive differentiation strategy and a brand/service hard to copy?
I've been waiting in the wings to see how other people would answer this question because I kept thinking, "How is anyone going to write an answer for this?" Thousands of people study marketing, branding, strategy, etc at the top business schools in the world. Thousands more are self-taught and have become experts at it. And, all of us have one undeniable conclusion to a question like this: Creating a differentiated strategy and hard-to-copy brand/service is the essence of what will make your company great. What you're not getting from other answers (and what compelled me to write one) is that there are NO top tips for making it happen. Companies we respect who have done this (e.g. Apple, Google, Walmart, etc) have all done it in very different ways. There is no universal path to getting there. You may read a bunch of former CEO or CMO leadership books that purport to give you these grains of wisdom, but their actions repeated in your own set of circumstances will not produce the same result. At the end of the day, your company has to get there by itself and in its own way. If you think about it, that's the definition of differentiated. If you build your differentiation based on a set of tips or rules, you'll likely not be very differentiated at all. In fact, the premise of one of the best books I've read about differentiation is that the frameworks we're taught in business school on how to differentiate, the addition and subtraction of features from existing products has actually had the reverse effect and caused minuscule differentiations that are indistinguishable by consumers. The author offers some guidance on how to break out of that cycle, so you should read it for yourself: Different: Escaping the Competitive Herd by Youngme Moon. The only "tip" I can give you is this: No matter how good your marketing is, it isn't sustainable unless you start with a product that people value. If you're really lucky, they'll go beyond valuing it and love it. Marketing may get people to try it, but you don't get repeat customers with a crap product. So, no matter what, make sure you focus on product because it starts there.