★What are some good ways to differentiate pricing of a service in order to make it affordable to less well-off clients?I don't want to make less well-off clients embarrassed or to add needless perks to bump up the price for those with more money - I want to provide an honest service that benefits as many people as possible. In case it helps, the service is repairing computers - something that can be very helpful for people who are applying for jobs, for example. Thank you!
I don't think there is a good way. While it is fairly common to see companies offering discounts to students and senior citizens (people who clearly fall into the lower income category), there is no way to create a category of people who gets favorable pricing based soley on their income (i.e. a 25 or 45 year person working full time earning minimum wage). No matter how well you attempt to sugar-coat the wording or 'spin in' using the word 'discount', it basically boils down to this: Pay X if you're low income Pay X plus 40% (or whatever 'premium price' you decide) if you're well off. That's really unpalatable to the people in the second group.  While some might not mind paying the 40% 'upcharge', I think it jeopardizes the perception of what these people think of your business.  Now, if your premium price is competitive, it might not be a problem.  But if you're higher than your competitors, it's best to consider that there are many other options your customers have.  Many wealthy people are of a certain spending mindset; they live their lives frugally, which is the primary reason they are wealthy in the first place. To me, a 'blended pricing' makes the most sense, if you want to attract masses.  In a competitive marketplace, pricing yourself lower and offer better service than your competitors creates 'value', which most customers look for when making a buying decision.  Lower income customers will appreciate that 'is' the lowest price they can find.  Higher income customers will also appreciate the lower price, even though they could afford the higher one. Everybody likes a deal.