★What differentiates ChatGrape from other chat services like HipChat or Slack?
Disclaimer: I work for the company I recommend. If you are only looking for a good chat solution with file upload, room management, search, etc. there are hundreds of options to choose from. ChatGrape, however, is unique in the way it integrates services, protects your data and enriches your messages. Deep Service Integration Almost every chat solution allows you to integrate external services like Google Drive and Github. But their integrations are limited to posting the last activity ("has created an issue", "has uploaded a file", etc.) to your room - just like IRC-Chats did over two decades ago. ChatGrape integrates them a lot more intelligently and allows you to reference and attach files, appointments and issues in an autocomplete as you type your message. This eliminates misunderstanding and boosts your team communication speed, so you can work on the real tasks. The following GIF displays our Deep Service Integration in action. "ChatGrape’s look-up and third-party service indexing provides that rare example of a feature that, retrospectively, you wonder why isn’t already a standard offering."- Steve O'Hear, Techcrunch Protecting your Data While HipChat has some debatable privacy practices (Who can view chat history and files?) we are making data security and privacy one of our biggest strengths. Our servers are based in Europe, the region that currently has the highest privacy standards (Which countries are better at protecting privacy?) We are soon rolling out a feature that allows you to start encrypted chats that "forget" your messages after a certain time frame. We force every browser to use SSL Encryption between 128 and 256 bits We are implementing security measures that will make it impossible for us to browse through customer data without their permission Enriching your messages Searching for old messages is still a pretty distressing experience in many chats. We recently received a research grant from the FFG (research department in Austria) to automatically label your conversations based on their content. This allows us to organize your ideas, todos, questions, etc. by using custom algorithms. So you will be able to - for example - search through last week's decisions, or get custom summaries on your team's communication. We are currently in early access, so you can use ChatGrape completely free until we have rolled out all the features. Give us a try! -> ChatGrape - Communicate efficiently.