★What differentiated Infosys and Wipro from other IT service delivery companies that allowed them to scale their billions of revenues and 100,000s employees?most remaining below 500 employees.
Thanks for the A2A, Kahlil Corazo In two words, the answer has to do with 'Timing', 'Great Tactical Leadership' and 'Ability to Scale'. Early Entry Into The Market - These two firms , as well as PCS(now iGate) and TCS had been in business since late 70s/early 80s - So they do not compare well to the typical 500 employee firm. They had a long runway prior to takeoff. The dot-com boom as well as subsequent redirection of top notch IT talent in the US and Europe away from enterprise IT to IT products and startups, created a high volume demand for IT services that initially led to spiraling rise in IT budgets and then led to strong push for cost control - These two firms( along with TCS and CTS) were able to sustain that type of demand by building on the massive pool of offshore engineers in India. American firms felt the pressure to reduce the cost of large pools of internal staff but technology evolution and productivity gains had not caught up ; So, the only real option was to find sources for cheaper IT staff , an opportunity that these four firms leveraged well. A relatively less known fact - Each of these firms had their own products/businesses that helped them make a better case to the client about their capabilities - Wipro had a server and computing products business that made it easier for them to highlight high tech capabilities essential to making inroads into the Telecom business. Infosys had a core banking solution(Finacle) that helped them build strength in the financial services domain. TCS had the broad conglomerate of Tatas to support their broad approach across industries. Employee scale needs to be supported by an incoming pipeline of business - These firms figured out early, the model of business development managers spread across the wide geography and diversity of businesses in the US. They offered the clients a cost effective option that was somewhere between the IBM/Accenture model and the Local Contractor model. They both had strong reputation as lifetime employers and great places to learn during the 90s and 2000s. This helped attract the most energized and ambitious group from engineering colleges; That was until 2006 when they finally started recruiting anyone and everyone in the rush to just staff and scale. Scaling requires a strong process orientation and leadership that can balance growth with repeatability and reliability - The process orientation in both firms helped them gain credibility with clients as well as manage large programs with less skilled resources - Something that most of the small-medium IT service firms struggle to do. These firms invested in huge training programs that trained thousands of freshers arriving from campuses every year - those investments often focussed on training employees in the not-so-glamourous areas of technology like Mainframes and ERP systems,  thus reducing the cost of delivery for large scale programs and high volume contracts. Unlike a relatively small IT firm, these firms had large corporate management models in place and a staff hungry to pickup the latest and best in class management practices from around the world as their teams flew around the world and worked onsite at client locations. Their scale and management models allowed for reasonable cross-pollination of ideas and practices. Steady intrapreneurial pipeline built on business best practices these firms learnt from their western clients. The nature of business in India had constantly detracted talented individuals from taking the entrepreneurial dive - These firms made it easy for the internally developed leadership team to take risks and use their entrepreneurial capability. The typical pool of IT employees in India in the 90s and 2000s was quite unlike the typical pool of IT employees in US during that time - in terms of age profile, in terms of growth expectations and in terms of risk appetite. This differential helped the early entrants who offered stability and a significant amount of roles that involved global travel. Up until 2006, TCS, Wipro & Infosys had a steady leadership at the top and executive ranks. Unlike firms like PCS, Mindtree and others, this stability coupled with the management model, helped the firms grow quarter on quarter. Now that the model has unravelled a bit, you do see Wipro and Infosys struggling a bit on growth and bottom-line.