★What are the biggest challenges for incubator or accelerator programs like 500 Startups, Y Combinator, etc.?I'm interested in understanding the challenges that incubator programs face in continuing to grow. It seems as though there are more and more popping up each day and I'm curious about the challenges that they face. How big of an issue is deal flow for new applicants?
For those who are not fully dedicated towards building it - it's very hard. Especially since the founders of such incubators tend to be entrepreneurs themselves, and when their applicant flow is short of those who are as amazing as those that seem to line up for YC or Techstars. Take for example the wonderful folks at JFDI.ASIA - http://jfdi.asia/ - they have been on the starting up stage of an incubator ala YCombinator for the past three years and have yet to have started a "full session". Just random mentoring and events here and there. They've had partners drop out midway - and you can read their public mailing list that chronicles the ups and downs, anytime soon sentiment and then other things seemed to have taken hold instead - http://groups.google.com/group/j... Update: JFDI has started their first session! Congrats to the team. Determination and perseverance succeeded. The main factors for a successful incubator: Real financial backing - at least 1.5 million and or upwards - enough to fund at least three rounds of batches of 6 to 15 companies. YC funds around 20k of 20 companies in the early sessions - that's 400k. Without three rounds, you don't really have the comfort of fine tuning your mentoring and have an "alumni" to come back at the third showing. At least 2 co-founders of the incubator who are full time. An incubator is no joke - especially on the administrative side of things - from event management to legal/accounting/recruiting/evangelizing/PR. YC started with four partners, of which two of them had started a company before and exited. Techstars spent months looking for the right person to start their other chapters. Strong VC relationships - While many VCs would be interested once you've started, you don't really know until you have a demo day and see who turns up. Nothing like having the founders of the incubator having had a stellar vc-backed exit before that would entice the VCs getting involved. Ability to spot talent - While Techstars folks wrote a book called Do More Faster after their experience, the YC folks wrote books before they started! Paul Graham wrote Hackers & Painters and before that had some Lisp books, Jessica Livingston wrote Founders At Work that essentially had her go through months of sitting with successful co-founders in tech - that osmosis paid off. Access to great speakers and entrepreneurs - before YC's Startup School, there were few places with such an intense concentration of startup founders speaking on stage with a focus - Stanford had a class where they had speakers come in all semester on a weekly basis, O'Reilly had camps and events that are curated. YC broke the model by bringing in the best the industry had to offer - it's like the Woodstock of startups. Let's take a look - YC Startup School 2007 - http://www.facebook.com/event.ph... YC Startup School 2008 - http://techcrunch.com/2008/04/19... YC Startup School 2009 - http://garry.posterous.com/yc-st... YC Startup School 2010 - http://www.theroadtosiliconvalle... YC Startup School 2011 - http://lanyrd.com/2011/startup-s... O'Reilly could have made 500k each event - but YC organized it for their alumni and new participants - generating instead 9 figure exits like Heroku & OMGPOP and 10 digit valuation like Dropbox & AirBnB. Now that, is the true value of incubation. Being able to help create wealth for others. That last quality of selflessness - is very, very hard. Only the benevolent at heart and independently wealthy can truly dedicate their efforts to the success of others.