★What differentiated Infosys and Wipro from other IT service delivery companies that allowed them to scale their billions of revenues and 100,000s employees?most remaining below 500 employees.
Founders: Most important of them all was, sticking together of the seven founders under the leadership of Mr. Narayan Murthy.  For close to 25 years buck stopped with NRN with others doing their bit. This provided strong and stable leadership. (First Inflexion point) At one point when other six got tired and wanted out, NRN preferred them to stay instead of buying them out. During that meeting they decided to build a campus. A big thing at that time. The founders also believed in financial planning, revenue projection, transparency and the systems to support all that.   Talent: Infosys believes in hiring the best of the talent. Hire the person who is better than you is the motto. Consistent academic performers are hired. Hiring process is very independent / immune to compromise. Only about 2% of the people who apply are hired.   Employee Stock Options (ESOPs): When companies reach 500 kind of number, the attrition and new hire rates tend to match. This is where ESOPs helped Infosys plugging attrition. When Infosys reached certain mass, Infosys issued employee stock options at nominal price of Rs 100 per shares which would be trading at 1000 Rs. This was a 5 year blocked options. If you leave in between, you lose everything. This stopped people from leaving, with attrition hovering to about 4%. Once you stay for over a year, you are likely to get ESOPS and then you are in. This scheme went on till 1999 when new SEBI (Stock Exchange Board of India) guidelines came in to issue shares at the market rate. Infosys truly believed in sharing wealth, at least till 1999.   Surviving GE fiasco: (Second Inflexion point) At one point in time GE comprised about 70% of their revenue. And GE was negotiating hard. Infosys walked out of the deal. Deciding that they will never have that vulnerability in their business.   Starting of Enterprise Solutions: Infosys started ES practice in late 90s focusing on ERP products. Although late, this provided a very good driver for growth. This unit accounts for nearly 30% of the current revenue. Sorry to focus only on Infosys, but hope this provides some pointers.