★Wealthfront, Marketriders and Betterment are all interesting to me but I really don't understand the key differentiators among these services. Any thoughts?Wealthfront, Marketriders, Betterment, investing, stock market, ETF, ETF investing
I'm the founder and CEO of Betterment, and biased to prefer my own service. In my view, there are several key differentiators: Time-savings & convenience. Betterment is the only service that links directly to your checking account for easy transfers. There are no transaction or trading fees. You can signup in less than 5 minutes, and everything is electronic - always. No mail, ever. Automation. Betterment is the only service that automates everything important for you: It is the only service that dynamically re-balances for you, enables auto-deposit for you, and re-invests dividends for you in a tax efficient way. Support. Betterment is the only firm has excellent live customer support, 7 days a week. Call (1-888-428-9482) or email us (support@betterment.com) anytime. Pricing. Betterment charges 0.15% for accounts that ever rise above $100k, 0.25% above $10k, and 0.35 for everybody else, with no charge for transactions. It's the only site that gives you free access to your money. Wealthfront charges 0.25% on all accounts above $25k, 0.0% on the first $25k , and you pay trading fees at cost through Interactive Brokers or whoever their brokerage partner may be. Marketriders charges an annual fee of $179, plus you pay your brokerage costs wherever you keep your money, which are typically $5-$20 for every trade. While the data shows that people who invest on their own that do far worse than those who take advice, there are exceptions, and some people always will want to take everything into their own hands. For those users, both Betterment and Wealthfront give advice for free, in that you could copy our portfolios and implement them on your own, or modify them as you like (I think that with MR you have to pay for portfolio info). However, the real value we provide is in the automation, ongoing advice (e.g., answers to: how much should I save?, am I on track?, what should I do now?) and convenience. Those are all areas where Betterment shines.