★How do services like Punchd differentiate themselves from Foursquare?Since Foursquare's revenue model seems to be tied directly to rewards / loyalty program offerings by small businesses, how would platforms like Punchd and other QR Code based loyalty programs differentiate themselves?
Apps like Foursquare, Facebook, and Yelp associate loyalty rewards with location check-ins via a mobile device.  Through  its recent alliance with American Express, Foursquare has begun to associate loyalty rewards with actual purchase data, but its ability to reward users is limited to those who are both Foursquare users and American Express cardholders.  Apps like Punchd and Reward.Me reward users based on a hybrid of location check-ins and the scanning of a location-specific QR code for each merchant.  To earn stamps on a Punchd stamp card, you must scan the merchant’s QR  code with the Punchd mobile app and the mobile app automatically does a location-check-in to verify that you are actually at the merchant’s physical location.  This additional location check-in security measure helps combat the possibility that a user might take a photo of the merchant’s QR code and circulate it to their friends, or re-scan it themselves without actually visiting the merchant. However, Punchd is not connected to transaction data so merchants have no real guarantee that the user actually spent any money.  Location-spoofing apps have created fraud issues and for location-based and hybrid loyalty platforms because they enable an end-user to check-in to a merchant and earn the merchant’s rewards without actually being there.  Also relevant to this question, Shopkick installs a ‘geo-fence’ around participating merchants to validate location check-ins, but its rewards are not connected to transaction data.  And a newer offering from RewardLoop generates one-time-use transaction identifying QR codes on merchants bills and receipts that reward users based on real-time transaction data from the merchant’s existing POS system (disclosure: I work for RewardLoop).  The real trade-offs merchants should be evaluating in selecting their mobile loyalty rewards program are:  Check-ins  aren’t particularly meaningful or valuable to a merchant if they don’t prove the customer actually bought something and are also prone to user fraud, but asking customers to carry around more loyalty and rewards cards when the world is going mobile doesn’t make much sense either.  The trade-off with most mobile loyalty program platforms available today is:  Merchant security vs. Customer Convenience. Nigel