★What is the key to successfully launching a subscription music service like Spotify MOG, or Rdio?
While this may be viewed as semantics, there is quite a difference between launching a service (flipping the switch "on")  and successfully operating a music subscription service. Content is obviously key so we can all agree that having as close to 100% of major and major independent music is crucial to establishing a footprint. Acquiring customers is arguably a function of marketing spend.  Retaining customers is a different beast entirely.  Any subscription service, whether a gym, mobile operator, or streaming music product, live and die by 3 metrics:  Acquisition, Churn, Retention. There are other threads on direct marketing so we won't drill down into these metrics but I believe Retention lies at the core of this question's answer. Streaming music services need to provide 3 things:  relevant content, discovery tools, social features. Relevant Content = not only what you launch with but new and potentially exclusive content.  Is new music promptly available when it is released?  Is there content that differentiates Service A from Service B?  Is the depth of catalog equal to its breadth? Discovery Tools:  How good is the recommendation engine?  Is the merchandising schema differentiated from other services?  Does the service focus on "music as lifestyle" in addition to music as a generically classified product (rock, pop, rap, country, etc.)?  Is the merchandising of new music and catalog relevant to me, a unique subscriber or is it just throwing up a banner for the new release by Band Du Jour? Social Features:  Does this service allow me to influence and be influenced by both my peers and tastemakers? (Quora is cool because I can follow an influential VC or CEO as easily as my wife)  Can I engage in dialogue around music, artists, and what they mean to me?  Is there UGC editorial?  Are the recommendation and playlisting tools robust?  Is my library portable or tethered to a fixed device? There is much discussion around price optimization, free/freemium/premium, etc. but the user experience is vital.  We can't underemphasize the importance of solid economics and commercial terms with licensees, vendors, carriage and billing providers to successfully launch any business but to truly succeed as a music subscription service, you need to do the above well.