★How would you differentiate the different services being offered by companies who are looking to exploit Big Data?Lot of companies are taking to big data(latest technology) and they have been offering services. How would you broadly classify them and what the companies are offering?
A2A.  If by "Big Data" you're referring to Hadoop and NoSQL, the list of companies and breakdown looks something like this: Hadoop Platforms These guys are building off the Apache Hadoop distribution to add their own features.  They are mostly focusing on the "Red Hat" approach to revenue by providing support services for their products.  Pretty much all of these companies have also partnered with big names like Oracle and Teradata to offer more integrated solutions on specific platforms.  This list is pretty short: Cloudera Hortonworks MapR Intel NoSQL Software companies creating the latest horizontally scale-able semi-structured data stores.  There's far too many startups and niche players to list them all.  So I will provide a shortlist of the best known players.  For the most part, they sell software licenses and support: MongoDB CouchDB Neo4j Amazon Riak Redis RavenDB Analytics Software Virtually every analytics platform is touting "big data" connectors.  They usually only work when connecting to sources like Hive because you can't really analyze data without structure.  Here's my short list of the early analytics adopters: Jaspersoft Pentaho Tableau IT Service Providers These tend to be the usual consulting companies who have an analytics practice. Generally speaking they can help companies evaluate technologies, do systems integration and implementation, and help with strategy around analytics.  This list would probably include every consulting company on earth, mine included. Industry Service Providers This is where I think the real use case for Hadoop and NoSQL solutions are.  There's a good number of companies who have built scalable hosted solutions for specified industries.  Here's a few I'm aware of: oPower (Utilities) S3 (Utilities) Palantir (Financials and Government) Splunk (pretty much all of them)