★What differentiated Infosys and Wipro from other IT service delivery companies that allowed them to scale their billions of revenues and 100,000s employees?most remaining below 500 employees.
Good Question.   Lets start with organizations - Amongst the Indain gaints TCS, Infosys and Wipro I am going to take TCS out because your question does not ask about it and secondly TCS always had capital to back it up through Tata group so I wouldnt be able to talk about the entrepreneurial aspect.   Coming to Infosys and Wipro - The success of both these companies was a culmination of political spirit and entrepreneurial spirit in India back in 80's. This question will span over 3 decades but I will try to put down as much as I can.   Political Spirit - Back in the 1970's Dr. N Seshagiri and George Farnandes, then Union Minister had opposed to the idea of IBM setting base in India for their IT establishments. IBM's focus was to setup an industry and also train people capable of providing services. IBM was however made to exit bacause of certain violations. George Fernandes pitched the idea to Rajeev Gandhi who was the prime minister about IBM's vision and adopting it to make India a IT powerhouse. Rajeev Gandhi was one of the most dynamic and versatile leaders who realized the role of Information Technology and its significance in the future. The government came up with plans to support entrepreneurship in IT and developing educational system which would be IT focused. It was the era when programs like Bachelors in IT and Computers started to evolve. India was getting ready to generate and provide to the world their future demand of software engineers. India saw more engineers in the 90's and 2000's than any other country and you may find it surprising but 2 out of 3 students with a science background would incline towards engineering and the other towards medicine or miscellaneous. Entrepreneurial Spirit - Both Infosys and Wipro started as any other business - they faced their share of cash flow problems, customer fishing until they stedied their boats through reputable clients. Most of these organizations were providing software solutions(project and product development) to international companies. Companies realized they were getting the same quality of solutions at a much lower price than the local market. The concept of outsourcing evolved rapidly and Infosys and Wipro bacame cash cows. Cash cows because - They were charging $200 per hour per employee. When I work for 40 hours the firm makes $8000 and my wage for a week is $150. Yes you are reading it right, $ 8000 earned on an employee who is paid $150. Thats a true definition of cash cow in BCG's matrix. These companies were extremely profitable right through the 90's where countries realized they could leverage the sources here for all their IT related needs. Infosys has 60 % of business in the United States and 25 % in Europe and only 2 % in India. They developed a steady clientele and provided solutions in years to come. By this time Infosys was a billion $ company. Steady clients, new business, tremendous reputation over customer satisfaction and other good things. As we entered 2000's the country produced more engineers and towards 2006 Infosys came with the idea of not only providing software solutions but also service. Infact, IT in India became service oriented. Providing support to existing solutions built by Infosys or any other companies. Entrepreneurship again! They hired 1000s of enginners now in place of 100's and turned them into support groups for various international companies. They charged the employee at a lower rate for services yet very profitable. They grew like a monster adopting this technique and are now that billion dollar company with 100 K plus employees. Infosys covers every vertical and horizontal. Any industry you can think of (Banking, Healthcare, Oil and gas, Energy and Utility, etc) and any desired solution(Software development, Analytics, Consulting, etc) giving comfort to companies that they were specialized to handle any needs and gave them the opportunity to charge more through 'specialized services'. Cognizant has currently become the leader because they envisioned along with Accenture and IBM what Infosys could not. They realized it is the end of software development and there is a need to provide consulting services to help implement out of the box solutions. Infosys and Wipro  have learnt it but a little late and now the next step would be to move towards technology consulting. The idea of changing from Infosys Technologies to Infosys Ltd was to prove to the world that they are not a software company but a versatile brand. With the capital and resources they will try to get there and keep the competition alive. Edit: For companies which are mostly 500 employees, these companies chose to be smal because they had a niche area or because they did not have great leaders who pushed for expansion. Again there is very less I can say because being small is not necesarrily bad. Firms prefer to be small and service their regular customers without looking at agressive expansion. Anything mentioned is my personal opinion and does not represent past/current employer.