★What do clients/employers/recruiters look for in a UX portfolio in Los Angeles?What if you are just beginning and don't have any projects to show yet? Where do you start?
Last year, I was contacted by Vertigo Software for a UX Designer position. Here's how I went about developing my portfolio: First, I looked through all of the wireframes I'd developed, both for fun and for clients. I picked a handful of examples that I could tell stories about. I constructed the deck so that each story lasted two slides. The first slide in each story showed an initial problem-solving sketch. The second slide in each story showed an image of the product once it had been produced and finalized. The short story model made for an engaging and entertaining portfolio presentation. It made it difficult to dwell on any slide for too long, while allowing for enough time to explain how I determined the core features, problems, and flow. In addition, I was able to describe my approach with the client, their role, feedback, and what I did to improve the experience. During the presentation, I did not leave out difficult experiences. Instead, I focused on the challenges and breakthroughs I had during my work. I talked about the different people I worked with, and how I learned from and respected their perspectives. I also mentioned my shortcomings, and what I've done over time to minimize those. For instance, I like to do internal reviews with my work before it goes out to a client. That way, I get feedback from my team before the client sees it. I also demonstrated my involvement with the local and global design community. I emphasized conference attendance, local groups and my Flickr design pattern library, and It showed that I didn't just do UX as a job, but thought about it every day. It showed that I wasn't applying for a position to simply make a living, but that I admired and appreciated their work environment and wanted to make it part of my life. Short stories help Infuse energy into the group you're presenting to. Including short pieces of text in the slides helps if you have to send your deck to a company before you have the in-person interview. And definitely talk about challenges and growth, how excited you are get to work on difficult projects, and how you think their environment would be a good fit for increasing your ability to do great work.