★Is it okay to say no to clients?
I think it's perfectly OK if that is what is best for you or your customer. E.g. I had a client asking me for a service that makes no sense and will be a harm to his business, I explained it to him and turned him down when he insisted I do it his way, despite understanding my arguments - the reason I turned him down: "I am in business to help clients and do the best job that I can, not to merely make few bucks" Everyone else he talked to nodded, just to get the job - because as written in some answers "you never say no to a client". He got back to me as to the only person of an integrity, turning everyone else down and now we are having a long term contract 5 times the original contract value. Another client clearly didn't understand what he was doing and he was heading towards the failure. I pointed it out and he insisted I keep working with him his way, so I turned him down. After he met few investors ( guy has a tech startup ) telling him the same thing he started to accept my ideas and things are going well. Moreover this approach wins you clients for life not for one or 2 deals. Another one was pain in the ass spending too much of my time making the whole process complicated eventually affecting the quality of the work as well as eating my time I could dedicate to other clients. I explained it to him and told him he is losing my money and not helping himself. Now I work with people worth spending time on, the business is doing much better and clients are happy. It's a bullshit that you have to serve everyone. It's impossible too. Every business serves a certain type of clients and a business that strives to serve everybody ends up serving nobody, as popular saying goes. Integrity, quality and honest work with a meaning is what wins you clients not being a "yes man". I the world where everyone else is a "yes man" I find this to be a great competitive advantage and I am a doing really great by the way. ( It's important to communicate your reasons clearly though, and not turn people down on personal reasons but business strictly )