★Is it okay to say no to clients?
I was lucky enough to meet with and chat individually with Bob Miller, sales and customer experience guru, mentor to thousands, and founder of Miller Heiman, Inc. He wrote a white paper called "When Customers are NOT Always Right," and I am going to quote some gems from this awesome piece. "Every salesperson and manager should have their own mental list of 'deal breakers' to remind them of where they'll draw the line with a customer... People ignore the danger signals because they're focused on landing the deal." "In my experience, a Win-Win deal tends to close fairly quickly. So if you and a customer have gone back and forth repeatedly without any signs of converging (or, worse, if the negotiations are diverging), then it's time to cut your losses and back off from that deal." "Managers in particular have to listen to their intuition. If their gut's churning because the negotiations are extremely difficult, then the relationship is probably not going to work." HOW TO SAY NO: "Stick to the facts and present them without being emotional or accusatory. Take the position that over 95% of problems aren't the result of people intentionally trying to screw up or take advantage of you. It's just that things happen... So instead of asking, 'Who screwed up?' which only accuses your customer and puts him on the defensive, the better alternative is to say, 'Let's look at the process and see what needs to be fixed...' A rational person would say 'Oh, I know what happened. Let me take care of that.'" "Your company should have some kind of formal, pre-established guidelines or plan for how to deal with customer conflicts. The guidelines need to include the incremental steps that employees would take to handle a dispute because you really want to resolve the issue. Cutting the customer loose should only be done as a last resort..." Here's a link to this white paper, which I'm so glad is available to share! Miller Heiman - When Customers are NOT Always Right