★Is it okay to say no to clients?
To Be Of Service: A Manifesto On Saying Yes In business if you say no to a customer, you have failed in some very quantifiable way to be of service. Every single business is, in the end, a service to the customer.  To be of service to the customer you create solutions to direct or indirect, perceived or unperceived, unmet needs.  As a business your mission is to create value by presenting options to the customer that most closely align to these needs.  When a business presents a solution that meets with the needs of the customer, a value is established in the mind of the customer.  If the value established in the mind of the customer meets with the costs and profit goals of the business this action likely will conclude with a sale. The customer drives this process.  Even if the business is inventing a new industry from the ground up in a research laboratory or in the mind of a startup founder, the end of the long chain of events is a sale and that sale is to a customer.  This is the natural law of business gravity and it can be defied like many natural laws for only so long before facing marketplace realities in full control of the customer. To be of true service a business must solve customer needs. Failure to solve customer needs is really a failure of the business premise or the products of the business. It is not a failure of the customer to understand or notice. It is the failure of the business to fully understand the customer. If a business endeavors to be of service, which is the only true reason to exist, then it must develop ways to alway say yes to the customer.  With proper empirical study of the customer and the potential needs from a direct and historical level tied to active and on demand flexibility, the response should always be yes.  The Steve Jobs Example Of Saying Yes Steve Jobs, for example, may be viewed from a distance and in a one dimensional way as saying no to customers.  This is the opposite of what he did in a spectacular way.  Steve saw the ends of the customer’s needs and cared little about the means to this ends.  He instinctively knew that a vast majority of consumers did not care about processors, ram, floppy disks vs. CDs, PCI slots vs. USB, touch screens vs. keyboards, etc.  No he knew that the end result is to be of service to a need.  Thus he was not saying no to the small minority of customers that wanted a floppy disk drive, he offered this as a non-built-in option but knew that once the CD drive was experienced to the fullest level they would begin to forget the need of having a floppy drive.  There are dozens of other cases where Steve did this and was wrongly attributed to his arrogance and not his profound understanding of the customer.  In reality, Steve always said yes to the needs of the customer, in the end. Thus if a business responds to a customer need with an answer of no, competing forces will converge to correct this business mistake and find a way to say yes to the customer.   Every no said to a customer, directly or indirectly, builds, brick by brick, your next competitor in business. There is absolutely no doubt about this ultimate outcome. Businesses exist to say yes.