★How common are wavelets in time series analysis?
I don't know about the practitioners. But, as far as research is concerned, wavelets have been exploited much in the recent past in the modelling of time series data. In the journal of time series analysis or any other related journal, wavelet related papers keep appearing on a regular basis. Finance related mathematical journals may also contain lots of papers on application of wavelets to specific time series. Forecasting, the end goal of time series analysis, is also facilitated using wavelets. There are papers comparing the forecast performance of wavelets over the more conventional time series methods. One can have a look at the published works of Piotr Fryzlewicz from LSE for having an idea about the scope or coverage of wavelets in time series analysis.  Though the question does not demand the details of wavelets, still I will try to convey the usefulness of wavelets in as simple way as possible. A time series is believed to be composed of different factors including seasonality and/or trend and other factors which are specific to the time series under study and also an irregular pattern, the cause of which cannot be assigned to any physical factor. Seasonality can also be of different types in a single time series for e.g. In a particular time series, a seasonal factor has a cycle of 3 months and another seasonal factor may have a cycle of 3 weeks etc. Wavelet takes care of all these factors and breaks the time series into different components, where each component displays the effect of corresponding factors on the time series at different time points. It maintains the time as well as frequency information of the series. There were some tools before, which used to give frequency information of the series but then it would kill all the time information that is there in the series. Wavelets preserve both the time as well as frequency related information. That is the main advantage of using wavelets. Another advantages is the availability of very fast computational algorithms.    Embed Quote