★What are some methods of time-series regression analysis?This is a follow-up on: What are some time series measures?
Regressions are my favorite thing, so I will try to explain this in a way that makes regressions your favorite thing too. You can read all about the various flavors of regressions that are used in business here: http://home.ubalt.edu/ntsbarsh/s... The organization of this site is pretty good and you'll find a nice, comprehensive introduction to the science. If you already know how to do correlations and straight line forecasting you can go straight to the Box-Jenkins Methodology section to read about RD (regular differential), AR (autoregressive), MA (moving average) and ARMA (combined approach) regressions. But before you jump into the science, I want you to understand why regressions are better than toast. There are three things in life you will need to worry about. 1) things that occur over time because of a linear relationship between a number of data points (the demand for cheese, for example), 2) things that occur over time because of an exponential relationship between data points (box office numbers for an action film, for example) and 3) things that occur over time because of a multi-dimensional relationship between data points (demand for energy by users of the electrical grid, for example).  You need to worry about these things because you want to sell more cheese. Or more tickets. Or properly provision your web servers to meet the demand for the online release of that action film (in my case). This stuff matters. If you could truly figure out the relationship between the last 5 days of cheese sales you would be able to order enough cheese to always have cheese in stock.  If you are running a cloud data center and you figure out the correct mathematical model for the last 5 months of web traffic you should be able to figure out what is going to happen in the next 5 months. 5 months is a bit optimistic, though.  For systems that have thousands of variables you will be lucky to look a couple weeks into the future. But seriously, if you knew the true demand for power 2 weeks from now you could probably hedge your way to fame and riches.  And who doesn't want to get rich correctly predicting the need for a critical resource at a future date?  So let’s briefly recap where we are. We are going to get rich using math to understand and predict a behavior that our competitors can only guess at. When we visit their web site and see the "fail whale" we are going to laugh at the mathematical process they used to predict server load.  Or we are going to laugh at the astronomical data center costs they incurred because they over-provisioned every single node on their network.  We believe in science and we will use it to be optimal in our decision making.  We will meet demand better than anybody else, and the world will marvel at the low costs we incurred doing so. The first tool you have in your bag is a straight line regression.  This tool assumes that the behavior between data points is simple, linear line.  You just need to figure out what the line looks like.  There may be dozens of variables from a single point in time, however, so you need a tool to help you figure out which variable matters. By using a straight line regression you can find out pretty quickly if there is a simple model behind your data (and which variables are influencing the model). The problem with the straight line approach, however, is that you're not going to find much that matters in life that is this simple. Now that you've tried this approach and looked at your  "error margin" (i.e. the sum of the squared residuals, also known as the least squares estimation), which is off the charts, you will need to step up your game. The next tool you have at your disposal is the exponential regression.  This tool takes the natural log of the data points, and tries to find the exponential equation that matches the data. Again, since we are using regressions we can quickly figure out which of the variables actually matter in the model.  Some things in life model quite nicely with an exponential equation. That action film we talked about earlier did in fact have an exponential drop off in revenue during its theatrical run.  And it turns out that it also had an exponential drop off in downloads during its Video on Demand (VOD) run.  We knew this in advanced because of our awesome modeling skills and we used this knowledge to move the 1 TB in source files around our edge network at the appropriate time in order to meet demand without adding a thousand new servers.  So we rock. But what if the thing we are modeling has thousands of variables?  What if the data fits neither a linear nor an exponential model?  What if there is some weird, multi-variant behavior going on and we need to understand it. Now we need to graduate past regressions and turn the data points from a point in time into a vector that we push through an artificial neural network.  By normalizing the data points down to a vector we are trying to figure out the general direction of the data.  The neural network will then take an iterative approach that compares vectors, makes a guess as to the correct model, and then holds onto regret (error) to improve the next iteration.  With this approach you can create a model that is extremely accurate when it comes to behavior that is influenced by hundreds of variables.  This model, however, is trapped in your neural network and cannot really be described to others. But you can use your neural network for the fame and riches I talked about earlier.  It does predict behavior better than simple regressions, it just can’t be described.  It’s also really, really hard to convince your thesis advisor that it works. But I digress. Hopefully this overview has clarified the key points 1) we are going to make a lot of cheese and get rich 2) we are going to use really basic linear regressions, slightly improved exponential regressions or graduate past these approaches and simply put all the learning into a machine and train it to understand the math (since the model cannot be expressed in an easily understood equation).  I mention machine learning here because it's important that you understand how limited regressions are, so that when you come across their limitations you do not fall out of love with them.  When the behavior you are looking at can be determined from regression analysis it's the best feeling in the world.  They are awesome. They are my favorite thing.    Embed Quote