★What would be the impact of connecting every house in India with an optical fiber internet connection?We do have more important tasks at hand, but what if we bring internet excess to our entire population at reasonable rates (dont know how its possible).
Having affordable high-speed internet will be a basic need one day along with food, shelter and clothing. In today’s world internet has made communication easier in the form of text, audio and video messages. Communication is essential to all human associations. One's ability to influence others is closely linked with his ability to communicate his ideas. Good communication aims at imparting knowledge as well as helping people gain a clear view of the meaning of knowledge. Also, with the availability of Massive Online Open Courses (MOOCs), mass education is possible with the use of internet. Having access to MOOCs, even the students in the rural area can have access to finest of education with the help of high speed internet. This will lead to high literacy thus leading to development of the nation. There are many such online courses available on internet like the EdX by the institutes like MIT and Harvard and Coursera by Stanford, Princeton, etc. Achievement in academic field will enable students from even remote areas to make themselves capable for various employment opportunities. Good communication and education has the potential to contribute to overcoming the problems like ignorance, poverty, malnutrition, illiteracy and to the attainment of the goals of economic and social well-being. So connecting every house in India will first enable India to become global leader in case of internet penetration. Of course we still need to consider other factors like the penetration of electricity and computers to achieve this. With overcoming all these factors, India will surely be a developed nation one day. Also why think about alone India. Increase in internet penetration in other countries would lead to their development and come at par with other developed nations. All this will lead this world to be a better place to live in.    Embed Quote