★What is the working principle of the optical fiber as a wave guide?
The most intuitive understanding of how an optical fiber works as a waveguide is a combination of total internal reflection and destructive interference. First, total internal reflection. Going from a high index material to a low-index material, the angle the refracted light comes out at is sharper than the angle it came to the surface at, described by Snell's law -- n1 sin (angle 1) = n2 sin (angle 2). When the angle is greater than 90 degrees, you have total internal reflection -- no light escapes, it all gets reflected back in. In an optical fiber, the total internal reflection is all the way around. Of course, the above picture is a little naive because it neglects the second principle, which dictates how light is allowed to move around inside. The second principle is interference. Each reflection is going to add to a previous reflection.  It's not a little BB bouncing around in there, it's a wave, and the reflections are going to interfere with each other. At totally internally reflected angles where each reflection is in phase with the last one, light will freely travel at that angle, and at any other angle it will fade out.  At angles where each reflection is perfectly out of phase with the last one, it will rapidly be cut off from moving.  All other angles will fade out more slowly, but it will still be a matter of a pretty short distance that the non-allowed angles will be cut off. These angles are usually referred to as modes. There's actually a much more elegant way to describe it, but it requires some partial differential equations, resulting in transcendental equations to solve, including solving stuff with Bessel functions.  The results are beautiful, though, and give much better mathematical insight into how the fiber operates.  But it's easier to describe in terms of total internal reflection and interference. Here are a few images of fiber modes.  Single-mode fiber is the long-haul carrier, and it only allows the fundamental mode (l=0, m=1).  Multimode fiber can't handle nearly the same bandwidth as single-mode, but it's much easier to line up optical parts to multimode fiber.    Embed Quote