★What is it like to build optical fiber networks?
There are a lot of moving parts to the process - and depending on your role in the operation, it has various ups & downs.  This is a general overview of the big steps (typically performed by a unique set of role players in the process) - I have participated in all of these pieces in one way or another: Network Design: There is a lot of technical discussion and analysis on what services and future services and business value you want to claim from the network build.  Sometimes you want to put fiber in to serve specific customers - sometimes you are really just plowing conduit & inner duct to lease to other service providers or other middle men who will then lease it to service providers.  There is a ton of financial / technical trade offs & ROI calculations done to balance the capital / operational money with the head count and time you have in return for revenue.  "Big" capital projects are always like that. Right of Way acquisition: No matter if you already have rights to the access, you typically spend a lot of time "negotiating" with land-owners around the mess you are about the make on their property.  Sometimes you need their permission and legal agreement - sometimes you just need them not to antagonize your construction process.  Either way - there is a lot of legal and business work that goes into smoothing that process.  Do it well - and things fly right along.  Do it poorly - and you spend a lot of time and money standing around while you renegotiate in court the right to put directional bore hole under someones drive-way. Construction (a quick summary): You need to prepare the fiber path (dig a trench, bore a directional hole, get the poles ready by installing apparatus to pull and hang the cable, install conduit/duct work, clear the duct you intend to use),  This needs to be done by many different construction crews and it needs to be done in the right place.  Otherwise you will be back in court (see above).  Lots of hard work and heavy machinery outdoors. You need to get the fiber to the site (these are often huge spools of cable that weigh tons).  This involves making sure you can actually stage and move the cable to the location - and make sure the right length of cable is organized so it shows up where you planned for it to be.  It is a bummer to move a 20Kft cable to a starting location and realize you needed 10Kft (or vice versa). You need to pull the fiber into position.  Either with some kind of pull cord through the duct you laid, or by unrolling it and laying it into the trench directly, or by stringing it along the poles you have. You need splicers to come along and splice the fiber end to end to end until it goes from you first equipment facility to the second one ... and so on ... until it reaches the customer premise facility.  Typically it is terminated in connectors on either end (where the equipment will be located) and fusion spliced in the middle splices.  The splices are in a case of some sort which is either hung on a pole or buried in a hand-hole / splice vault.  A lot of time and trouble is spent to splice it as losslessly as possible as well as to enclose the cable openings you have made such that water & other contaminates are kept out.  People come along and inspect & test as this is done so you don't need to bring the splicers back once the cable is in the ground. Equipment installation: You need to have a place for the electronic equipment you are going to use the service the fiber.  This means you need a piece of real estate (a concrete pad, a buried equipment vault, a cabinet, a hut, and office building, etc) with appropriate space, power and climate control.  Into that you will put the electronics and wire it into the network.  Usually someone comes along and tests it for functional integrity and turns it up for the services it is providing. Once you get this far, you have a network (or at least a lit infrastructure for a network) and you can begin to provision services on top of it.  I left out a lot of the testing and fiber maintenance operations.  I also left off the activities you perform to move / change the fiber network after the initial build.  Plans change and some plans work better than others ... so there is a great deal of flex in most of these projects.    Embed Quote