★Can Elon Musk's satellite internet compete with optical fiber networks on bandwidth?I totally see the latency advantage of free-space vs fiber - but in terms of bandwidth, what can beat light? Will they use laser light for communication? That would of course work in space, but how about earth-satellite connection (think e.g. of clouds)?
Thought about it a bit, whether it is even possible in principle... 1) Space-space communications In short, I think using laser light it is possible to transmit Exabit/s of information between satellites roughly 1000km apart, with near future technology. Assuming 1 billion concurrent users of the network, that's 1GBit/s per user. Being a bit more conservative, some Pbit/s are possible with todays technology. That would still give an average of 1MBit/s for every human on earth. Here the estimation in detail: Let's take near infrared laser light at nominally 1µm. In the wavelength range from 800 - 1500nm, there are a lot of diode lasers available. The region around 1.5µm is particularly well developed because it is so well suited for use within optical fibers. To estimate total transmission bandwidth, there are three main components: a) Frequency bandwidth in Hz b) Spectral efficiency in (bit/s) / Hz c) Number of spatial modes Total bandwidth is then given by: a * b * c * 2 (2, for the two orthogonal polarisations) a) Frequency bandwidth Let's say we have suitable laser sources for everything from 200THz (1.5µm) to 400THz ( 0.75µm). That sounds ambitious, but not impossible. --> 200 THz bandwidth b) Spectral efficiency I don't know that much about this, but something like  4 (bit/s)/Hz sounds reasonable (16 QAM)? See e.g. Spectral efficiency c) Number of spatial modes How many spatial modes can we transmit, given reasonable lens/mirror sizes? Laser beams may seem like 'parallel light', but that's not true. You can keep them collimated only for a limited distance. A measure for this distance is the 'Rayleigh length' (see Gaussian beam), which is given by Pi times the square of the beam waist radius divided by the wavelength We're interested in the beam waist diameter at the satellites position, which is roughly given by the square root of ('Rayleigh length = satellite separation distance' times wavelength). In numbers: sqrt(1km * 1µm) = 1m So, we need a 1m diameter mirror/lens to transmit one mode. That sounds rather small, doesn't it? I'm sure Elon can lift up a 10m one! The number of mode scales with the square of the diameter, so with a 10m mirror we can transmit 100 modes. Let's put it all together: 200THz * 4 (bit/s) / Hz * 100 modes * 2 polarisations = 200THz * 800 (bit/s) / Hz = 160,000 Tbit/s = 160 Pbit/s Well, that's quite a lot. Let's, for the fun of it make the mirrors a bit larger to give us the impressive number of 1 Ebit/s ! 2) Space - Earth communication I guess you can't use light here, for that wouldn't work well with clouds. So, you're limited to microwaves in the Ku band and maybe Ka band ( 12-40GHz). The available bandwidth is thus roughly 4 orders of magnitude lower. At the same time, it also becomes much more difficult to focus the waves onto a concentrated spot. You can do the same Gaussian beam calculations as above (the physics describing propagation of light and microwaves are the same). For a 1000km altitude satellite and 30GHz it turns out you could e.g. take a 100m antenna in space to create a 100m spot on earth. With 10 GHz bandwith, 4 (bit/s)/Hz and 2 polarisations, you could deliver something like 100Gbit/s in this area. With such an antenna,  you could also deliver quite some power density. I think you can tap into this stream with a receiver built into your mobile phone. Since really most of the power emitted in space also ends up in the area of interest on earth and vice versa, you wouldn't need an aweful lot of transmitting power. Just, is it possible to have a 100mx100m antenna in space? I was thinking of a mesh type phased array antenna? Such a system would essentially make a lot of the other network stuff that we have right now obsolete. It sounds a bit crazy, but I guess if this system is to finance the Mars colonies, it has to... Not 100% sure whether this is possible, but it would definitely be cool :-)    Embed Quote