★How feasible are optic fibers to be set-up?Upto 40% of electrical energy might be wasted in its transmission. Use of optical fibres as wires might be an option for it. What problems will be faced in setting those up and can those be efficient enough?
I was a telecommunications engineer and I designed the layouts (routes) for fiber optic cables. Even for voice communication, the tolerances for loss (loss of signal in transmission of digital signal) was much greater than for voice. Error factors are critical. Splicing these glass fibers adds loss to the signals and must be factored in. Voice over copper is not as "lossy". These were for low-voltage data transmission, voice that had been digitized. The transmission of electrical power at 7200v. local or 14,400v. local distribution is multiple thousands of times great in magnitude. Transmission of electrical power from generation points hydro, steam or nuclear is another thousand fold higher still 500,000v. distribution. You can hear this electricity hum. These power lines are woven-braided, multi-stranded, heavy cables, not spun-glass fibers that are thinner than human hair. Glass fibers are expensive at this diameter, and would it cost more than the power would cost to be able to transmit consumer usable power to the home. It would be more economically feasible to use solar at the point of consumption than to manufacture fibers large enough to provide AC power via fiber. Alternate plans could be to convert homes to low-voltage DC power. Heating, and appliances use large amounts of AC power. The embedded base of home products required to be converted or transitioned to DC power from AC power would be cost prohibitive. My information is not recent, but from personal observations of homes I visit in 2014, I have not seen any changes in types of power consumption. The large systems (heat/air conditioning) still use AC power, just more efficiently. This was the debate that Mr. Edison and Mr. Westinghouse had 100 years ago. Westinghouse wanted AC and Edison wanted DC. (We know who won.) Reference- http://www.smithsonianmag.com/hi...    Embed Quote