★What would you say is more complex to study in depth: optical fiber communication or satellite communication?I'm studying Electrical Engineering and starting to focus on Telecom and was wondering about this. Also (I know this is not the kind of question for Quora but maybe you could help me): would you say it's "not smart" to specialize in Satellite Communications Systems today, because of the recent advances in Optical Fiber? I'm very interested in Satellite systems but really worried about this.
Having worked in both fields, satellite communications is a more complex field since the designer has to understand not only RF communications, and the intricacies of transmitting large amounts of RF (primarily microwave) power but at the same time the designer needs to understand ultra sensitive receivers, which can perform over a wide range of atmospheric conditions. In addition, the designer needs to be keenly aware of very limited power and weight constraints. Given those constraints, satellite payload design and system system design in general require tight integration of the various sub-systems in order to help optimize performance. As an example the GPS satellites are medium earth orbit (~ 12,550 miles from earth) operating in a region with a highly toxic radiation environment. On top of that, depending on the satellite orbit, the designer needs to be concerned with radiation effects, and atmospheric propagation effects (especially at the higher microwave frequencies) which could impact both system performance and reliability. In a satellite communication system, one usually does not get a second chance once the satellite is in orbit. In some cases the satellite needs to be operational for 5-15 years, before replacement. The launch of replacement satellites due to failures are not only costly, but can significantly delay the operation of the system. The business model for satellite communication systems has to be carefully considered. Over the last 20 years, the world has witnessed a host of actual and proposed satellite communication systems that have ended in failure (Iridium, Globalstar, Teledesic, ICOS,  for example) for either business or technical reasons (in some cases both). I would say anytime you work with satellite systems, whether it's related to either communications or sensing,  you will be working in area which is quite unforgiving, certainly in comparison to fiber optic based systems. In comparison, fiber optic systems operate in a relative benign low loss environment (except for the underwater cables), and the design techniques are well understood. The biggest challenges for fiber optic systems are how to extend the distances between transmitter/receiver and increasing the bit rate. The current methodoly uses dense wavelength division multiplexing, and can push bit rates to 100s of Tbits/s.    Embed Quote