★Can Elon Musk's satellite internet compete with optical fiber networks on bandwidth?I totally see the latency advantage of free-space vs fiber - but in terms of bandwidth, what can beat light? Will they use laser light for communication? That would of course work in space, but how about earth-satellite connection (think e.g. of clouds)?
Marcel Horstmann has pointed out that fibre has lots of bandwidth, more bandwidth than is possible from satellite.  However perhaps we should look beyond the physical capacity of satellites? What are the problems of fibre? It can only deliver connectivity to a single point and needs to be physically run there. Lets assume that a 1Gb fibre is turned in to copper Ethernet, so fibre has a total capacity of 1Gb/sec per 31,416m2 (assuming a radial of 100m).  Now that sounds like a big area but the surface of the earth is 510m sq km which means to get fibre to every spot on earth you need 16,233,802,405 nodes (this includes oceans). So in practice, you can't fibre everywhere on the planet, even looking at just the populated parts of the world you quickly end up making decisions about who to neglect. The O3b company was set up to deliver internet to "the other three billion without internet access" (O3b) and their technique is to use satellites which specifically target regions where these people are connectivity poor. But O3b's plan is to deliver high bandwidth as a backbone, not to individual users. So Pacific islands in particular have benefited from O3b's work because they can now dramatically upgrade their connections if the island doesn't have fibre and even if they do have fibre they can now have a backup which compares to their fibre. Still this leaves us with a problem, what about those people who aren't near an access point? O3b doesn't deliver to consumers, so without a terrestrial network they literally can't get anything. It seems that the SpaceX plan for satellite connectivity is trying to compete with Iridium, one of the few companies who has enough coverage to reach pretty much everywhere on earth including the oceans. This competition isn't as much about bandwidth but about bandwidth per sq km when considering the whole earth. O3b might be able to provide faster individual connectivity over satellite than anyone else but their ability to deliver is limited by design.    Embed Quote