★How feasible are optic fibers to be set-up?Upto 40% of electrical energy might be wasted in its transmission. Use of optical fibres as wires might be an option for it. What problems will be faced in setting those up and can those be efficient enough?
Conventionally, there exists no standard for measuring light transmission of a completed fiber optic part. The amount of transmitted light is influenced by many factors. Some of the factors effecting it are: 1) types of glass used, 2)the purity of each glass, 3) the quality of the fused interface between the core and the clad 4) the quality of the end finishing and assembly of the part. Fiber-optics Technology has been continuously developing new methods of qualification based on the application. SINGLE FIBER LOSSES If and and only if we focus all transmitted light directly on the core of the fiber,we may start with a theoretical transmission efficiency may be as high as about 92%. Fresnel losses cause a loss of 4% at each end. FRESNEL LOSSES Light striking the input surface of the fiber will be reflected, rather than continuing through the fiber, even though the incidence angle is within the acceptance angle of the fiber. This phenomena is caused by a difference in refractive index (light and glass have different refractive indices). And as light is typically focused on the surface area of the entire fiber, we have to account for cladding losses. CLADDING LOSSES Two separate glass types and qualities are used to manufacture fiber. Core glass is designed to transmit light, while the cladding glass, made to have a different refractive index, is designed to keep the light ray from leaving the fiber once it enters. Cladding glass is not designed to transmit light, so it has a very high attenuation rate. Cladding glass makes up about 15-17% of the total cross sectional area of a fiber. Very few industrial fiber optic applications use a single fiber. Most customers require a component made from a "Bundle" of fibers in a specific configuration. This bundle also has characteristics which contribute to losses. BUNDLE LOSSES Glass fibers are cylindrical so, when they are grouped together to form a bundle, a space is created between cylinders. This is known as interstitial spacing, the wasted area accounts for 9-11% of the total bundle area. Therefore, a perfectly constructed fiber bundle  starts with a transmission efficiency of about 64-68%% contributions by- 8% fresnel loss 15-17% cladding loss 9-11% interstitial spacing loss Adding in the manufacturing process, the maximum practical transmission efficiency is about 60%. The best way to determine efficiency is to test the actual part. Conventionally, there exists no standard for measuring light transmission of a completed fiber optic part.    Embed Quote