★Can Elon Musk's satellite internet compete with optical fiber networks on bandwidth?I totally see the latency advantage of free-space vs fiber - but in terms of bandwidth, what can beat light? Will they use laser light for communication? That would of course work in space, but how about earth-satellite connection (think e.g. of clouds)?
I worked on a similar project years ago. That project was Teledesic and it ended in failure. Even though it was initially backed by some high profile individuals (Craig McCaw, Bill Gates) and companies (Boeing, Hughes), high costs, technical complexity and the relentless march of ground based mobile communications/networking technology killed it. I don't believe either the economics or the technology trends have changed much since then. Satellite broadband network systems will continue to have a challenging time competing with ground based mobile communications (and also, but to a lesser extent with fiber optic systems) given their upgrade cycle advances at a faster pace than is found in satellite systems. While initial  capital costs for fiber optic systems are high, once in place their bandwidth is virtually limitless given the use of Dense Wavelength Multiplexing (DWDM) and satellite network systems cannot compete, given their restricted spectrum and corresponding bandwidth limitations. Given the large initial capital investment in a satellite network, the satellites are expected to stay in orbit anywhere from 5-15 years, which is a much longer time frame compared to the advances driven by Moore's Law. In addition, the space environment is non-forgiving compared to earth based systems, which clearly complicates reliability, maintenance and upgrades. There is a sizable graveyard of failed satellite network projects and the dream of a broadband satellite based network reminds me of the prophetic words of George Santayana, "those who do not remember the past are condemned to repeat it." But then again, I'm no visionary like Elon Musk, and the founders of Google and time will tell as to whether their vision becomes reality.    Embed Quote