A dual structure with 14,12,4,10,8 as the members of DEPQ.[1]
In this method two different priority queues for min and max are maintained. The same elements in both the PQs are shown with the help of correspondence pointers. Here, the minimum and maxmimum elements are values contained in the root nodes of min heap and max heap respectively.
Removing the min element: Perform removemin() on the min heap and remove(node value) on the max heap, where node value is the value in the corresponding node in the max heap. Removing the max element: Perform removemax() on the max heap and remove(node value) on the min heap, where node value is the value in the corresponding node in the min heap.

There are many well-known methods by which an array can be sorted. Some of them are selection sort, bubble sort, insertion sort, merge sort, quicksort, heapsort, and counting sort.[citation needed] These sorting techniques have different algorithms. Hence there are different advantages of each method.
Main article: Tree traversal
Stepping through the items of a tree, by means of the connections between parents and children, is called walking the tree, and the action is a walk of the tree. Often, an operation might be performed when a pointer arrives at a particular node. A walk in which each parent node is traversed before its children is called a pre-order walk; a walk in which the children are traversed before their respective parents are traversed is called a post-order walk; a walk in which a node's left subtree, then the node itself, and finally its right subtree are traversed is called an in-order traversal. (This last scenario, referring to exactly two subtrees, a left subtree and a right subtree, assumes specifically a binary tree.) A level-order walk effectively performs a breadth-first search search over the entirety of a tree; nodes are traversed level by level, where the root node is visited first, followed by its direct child nodes and their siblings, followed by its grandchild nodes and their siblings, etc., until all nodes in the tree have been traversed.
