What is the best master data management software right now?
To begin answering your question, let's discuss the vendor landscape.  There are four major vendors in this area: * Informatica MDM (formerly Siperian) * IBM - InfoSphere MDM Server (formerly DWL and Trigo) - Initiate Master Data Service (formerly Initiate) * Oracle - Customer, Product, Supplier, and Site Hubs (mix of Oracle and Siebel) - Data Relationship Management (formerly Hyperion) * SAP NetWeaver MDM Beyond those four, there are several "niche" vendors: * SAS DataFlux * D&B Purisma * TIBCO MDM * Black Watch Data * Talend MDM * ... As far as the "best" and "easiest to implement"; well, that depends on many factors including your business needs and existing IT landscape.  According to Forrester, Siperian (now Informatica) is the leader, followed by Initiate (now IBM), and IBM (still IBM)...more on this in a bit. Gartner top-right quadrant has Informatica (formerly Siperian) as the top "visionary", with Oracle and IBM (MDM Server) tops in "execution". In my opinion, Informatica is the most homogeneous/integrated solution (Informatica was already the substrate for Siperian) and offers a true multi-domain platform, whereas IBM and Oracle each sell separate "hubs".  It combines Informatica's best-of-breed Data Quality and Data Integration components into a holistic Data Management platform.  It is more "configure" than "code"; therefore, I would offer that Informatica is somewhat easier to implement. However, IBM MDM Server is a very robust platform and comes with something like 800+ out-of-the-box services and processes that are pre-configured against its respective hub offerings.  It also delivers the most sophisticated and proven services framework of the major vendors.  But why did they acquire Initiate and what is the integration road-map for their two MDM offerings?  Not to worry though, if anyone can figure out how to combine both solutions the best way possible, it is IBM. It is important to understand that the strategic significance, implementation effort, and total cost of ownership of these solutions are more congruent to an ERP application than to a ETL tool (which is the comparison that is often - mistakingly - drawn), and the justification and evaluation process should be given similar cogitation.   The average sticker price for a single domain (say Customer) from one of the top four vendors is in the area of $0.5M - $1.5M (depending on unique record count).  The implementation is typically 1:1 with the license cost.  So, do they "justify the price tag?"  Again, that depends on many factors, but most of our (3sage Consulting) MDM Assessments have uncovered significant ROI for our customers through substantial gains in operational efficiency as well as increased revenue through improved data quality, higher customer satisfaction,  deeper insight into previously unknown relationships (for marketing and segmentation), and - in some cases - the ability to monetize and productize their data.  In addition, MDM solutions (and ultimately, canonical models) contribute to a much higher rate of success for SOA initiatives.    Embed Quote 