What are the hot and/or important topics in cloud data management and cloud computing research?
I believe the biggest areas in cloud computing concepts will be in the big data realm.  There are also very many interesting problems if you are looking to create a startup.  Those problems are largely about implementation and how to move existing enterprises to newer models of computing.  On the Big Data side, the areas I find interesting are about how you combine differing data sets in meaningful ways. A requirement going forward will be determining effective and efficient methods for using existing data for big data activities without impacting the way it is stored and used already.   One of the things the NoSQL movement (and unstructured data in general) has brought is the dependance on the application to supply context and meaning to that data.  That context and meaning is not well captured in a way that can be transferred to other potential users of the data.  In a relational data model you can find much meaning inherently in the data structure itself.  Other aspects are about what types of data can be meaningfully combined and which cannot.  I see many examples of statistically irrelevant data being used together.  It produces a nice dashboard or info graphic, but ultimately is meaningless for real analysis because the data doesn't actually mesh in the ways proposed.  It may be possible to develop models to limit this or at least provide some information on what data can show causality and which can show merely correlation.  You mention a particular interest in PaaS and IaaS.  The platform side is rich for exploring the above concepts as well as creating more efficient methods and algorithms for combining multiple dispersed data sets and sources.  Ifttt.com is a good example of this with popular social sites, but I would like to see the ability to combine any platform with any other more easily.  On the IaaS side one of the major hurdles I hear is about hypervisor insecurities.  There are methods to hack across the hypervisor to gain control to another VM running on the same hypervisor.  Current techniques are not adequate to prevent or expose this behavior.  Another area I would like to see is truly distributed computing along the lines of every PC, laptop, server, and device in an organization being able to power parts of total computation for that organization.  Every processing task could be processed as one pushed to the organization, effectively making the entire office a large super computer.  There is much to be done with algorithms, computer science, and applications for this to go smoothly.    Embed Quote 