What are some sources of competitive intelligence?
While this of course depends on your industry and your company goals, we have put together the following comprehensive list to help you stay ahead of the game. Website – We’ll start here as this is the most obvious. There is a 99.9% chance that in 2014 all of your competitors are online, and provides you with a wealth of CI opportunities. From your competitor’s CTA’s to pricing and offers, your competitor’s website can alert you to your competitor’s weaknesses and present you with new opportunities to gain market share. Interested in more information? Check out Monday’s blog post: Website Monitoring: 13 Things You Must Track for the Competitor Analysis Report. Social Media – From tracking who your competitor’s sales team is connecting to on LinkedIn to monitoring customer satisfaction on Twitter, social media is a great CI source to glean information about who they are targeting and what conversations are being had. For more, check out How to Analyze Competitors’ Social Strategy and Easy Steps to Improve Yours. App Store Stats – For apps downloads, price, and ranking, you can track this by trolling through Apple’s App Store, Amazon’s App Store, Blackberry’s App World, Google Play, Nokia’s Store, Samsung’s Apps, and Microsoft’s Phone Store, and tediously adding all information into different Excel sheets. There are tools such as App Annie that provide download and revenue estimates for all apps, publishers, categories, countries and platforms. Ads – Has you noticed that your competitor has recently launched a PPC campaign on AdWords or Facebook? 500 startups recommends time-tested tools to track ad spend including Spy Fu, KeywordSpy, and What Runs Where to track your competitor’s media spend. You can also get copies of ad creative used. “That way you can get a head start on your own ads by understanding what is already resonating with your competitor’s audience.” Traffic – It is possible to use your competitor’s traffic as a way to benchmark sales. Interested in more about benchmarking sales? Read How Monitoring Competition Can Reveal Industry Trends and Establish Benchmarks: A Chat with Delivery Hero’s Claude Ritter. With tools like Rivalfox, you can easily see how much traffic your competitor receives in a certain time frame. You can then compare this number to yours and figure out ways to increase traffic perhaps through expanding your content and distribution efforts. Communications – The first step in creating your communication strategy should be monitoring your competitors’ to see their strengths, weaknesses, and opportunities to differentiate. Make sure you track their blog, newsletters, and press releases. By monitoring their effectiveness, you are gathering data points to inform your own strategy. Industry Publications – In addition to your competitors own communications, don’t forget to track industry publications that might alert you to up-and-coming competitors. For example, if you are a startup it makes sense to track Techcrunch and Crunchbase to keep an eye out for companies entering your market. Mentions – Who is talking about your competitors? Google Alerts are emails sent to you when Google finds new results — such as web pages, newspaper articles, or blogs — that match your competitor. Customer Reviews – What clients think of your competitor matters. Pay attention to reviews. Negative reviews can alert you to weaknesses that you may be able to capitalize on and positive reviews might give you ideas for your own product or strategy. Job Boards – You can easily discover the positions and the locations where your competitors are hiring by monitoring their online job boards. If a competitor begins to advertise in a new country, that could signal a push into a new market. If they are suddenly searching for developers, that may indicate a drive to add a new feature set. When your competition adds online marketers, look for a renewed investment in paid ads and greater focus on SEO. Also take note of employees who are leaving, it may signal a change in strategy. Human Intelligence – While a majority of CI research gathering can be provided by software, such as Rivalfox, other information can only be acquired through spoken communication. Chat with colleagues and competitors at conferences, meetings, wherever you have an opportunity to seek out differing perspectives or pick up an inside scoop.    Embed Quote 