What are the best books (in English) on competitive intelligence analysis?
Albeit several years old, I think a good starting point would also be Competitive strategy: techniques for analyzing industries and competitors by Michael E. Porter. ---------------------- After thinking for a while and having now a bit more time to answer, I would like to come back to this question. I am not sure if the focus is just on analysis or on competitive intelligence in general. Since competitve intelligence is both a wide and deep field this is a hard to answer question. Certainly it is important to have a good general understanding of all business aspects (finance, marketing, supply chain management etc.) and there are a lot of methods for analysis mentioned in the leading literature in those fields. When you are looking for a good summary of those analysis frameworks I can only second Arthur Weiss' suggestion: Strategic and Competitive Analysis: Methods and Techniques for Analyzing Business by Craig S. Fleisher & Babette Bensoussan. The book is giving a good overview of the most used frameworks (SWOT, Win and Loss etc.) and is even covering some of the more complex methods such as War Gaming. Then again you would probably want to read some books, which are covering analysis in general. I am not familiar with the books mentioned by Quora User, however I have read the following book: Head First Data Analysis A learner's guide to big numbers, statistics, and good decisions by Michael Milton ISBN: 978-0-596-15393-9 http://oreilly.com/catalog/97805... This books not only gives a good overview on sound analysis work, but is at the same time a teaching book with a lot of assignments to train your newly learned knowledge. The book is full of actionable knowledge which will help you during your analysis work! The second book I would like to suggest is dealing with how you visualize information and will help you to display your findings as well as to understand visual displayed information better. The Visual Display of Quantitative Information by Edward R. Tufte ISBN-10: 0961392142 Edward Tufte is an intersting person and you should learn more about him and his works. Just take a look at his homepage at at http://www.edwardtufte.com/tufte... Hope I could help, Stefan    Embed Quote Updated 21 Feb, 2011. 567 views.