When and how to implement competitive intelligence in a startup?
Competitive intelligence (CI) is a vast discipline, and an important part of any kind of business, both off and online. As for when to implement CI: Implementing CI should be done from day one I believe -- if not even before a startup is launched, as mention by both Arthur Weiss and Kalie Moore. Knowing as much as possible about your competition, and the market in general, allows you to know more about your own product or website. Thus, once more, as for the when: Right now! In regards to how: This is also a very important question, although challenging. It all depends on your product. Generally speaking, you want to know what your competition is doing, so you can do it better. Pricing is a typical example: Can you, with your product, be more competitive on the market as opposed to your competitors? The product itself as well is another factor to take into consideration: Can your product be better than the one produced by your competition? We could go on and on with great examples, but that should be enough to answer the question, at least in part. The lack of time and monetary resources is actually a big concern. The best possible scenario is having a CI officer in house. No one knows the company’s product better than the company itself, so the best scenario would be doing your own CI. Several CI web-based tools today let you do a part of the CI work for free. I work with a company, Follow.net Competitive Intelligence Software, and that is a perfect example of a free-to-use tool (limited account) that allows you to do competitive intelligence. You can open an account for free, even though you have the choice to more advanced paid plans, as well. The web-based tool provides data in regards to: Amount of traffic Affiliate network SEO and SEM information Display advertising Contextual advertising Demographics statistics Social media mentions: Twitter Mentions from other websites WhoIs information Reverse lookup And also competitors’ website names This just a couple of screenshots to let you see how Follow.net Competitive Intelligence Software looks like. Closely monitoring several sites takes a lot of work, but Follow can be set up in a way you’ll be notified when the sites you want to monitor do anything new online. As I said, there is a free version you can download and install immediately. Go to Follow.net Competitive Intelligence Software: http://follow.net/?utm_source=internal, give it a try, and let me know what you think.    Embed Quote 