What are the best programming practices and coding standards independent of programming languages?
Always write documentation for functions and methods. This should clearly depicts what is expected out of this method and if possible document it some examples covering various inputs along with its respective outcome. General argument would be that documentation tends to become outdated or source code is the best documentation, but all these statements exists because same people wants to justify their act of skipping writing documentation It’s good to put author name to your classes and methods so that you can look for right person during trouble times trying to understand the code or fixing a critical bug. Always remember following principles: DRY (Do not Repeat Yourself) Distinguish business exceptions from technical Write code as if you had to support it for the Rest of Your Life Make use of configurations and constant files/classes from day one Convention while naming methods is important Name your methods returning boolean to be read as methods answering a question like isActive(), hasDeleted() etc. Method prefixed with ‘get’ or ‘has’/‘is’ should not update or change any object’s properties i.e. they should be idempotent. Understand the difference between various log levels Its very important to have proper logging in your application. Logging statements like ‘inside method A’ or ‘inside if clause’ is useless information irrespective of the log level. Debug level should have more information about the request or state than the info. Its better to check for log.isDebugEnabled(), isInfoEnabled() before logging specially if your log statements good amount of string concatenation.  Make use of static analysis tools There are various static analysis tools for every language. Make use of them religiously as they will help you identify common errors/bugs in your code. Enforce a consistent indentation and coding style throughout your project and team. For example: policy on  placement of left curly brace should be consistent through out your project. Checkstyle is one such tool to help programmers write Java code that adheres to coding standard. Similarly phpcheckstyle exists for PHP programmers. 