How did Richard Wagner change the face of music?
This is a deep question with a deep answer; I've broken it down into headings, so you can read what you're interested in, since there's a lot to discuss. Sandra May brings up the Leitmotif, which was definitely a big innovation of Wagner's (prior to Wagner, music either commented on the action OR referred to the action, as in a madrigalism). Wagner innovated a great deal, creating many such devices, and whole books have been written about these. I'll talk about these a bit, but I'm more excited to talk about stylistic influence than about inventive influence, if that makes sense. An AnecdoteThat said, let me start with anecdote, because it's my easiest way into this question. A year or so ago, I heard a master class from a famous opera conductor, who had worked tirelessly in the Bel Canto revival, obsessively reworking scores of pre-Wagnerian music, and leading the charge (with amazing success) to get these works performed in major opera houses. This could not have been a less Wagnerian class: the singers (predictably) all picked bel canto arias, almost none of them had sung Wagner in their lives, etc. But before each singer started, the conductor spoke to them for a few seconds. "Remember, when you're singing this music, that Richard Wagner did not exist yet when this was written." It was vital to him that people resist Wagner's influence actively, because the influence is so incredibly pervasive in our musical aesthetic. The Most Influential Composer?Meanwhile, let's break this question down into two parts: first, who are the other candidates for the position of most influential composer in history? Beethoven is the obvious choice. Maybe Berlioz (first uses of true program music), or Monteverdi (development of monody, and functional development of early opera)? Certainly not Bach, whose music wasn't even known in his own time, or Mozart, Handel, Haydn, all of whom were masters of their own periods, but none of whom innovated on close to the scale of Wagner. So then we look at Beethoven, our most likely candidate. Such a towering influence on the symphony that for decades great composers were literally too scared of comparison to write symphonies. Certainly a huge impact on the first half of the 19th century, equal, perhaps, to Wagner's influence in the 2nd half. That said, Wagner's influence on the 20th century is so incredibly manifest  as to dwarf Beethoven's. So much of Beethoven's influence was in the areas of form, sonata development, motivic treatment, etc. All of these things are significant in the 20th century, but none even close to the harmonic and textural palate of Wagner. Beethoven has just controlled less territory on the timeline. Berlioz? Certainly the innovation was significant, and had it's one we still use today. This was a truly great composer, but one who (for political as well as musical reasons) stirred up far less in the musical landscape of the 19th century. And, again, beyond the 19th century his influence pales in comparison. Monteverdi? Certainly without Monteverdi there could not have been a huge amount of important music. This is music that I love a great deal, and that many important composers have studied, but it's also music that existed before the concept of a musical canon was really established. Thus it died pretty young by comparison, and it's difficult to ascertain just how much significance it had on the development of music even 50 years later. Certainly Handel owes a debt of gratitude to Monteverdi, but exactly how much, it's hard to say. And as far as fame beyond their home countries go, obviously Wagner wins this by a mile. Nationalism and Wagner's InfluenceIt's this fame beyond their home countries that I think is also worth some more discussion. Nationalism in music is a huge deal. I don't know if I can stress that enough. Over a period of centuries, for a huge number of reasons, a few perceptions came about regarding countries and their music, which set the stage for Wagner's era. For one thing, Italian was considered the language of "pop music", especially opera, whereas German was the language of "serious music", especially the symphony. To illustrate this, let's go back to the Beethoven example. Beethoven and Rossini lived and worked in overlapping eras (Rossini was 20 years younger and lived MUCH longer, but he retired incredibly young, just two years after Beethoven's death). Rossini was the most famous Italian composer during this time, having taken the genre of comic opera to new levels, whereas Beethoven was the quintessential serious composer, taking the symphony to new levels, and writing some of the most harmonically- and structurally-adventurous music of the era. Despite this, the two men were completely uninfluenced by each other. You can hear essentially nothing of the one's music in the other. Compare this to Wagner. His influence within German "serious" music was extraordinary, of course. But more unique was his influence on non-German composers, and on non-German genres. For one thing, Wagner was essentially an opera composer. This was a genre that was quintessentially Italian up to this point, but Wagner imbued it with the influence of the symphony, which would continue to pervade opera through the present day (at this point, it's everywhere, as a result of Wagner's work). Every composer from around the world heard his music. Composers made pilgrimages to hear his premieres, and his music became a talking point for the entire musical world. His influence was massive on French opera (e.g. Massenet), on Italian opera (e.g. Verdi, but especially Puccini), even on Russian music (e.g. Tchaikovsky, later Rachmaninov, etc.). The greatest composers of this age met at Wagner's premieres, in Bayreuth. People traveled for weeks or months to hear this music, and the influence that it had was staggering. Everyone of this period defined themselves as either pro- or anti-Wagnerian, and even those who were anti-Wagnerian often ended up being more influenced than those who were pro-. In this sense, Wagner was both the musical voice of his generation, and the first composer to initiate a move towards globalization in classical music. (This is ironic, since Wagner's rhetoric was incredibly anti-global; his impression of himself was that he was asserting German dominance, rather than influencing the entire musical landscape of the western world). Examples: Wagner and The SymphonyGiven the huge number of composers who were almost obsessed with what Wagner was up to, it's not surprising that this man completely changed the symphony forever. Let's look at a couple of examples of how this transformation took place, so we can be really clear on just how vital Wagner's influence was. Consider the Lohengrin Prelude, completed in 1849. The piece begins, and we hear an arpeggio, the simplest representation of what we find beautiful in music. It feels almost elemental, and Wagner seems in no hurry to move past it. Then, 38 seconds in, we start to get our first indication that melody might rise up out of it. In the high strings, the melody does come, almost just as an ornament to this arpeggio, which seems ever present, until at 1:20, we begin to modulate, moving rapidly, but only for about 15 seconds before mysteriously returning home to the original key. Melody seems to develop out of nowhere, seamlessly (we'll return to this in the section on Wagner and the Musical Phrase) threading into itself and returning back to this initial ideal of the arpeggio. Compare that to Strauss's Also Spoke Zarathustra, written 50 years later, and made famous by the movie 2001: A Space Odyssey. We begin with a much lower note, and the arpeggio is now in the brass, but the same technique is being used. Out of the arpeggio, Strauss builds the overtone series (the fundamental building block by which we hear all music), from which he builds melody, thus adding one additional step to the method used by Wagner. We see that the first 1:35 of this piece (arpeggiating, developing a melody out of the top of the arpeggio, and then turning it into a scale form, which finally returns us to the original arpeggio) are structurally exactly identical to the first 1:35 of Wagner's Lohengrin. And what's more, Strauss's texture is clearly hugely influenced by Wagner here. Compare that to contemporary composer John Adams's first orchestral piece, the 1979 Common Tones in Simple Time. Adams, through the lens of minimalism, goes through the same process described above, using neo-reimannian transformations to move around a Wagnerian space (Neo-Riemannian theory; a lot of this wikipedia page was written by an old professor of mine and his explanation is WAY better than mine would be). In short, Adams here is using Wagnerian chord transformations to create a Wagnerian effect, but he's using the modern minimalist style to do it. It's fundamentally impossible to detach this music from Wagner, even though it was written 130 years later. Examples: Wagner and Phrase StructureMeanwhile, Wagner's influence on phrase structure is gigantic. Prior to Wagner, music was generally segmented into pretty simple phrases. Consider for example this beautiful case from Mozart's 21st Piano Concerto. The first 12 seconds are all one phrase, which sets up a kind of musical idea. The following 12 seconds, then, are a consequent idea, which seems to give some resolution to the first one. The melody is clearly in two halves. In Wagner this is anything but the case. He famously withheld resolutions, stretched phrases, etc. to build enormous amounts of suspense. Consider, for example, Tristan und Isolde. During the prelude to the opera, Wagner sets up a system of unfinished cadences (i.e. the phrase begins but doesn't reach proper resolution). The opera continues and a cadence is withheld for not just the first act, or the second act, but three acts of music. This is something that Mozart couldn't go 24 seconds without doing, that Wagner goes literally hours without. The effect is to highlight the delay of the consummation of Tristan and Isolde's love; Wagner uses the suspense and tension of elongated phrase structure to illuminate a dramatic arc. Finally, only in Isolde's death, can this resolution be reached. (Please listen to this recording of the incredible Kirsten Flagstad singing the leadup to that moment--not particularly because it makes my point stronger, but because it's just amazing). What you notice in this music is that it's much more similar to the way we think of music working. It seems to progress constantly forward, never stagnating harmonically. This has become a fundamental part of our musical subtext, and it's the lens through which we hear all phrases. Examples: Wagner and Film MusicOf course, one of the places you're most likely to have heard music progress in this way is in film scores. The obvious examples are John Williams, etc., which I'll go into a little bit below. But I want to make the point that even completely "normal" film scores use these same techniques. For example, listen to this Elfman theme from Edward Scissorhands, which makes use of the exact same method for melodic development as the Liebestod above. It's actually kind of amazing how much of this method was borrowed, particularly given that I highly doubt Elfman modeled this score off the Wagner. It was just so engrained in his mind that it was an option he went to. And, of course, these techniques resemble Wagner even more closely in earlier film music. Just listen to this opening music in the film Notorious, by Roy Webb. Unbelievably Wagnerian. The more commonly cited examples, however, are between Wagner and John Williams, especially the Star Wars movies. It seems clear that this was a somewhat intentional parallel. Both begin with dark, ominous low tones in the first piece of the series. Both use leitmotifs in similar ways, combining them expressively and as commentary. But then there's the matter of actual references to the Ring in Star Wars. Consider the Luke Skywalker motif, which is the first melody identifiable here: Musically, this motif is actually a combination of two of Siegfried's themes in the Ring Cycle (there are a number of character similarities between Siegfried and Luke: young, related to the root of evil, trained by a dwarf, etc.). Listen to these two themes from the ring, from which the Luke theme derives, especially the second one: Likewise, there are a number of other occasions in the score in which the leitmotifs line up in fascinating ways. It's still unclear whether Williams was intentionally basing these on the Ring, but there's no question that the comparison is striking. Examples: Wagner and Popular MusicI had a wonderful musicology professor who once said to my class "any time you hear any music today that sounds epic, it's because of Wagner's influence." Our ear is so conditioned by generations hearing Wagner as the ultimate epic that we can't help but imitate it for our most epic sounds. The most common example of this is in Heavy Metal, where many musicians actively imitated Wagnerian ideas. Deep Purple notably experimented with figures and ideas borrowed from the Ring Cycle in their early work, as did Metallica. Obviously, there's also a certain commonality of perspective thematically, in terms of the particular spiritual and cultural associations that Wagner shares with heavy metal. That said, the influence goes far more mainstream than that. Phil Spector notably said that his Wall of Sound recording technique, which is a huge part of the history of audio engineering, was "strongly influenced" by Wagnerian aesthetic. Perhaps my favorite examples of this are in concept albums, because they so often borrow Wagnerian elements to get that "epic" feeling. Structurally, Pink Floyd's the Wall comes to mind as having paralleled the Ring in its development of motivic materials (compare the opening of the album to the Lohengrin Prelude shown above) and hypermetric texture. Likewise, and perhaps more compactly, their song Great Gig in the Sky, from Dark Side of the Moon, makes use of Wagnerian chord progressions and neo-Wagnerian orchestration to great effect. A friend of mine once showed me a version of this song without the drum track and it basically sounded like it had been lifted out of a Wagner opera and played by some pop musicians. Unfortunately that's not on youtube, so here's the original version: More modern examples abound, and actually seem (anecdotally, to me, I don't have stats on this) to be getting more frequent (maybe because of the role of listening to music with headphones in modern culture? That's my guess...). The way Lady Gaga handles textural build in Bad Romance seems almost hilariously Wagnerian. She begins, literally mocking Bach, and then suddenly breaks out of that into an insistant, driving, massive Wagnerian crescendo. Of course, the chords aren't Wagnerian at all, but the textural and expressive treatment of the music could hardly be moreso. There are dozens of examples of this exact same method of building intensity, which had never existed before Wagner: Wagner's Varied InfluenceFinally, I'd like to discuss something that isn't about Wagner's influence on musicians, but Wagner's influence on the non-musical world in way that no other classical musician has ever been capable of. This man had a dazzling influence on literature and philosophy, and was one of Nietsche's closest friends and allies. Marcel Proust and Thomas Mann both admitted to being heavily influenced by Wagnerian aesthetics, and wrote about him in novels. W.H. Auden was likewise an exemplar of Wagnerian influence, and spoke about it publicly. Wagner is a subject of T.S. Eliot's the Waste Land, which refers to and quotes from several of his operas. Wagnerian aesthetic ideas, such as the fusing of love, death, and immortality, are referred to in Freud's writings. In a more modern context, Alex Ross has written about Wagner's music and the African diaspora (e.g. Black Wagner and the Rest Is Noise), and is currently working on a full book, the thesis of which is that Wagner was the most influential composer in history by far. Despite the political and philosophical work of other great composers (Beethoven comes to mind), these men did not become nearly as influential as Wagner in these ideals. This was, in part, a result of circumstance, and in part a result of the ideals themselves, but it is just one more example of a way in which Wagner was able to exert far more influence over a far longer period of time than any composer in history. Updated 9 Oct 2013 • View Upvotes • Not for Reproduction • Asked to answer by Marc Ettlinger and Lawrence Li