PHP (programming language): For building a website, which programming language is easier to learn: Python or Java?
Hi I think for building a website or web application PHP is the best choice Why PHP a) Easy to learn b) Lot of online groups available c)Having bunch of open source CMS (it can ready use as per your work) d)Having no of open source frame works e)Easy install and easy to maintenance f)Open Source g)Platform Independent f)Simple code for DB connections h)Having bunch of example codes More ... PHP is a powerful server-side scripting language for creating dynamic and interactive websites. Today  PHP is the most widely used programming language on the web, with over  40% of all web applications written in PHP, and it is installed on over  22 million domain servers. PHP is a free open source language that  saves thousands of dollars in licensing fee and that makes it more  cost-effective than its competitors like ASP.NET, Visual Basic.net and  Java. PHP is very easy to install and PHP websites are fast,  secure and stable. It provides web developers much more liberty in  creating website with some of the excellent features and they can use  common elements repeatedly. A PHP supported website can retrieve  information from database and for that you need a relational database  management system like MSQL. Databases can be used in new ways and users  have access to this centralized data. Small websites can utilize PHP to  obtain feed back from users on their products and services. It is  a well known fact that most of the popular websites are dynamic in  nature as compared to the websites that are having plain pages. User  friendly websites attract more visitors and loyal customers that  ultimately results in the rise in your online business. If you want to  develop a website, you should make sure that you have designed and  developed efficient website; else you will have to start from the  beginning again. If you are planning to create dynamic web pages, you  must consider PHP websites. 