Mobile Applications: What's the most innovative app?(NB: mostly for Android here)
Now a days each one of us carries very high end or latest mobile devices which always fears that it may be lost or stolen. $90 billion  worth android mobile phones are being lost every year.Study reveals American Ethnicity and People lost $30 billion worth of mobile phones in 2012 (Lost Phones Cost Americans $30 Billion a Year) I have created an android application UniQ Mobile Finder -Anti Theftwill help find your lost or stolen smartphone and protect your personal information from unwelcome intruders. UniQ Mobile Finder -Anti Theft  features- 1. Takes Multiple Photos of intruder When you lost your phone or somebody stolen, Intruder might try to unlock your phone password, UniQ Mobile Finder takes a multiple photos of the intruder using the front camera and send it across to your mail. 2. Capture Video UniQ Mobile Finder captures video of the intruder so that you see what he/she doing, hear what he/she speaks and you can easily hunt down that crook. 3. Track Mobile phone location, Ring your phone and Format all your data When intruder enters the wrong password, UniQ Mobile Finder immediately shoots you an email with a multiple photos, video and current location of your mobile phone so that you can easily track the intruder. There will be links in mail through which you can track the mobile phone location , ring your phone, erase all your data if you think you wont get it back. 4. SIM Card Change Alert If intruder insert a new SIM card into your phone. UniQ Mobile Finder immediately shoots you an email with photos, location as well as details of new SIM such as phone number, subscriber ID and network provider etc. 5. Contact Backup When you lost your phone one of the first thing you might need is contact backup. You can instantly get a backup of your phone contacts into your registered mail by sending a SMS saying "Contacts" to "Your Lost Mobile Number" from any mobile. Contact backup will be in 2 formats. One in .xls format so that you can easily read your contacts and one in .vcf so that you can easily put all your contacts in any android mobile in one click instead of saving all your contacts manually. 6. Send SMS to get the Intruder Details When you lost your phone you don't need to wait until intruder makes mistake(like Entering Wrong Password, Changing SIM card etc), you just borrow your Friend's phone and send a SMS saying "Lost" to "Your Lost Mobile Number" and you can instantly get the intruder details like photos, video, current location of your phone etc via mail. 7. Send SMS to your Friend if there is no internet connection If there is no internet connection in your mobile phone while sending the intruder details all your intruder details will be sent to your friend’s mobile number via SMS. 8. Send Email After Power ON If intruder turn off your phone in locked condition, UniQ Mobile Finder shoots  you an email soon after they switched back on. 9. Retry sending Emails If UniQ Mobile Finder is unable to send the email (e.g. if there is no internet connection), it will save the information on the phone and will keep on trying to send you the intruder  information(up-to 1 year) until a Wi-Fi or mobile Internet connection is available. 10. Triggers alarm if anybody try to move your phone without your knowledge (Anti-Theft alarm) If anybody try to move your phone without your knowledge(eg: while sleeping) UniQ Mobile Finder triggers an alarm and its continue ringing until you type the correct password. Reference Video: Hope it helps. Thanks! 