Mobile Applications: What's the most innovative app?(NB: mostly for Android here)
Some great new apps added in the update! Runkeeper (free) - If you like running or working out, or playing ... This is one of the best tracking app in the market. It boasts one of the largest user base as well so you can compete with your friends and the best part is you can remain motivated! Bodyspace (free) - This is a great app for working out, has a whole      database of different exercises with description and videos on how to      perform them. Plus you get a whole lot of plans which you can follow      according to your needs! You can track your workouts, make friends,      ask for suggestions and tips. Skypicker (free) - There was on article I saw few days back about this app. It offers great fares on some routes. Worth checking out if you are traveller types. Plates (free) - This is an awesome app to share your bill after lunch or dinner! Great interface, takes into account all permutations of splitting the bill. Dubsmash (free) - It's such  a great app for dubbing your voice with famous songs, dialogues etc.. Already a super hit app! I spent hours after I first downloaded this app. It's so much fun.. Coursera (free) - If you want to learn things, like finance, marketing, programming bla bla bla.. and you would like a classroom course, then look no further. It offers a bounty of courses and all the courses can be accessed for free. Vert (free - for a limited time though) - This app converts anything to anything almost! A must have app with a beautiful interface. Telegram (free) - This is an app by a Russian developer, specifically designed to protect your privacy. It is exceptionally good for messaging with web versions which works for all devices (whatsapp doesn't have web version for iOS). Flipboard (free) - This app has been there for a long time but worth mentioning. It is basically a news reading app, but you can follow things that interests you, and the contents are presented in a seamless interface. Looks amazing on iPad! Letterspace (free, ios only) - It's a note-taking app which you will fall in love with. Currently available only for iOS. It has a very intuitive interface. Pushbullet (free) - This app truly integrates all your devices and some pretty cool features, you can accept or decline a call from your browser, reply to messages - text, Facebook, WhatsApp, Telegram etc.. etc . One drawback I noticed in this app is you can see iPhone notifications only on your mac, if you have the pushbullet app installed. For Android guys, it's fun! vocabulary.com (paid) - If you're looking to improve your vocab, look nowhere. This is such a cool, cloud based vocabulary app, you'll find it worth every penny you spent. Calm (free) - Looking to get to some place else, with some soothing tunes and interesting stories amid your hectic schedule, this is it! Splitwise (free) -  There hasn't been a more productive and useful app to me than this one. Immaculate design and smooth operations! This app can be used to split bills with other people, e.g. you went on a trip with friends, or have a flatmate. In US, it supports settlement of payments as well. Goodluck with the apps! Hope you'll enjoy! Updated 1 Jun • View Upvotes