What basic PHP/MySQL interview questions should I focus on?
I have to agree with the others here that have indicated that, (unfortunately), the definition of 'basic' is extremely subjective, especially in the software development world. The thing to keep in mind is that no matter what language you're working in, (PHP, C++, Java, whatever), the underlying principles of programming and software development are fundamentally the same.  Whatever you're asked to do, my guess is the goal will be less to demonstrate your specific knowledge of PHP, and more to demonstrate your grasp of those fundamental principles. So, with that in mind, make sure you have a pretty firm understanding of your basic programming concepts and how they are applied in PHP: Variables Conditionals (And by extension - comparison operators) Loops Arrays String manipulation Math functions and operators. Functions (writing them and using common built-ins like 'echo') MySQL functions in PHP (for your particular case)As a bonus, you'd be doing yourself no harm to look in to the object-oriented features of PHP 5...and in to object-oriented programming in general. As far as MySQL goes, I doubt anyone you'll be interviewing with will be expecting a guru. Make sure you're pretty solid on 3 of the 4 CRUD, (CREATE, READ, UPDATE DELETE), operations: Creating records in a database is pretty straightforward, there are only one or two ways to do it, and you should be fairly familiar with how to do it. Updating records in a database can be a bit more complicated than creating them, but you're not going to be asked to do a lot of data-contortions, so I think understanding the basic UPDATE syntax will serve you. Deleting is similar to updating...just make sure you understand how the basics work. Reading is a bit more complicated, and it's here that your interviewers are most going to want to judge you. Obviously make sure you can do a basic record fetch via SQL, but once you're comfortable with that, you'll probably want to read about/begin experimenting with basic joins. There are a ton of resources on the web to help you with this, and if you're self-taught to this point, I'm confident that you'll be able to find what you need. I should point out that there's nothing wrong with asking your interviewers just what they expect you to demonstrate, just to provide guidance.  In fact, they might have already given you a great deal of information to go on, just based on the job description. 