What are the top ten things a beginner must know about JavaScript?
This is another one of those questions that totally depends on context. For example, the first answer to this question I read included this comment: "there are no classes". The beginners I know wouldn't have a clue what that means, as they've had no prior programming experience. So I'm going to base my answer on that scenario (new user with no prior programming experience). (Note: I've also written a post http://integralist.co.uk/JavaScr... which covers these points in more detail.) Terminology Without proper terminology you'll be alienated from online discussions. So learn the terminology for different aspects of the language. Worlds within worlds Recognise that there are multiple "domains" within the language. New users need to realise that the core language of JavaScript is very easy to understand and has quite a small set of features. The other side to JavaScript development (as far as browser dev is concerned) is what's called the DOM, and the DOM has its own API that JavaScript implements (this API is what causes most problems for developers, especially version dependence and browser compatibility). Global object Understand what the global object is in JavaScript and how it works, and why it causes the confusion and problems it does for a lot of developers. Primitive and Reference types Know the difference between them and the associated types. This causes problems with how objects are referenced (e.g. Storing something in a variable: is it a direct reference—so any changes affect the original object—or is it a primitive value so any change to it only affects that specific variable value). The Document Object Model (DOM) Understand what it is and how JavaScript interacts with it. Also understand how 'expensive' it is to interact with the DOM and how to write more efficient code around it. Learn about the libraries which abstract this (jQuery, Prototype, etc). Coercion Understand how JavaScript coerces objects and values. This can cause real confusion to new developers. The 'this' value Understand how it changes in multiple different contexts: There is unexpected behaviour that can confuse new users. Here's one excellent reference: http://yehudakatz.com/2011/08/11... There are only 7 themes listed here but I think they cover the common causes of problems. For a more in-depth study, Douglas Crockford's book JavaScript—The Good Parts cannot be recommended too highly. I'm interested in what other people have to say on this subject. Updated 26 Feb 2013 • View Upvotes