How should a Computer Science student at VIT University prepare for placement Interviews?
Try for a right job. Be what you are! Alert: This is for those who are looking for an offer of a job to work on the technologies of their passion but worried that no company is asking about their skill sets. I have come to VIT to recruit for our company. Not all companies, look for the knowledge you gain from the books, data structures and all. They look how you can learn, contribute and deliver. They look how much you involved and contributed to the projects you worked on. Once being a student we know what to expect from students. From all the applications we would get, we basically would make sure that students with skill sets that we need are called for interview round, mostly by having coding rounds. In interview, we would look at the projects the student did and we ask questions based on it, ask him how he solved the problem, concentrate on how he looks at a problem and come up with a solution.  We would look at their past experiences and how they can manage tasks. Communications skills are must. Once satisfied with that, we would like to know how well he will learn and adopt with new technologies. So, we give on the fly tasks on new technologies and see how they learn and deliver in time.  Yes, this process takes so long. Last time, our recruitment process went from 10am  to 6am. So, we make sure, we get right people for their talent, not for their luck. After all., there is nothing that you would need to prepare in particular. Sharpen your skills. Be thorough with what you have done and what you already know. Getting placed in a company offering you a job that you are passionate about is important. And this is exactly how few fast growing companies would recruit. Example: I'm completely into web development since college. All my projects are web related. I was worried as no company would ask for web development skills. Later, the first web development company, I'm placed with a dream offer! A company would never ask for something which they don't need. If they are asking you some concepts in C++, its their requirement, there is nothing wrong. Don't break head by learning new technologies. Don't get disappointed, be thorough with your expertise. You will get the right job. These are my opinions, I could be wrong, but I believe in this process of recruitments. Good luck! 