Why do many software engineers not like Java?
Some actual reasons Java is disliked by software engineers, as opposed to the almost-completely-irrelevant-bordering-on-nonsense reasons trotted out by some other responders: Java's presence in a job posting is, at this point in its life, a sign of having to deal with Other People's Problems. (Preemptive apologies to Naughty by Nature.) A Java job posting immediately connotes (and frequently accurately) that you'll be working on a big, old piece of software. The language itself aids this phenomenon to a degree; it's very easy, by and large, to read other people's Java code due to its verbosity, insistence on declared types and poor type inference, lack of metaprogramming and macro features (not even a precompiler!), the first-class-ness of Javadoc, and other reasons typically derided. However, in the following hypothetical, if you could be paid the same $sum for fixing the same bug in functionally identical (complex) Java application versus any other modern language, Java would be the secret choice of many of these haters. God help the poor soul (even me today!) who would have tried to figure out some of the crazy Perl code I wrote 10 years ago. But I know I could work on the Java without much difficulty. Oracle. Oracle's purchase of Sun turned Java's patronage from something like benevolent indifference to malevolent landgrab. There is/was enough in the community's control to keep the platform from being totally closed off, but don't think for a second that Oracle wouldn't treat Java just like they treat their namesake database and extort every penny from its users if they thought they could get away with it. In fact, if not for deep-pocketed Google needing a Java beachhead for Android, Oracle's lawyers might have succeeded in making this post a one-word response already. Ant. I know what we should do...let's make a build tool for java, except let's not give it any idea about inferring resource dependencies, and let's build in a bunch of idiosyncratic file glob and command structure bits because cross platform, and leave it with barely any awareness of its execution environment because cross platform, then let's string it all together with a super-verbose markup language like XML! (I kid. A little. But when the best thing you can say about Ant is "at least it's not Maven"...) 