How do you judge a JavaScript programmer by only 5 questions?
I don't. It's not my process. Real implementation doesn't happen on a whiteboard in front of a panel of judges. This isn't American Idol, and most people who think this is an effective means of separating talent from weight operate on a handy list of questions. If first candidate fails the interview, collect the questions. Hand them off to next candidate to practice, present as off-the-cuff, and land the job. It works every time with people who reuse the same questions, so much so that I could probably send in an actor with no coding experience whatsoever to land the gig. You can judge candidates on a favorite set of questions, and you will probably miss out on prospective team members who would better fit the mold of your needs. How about this?: Have a set of very difficult problems. Choose one to attack, and pair program on it until you have a feel for the quality of their work. Ask whatever language-specific questions you need to. Pay attention to their values. Do they test their code? Are they familiar with typical concerns around what you are building (responsive, delivery pipeline, performance...)? Keep your channel of communication open. Some people get paralyzing stage fright during the interview, and then take the problem home and solve it easily and immediately. If they can't follow up and prove to you later that they possess the skills but had a moment of anxiety, then you've missed a decent fit and left them with an impression that your company is quick to judge on narrow criteria. The accepted norm is that the interview hour(s) is the end-all-be-all of assessing a candidate's compatibility. I don't subscribe to that, and have brought aboard people who've taken yet more time out of their schedule to revisit the problems we visited in the interview. After all, this isn't rocket science. Some of these questions are distilled in about 5 minutes' Googling. Their time, and impression of you and your company, also matters  :) Updated 22 Jul • View Upvotes