Which have been some of the most funniest/craziest Vivas that you have appeared for at NSIT?
This story concerns itself with the instrumentation viva, IVth semester which took place in this very session. Kps Rana sir was taking the viva and then came the group wich had the students of the class which he had taught the same subject in this very semester. Now let me throw a lil light on the background story which took place a month back when during one of his classes, one Mr. Visa marked the proxy of one of his friends and this fact instantly came to Mr. Rana's attention. Now he knew that the proxy was marked from somewhere near Mr. Visa's bench but could not pinpoint, so he started asking students nearby that area if they had any idea about the same.When he asked a student ,let's say, Mr.Shakla, who was sharing the same bench with Mr.Visa, if he had any idea about the same,Mr. Shakla replied that he stops listening to roll calls after his attendance is marked. But unfortunately, someone else turned Mr. Visa in, and he was detained for the rest of his semester. Now, Mr. Rana had Mr.Shakla sitting before him and he instantly recognized Mr.Shakla and digressed from his viva taking responsibilities,which proved to be a blessing in disguise for the students who were in the same group as Mr.Shakla. So,Mr. Rana with utmost curiosity asks Mr.Shakla the reason he lied the other day and that conversation was as follows: PS(Try to get the deep meaning of Rana sir's answer...It was one of the wittiest replies I have ever heard) Mr. Rana :Haan bhai Shakla ji.. Dost ko bachane ke liye aap jooth boleneg apne proff se huh...Aisa kya deta hain wo aapka.(SO Son, why did you lie to me the other day"?) Mr. Shakla: Sir, ab aap toh samajh hi sakte hain, woh mera accha dost tha aur main thoda ghabra gaya us time.. Mere liye toh "Idhar kua, aur udhar khai thi" (Sir, that guy was my good friend and I did not want to turn him in,I was basically stuck between a well and an abyss, what could I have possibly done then) Mr.Rana: Toh beta kue mein koodna chahiye tha na, kam se kam paani toh naseeb hota!(So  you must have chosen the well then. Atleast there would have been some cushion due to water 