Which have been some of the most funniest/craziest Vivas that you have appeared for at NSIT?
This was truly the funniest incidence in my college life which had left me and my friends laughing about it for months. Considering, I have still one semester left till I graduate I'll chose to make the professor name anonymous, not inviting unnecessary trouble to me in my final semester. We had to do winter training under professor X (she is known for her 'sutta' habits in college). As we all know about our college, none of us pay any heed to the winter training project and on the day of submission of project, we just copy from multiple sources and submit it. Earlier, Professor Sutta had told us their won't be any viva just file submission but at the last moment she changed her mind and decided to take viva. I, decided to be a little Dabangg and went via with the viva without giving a single look to the file and the codes written in it. ( btw, the file contained C++ programs on binary trees, file handling etc) Now, Professor Sutta during viva asked me to explain how I will read a file and copy it's content to other file? I was good at C/C++ ( good in comparison to ICE mates, average to poor for COE guys) but as luck would have it, I didn't know file handling and she asked me just the same code. As I was aware of Professor Sutta reputation, I knew she didn't know anything about the subject she teach, how would she know about file handling? That's it. I derived my strength from that moment and I went on to explain her about the concept of strings, strlen, strcpy, strcmp functions and how I would use these functions to read from one file and copy to other. My group mates who were there with me during the viva couldn't control their laughter seeing me telling a completely wrong and out of the way answer in such a confident manner. Professor Sutta was expressionless that time as if I was talking in some NASA Scientists language. Professor Sutta din't question me further and our viva was over. Everyone came out of the room laughing out loud. P.S I scored 85 in that subject :). 