PHP (programming language): For building a website, which programming language is easier to learn: Python or Java?
Easy to learn is a really hard question to answer, because few programming languages are easy to learn how to use well; they're all easy to learn how to use poorly.  All programming languages have idiosyncrasies that become issues after a while; for example, with Python, getting that code to port to a native app experience is... well, damn hard.   Getting Java code to port (at least to Android) is a heck of a lot easier.  As other answers point out, Python / Flask is pretty simple in terms of lines of code you'd have to write and overall readability... but it's not necessarily the easiest language to learn (if you want to learn it, head over to miguelgrinberg.com for awesome -- and free -- tutorials.  It's by far the best resource I've found on Flask, and will help you build a competently functioning website fast).  However, if you're building a website, then you likely need to learn some basic Javascript as well so you can deliver a good user experience.  For a beginner, switching between Javascript and Python is a headache, mainly because of relatively minor syntactic differences in the languages that just suck when you're staring at code all day.  So if your goal is to just be up and running fast with a site that supports lots of slick interactions, you might be better off learning Javascript from something like Eloquent JavaScript or a similar book and at least getting far enough along to understand how to hack up someone else's JS to make it usable for you. But then there's the question of what you want the website to do.  Certainly, if you're trying to build some huge banking application, then you're likely going to want to do it in Java (for no other reason than that's what the banks use, so they'll understand what you're writing).  If you want to build something that has strong AI capabilities, then maybe you'll want to learn a lisp like The Racket Language.  If your real goal is video games... well, C++ seems like the answer there.  Or, if you want to build something that's a website and compiles to an app all-in-one, you're back to Javascript or C# (Xamarin) or Oxygene or one of many, many other solutions (those just are the ones I'm familiar with off the top of my head). If you wanted to just put up a simple, static webpage, then all you need is HTML and CSS (which are really good to know regardless).    Because that's actually the easiest way to make a website.  If you're really just starting out, start from the very beginning -- sign up for a free account at Bento and start taking the tutorials that they link to (some are paid, some are not).  You'll figure out pretty quickly which languages think like you, and which don't -- all languages were designed by people, and those people had a specific way of thinking that carries through their languages.  Then you can dive in more and learn.  Eventually, you'll get down the rabbit hole far enough that you understand the trade-offs yourself between using Java vs Python for yourself, and assuming you pick Python (most people do find this way easier to learn, and it's got some awesome powerful libraries, too), then you'll be able to figure out which framework you need within Python -- be it Django, Flask, Pyramid, or any of the others. 