Why was Lisp the language of choice for AI research?
A bit off topic as I feel most of what can be said about AI-Lisp has been already. Two things most people don't realize: "What is meant by AI in the industry?" First It's not so much making "inteligent" systems with the intent of getting to a computer which can think for itself. At least, that's not what gets "used" from it. It's more a form of cutting edge development - in this sense the AI of today is tomorrows "new favourite tool". One of the very first examples of this is that if-then-else construct which McCarthy "invented". It was made to help in the AI research, but was then incorporated into the mainstream because it proved to be so useful. In this sense it's quite clear that Lisp got a lot of these first (as it was used in AI more often than other languages at the time) as the "tools" were invented to help with AI. And thus (because Lisp was then the default "AI" language) these tools were first designed for use inside Lisp. Later other languages adopted the same - in a similar manner as the if-then-else was. Since the 70s it seemed that Lisp started to loose this "I'm the first to get the new stuff" connotation. E.g. OO wasn't in Lisp first - that distinction goes to Simula (in mid 60s), and really started to enter the programming concepts in the 70s. So you can say that Lisp started loosing its AI tie by the 70s as other languages started to come about designed specifically to focus on newer concepts (e.g. SmallTalk which epitomized the OO of the original Simula). Second: AI didn't just improve languages as a consequence of its cutting edge development. AI is much broader than simply programming, and definitely more than just the language used (even the one used most when working on AI). Stuff like hand-writing / voice recognision are also spinnoffs from AI. These have become quite the norm these days, but decades ago it would have been considered science fiction - though at the time those were exactly some of the new areas of AI. This is not necessarily anything tied to Lisp, and these days C/C++ is more prevalent in these OCR/Handwriting/Voice recognizers anyway. But even just the software itself isn't what AI is about. The hardware also plays a role in AI research. The screens of today was yesteryear's AI Sci-Fi-like research. Perhaps tomorrows screens will be those bendable paper stuff the Canadians were working on a few years ago. Updated 3 Jun 2014 • View Upvotes