How do you judge a JavaScript programmer by only 5 questions?
I disagree with most replies who suggest asking very specific questions about a programming language. The specifics of a language can be learned by any idiot within minutes. It might help sort out coders by their exposure with a language and make a few gains on initial productivity, but it won't help you identify candidates who could become great JavaScript programmers. My advice would be to enquire about your candidate's motivations and approaches to problem solving, and keep the questions targeted around the type of work you'd expect this programmer to do. Your goal is to hire a right fit, not the next person who could write yet another book about a common programming language. Still, you shouldn't be shy to enquire about his understanding of general JavaScript concepts, like prototypal inheritance, mixins, asynchronicity or closures and what makes programming in JavaScript a different experience than coding in another language. Just keep those questions open and use this opportunity to engage in a dialog to estimate how much this candidate would need to learn or unlearn in order to adapt. Ask about the sort of tools and practices your candidate is looking forward to make use of: source control, testing, documentation, preprocessors, agility, modeling, etc. Credit his familiarity with those concept and eagerness to adopt your tools and practice at least half as much as his proven track record. It's not unusual for experience programmers to require learning new material when changing jobs; many will expect it. Unless you intend to hire a senior staff member who could mentor a junior team, your main concern should be to select bright people who can learn and adapt to your standards. Not people who could save you a month of training by knowing everything about JavaScript but possess little perspective outside of their programming environment. I'm sorry for not supplying the sort of top 5 list that you might expect, but I also don't believe in them as much as selecting metrics that reflect  a good general understanding of a situation. 