How do you judge a JavaScript programmer by only 5 questions?
This is a good question and very relevant to a phone interview. I can usually vet a JS dev in less than 5 questions, and I've had to, because I've seen a lot of unqualified applicants. The following are questions I use for client side developers to build web applications, not web sites. 1. Do you write vanilla JS or which is your preferred library? This gives me insight into how they write code. I almost always want a vanilla JS dev. If they answer a library, it gives me insight into how much of a chance they have at learning JS (and not just the library). I know there are very good programmers who just use jQuery, but they are few and far between, so if they only know jQuery and little to no JavaScript, I expect to abort the interview quickly an politely. 2. Explain the prototype object to me. This is an open ended question that tells a lot. If they are library devs, they rarely will even have heard of it. If they know what it is, I can follow up with:  3.  How do you feel about modifying a native prototype? This leads to whether they know the repercussions of custom code in say, an Array, and if they the value of feature testing and shims. If they pass this, then I can get advanced and ask about inheritance.  4. How do closures work? This is actually a very difficult question, and I will accept something close if they are strong in other areas and it is a junior level position. They should of course understand scope, but a closure involves a function that captures variables and is passed to another function.   5. What do you do to write readable, maintainable code? In general, I want to see code on GitHub which gives me a better answer. But this question can used in absence or addition to that. This is a critical ability in JavaScript because the language is so dynamic and versatile. I'm looking for answers involving modules, comments, unit tests, and SOLID principles. If they get this far, I have several follow up questions involving their knowledge of HTTP, GIT, Agile, etc., to get a feel for their work experience. I then ask questions to get to know them personally, like "what kind of movies do you like?" to get them to loosen up, so I can determine if they have a sense of humor and if this is someone I would enjoy working with. EDIT: Removed the question of ranking yourself 1-10 due to some very angry comments. Tweaked the first question to emphasize general JavaScript knowledge over jQuery-only. Added qualification this is for web applications. Updated 5 May • View Upvotes