Why do many software engineers not like Java?
I’ve read the popular answers and will claim no contest to a majority of the complaints I found: Developers misinterpret its complexity as a value In big corporations, Java engineers write classes, not programs Its overly-strict syntax is tautological and difficult to read Setting up your environment, compiling, and writing Java is cumbersome and necessitates an IDE Typing from hell… However, here’s why I love it. My first programming language was an educational assembly code, followed by C, then C++. Shortly after getting my hands on the latter, Android came onto the scene. As you may know, the preferred language for writing Android applications is Java. My buddy showed me Java through Eclipse. The first time I autocompleted a line of code, it hooked me. If I wanted to memorize a bunch of method names, I would’ve gone to med school Java and Objective-C are the only languages I’ve worked with professionally. In my mind, I use Java to write mobile applications — a.k.a ‘cool stuff.’ I’ve never seen it from the perspective of a polyglot senior developer with years of experience writing for several platforms, so my opinion is heavily biased. However, I did try writing an App Engine web app with Java once; it transported me into a living nightmare. I did not blame the language or platform then; I assumed Java was not suitable for web development and that I’d have to learn Ruby or Python or JavaScript. In the Android world, developers use Java because they have to. However, much creativity has sprung from that limitation. People have written many excellent OS libraries in Java for Android. The platform continues to be a hotbed of Java activity which developers contribute to from all over the world. How can you say ‘no’ to a robot and his floating army of indiscriminate racial diversity? Android’s open nature, wide distribution, and powerful support from Google are almost enough to make Java hip again. It lets you build interesting things like Alternate Reality applications, social networks, or, you know, Arnold Schwarzenegger soundboards. Sure, some may argue that other runtimes and languages can enable the same capabilities of the device, but for whatever reason, Android chose Java. Until Google changes its mind, Java will remain relevant and the source of fascinating developments in the software community as long as Android remains popular. I write and edit curriculum at Bloc.io where we provide an online bootcamp to teach students iOS, Android, and Full-Stack Web Development. 