Why was Lisp the language of choice for AI research?
I don't understand most of the responses to this question. This is a question about history, and the fact that Lisp was used for AI research has absolutely nothing to do with any of its technical properties and everything to do with history. Neither artificial intelligence as we know it today, nor Lisp, would exist without John McCarthy. McCarthy coined the phrase "artificial intelligence" in 1955, organized the first conference on the subject in 1956, and invented Lisp in 1958. If you wanted to do artificial intelligence in the late 50s and early 60s you went to work with John McCarthy, and you used whatever tools were lying around. And there really wasn't anything around besides machine code and Lisp and Fortran. Several of the responses mentioned C, which is nonsensical. C wasn't invented until 1969 and didn't become widely known until the 1980s. Lisp was popular enough by 1974 that Ted Nelson was whining about how elitist it was and how annoying parentheses were in his book Computer Lib/Dream Machines. I'm sure he wasn't the first, and if you look at any web or mailing list discussion about Lisp he certainly is not the last. But getting back on track: in the meantime (late 50s/early 60s) McCarthy is also working on ALGOL, but ALGOL compilers aren't going to be available to help influence C and all the other languages mentioned until the late 60s. In 1960, McCarthy invents the IF-THEN-ELSE statement (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/McC...). Believe it or not, there was no if-else in any programming language before 1960. So McCarthy is inventing artificial intelligence and at the same time writing the best programming language around. Why would you write your AI code in Fortran? The first International Lisp Conference takes place in 1963 in Mexico city (the latest one will be in Kyoto this October), so by this time Lisp is widely known and used. Software that needs high performance is still written mostly in assembly language (the MIT chess programs started out as Fortran and FAP and moved to PDP-6 assembly http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kot...). 1963 is also the year when McCarthy moves to Stanford and established the Stanford Artificial Intelligence Laboratory. The next-best alternative to Lisp at SAIL, called SAIL - Stanford Artificial Intelligence Language, is not developed until 1970. Fast forward to the 1990s when everyone realizes that statistical methods work better for a lot of AI problems, and the only decent toolset for working with large arrays of floating point numbers is a C++ compiler. That's pretty much the reason why Lisp isn't the language of choice for AI research anymore. 