How did Richard Wagner change the face of music?
Oh boy. The answer you quote is, shall we say, just a LITTLE hyperbolic. Certainly folks like Bach or Beethoven are at least "half as significant to the history of music" as Wagner. I'd say Palestrina, Monteverdi, and Schoenberg* probably belong somewhere above that >50% as important as Wagner line. Guido d'Arezzo should be up there too, probably ... maybe Cage as well. Taken at face value, the quote about film scores not possibly existing without Father Richard implies that Wagner somehow invented incidental music ("background music"). Unfortunately, that's just not the case. Incidental music was common at least as early as ancient Greek theatre. Even if one wants to be conservative and only talk about "common-practice" stuff, incidental music is there from the start. The thing to which I think the comment is alluding is Wagner's whole leitmotif idea. Basically, the leitmotif is a simple musical idea that is meant to represent something (a person, a place, etc.) within a larger narrative work (opera, most specifically). Basically, Wagner used these little musical phrases to imply (often unseen) stuff in his operas; he'd foreshadow the hero's fate, for example, by setting his motif beneath some scene involving death. But, Wagner didn't really invent that idea either. (At the very least, Berlioz's ideée fixe should get some pre-Wagner recognition.) What Wagner did was solidify and "master" the concept. He was pretty good at manipulating his audiences' emotions and in pulling them through his (admittedly marathon-length) narratives, using this leitmotif thing as his aide. I am not sure what to make of the second part of the same quote, the "don't get me started on pop music" line. If "every textural treatment in a pop song is an outgrowth of something Wagner did first" is meant to apply to things like overly-pathetic, long-winded, and sometimes bombastic tendencies, then maybe (pardon my sarcasm). Honestly, though, I see virtually no reasoning to the end of "every textural treatment" in popular music having undeniable, clear connections to Wagner any more than it might to any other composer. In my opinion, the biggest way(s) Wagner "changed" the face of music is the extremes to which he pushed the boundaries of German Romanticism and tonal harmony. Tristan was a pretty bold step toward the edge (or to) the edge of a centuries-old theoretical/organizational system. In this regard, he and his music were quite polarizing. Basically, Wagner's music presented composers with a dilemma, which was "Now what?" The answers to this dilemma spawned entirely new theoretical systems for organizing music. Wagner's challenge opened our "ears," so to speak, to new possibilities of what types of harmonies sound "good" and how a piece of music can unfold. * I'm willing to secede that Schoenberg owes much of his importance to Wagner. So, while I feel that he deserves a place at least one rung "above" Wagner, I'm willing to let him go when push comes to shove. 