What is it like to live on a small island?
I grew up in the US Virgin Islands on the island of St.Croix. It's a fairly small island, but not as tiny as some of the other answers here (50k people, 28 x 7 mi). I've since lived in Pennsylvania and Washington. I love visiting but I notice the little quirks of island life quite a bit more the longer I've been gone. Things I miss: Beautiful scenery (clear blue water, multi-colored fish, slowly swimming turtles, coconut trees, white sand beaches, boats of every size coming and going, remnants of sugar mills) Being able to go outside without thinking about the current temperature. Unless it's raining, no thought is given to outerwear, the proper clothing for the weather, etc. I don't care much for picking out my clothing, which this weather is perfect for. Always being a couple minutes from a beach. Sailing year round. Things I am happy I don't deal with normally any more: Supply shortages. Grocery stores were always waiting for another shipment of something. Along the same lines as above, wide varieties of items not available at stores. It was always hard to find a particular game I was looking for, a part for a computer, or a book I wanted. While this has gotten better with online shopping and e-books, not everyone ships there, and it's always slower to arrive. Slow internet connections. As a software guy, this kills my productivity. General lack of intensity and efficiency for getting things done. Island time is a real phenomenon.  People were always late, events always started 15-30 min after the advertised time, and few people are ever in much of a hurry. This can be great for some people, but it doesn't match my personality type, maybe when I retire... Sleeping in the heat. My family never had air conditioning due to the high electrical bills on island (like many others), and I absolutely hate trying to sleep when it's hot. Even if you did have air conditioning, there were also power outages to deal with. I suspect this is normally a problem on islands because their electrical generation equipment tends not to be as large or have as many redundancies as compared to the continental US. 