Nature: What are some of the best rare natural phenomena that occur on Earth?
Despite numerous delicacies provided by nature. This has managed to top my list since I watched it on National Geographic. GLOWING OCEA-NEON. For centuries, ship travelers in the Indian Ocean have been witnessing and writing about their night voyages through eerie stretches of water-- areas where the surface of the ocean glowed so brightly that sailors could read books on deck at midnight. They couldn't make out where the horizon lied.! Courtesy: MBARI - Steven Haddock Satellite images captured a large patch of glowing water off the coast of Somalia. The area is about the size of Connecticut, and researchers think trillions of billions of glowing bacteria are the source! Most common across the beaches of southern California. Pinpricks of light on the shore seem to mirror stars above in an undated picture taken on Vaadhoo Island in the Maldives. WHAT IS CAUSING THE WAVES TO GLOW? According to marine biologists, the glowing is caused by a massive red tide, or algae bloom, of bioluminescent phytoplankton called Lingulodinium polyedrum. The microorganisms emit light in response to stress, such as when a wave crashes into the shore, a surfboard slashes through the surf. The result is a wickedly cool glowing ocean. Ecstatic! isn't it? All this light is bioluminescence—visible light made by living creatures. Rare on land, bioluminescent organisms are common in the oceans, particularly in the upper 3,000 feet. This is a world without hiding places, where sunlight filtering down through the depths decreases until all visible light disappears around that 3,000-foot level. The phenomenon has been observed on a semi-regular basis since at least 1901 along the beaches around San Diego, Calif. By day the algal blooms give the water a soupy red coloration, which is why they're often referred to as a red tide. But unlike some forms of red tide that can be toxic to people and marine life, the glowing blooms occurring in San Diego waters are reportedly harmless. Photo of a red tide during day time in San Diego, caused by the dinoflagellate Lingulodinium For surfers, swimmers and ship captains who do not mind the company of these eccentric micro organisms, this is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity! If one is lucky enough they may enjoy the delight at every step on the sparkling sea shore. Sand along a beach in the Florida Everglades glows with a soft blue light emitted by countless microscopic phytoplankton washed ashore. Glowing phytoplankton create clusters and filaments of light as they wash ashore in an undated photograph taken from the Lakshadweep Islands off India. Source: Internet _/\_ 