Mind-Blowing Facts:  What are some interesting facts which are not commonly known?
Here are some I know of: 1. The Queen does not require a British passport When travelling overseas, The Queen does not require a British passport. As a British passport is issued in the name of Her Majesty, it is unnecessary for The Queen to possess one. All other members of the Royal Family, including The Duke of Edinburgh and The Prince of Wales, have passports. Source: Page on royal.gov.uk 2. Kit Kat is produced globally by Nestle, except in the United States where it is made by the Hershey Company International Kit Kat Logo United States Kit Kat Logo Source: Kit Kat 3. Your left lung is smaller than your right lung Source: Lung 4. Ancient Romans had a toilet god The Romans are alleged by some to have had a toilet god in the form of Crepitus, who was also the god of flatulence and was invoked if a person had diarrhoea or constipation. They additionally propitiated Stercutius (named from stercus or excrement), the god of dung, who was particularly important to farmers when fertilising their fields with manure. Source: Toilet god 5. The original Apollo 11 moonwalk tapes were erased accidentally An exhaustive, three-year search for some tapes that contained the original footage of the Apollo 11 moonwalk has concluded that they were probably destroyed during a period when NASA was erasing old magnetic tapes and reusing them to record satellite data. Source: Houston, We Erased The Apollo 11 Tapes 6. Johnny Depp collects Barbies A source close to the actor says that he has dozens and dozens of Barbies, all of them are limited and special editions. Not only does the collection include his own dolls from his movies but Beyonce, the cast of "High School Musical," Elvis, Paris Hilton, Marilyn Monroe, and Audrey Hepburn, but the strangest one is of Lindsay Lohan complete with ankle monitor bracelet from her time on house arrest. Depp says that he plays Barbies a lot with his kids, and claims it's one of the things he's good at. The source also claims that Johnny will dress and accessorize his collection according to what is going on in show business news. Source: Johnny Depp's Barbie collection: Depp says 'It's one of the things I'm good at' 7. Disney modeled Aladdin off Tom Cruise At first, animators sort of modeled Aladdin after Michael J. Fox, but found the end result too cutesy. So they upped his age to late teens, took off his shirt, and watched Tom Cruise movies. ''There's a confidence with all of his attitudes and his poses,” Keane said of Tom Cruise. Once Aladdin could reflect that sort of sexy cockiness, it was more believable that he’d be the sort of boy Jasmine might risk everything for. Source: 15 Things You Probably Didn’t Know About 'Aladdin' 8. Octopuses have blue blood The octopus is a surprisingly complex creature and, quite possibly, the world's original "blue blood." The blue color of their blood is due to the presence of a pigment known as hemocyanin. Hemocyanin is a blood-borne protein containing copper atoms that bind to an equal number of oxygen atoms. It's part of the blood plasma in invertebrates. This hemocyanin is also responsible for keeping the species alive at extreme temperatures. Source: Why is octopus blood blue? 9. The first mobile phone call was made in 1973 Motorola was the first company to produce a handheld mobile phone. On 3 April 1973 when Martin Cooper, a Motorola researcher and executive, made the first mobile telephone call from handheld subscriber equipment, placing a call to Dr. JoelS. Engel of Bell Labs. Martin Cooper photographed in 2007 with his 1973 handheld mobile phone prototype Source: History of mobile phones 10. Norway will completely turn off FM Radio by 2017 Norway’s Minister of Culture announced that a national FM-radio switch off will commence in 2017, allowing the country to complete its transition over to digital radio. It’s the end of an era. Source: Norway Will Be the First Country to Turn Off FM Radio in 2017 Updated 3w ago • View Upvotes