What is it like to live on a small island?
TL;DR summary: Tinian and the CNMI have a political and cultural issues that can make it challenging for non Chamorros who want to live there.  Oh, and there is a brothel called the Ram It Inn. So many people have these idyllic awesome stories of life on a small island... ... and that's alas, not mine.  For a few months, I lived on Tinian, in the Commonwealth of the Northern Marianas Islands (CNMI) around 2005. Tinian is most famous for being the location that the Enola Gay left to go bomb Hiroshima and Nagasaki.  It is a 10 minute flight of around 5 miles I think to Sapian.  At the time I lived there, the population was officially around 2,000 to 2,500 people.    The CNMI was undergoing some political changes at the time.  The Jack Abramhoff ( https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/... ) story was still making the news semi-regularly.  Regulations and tarrifs on clothing had I believe changed in the past 2 to 5 years.  Gap and Bannana Republic used to make a lot of clothing over on Saipan, as they could say it was made in the United States in a place where the CNMI government had control over local immigration and could basically bring Chinese workers over as indentured servants and make them live in slave like conditions for $2.25 an hour as the CNMI had control over their local minimum wage.  The factories had mostly closed on Saipan and moved to places like Vietnam.  The locally economy was in a bit of a downard phase because this had been an economic driver for the local elite, with trickle down effect on the local Chamorro population.  There were no factories on Tinian though, but there were other issues.  One of the side effects of this issue was with the closing of the factories, there were people who just did not want to go back to their homelands when factories closed.  Some of the women opted for prostitution on Saipan and Tinian rather than go home. I should probably mention at this time that the CNMI was the only US territory that did not have a non-voting member in the US Congress.  The US Congress had basically decided the CNMI was too corrupt for this so had stripped the CNMI of this.  Thus, the CNMI was one of the few places in the world where the local populace officially had an elected and paid for government lobbyist to the national government. On Tinian, pretty much only the locals could buy and sell and own land. This had some weirdness.  Also importantly, there was this phase where Saipan was a go to source for people from China seeking political asylum. http://pidp.org/pireport/2013/No... and http://www.mvariety.com/cnmi/cnm... are two articles about some of the issues... but at the time I was there, the CNMI government could grant political asylum so it was attractive for a number of tourists including Chinese people.  They could go through an easier political asylum route by getting it in the CNMI, which got them residency status which them gave them access to the mainland USA.  This happened, and the CNMI was keen to get rid of them.  I can't recall the rules on USA citizenship in the CNMI exactly, but I believe there was birth nationalism related tourism as it was easier to get a tourist visa to the CNMI than the mainland USA. That's the political backdrop of my island life.  I had arrived there with very little knowledge.  I had read https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/... when the website was live) at the behest of a friend living in the Micronesia region.  They said it was basically true.  I would later learn that yes, it was pretty spot on.  There was a story of a Chamarro politician's son that was passed on to me.  It went something like this: The Chamarro son and his friends were having a barbecue.  They liked guns and practicing shooting.  While drunk, they decided it would be fun to try to shoot a can off the head of their female filipino maid.  They tried to shoot, missed the can and killed her instead.  Ooops.  Also, major oops.  Because of their family political connections, they basically got away with this.  (Chamarro culture also has a caste system which is not widely discussed with outsiders.)  I ran into people who were unqualified for jobs based on job descriptions but who had them based on family political connections regularly. While at it, also worth mentioning: The CNMI was the last place in the USA to officially recognize Martin Luther King Jr. Day as a local holiday. I should mention too that the CNMI was very dependent on dollars from the US federal government.  This was losely translated as needing white people, but resenting us because of  the local financial need for us. Tinian had a casino.  One of the white teachers from the mainland that I worked with insisted that the Chinese military was using it to launder money. Seriously: The place never seemed to have any people at it while I was there.  It just seemed empty.  You'd go on the floor of the casino and there would would be like 20 people on a Friday night.  So that was what I walked into.  And my introduction to the place was as messy as the politics make it seem like.  I survived longer than half the new foriegn and white teachers at the high school I worked at.  I was not like a number of them who got off the plane and then got on the next one back home. Ignoring the political backdrop, the place had its moments of sheer awesome beauty.  It was very gorgeous at times, and the sunsets are the stuff you can write poetry about.  There is something kind of awesome about saying that if you want a pizza, it has to be delivered to you by plane.  You'd call over to Saipan, and they would take it and deliver it to the airport.  You'd then meet the plane in Tinian at the airport, and pick up your pizza.  The inter island plane was a 7 seater commercial flight that left basically once an hour or whenever there were enough passengers.  I believe a round trip flight cost around $88 at that time. You'd have to clear security to make sure you had no scissors or firearms in your carryon luggage, but if you were sitting in the last row, you could access your checked luggage and pretty much take things out and do what you want with those checked items.  It just struck me as completely weird.  There was also regular service between Tinian and Saipan on a boat.  A lot of people prefered that because it was cheaper. All the local Chamorros appeared to have cars. This was so they could have air conditioning driving from place to place as how can you live without AC.  On an island about 4 miles long and 1 mile wide, this struck me as weird.  They thought I was funny because I walked everywhere: Why walk when I could buy a motor cycle or a cheap car? One of my favorite memories of all time from Tinian involved renting a scooter one day with two of the other white teachers on the island. I think it was $25 for the day with a $50 deposit.  It was awesome as we went backroading  on some of the lesser used roads on the island.  We're talking grass roads that had stop signs so old and faded that they were almost pure white, and you could only make out the word stop because of the raised letters. It was seriously awesome.  I loved this kind of freedom where you know you were far removed from the rest of the world and you feel like you have complete freedom.  My co-workers and I went up to the airfield where the Enola Gay flew from.  It is one of two airfields on the island, but was no longer in use.  We had a scooter race down this airfield.  It was... completely surreal.  Here was this place that played a completely important critical role in our history in the past 75 years and we were having a scooter race down the thing. Wandering around the island, you'd find abandoned Japanese buildings, little Shinto shrines left by Japanese tourists who came to pay respects to their family who died there, and for local islanders (mostly Chamorros as the Carolinians were mostly on Saipan, where they were mostly marginalized) who had died at sea. At these, you'd often find a can of Budweiser left for their relatives to partake of in the afterlife. The sun would always rise around 6am and set around 6pm, with very little variance.  It was nice, but took a bit of adjusting as I was used to days getting longer and shorter.  Chickens and dogs also could be found wandering the islands near where people lived. The social opportunities were limited though.  There were more or less four places to eat, three places to buy food that were convienece store sized, no book store, one store that sold really awful clothing, bedding and other assorted housewares.  Most of the locals went to Saipan for their shopping, and would take it all back either by boat or plane.  It was a weird experience looking at the checked luggage and seeing someone with 50 rolls of toilet paper. Some of the streets literally had no names, and there was one post office where people could get PO boxes.  There weren't enough PO boxes for everyone so people would often share.  All my mail was routed through my work, and this was normal.  I had a white female co-worker who got the Victoria Secret catalog delivered to her through the school mail, and no one batted an eye. There were drug problems and alcohol problems on Tinian, but this was rarely ever discussed.  If you didn't drink and wanted to avoid being around drunks, it could totally kill your ability to socialize.  There was also a fair bit of homophobia and discrimination against transgender people despite a tradition of gender bending in Chamorro culture.  The drug problem was ice, and people made it locally.  The local government tried to stop it, but apparently had little success. There were problems with teenage pregnancy, and I was instructed to include safe sex practice talks into my high school English lessons where practical. Internet was dialup.  I lived in a hotel because the apartment I was originally going to moved into had no working toilet. I was told to knock next door to get them to play with the water if I needed to flush, so I moved back to the hotel where I first stayed in as at least I had a bathtub and working toilet... though I could not cook there.  I did have a hot water kettle though, so I ate a lot of ramen.  The price was also right I think at around $400 a month with daily maid service.  I won't ever forget though the day I was taking a shower and a huge cockroach decided to join me.  I howled.  And then I raided like I have never raided before and never raided since.  My bottle of Raid was the most important thing I had. There was a Canadian doctor there when I started, but he had a cardiac incident, and was taken initially to Saipan before being medivacced to Hawaii as it was the next closet destination to treat heart problems.  The cost for the flights was around $40,000, which luckily his Canadian health insurance picked up.  If you're an Islander, that cost would be impossible to bear.  Then we had no doctor on island.  We did have a dentist, and I got decent dental care while there. The island was small, and because I was white, I was always watched when I went into stores.    When minorities talk to me about being profiled and watched because of their skin color?  I can relate.  Tinian taught me that.   It is distinctly unpleasant, and there was nothing you could do to stop it.  There were 13 white people on the island, and 2 African Americans.  I was told they had it worse than me.  I have no doubt.  I heard one of the locals in a position of power tell me their position on Muslims trying to get immigration status in the CNMI, and it was along the lines of kill and rape them until they worship Jesus.  FUN. It was a small community so you had no privacy.   I hung out with a local guy, and all my students would tell me about it the next day.  I got his family history, his bad boy status, and advice to stay away from some students while  encouragements to marry him from others. It was a place you could not leave in the dead of night.  I tried, but cancelling my phone line was an announcement to everyone that I was leaving.  The students liked to tell new teachers how all 30 students in a class were related, and as a small isolated place, it is entirely possible.  On my last day, a student approached me to tell me that a male worker at the school was looking at her and a female friend in a way that made her feel uncomfortable and unsafe.  I knew who she was talking about, and I could see why this would be an issue because yes.  She was afraid to report it to anyone because the man was related to her through marriage to an aunt.  What do you say to a student in that situation?  I took her to the other white female teacher and had her explain it, because it was something that needed addressing.  I just was not equipped to deal.  And this thing occurred regularly.  I had another student who was kicked out of their home because they were transgender.  They lived with an uncle who was a blacksheep of the family.  I had two cousins as students who were 21 years old in the junior class.  They had failed repeatedly, ditched often and mostly went to school for entertainment purposes. I mentioned prostitution above.  Below is a picture of a brothel that was on Tinian.  I like it because of the name. It is a funny play on words, and when I tell people about it, I generally have to show them the picture.  The brothel owners claimed the place was a Chinese restaraunt but all the locals knew what it was and knew their prices.  The women resented the hell out of it.  It had Chinese prostitutes who were overstaying their visas in order to avoid going back to China.  The local men used it, along with the US tourists and the Russian tourists.  I loved the place, but hated the place.  I dream of going back and sending an application and teaching in the middle of the Pacific. I dread the day that I feel like I have no choice but to do that. For a few years after I moved away, I would regularly send donations of books to the local schools on Tinian for their libraries.  It was important to give back, and the letters I got assured me the books actually ended up in the library, in classrooms or in the hands of students.   I love the place, and will always feel connected to it.  I have a million stories about my time there, and I can't jam them all into this answer. 