What are some of the cleverest inventions and ideas ever?
Among Non-Technical Here is the story of one of the cleverest invention. (Probably one of my favourite.) The Pet Rock (Notice the holes in the box, they are there so that your pet rock don't suffocate to death while in transit to you.) Gary Dahl, a California advertising man came up with the idea of a pet rock in 1975 after a conversation with friends about cats, dogs, and birds being too much trouble and costing too much money. He said a pet rock was an ideal pet - easy and cheap. Dahl spent the next two weeks writing the Pet Rock Training Manual - a step-by-step guide about taking care of it and how to train it. He went to a builder's supply store and found a Rosarita Beach Stone that sold for a penny. He packed the stone in a box shaped like a pet carrying case along with the book. The Pet Rock was introduced at a gift show, where the store, Neiman-Marcus ordered five hundred. After a news release showing Gary surrounded by boxes of his Pet Rocks, Newsweek did a story and within a few months was shipping ten thousand Pet Rocks every day. He even appeared on The Tonight Show twice. By Christmas that year two and a half tons of rocks had been sold, three-fourths off all the newspapers in America had run Pet Rock stories. A million rocks sold for $3.95 apiece in just a few months making Gary Dahl an instant millionaire. The story of the Pet Rock is a never-ending source of inspiration to create new crazes that sweep the nation and make millions for the genius who thought of them. You can still buy your pet rock on Pet Rock. Happy Family :) Among Technical Inventions Quantum Locking  ( known as Flux Pinning ) Let me give you basic idea about what it is. Those of you with backgrounds in materials science, ceramics engineering or graduate-level physics may recognize this phenomenon as something similar to the Meissner-Ochsenfeld effect, though strictly speaking what you're witnessing is not a result of the Meissner effect. In the Meissner effect, the superconductor that is placed within the magnetic field deflects the field entirely (see the image below), such that none of the field passes through the object itself. But , the thinness of the super-conductive coating allows for the magnetic field to penetrate it (albeit in discrete quantities) wherever there exist defects in the superconductor's molecular structure. This penetration gives rise to the "flux tubes" (see the image below), which pass through the inert crystal sapphire wafer and "trap" it in mid-air. This trapping provides the typically wobbly "levitation" characteristic of the Meissner effect a stiffer quality. Watch this TED Talk to know more about this cool invention. Dr. Boaz Almog : The levitating superconductor I bet that after watching the Talk, you will sail away in dream of all the crazy stuff possible with this invention. EDIT #1 And here are some of my favourite from Kickstarter. Pressy - the Almighty Android Button! FlyKly Smart Wheel  Onewheel :: The Self-Balancing Electric Skateboard The Bradley: A Timepiece Designed to Touch and See Lumio: A Modern Lamp With Infinite Possibilities PocketScan FUGU LUGGAGE: One Case For All Your Needs MAGNETIC: Paper That Sticks to Walls PowerUp 3.0 - Smartphone Controlled Paper Airplane MaKey MaKey: An Invention Kit for Everyone SCiO: Your Sixth Sense. A Pocket Molecular Sensor For All ! And this one is for all who want to see the EARTH change daily. Welcome to your planet - Planet Labs The EARTH now needs introduction. Watch this TED Talk. 