Why is Accenture HR team so illiterate and selecting only underperforming candidates from campus interview?
Well, a very interesting question, and I am sure a lot of people have similar thoughts about HR / Recruiting at a, b or c organization . I would request you to do justice to the question and read through it (yes I mean till the end). So as a very honest,  precise and true (in most cases) answer : No, they are not illiterate, dumb, stupid or anything like that... They are doing exactly what they are supposed  to do and what is actually wanted of them. ​ ​ ​ ​ Similarly,  try to understand  what is the job of the recruiter. To hire the one with best tech knowledge? To hire the one with best communication skills? No, but to hire the perfect fit. Not more, not less but the right fit. My understanding is that, for any job there is a corresponding band of quality/capability and suitability which is very narrow, I call it the narrow band of suitability and people in that band doing that job always results in fruitful results for everyone. Understand that hiring is a considerable and very important investment for any organization. Nobody would want to hire someone who : 1. Lies below the narrow band of suitability - lt will impact the quality and efficiency of work or maybe the expectations won't be met at all. 2. Lies above the narrow band of suitability -  It will result in dissatisfaction and lack of motivation of the employee or worse quiting the job. Both scenarios lead to a terrible ROI (Return on investment) which no one wants.  I've seen people from lower bands struggling with their jobs and people from upper bands quiting theirs. It's the worst thing for everyone. For everyone it's very important to identify thier suitability,  where they belong. If you aim higher,  great! Rise to it. Key is to be : Not more not less, just the right amount.. And that's what most recruiters try to find. Most of them are not illiterate, incapable, stupid etc etc etc. Cut them some slack... 