What are some of the cleverest inventions and ideas ever?
InfiniteUSB Having your mobile phones or tablets stay connected to your laptop. It’s time to bring elegance back to your desk . InfiniteUSB is an open chain of USB ports, granting an unlimited supply of open slots!Whenever a new InfiniteUSB is plugged in, a new USB port will be created. Instead of forcing you to constantly hot swap devices into that one port, InfiniteUSB keeps all your cables connected, with only one port from your laptop. Endless Computers TV + Mobile Processor = Computer Planty: The Smart Way to Connect with Nature No more dead plants. Planty is an Internet-connected planter that allows you to monitor and water plants on-the-go via the mobile app. Plants are no different from humans. They breathe, they drink and they require nutrition. However, they can't communicate and tell us what they need, so many dry to a silent death. Wouldn't it be awesome if you could hear what your plants are desperately trying to tell you? Meet PLANTY, the Internet-connected SMART POT that gives your plants the unprecedented ability to communicate their needs to you. Planty connects to the Internet via Wi-Fi and monitors your plants' soil, temperature, light and water levels. All this data is delivered directly you to via the Planty app on your smartphone so you can react appropriately. For example, if your plant's ambient temperature is too high or too low, Planty will send you an app notification so you can adjust the room temperature or move it to a more appropriate location. SafeWallet, an anti-theft and anti-loss wallet 1: Anti-loss If you leave your wallet behind, your phone will ring to let you know. If you leave your phone behind, your wallet will beep to let you know. Your wallet and your phone will now be responsible for each other. If you spend the whole weekend staying at home, you can disable anti-loss function by App’s No Disturb Mode. In addition, SafeWallet comes with a free App for your phone, which records the time and place when you last lost the SafeWallet 2. Anti-theft If a thief wants to steal wallet from your pocket or bag, your wallet will beep loudly and your phone will ring loudly to remind you. Also the thief will be scared by the loud beep and stops the stealing. So you can take back the wallet easily. There is only 1 second delay between the stealing and alarm. It is amazing to detect the thief's action so rapidly. Because two light sensors and two motion sensor make that happened. 3: Locating your wallet If you misplace your wallet, you can use the App to make your wallet ring. With a loud buzzer sound at a volume of over 90dB, you will have no trouble hearing it, even as far as 10 meters away. To allow for a more accurate hunt, the App will also show you the distance between your phone and your wallet. Aivvy Q: Smart Headphones Caches Personalized Music For You The first IoT (Internet of Things) headphones A new generation of music device that can directly interact with the cloudNew music listening experience Like streaming music, but without needing to be connected to the Internet An independent music player in a pair of headphones Plays music instantly when you put it onSmart over-the-ear headphones Learns your musical preferences with our Music Cortex technology Selects and caches new songs for you from the Aivvy cloud when charging All of the above shown inventions/products are actually on going projects. Source: Internet 