What is it like to live on a small island?
Ischia, ItalyFrom April to June 2014 for a total of 8 weeks I worked at a hostel in exchange for room and board on the Island of Ischia in Italy. In order to stay productive I decided to create a documentary project that was comprised of a ton of photos, island interviews, and a couple of essays of specific topics. You can see it at Gallery. I'm going to tailor my answers for island life rather than Italy life, if you have any questions about the latter PM me. Lets jump into it: About the islandThe island is located off the west coast of Naples and takes about an hour ferry from Naples Beverello to get to Ischia Porto (the main port). I lived up on a hill looking out towards the west which made for awesome sunsets. Ischia has a population of ~60,000 and has an area ~18 square miles. Walked around the island one day and it look 10 hrs (including a pizza lunch). Favorite things The cars/vespas/transportation - You hardly ever saw a luxury car. The islanders focused on what would navigate turns, could take a hit, and reliability rather than the appearance. The wine - There were a couple big wineries on Ischia, but a ton of wine came from individual wine makers. Families would have a plot of land, grow grapes, and enjoy their own wine year round. The best part is that the wine was made for personal enjoyment, not to turn a profit. The Food - Because we were sea locked (?), we relied on home grown food and local produce. The tomatoes were just like grandma used to make 'em. Here is a pic of the best bruschetta I've ever had. Sense of community - There was an awesome sense of community on the island. This resulted in a ton of island pride and loyalty. You would hear stories of students going away to university to come back and use their new trade to better the island. Sure the small towns resulted in a couple of cabin fever relationships, but on the whole the hospitality was amazing. Here is a picture of a well respected boat captain I got to interview. He took me into his home and went over the top with stories and pictures. Difficulties Getting around - Getting around the island was tough. A lot of people took the bus or hitch hiked around (everyone knew each other remember). The buses were slow to get around the island and rarely were ever on schedule. Traffic jams would cause back ups. Funny cause the jams were mostly due to a friendly conversation that held everyone up. However, as crazy as the driving would be I never saw an accident. Sidewalks were rare and pedestrians swam around parked cars to get by. Trying to do business as an outsider - In terms of getting things done on the island (pluming, electric, accounting), foreigners were generally low on the totem pole with getting a fast response. Plus add the Italian, "Whats the rush?" mentality, and you can try for two weeks to get a small deal done. Also, simple tasks required a ton of work, gardening, house maintenance, grocery store etc. You definitely had to earn your keep on the island. Below is a hard worker with his best friend. I had the chance to interview 9 of the locals about life on the island covering a couple different topics. If you want to learn more about Ischia island life I would check out this interview page I put together, Island Interviews . Here is one talking about the night life: Ludovica Bondavalli [1] Ischia [2] Gallery 