Mind-Blowing Facts:  What are some interesting facts which are not commonly known?
Since you haven't mentioned any specific topic, I'll try being as diverse as possible. 1) People: Bill Gates got his degree 32 years after dropping out from Harvard University. He had promised his dad that he would get his degree and fulfilled that promise. 2) Companies: Facebook's campus in Palo Alto was previously owned by Sun Microsystems. After it got acquired by Oracle, FB moved in but Zuckerburg didn't remove the sign and just flipped it over. 3) TV Shows: Matt le Blanc who played Joey in the evergreen TV show 'F.R.I.E.N.D.S' was down to his last 11 dollars on the day when he landed the role. He would have left New York had he become broke. Bonus: Vince Gilligan wanted to kill off Jesse Pinkman in the first season of Breaking Bad. 4) Countries: The island nation Tuvalu generates revenue from the use of its area code for premium rate telephone numbers and from the commercialization of its ".tv" Internet domain name. The ".tv" domain name generates around $2.2 million each year from royalties, which is about ten per cent of the government's total revenue. 5) Sport: England came up with the word “soccer”. It’s a shortened version of “Association Football” that was changed to “Assoc Football”. This was changed to “Soccer”. In 19th century England, it was popular to add the “-er” sound to shortened words. 6) Food: The Pringles Chips are actually hyperbolic paraboloids. They were made in this shape so that they don't fly off the manufacturing line. 7) Music: Collectively Gangnam style had wasted about 20,000 years (4:12 playtime with 2.4 billion views) of humanity's time on Youtube. (As of the end of 2015) Sources: 1) There's A Hidden Message On The Sign Outside Facebook's Campus - It Reminds Employees To Stay Motivated 2) People's Daily Online -- Dropout Bill Gates gets Harvard degree 3) Matt Le Blanc only had $11 when starting Friends 4) Tuvalu 5) 30 Interesting And Unknown Facts About Football 6) 100 Crazy Facts You Probably Don't Know Updated 1w ago • View Upvotes