Nature: What are some of the best rare natural phenomena that occur on Earth?
I have done three days of research on this and have made a summary of some of the best rare natural phenomena. Hope you enjoyed it! Supernumerary Rainbow: Here we see a supernumerary rainbow, an infrequent phenomenon that happens when faint rainbows are seen within the inner ring of a primary rainbow. Experts say that geometric optics does not fully explain the existence of supernumerary rainbows, which are likely created due to the varying wave nature of light. Triple sunrise / Sundogs: Rainbows aren’t the only atmospheric delights. Here we see a triple sunrise as photographed near Green Bay, Wisconsin, on Sept. 23, 2006. This was when the sun was rising due east on the Equinox. But these weird apparitions are actually more common than rainbows. “Produced by sunlight shining through common atmospheric ice crystals with hexagonal cross-sections,” NASA writes, “such halos can actually be seen more often than rainbows.” The two images on the right and left of the central sunrise are sundogs, which are extra-images of the sun created by falling ice crystals in the atmosphere. Monochrome Rainbow:   There are many different kinds of rainbows. In addition to a primary rainbow, which is the most commonly seen, there are also secondary rainbows that occur when two reflections take place in a water droplet. Then there is the monochrome rainbow. These happen at sunrise or sunset, when the shorter blue and green wavelengths are scattered out before they reach the water droplets. Hence, the human eye sees only red. This unenhanced image was taken on July 6, 1980, just outside of Minneapolis, Minnesota. Fog Bow:   Not all arches in the sky are filled with colours. Here we see a fog bow arcing over the Golden Gate Bridge in San Francisco, Calif., on Nov. 15, 2006. The principle of formation for a fog bow is similar to a rainbow, as the fogbow is a reflection of sunlight. However, as NASA describes it, the lack of relative colours is due to the relatively smaller water drops. “The drops active above are so small that the quantum mechanical wavelength of light becomes important and smears out colours that would be created by larger rainbow water drops acting like small prisms reflecting sunlight,” writes NASA. The right end of the fog bow appears to dip right into the top of the Golden Gate Bridge. Moonbow: Pictured here is a moonbow, also known as a lunar rainbow, as imaged on July 4, 2001, near Salt Pond Bay in St. John, Virgin Islands. Moonbows operate on the same principles as rainbows; however, they are possible because of the light of the moon instead of the sun. As moonlight is simply reflected sunlight, the colours of a moonbow are the same as a rainbow. Accordingly, as the sun is much brighter than the moon, moonbows are much fainter and rarer than rainbows. While they usually look white to the human eye, their colours can be discerned in long exposure photos. Halo: There are many types of ice halos. They are produced by the ice crystals in cirrostratus clouds high (5–10 km, or 3–6 miles) in the upper troposphere. The particular shape and orientation of the crystals is responsible for the type of halo observed. Light is reflected and refracted by the ice crystals and may split up into colours because of dispersion. The crystals behave like prisms and mirrors, refracting and reflecting sunlight between their faces, sending shafts of light in particular directions. Audible Aurora: Audible Aurora Borealis has been in Viking myths for centuries, rejected by skeptics saying there is “no scientific evidence” to support the claims. It turns out the Aurora Borealis really does make sounds — and they appear to be generated in the air about 230 feet above the ground, according to a Finnish study that used an array of microphones to record and pinpoint the source of a weird surging hiss during a magnetic storm in September 2011. Audible Aurora are also mentioned in one of James Parker Haley’s poems, titled The Goddess Aurora “With a roaring chant they began a dance with thunder through the moors a thousand men, for a challenge to win and the hand of the Goddess Aurora”     Sources: http://en.wikipedia.org http://www.mnn.com http://broomcloset.wordpress.com D. 