What are the best paintings you have painted?
I don't have very good photos of my work. But here is some of it. I've been in hiding for a couple decades.   I have a bachelor of fine arts from the University of New Hampshire, which wasn't known for its art department but I was very fortunate when I was there to study with John Laurent, Sigmund Abeles, John Hatch, Melvin Zebarsky, Conley Harris, Lou Kohl-Morgan, Bill Scarlotto, and Arthur Balderacci. It was a traditional, figurative school and I tried to behave myself but found it difficult.   This is a silverpoint self-portrait a little over 8-1/2 x 11", titled "Under the Table" that was supposed to represent the peak of my ability as a draftsman at the end of college. Sigmund was annoyed that I didn't pursue figurative work but the things I needed to express weren't of the body. I just didn't know that then.   I studied primarily oil painting and finished my senior year with an exhibit of encaustic (hot bees' wax and pigment -- a very old tech) abstract expressionistic paintings and written works that I have unfortunately since lost.   I exhibited a few times in Portsmouth, NH in the early 80s but got distracted by the need to eat and went off on another career path for 20 or so years. I also developed a reaction to the oil paints and couldn't use them anymore so I shifted to water media. Truthfully, I found it difficult to sell myself because I couldn't focus on one vision and it wasn't as easy to show your work to people as it is now. Book publishing helped me pull it all together for a while because you needed a lot of different skills to create a look for a book and sell it.   Anyway, here's an oil painting titled "Memories of Portsmouth," about 3 x 3' now owned by a friend. Its companion is titled "Fractured Fairytales." I had a rough time in my 20s.   I needed to support my art habit after college, so I started working in the restaurants around Portsmouth, NH, in these combat boots I inherited from a Navy pilot:   I titled it "Cinderella's Blues." It is one of my first acrylic paintings. Also sold. 12 x 20" mahogany panel.   I tried to paint things I thought would sell but I ended up liking them too much to let go of them. The following is "On State Street," another Portsmouth scene, 18 x 24" watercolor.   This is a smaller watercolor titled "Study in Primary Colors."   "The Hidden Pearl," gouache, 4 x 4". I think it would look good big but I never got around to executing it. Somehow I wandered into computers and publishing and forgot about my "dream of being an artist."   Click for more of my: Old Stuff on Facebook. If you like or make art, friend me up! Valerie Cooper.   Book publishing became an exercise in making widgets, so I left the work force to go on my own in 2011. I have been back into realism as exercise and have been slipping back into my abstract surreal stuff lately.   This is completely imagined although I saw it once, "Dead Elm and Full Moon." I'm not sure the tree structure is right but you get the idea. Pastel, 9 x 12".   I used to have a small flock of chickens. This is "Two Red Hens and a Pot of Oatmeal." Watercolor and pen and ink about 8 x 10". This is an egg tempera sketch I did of my favorite hen, a California white Leghorn I named Surfer Girl. "Made my heart come all undone." Loved this spunky girl. This is 12 x 12" and sold to another friend.   When I am mentally stuck on a problem, I like to do pointillist stuff. I "incubate" my troubles while I'm working. The following array of bike chain wheels is titled "Getting Unstuck." It is 9 x 15", Bic MarkIt on cover stock -- some acid-free packing material I squirreled away from my last book manufacturing job.   I like to do stuff to gourds, too.   