What is it like to live on a small island?
I once lived on a very small desert island called Zembra in the Bay of Tunis in 1962. It had not been lived on for about 2000 years, and the last inhabitants were the Romans. The Tunisian government wanted to make it into a holiday resort. When I arrived on the island my job was to prepare it for scuba diving. There were six of us apart from the workmen building the huts. The workmen found a number of graves with skeletons that had holes in the head, so they were presumably murdered. These were all reburied (no archeologists came). There were also Roman mosaics on what appeared to be wells, though there was no sign of fresh water on the island. These were also dug up by the workers. The island was about half mile long and quarter mile wide. It was mostly a hill, but it had a small bay, Isle of Zembra tunisia. When the workmen left there were only six of us. Four to set up the facilities that included diving, sailing, and water skiing, and two Belgian althetes, a girl champion swmmer and a boy champion water skiier. We had full use of these until the holiday makers arrived. These were mainly young French students. It was as close to Paradise as one can get. The water was perfectly clear and full of exotic fish. There were lots of Roman artifacts such as amphora and wrecks around underwater (me second on the left. We had found a lead anchor). On two ocassions we found ourselves within feets of dangerous sharks. In one instance the boatman anchored the diving boat under a cliff by a cave we dived in. I insisted we moved the boat to another near dive site. The boatman argued, but I got my way. A few minutes after we moved the entire cliff face collapsed where we had been anchored. We almost certainly would have been killed had we been on the boat. Another time we went on a diving trip to a lighthouse on a very small island that only had the lighthouse keeper and his assistant. The lighthouse keeper was drunk most of the time. We had food for two days, but when we get to the lighthouse a storm blew up, and we could not get off.  Luckily our dive leader - Reg Vallintine - was a spear fishing champion, and he caught a small shark that we lived on for four days till the storm blew over. The resort lasted for three seasons. Over that time due to bad management and the careless attitude of the holiday makers the place had become a wreck. The bay was full of rubbish, and sea floor littered with garbage. The resort closed down. I don't know if it ever opened again, but I hope not. On living without contact regarding newspapers, radio, etc.: It is great. One does not miss these at all if you are busy. The talk is about work and the weather. I would spend 2-3 months there. Of course there were the holiday makers to talk to, but they only stayed for two weeks and were foreigners, so it was like any holiday resort where you make friends for the moment. Getting away from it all does clear the mind. You realise that one needs very little to survive. In one sense, we all live on islands. The shores are the boundaries of our comfort zone. Any ventures outside of those boundaries are testing our ability to cope, and on that ability we build our lifestyle. Updated 46w ago • View Upvotes