How are spreadsheet apps, like Excel, built under the hood in terms of software design, data representation, and persistence?
I've never worked on a spreadsheet app; but I don't think a RDBMS is really what you want here. You don't need it and it would not be very effective either. If I am to design my own spreadsheet app, I would break it into 2 parts. The first part is how I pack my spreadsheet data into a single, portable file. The second part is the actual app - which will be responsible for rendering the data file. 1. The Data Part: There will be 3 things I need to store here: the cell data, the cell formulas and the format.    a. The cell data: Simply a chain of non-empty cells. Each cell datablock will consist of the cell identification (identified by its corresponding column and row headers, such as A1, C5...) and the cell value.  The whole thing, in a nutshell, would look similar to this: A1=120;C5=4    b. The cell formula: Same idea - simply a chain of formulas identified by its target cell. For example, C6=A1+C5;C7=SUM(C5:C6).    c. The format: Same idea too - but this time, a style will be identified by a cell or a group of cells that together form a rectangle. For example, A=color(RED);B1:B5=merge;B1:C5=color(BLUE). (Note that A=color(RED) means all the cells (infinite cells) in the A column is now red) For multiple tab spreadsheets, you will just need an array of these 3 things. Add an extra tab id on top to identify cross-tab references if need to. Diff these files effectively is complex but surely doable. 2. The App Part: This will draw a potentially infinite table, fill in the cell data, calculate cells with formula and apply the styles. All the actions, e.g. mouse click, mouse move etc..., will be handle by the app. And after the users are done with their action, resulting data will then (and only then) be added into the underlying data file. Any conflicts (either it's style or formula) will also be solved here before being added into the data file.  If there were any errors during loading the file (invalid format, circular formula), simply throws exception or mark cells as invalid. For better performance, the data must have been loaded into some special engine - which could be a special RDBMS. Although, I don't know the answer to that. I paint a very simple picture here, of course; but you get the idea. It's impossible and pointless to cover every edge cases in a Quora answer. Nothing fancy here, just by looking at how Excel works, you will get a pretty good idea of how things look like underneath. 