What are the world's largest engineering projects?
The SolarCar Racing Team of Manipal University. Website: http:// www.solarmobilmanipal.in/ Blog: http:// www.solarmobil.wordpress.com/ Mission SolarMobil Manipal plans to build a solar powered vehicle to compete in the World Solar Challenge 2014 to be held in South Africa. The car is designed to be technologically advanced and environment friendly with a potential in the upcoming automobile industry. The project offers a great scope for innovation and will setup a sustainable project for future students to explore infinite new horizons in the field of renewable energy sources. ABOUT 'SERVE' We started our first project in 2011 with the car Freyr1 which was a single seater solar electric vehicle prototype. The idea cropped up while thinking about the global environmental scenario. The depleting fuel sources. The rate of hike of fuel prices is exponentially increasing. So we wanted to make a car which doesn’t pollute the environment and use the free energy (solar) available to power the car. Our current project “Serv-E : Solar Electric Road Vehicle” is four wheeled two passenger seater solar electric vehicle. We want to show to the world that a solar electric vehicle is a viable alternative. The length of the car is 4.4m ,width of 1.75m and height of 1.28m and weighs only 400 kgs. It uses 6m^2 monocrystalline silicon solar panels which can generate a power of more than 1kW at an efficiency of 20% which charges a battery pack consisting of lithium ion cells at a capacity of 13kWhr weighing 63 kg which gives the car a range of 250+ kms. Description SolarMobil Manipal is a team of students from various branches of Manipal Institute of Technology, Manipal. The team’s aim is to successfully design, test and build a vehicle powered solely by solar energy,and to race it's car across challenging terrains in international races. The team plans to approach this project with drive, innovation and efficiency as the cornerstones, around which it hopes to build a wealth of experience and knowledge. The formation of SolarMobil.manipal was initiated in August 2011 and since then, the team has involved themselves in research in the field of "new age" solar arrays, high output "Eco-friendly" batteries and the latest super-efficiency motors . The team consists of students from different fields of technicality – Mechanical, Electrical, Aeronautical, Automobile and Mechatronics all combining their skills , knowledge and experience to make a car we can truly be proud of. By successfully participating in this global event, our college competes with global engineering institutes of Europe and America, creating a conducive atmosphere for future exchange of technologies, research and development work. Unlike other specialized racing teams, this team is looking at the larger picture of more environmentally dynamic issues like alternate fuels, harvesting renewable sources and alternate cars which have a huge scope both industrially and commercially. Currently at what stage of production is the car? Our planning has 4 phases i.e., 1) Preliminary design phase 2) Design and analysis phase 3) Manufacturing and assembly phase 4) Testing phase. We are currently in the manufacturing phase. The chassis construction and suspension system mounting is completed. We plan to complete the assembly by the end of  April after which we will move onto the testing phase which will consist of – mechanical component and compliance testing, electrical systems testing and safety testing. 