Why does the healthcare industry use M/MUMPS instead of a more modern or more widely used programming language?
I am one of the original software architects of both the VA VistA and the DoD CHCS (Composite Heatlh Care System), both of which use MUMPS.  I was also on some of the original MUMPS standardization committees.  I am very familiar with this argument about MUMPS- it has been going on since the 1970's.  Rather than just putting a microscope to MUMPS' syntax, I'd suggest that folks take a broader perspective to look at why MUMPS has been such a success in the deployment of medical informatics applications.  Rather than just throwing rocks at the technology because it is "different" I'd suggest digging deeper into the semantics of what it is doing, as well as the pragmatics of how it has helped to successfully transform one of the world's largest health care bureaucracies (see Philip Longman's "Best Care Anywhere - Why VA health care is better than yours" http://munnecke.com/blog/?p=385 The key element of the success of MUMPS has to do with the way it blends data and program... we used a metadata-driven approach - a data dictionary that allowed us to describe the information at a very powerful and granular level.  This is akin to what the PCAST report argued for in 2010.  It turns out that this is very similar to the Semantic Web or Linked Data efforts of Tim Berners-Lee... http://www.ted.com/talks/tim_ber...    See Caregraf's RDF analysis of the VistA Data Dictionary at http://www.caregraf.org/semantic... Yes, the raw syntax of the language is admittedly very ancient.  But at the same time, it is quite durable... VA has clinical data reaching back to 1982 - a national treasure of clinical experience.  An alternative to the "Castles and drawbridges" architectural approach to the EHR that getting so much attention nowadays, I suggest that we reframe our thinking to imagine a health information space architecture, a large scale, fine grained network of loosely coupled information objects - that are accessed and controlled at a very fine level of granularity.  Here is a video discussion I had with Ward Cunningham at Health Camp Oregon last year, comparing lessons learned in his invention of the wiki with my lessons learned in the design of VistA... http://munnecke.com/blog/?p=1280 And, in case others haven't seen the blockbuster video of my conversation with Deborah, check out http://munnecke.com/blog/?p=290 