Which software company designed their electronic medical record system to have a 1000-character limit?
Contrary to Aaron Greenspan's answer - EPIC does NOT use MSFT SQL as a backend database - it's primary database is, in fact, MUMPS/Cache - which WAS developed in the '60's.  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Epi... (2nd paragraph) MUMPS itself stands for: MUMPS - Massachusetts General Hospital Utility Multi-Programming System, or alternatively M.  It's a programming language created in the late 1960's , originally for use in the healthcare industry.  It was designed for the production of multi-user database-driven applications. It predates C and most other popular languages in current usage, and has very different syntax and terminology. There's a much longer history and description of MUMPS on Wikipedia here: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/MUMPS I don't think that MUMPS/Cache alone is responsible for the character limitation - although it helps to understand all of the technical restrictions inherent in a language/system that was developed in the '60's.  In fact, for it's day, MUMPS had some significant advantages in being able to work in a multi-user environment with a single back-end datastore. Also, I think we need to be extremely careful of a criticism for one aspect of an EHR.  In this case - I believe the limit applied ONLY to the "Assessment" portion of a SOAP (Symptoms, Observations, Assessments, Plan) note and did not apply more broadly to the other aspects (the S, O and P) notation.  In that case - there may have been valid design reasons for the limitation - and that was not communicated effectively during evaluation, implementation or training.  The question we're left to wonder is what really happened?  I'm sure there was a 1,000 character limitation - but there are definitely places where that is both appropriate - and good user design. I'm not defending the 1,000 character limitation in any way - I'm simply saying we don't know all the details - and unfortunately - the doctor who cited the original frustration chose not to disclose the vendor.  Why they chose not to is a bit surprising to me - especially as a frequent blogger over at the New York Times. The EPIC installation at Kaiser is well documented - and I believe EPIC won the actual contract (reported to equal about $4B over 10yrs) in 2003.  If, in fact, there is a 1,000 character limitation (which I have not been able to confirm) - it's hard to imagine that Kaiser would have agreed to that design - or that the V.A (another big MUMPS EHR install) would have the same design flaw. 