Which software company designed their electronic medical record system to have a 1000-character limit?
I have no idea which company this is, though I think every computer programmer can understand why this happened. You are looking at this character limit from the wrong perspective. This decision  was made with ease-of-programming in mind, not the end user. What likely happened: When reading characters from an input field (such as a "patient assessment" field) you need to specify a character limit to the computer, so that the computer knows how much memory it needs to store the result. - So why didn't the programmer just set a limit of one million? Because that would waste space/could potentially crash the computer/cause all sorts of problems, making life difficult for the programmer. - Ok, sounds reasonable. But why on earth would he think that only a 1000 characters was enough? He didn't. He just had to set some limit that's not too high, and not to small. And probably the number 1000 sounded reasonable, and after all, if it is not long enough the QA department will surely discover this. - But that was dumb of him, surely a 1000 characters is not enough! In fact, I would hesitate to call this 1000 character limit a decision. The programmer just entered "1000" as the field size without thinking twice about it. Besides, if it's too small the programmer could simply add another zero to make it 10 000 later, a change that takes a second to make. - Fine, but how can the company justify not testing the software in a professional hospital setting? Let's for the sake of simplicity say that the product is just for archiving patient information, and retrieving it later. Basically this system works if you are able to store information (patient assessment, CT-images etc) and retrieve the same information later. From a testing point of view it doesn't really matter what you put in the patient fields, as long as you get the same information out. If the "patient assessment" is a real one made by an MD, or if it's simply a testers favorite recipe for cookie doesn't matter. (User interface/features testing is a different story). - But this is bad for the company, this should have been discovered sooner! Let's say that more than 99% of patient assessment are less than a 1000-characters. Realize that this 1000 character limit is a bug, not a feature. Since the bug is rarely present (after all, the bug will only surface for less than <1 % of the patients), the company simply wasn't aware that this bug existed. As an unrelated side note, bugs similar to this one ("fixed limit buffers"), is one of the main reasons for security flaws in programs/operating systems. That's something to have in mind the next time Windows/Mac OS X/Firefox/Adobe Reader/etc asks you to download an update/security patch. 