★When a MAC address itself is unique, why do we still need an IP address to uniquely identify a system on a network?
The context of this answer is IPv4 devices that have 48-bit HW (or MAC) addresses. A MAC address need only be unique in the local network.  Recall that the ARP (RFC 826) matches an IP to a HW device, and that ARP will only broadcast locally, and is not routed past the immediate layer 3 interface.. Several years ago, when we (GTE/Genuity) were building one of the first national ADSL networks (circa 1998, and OK, only in 31 states), we built a couple of labs to test various ADSL devices with our POP routers and other infrastucture. Vendors would contact us, and offer to let us use their equipment, secretly hoping that we'd pick only their equipment, I suppose.  In one week, I received ADSL devices from a several different vendors.  One vendor sent us one device (Brand X), and the other sent us two of a similar comparable unit (Brand Y).  Both of these models had a definite iMac vibe to them.  Candy colored translucent plastic cases which were different but similar enough to make you realize they were using the same guts. The Brand X unit worked like a champ. Utterly unremarkable, which is what you want in a piece of gear: no surprises.  When we plugged in a Brand Y, it worked fine too.  When we plugged in the second Brand Y in the same lab, both of them stopped working.  Unplug the first Brand Y, and the second would work. Obviously this was a problem, and I got to try to figure out what was going on.  So, I did what any engineer does, I started taking things apart. The first thing I noticed, is that the Brand X and Brand Y was using the exact same circuit board (PCB).  Maybe not the same factory, but one was obviously a copy of the other. The second thing that I noticed was that the chip that holds the MAC addresses were stamped on a label on a chip on the Brand X unit, but the brand Y units had no label, and the chips were different than the chip on the Brand X unit. Further, when we started looking at some of the logs and traces, we discovered that both of the Brand Y units had the same hard-coded MAC address, which had the same OUI as the Brand X unit. The OUI is the first half of the MAC address, six bytes that are controlled/managed by the IEEE.  Manufacturers pay the IEEE a huge sum of money to register for one or more OUI, and large companies may literally have scores of OUIs for various equipment. Two different brands having the same OUI isn't a big deal, as an HP or Gateway computer might have had an Intel Ethernet chipset embedded in them, or some such business convenience.  However the two Brand Y units having the same MAC address leads me to believe that the business model of Brand Y was basically to steal somebody else's intellectual property and make a run of X identical PCBs, and sell those items wholesale as quickly as possible. We solved our short term problem but simply putting one of the Brand Y units in the other lab, and different routers had the same MAC in their local ARP tables.  Big whoop.    Embed Quote