★What's is the difference between port number and Mac address?
A port number is used in the client server model of TCP/IP to allow a server [process] to uniquely accept connections & messages from clients. It is part of the address that is more specific than the host address itself. It is analogous, somewhat, to an apartment number or office number in a building that houses multiple occupants. If the building is analogous to the host, the suite numbers are analogous to the port numbers. The occupants of each suite have sole right to accept visitors at their doors, just as the server process listening on an IP port is the only process to receive traffic destined for the port to which it is bound. MACs are a part of lower level networking hardware, predominantly ethernet. An ethernet packet may carry TCP, UDP, other TCP/IP datagrams, or other non-TCP/IP datagrams. The MAC identifies the Network Interface Card (NIC) to which messages (irrespective of network protocol) are destined, and also which NIC messages are from. In theory, MACs are unique, worldwide, forever. The transport of messages at the lowest level relies only on MACs. The low level layers do not need to know about TCP/IP, or any of the higher level protocols embedded in the packets being transmitted. An envelope with attached postage and address is somewhat analogous to a MAC. The content of the envelope can be anything; the post office doesn't need to know anything about it. However, the analogy breaks down, because when a packet crosses a router, the MAC of the router NIC replaces the original MAC. Your envelope gets used for the whole trip. A MAC is actually recognized right in the NIC hardware. All packets with a matching MAC are grabbed by the hardware, and other discarded (except broadcast & multicast packets). Only after capture by the hardware does the network stack software see the packets. There is a network protocol called ARP. When a host wants to send a packet to a certain IP address, it broadcasts an ARP request, which says "What MAC do I use for this IP?". Ideally, one MAC is given in response, and the message is wrapped in the low level packet(s) and transferred to that MAC. The MAC gets cached for a while, for re-use on subsequent packets. If you were to look at the bits on the ethernet cable with an ocsilloscope, the 48 bits of the MAC would be encoded very near the beginning of the ethernet packet, as they travel one after the other out on the network. This allows the hardware to immediately discard a packet that is not addressed to it, without having to grab the whole thing.    Embed Quote