★When a MAC address itself is unique, why do we still need an IP address to uniquely identify a system on a network?
MAC addresses are no longer truly unique -- not only are they trivial to set (change) (spoof) (impersonate) on all modern operating systems (right-click on Advanced Network Properties under Windows, run "ifconfig ether" command on **IX), but with the dawn of virtualization (VMware, Citrix Xen, KVM), they can now be arbitrarily set ("virtual manufacturer codes") or simply duplicated/exhausted (too many virtual machines for the entire MAC space). But that's not the full answer to this question.  The OSI model -- seven layers, Physical-Datalink-Network-Transport-Session-Presentation-Application -- is meant to work like a nested Russian Matryoshka doll.  Each transmission is 'shed' of its outer context layer, which might or might not mean something to transmission conduits at that layer, before being passed to the next higher (or lower) level.  Physical 1/0 only has significance to the copper wire and bus collision-detection;  Datalink only has significance to specific network-card hardware and where-is-my-next-hop hardware detection;  Network only has significance to switching, routing, and loopback IP-address elements;  and so on. So what I think you are really asking is addressed as follows -- when you send a packet over a wired network, the layer 2 (Datalink) (MAC address) portion is being loudly transmitted to all neighbors, "Hey I am MAC address X:X:X, and I am looking for MAC address Y:Y:Y, can someone help me find the next hop," and the surrounding network cards are all plugging their ears saying "unless these screamers are looking for my Z:Z:Z, I'm going to ignore this traffic."  Layer 3 (Network) (IP address), by contrast, uses routing (if I want to go to 192.168.1.x, I must go to/through 192.168.1.1), and does not speak (scream) to all participants in the manner above.  These are very different mechanisms. There is one last consideration, though it's probably beyond this question -- there are certain cases (like secure (encrypted) wireless transmission "in the wild") where you (the sender) might be comfortable with other neighbors knowing your MAC address, but *not* your own IP address, or the destination IP address you're hoping to reach.  Under these conditions, Layer 3 (IP addr) encryption (and sometimes even Layer 2 (MAC addr) encryption) is important, and highlights the importance of keeping both identifiers separate.    Embed Quote