★Why is there a MAC address and an IP address?
IP addresses can be used for host to host communication. We can send a packet with Source and Destination IP address and the router will take the best effort to deliver the packet hop-by-hop to the destination. But why do we need MAC address? I will demonstrate one of the use cases of why we need MAC address. If we observe, Every bit of the packet can be only sent by using electrical signals in the form of 1's and 0's ( High and Low ) Lets say you are connected to the WiFi access point (WiFi is a broadcast medium) and you want to send a packet to some server ( Google ). A packet is formed with source ( your IP ), destination ( Google IP ). This packet is a software abstraction and to send this packet out to the WiFi router you need to send it using electrical signal pulses. So, when you are sending the signal out of your computer to the WiFi Router, there are many people out there using the same WiFi access point and can receive your signal because its a broadcast network ( In broadcast network, a signal sent by one host is received by everyone within the signal range of the router ) Everyone who is present in your router vicinity is getting your signal and there is a confusion regarding who should take the signal and receive the packet. We want our packet to be sent to the router as it is going to take our packet to the ultimate destination. So, we specify the Router's Hardware Address ( MAC address ) encoded in the signals which is permanent to the router ( Even if router takes some other IP next day ) and the packet is sent. Everyone has their own MAC addresses and match with the incoming packet's MAC address when they are listening. If it belongs to them, they receive otherwise they reject the packet silently and the packet is received by intended device. To resolve the contention of who should receive, we need MAC addresses. P.S:  If we don't have any broadcast links ( All Point to Point Links ) in the entire path which the packet is going to take, then we don't need MAC address at all.    Embed Quote