★Do file sharing prosecutions rely on hardware (MAC) addresses?
Yes and no, but mostly no. Here's the typical process. You advertise to the Internet that you are willing to send some copyrighted work to all comers. (This could be via Bittorrent, Kazaa, or just putting up a Web site you host.) A copyright owner or their designate searches for people announcing they are willing to transmit a copy of the work, through whatever protocol. The company hopes that the people it's identifying are acting without authorization from the copyright owner. The copyright owner records the IP address of the computers serving the work. This is discernable for most file-sharing protocols, including Bittorrent, Kazaa or HTTP. It's not discernable for some that have better privacy, like a Tor hidden server. This IP address probably belongs to the responsible computer, if not the responsible party. As you point out, the copyright owner sitting across the Internet has no idea what your Ethernet hardware address (aka MAC address) is. The copyright owner sues "John Doe," identified as the holder of that IP address at that date and time, for copyright infringement. The copyright owner obviously can't "serve" the defendant, but obtains permission to conduct "discovery" (in this case, to serve subpoenas) before serving the defendant. The copyright owner sends a subpoena to the Internet service provider responsible for the range of IP addresses that include the culprit's, asking the ISP to supply whatever records might identify the account holder. Here's where a MAC address might come into play. To answer the copyright owner's subpoena, the ISP will typically look in its DHCP logs to find the MAC address of, e.g. the cable modem that dispensed that IP address at that date and time. The MAC address of the cable modem is how the ISP identifies the customer, since every customer's is unique and that's how the ISP keeps track of who is who. Of course, the account holder is not necessarily the culprit. Files can be posted by a relative or guest using a computer -- whether known to the account holder or not. A "guest" could be there in person, or using a WiFi access point connected to the account holder's account, or even somebody who has hacked in from across the Internet. After receiving the information from the ISP, the copyright owner amends its "John Doe" case to name the real defendant [ or more likely files a new lawsuit and drops the "John Doe" case] and then serves him or her and proceeds with a case of copyright infringement. So, no, a network address translator won't dramatically change the situation -- the ISP can still generally identify which account holder held which routable (real) IP at a given time. Of course someone who runs an open WiFi network for a whole neighborhood through their ISP account might end up the defendant of a lot of John Doe lawsuits, even if they are not committing copyright infringement themselves. And somebody with a cable modem with an adjustable MAC address could really wreak havoc! (For dialup PPP or perhaps PPPoE DSL, of course, ISPs may have to use other means to keep track of IP address assignments, and a MAC address in a DHCP log might not enter into it at all.)    Embed Quote