★When a MAC address itself is unique, why do we still need an IP address to uniquely identify a system on a network?
I will try to explain this in an easy way using an analogy. So here it goes -   Let’s say your name is ‘A’. Obviously some other people in the world might also have the same name ‘A’. This is not unique. Now let’s add your father’s name (say father’s name is ‘B’) along with your name, it becomes ‘B.A’. Now people with this same name will be in less number as compared to your earlier original name ‘A’. But still it is not unique. Let’s say we keep on adding the names of your forefathers  to your name – ‘A’, ‘B.A’, ‘C.B.A’, ‘D.C.B.A’, ‘E.D.C.B.A’, ‘F.E.D.C.B.A’, …………… a time will come when the name will become unique. This is like a MAC address which will never change once assigned to a device, as your father’s & your forefather’s name also won’t change and will be a unique combination. This means you can now be uniquely identified in the world with your name. Now let’s say someone needs to send you a parcel (in computer terms a packet). He\She can simply write down your new name on it (and nothing else) and that should do the work – right? Yes, it may work. But just imagine the burden on the post office to deliver it to you without any address on the parcel. The post office will have to keep track of all the people in the world. (Similar burden will be incurred by a router – It will be impossible for the router to build a routing table other than a complete map that lists EVERY single MAC address ever seen). Now here comes the use and necessity of an address to be associated with your name and hence, use of an IP address to be associated with a device. Let’s say you stay in Building number “#4”. Obviously there can be several areas/city which have Building number “#4”. So this address is not unique to you. Now let’s add some more details to it – Area code “0055” and it becomes – “0055.#4”. Still not unique to you. Let’s add some more details like street, state, city, country. It becomes – US.Chicago.MaryStreet62.0055.#4. Now, this is a unique address from which you can be uniquely identified. If anyone willing to send you a parcel can just address the parcel with this and the parcel will reach to you with ease. This is like having an IP address. Obviously your address will keep on changing if you keep travelling from one place to another but your name won’t. Same is the case with MAC and IP address. MAC address won’t change once assigned to a device. However, IP will keep changing.   PS: There are ways to spoof/change MAC address as well but then there are also ways people change the details about their family background. If you know what I mean :P    Embed Quote