★When a MAC address itself is unique, why do we still need an IP address to uniquely identify a system on a network?
In large networks there is a need to keep things organized.  MAC addresses are impractical. The IP infrastructure is organized in same way that the telephone network is organized. In telephone networks your "number" is divided into a country code, areas code, local exchange and, finally, your number. IP networks are organized in a similar fashion [Formally, the address is divided into "subnets" (sub-networks) where each subnet can be further divided, at any location, into other subnets ... like a tree branching]. So you can't pick any IP address you want. You will be assigned an IP address by your network (e.g., an ISP customer will get their IP address from the ISP). And the entire internet knows where you are (geographically) because your IP address "belongs" to a particular (and unique) subnet (which is your ISP's subnet). This architecture allows for efficient "routing" (like the routing performed in telephone networks). MAC addresses break this simple organization. For example, if you take your computer (and its MAC) to another city then the entire internet will need to re-learn your location. This is just ridiculously inefficient. This is why there is no MAC information inside IP traffic (i.e., IP networks  know nothing about MAC addresses). The internet uses your IP address only (typically the IP address of the "gateway" in your home or office) and leaves the details of figuring out where your computer is located to the gateway (which uses your MAC). [And this is why that "gateway" parameter (when you setup your computer's IP) is so important!] The other huge(!) problem with MAC addresses is that they depend on the technology your are using. So there are different (not necessarily unique) addresses for Ethernet, ISDN, DSL, T1/E1, etc. devices. Every technology (and there's lots of them) has a different concept of a "MAC". And this is just way too much variety to keep things organized.    Embed Quote