★What replacement for UDID are iOS developers using—mac address, OpenUDID?As some time from now Apple might disable UDID usage in a future version of iOS (currently iOS 5.1), what are you guys using right now to prepare for that?
In iOS 5.0, Apple deprecated uniqueIdentifier, which fetches Unique Device Identifiers (UDIDs). There are now two new IDs that will grow in popularity with increased support for and adoption of iOS 6+: identifierForAdvertising (IDFA or IFA) is a cross-app / publisher identifier declared in ASIdentifierManager.h identifierForVendor (IDFV) is a publisher-specific identifier declared in UIDevice.h   IDFA acts like a persistent cookie. Let’s take the example of when a user sells their phone to someone else.  With the UDID model, the UDID would stay constant and the new phone owner’s profile data would get mixed in with the former owner’s data. With IDFA, if the original user resets his new phone, he/she will get a new IDFA and his profile will stay constant without any cross-contamination of profiles.   Note: Apple’s deprecation of uniqueIdentifier (UDID) in 5.0 should not affect apps in the App Store unless they are updated with new code.   We have seen the birth of multiple alternatives recently (OpenUDID, ODIN, etc.), but none has really taken off with major success. As the platform owner, Apple has the power to make everyone follow and align under one, universal approach for mobile advertising. Apple has not made explicit statements regarding opt-out for IDFA. Currently, users can opt out of receiving ads from Google’s AdMob or Apple’s own iAd network. Advertisers typically prefer that the opt in status is “on” by default, so that the mobile ad industry can work with the new ID system but simultaneously give users choice to opt out if they have concerns about tracking. A Note on 3rd Parties I work for Apsalar http://apsalar.com/ as the product support engineer. 3rd parties that work in mobile advertising must adjust quickly to changes like these. Since Apple is deprecating the UDID and on iOS 6 has introduced key device software changes, Apsalar created two SDKs that let you track user events and conduct cohort analyses. ·       iOS SDK 4.1.3 (non-U): collects no UDIDs but supports APID and IDFA. ·       iOS SDK 4.1.3 (U): collects UDIDs for devices below iOS 5.0 and supports APID and IDFA.   The Apsalar SDK 4.0.x for iOS has two flavors -- the UDID and non-UDID version. Version 4.0.x supports OpenUDID, ODIN, and the MD5 of the MAC address. Companies like Apsalar need to have a pulse on such tech industry changes, which is why new types of SDKs are provided.   More information from Apsalar's CEO Michael Oiknine: http://apsalar.com/blog/2012/06/apples-new-advertising-id/    Embed Quote