How does D-Wave system design their processor core?
I will give the brief overview what they are doing  in Layman's language about the principle it is based on. The answer doesn't include anything related to hardware manufacturing. D-wave quantum computer is based on adiabatic quantum computing. Here is a brief overview of AQC. In adiabatic quantum computation, the quantum computer remains forever in the ground state of quantum system throughout the computation. The method is extensively used in optimization problems(D-wave functionality)  and large number of the computationally hard problems can be formulated as optimization problems.The solution of the optimization problem is encoded in the ground state energies, phases, etc. by using some unitary transformations. The Hamiltonian H(t) of the computer is changed gradually from a initial simple Hamiltonian H(i) whose ground state is already known, to a final Hamiltonian H(f) whose ground state encodes the solutions we are looking for. The adiabatic theorem suggests that if the variation in the Hamiltonian is sufficiently slow, the initial prepared ground state will be transformed to ground state of H(f) . In the following example The particle starts out in the ground state of infinite square well and then width of wall is changed from "a" to "2a" in two different manners. From the first case, it is changed adiabatically such that final state would be the ground state of infinite square well with "2a" width. By contrast, if the width of the wall is changed suddenly, the resulting state will still be |ψ(i)> , which might be linear combination of eigenstates of newer Hamiltonian. Sudden change can be thought as the free expansion of a gas into the vacuum when the piston is removed, the free expansion does not require any external work done on system, hence energy is conserved. Here is a snapshot from my MS thesis to have an idea about the rate at which H(t) can be varied. AQC becomes extremely important when we do not have enough quantum control to physically implement the unitary evolutions of Hamiltonian H(t). In this case, it is feasible to first implement the adiabatic state preparation into a quantum algorithm and simulate the adiabatic process on a digital quantum computer. 