Is there a website with a list of all of the biggest unsolved problems in engineering, math and science?
I will (hopefully) list and link every unsolved problem in the sciences: Computational Complexity: P = NP problem NC = P problem NP = co-NP problem P = BPP problem P = PSPACE problem L = NL problem L = P problem L = RL problem What is the relationship between BQP and NP? Unique games conjecture Is the exponential time hypothesis true? Do one-way functions exist? Is public-key cryptography possible? Algorithms: What is the fastest algorithm for multiplication of two n-digit numbers? What is the fastest algorithm for matrix multiplication? Can integer factorization be done in polynomial time on a classical computer? Can the discrete logarithm be computed in polynomial time on a classical computer? Can the graph isomorphism problem be solved in polynomial time? Can parity games be solved in polynomial time? Can the rotation distance between two binary trees be computed in polynomial time? Does linear programming admit a strongly polynomial-time algorithm? This is problem #9 in Smale's list of problems. What is the lower bound on the complexity of fast Fourier transform algorithms? Can they be faster than Θ (N log N)? Dynamic optimality conjecture for splay trees K-server problem Can X + Y sorting be done in strictly less than O(n2 log n) time? Is there a bounded-time algorithm for Envy-free cake-cutting? Programming language theory POPLmark Barendregt–Geuvers–Klop conjecture Additive number theory Beal's conjecture Fermat–Catalan conjecture Goldbach's conjecture (Proof claimed for weak version in 2013) The values of g(k) and G(k) in Waring's problem Collatz conjecture (3n + 1 conjecture) Lander, Parkin, and Selfridge conjecture Diophantine quintuples Gilbreath's conjecture Erdős conjecture on arithmetic progressions Erdős–Turán conjecture on additive bases Pollock octahedral numbers conjecture Algebra Hilbert's sixteenth problem Hadamard conjecture Jacobson's conjecture Existence of perfect cuboids Zauner's conjecture: existence of SIC-POVMs in all dimensions Algebraic geometry André–Oort conjecture Bass conjecture Deligne conjecture Fröberg conjecture Fujita conjecture Hartshorne conjectures Jacobian conjecture Manin conjecture Nakai conjecture Resolution of singularities in characteristic p Standard conjectures on algebraic cycles Section conjecture Tate conjecture Virasoro conjecture Witten conjecture Zariski multiplicity conjecture Algebraic number theory Are there infinitely many real quadratic number fields with unique factorization? Brumer–Stark conjecture Characterize all algebraic number fields that have some power basis. Analysis: The Jacobian conjecture Schanuel's conjecture Lehmer's conjecture Pompeiu problem Are (the Euler–Mascheroni constant), π + e, π − e, πe, π/e, πe, π√2, ππ, eπ2, ln π, 2e, ee, Catalan's constant or Khinchin's constant rational, algebraic irrational, or transcendental? What is the irrationality measure of each of these numbers?[9][10][11] The Khabibullin’s conjecture on integral inequalities Combinatorics Number of magic squares (sequence A006052 in OEIS) Finding a formula for the probability that two elements chosen at random generate the symmetric group Frankl's union-closed sets conjecture: for any family of sets closed under sums there exists an element (of the underlying space) belonging to half or more of the sets The Lonely runner conjecture: if runners with pairwise distinct speeds run round a track of unit length, will every runner be "lonely" (that is, be at least a distance from each other runner) at some time? Singmaster's conjecture: is there a finite upper bound on the multiplicities of the entries greater than 1 in Pascal's triangle? The 1/3–2/3 conjecture: does every finite partially ordered set that is not totally ordered contain two elements x and y such that the probability that x appears before y in a random linear extension is between 1/3 and 2/3? Discrete geometry Solving the happy ending problem for arbitrary Finding matching upper and lower bounds for K-sets and halving lines The Hadwiger conjecture on covering n-dimensional convex bodies with at most 2n smaller copies The Kobon triangle problem on triangles in line arrangements The McMullen problem on projectively transforming sets of points into convex position Ulam's packing conjecture about the identity of the worst-packing convex solid Euclidean geometry: The einstein problem – does there exist a two-dimensional shape that forms the prototile for an aperiodic tiling, but not for any periodic tiling? Inscribed square problem – does every Jordan curve have an inscribed square? Moser's worm problem – what is the smallest area of a shape that can cover every unit-length curve in the plane? The moving sofa problem – what is the largest area of a shape that can be maneuvered through a unit-width L-shaped corridor? Shephard's problem (a.k.a. Dürer's conjecture) – does every convex polyhedron have a net? The Thomson problem - what is the minimum energy configuration of N particles bound to the surface of a unit sphere that repel each other with a 1/r potential (or any potential in general)? Pentagonal tiling - 15 types of convex pentagons are known to monohedrally tile the plane, and it is not known whether this list is complete The Big Chop - Is there a satisfactory combination puzzle mechanism for the disdyakis triacontahedron? Dynamical systems: Furstenberg conjecture – Is every invariant and ergodic measure for the action on the circle either Lebesgue or atomic? Margulis conjecture — Measure classification for diagonalizable actions in higher-rank groups MLC conjecture – Is the Mandelbrot set locally connected ? Weinstein conjecture - Does a regular compact contact type level set of a Hamiltonian on a symplectic manifold carry at least one periodic orbit of the Hamiltonian flow? Is every reversible cellular automaton in three or more dimensions locally reversible? Graph theory: Barnette's conjecture that every cubic bipartite three-connected planar graph has a Hamiltonian cycle The Erdős–Gyárfás conjecture on cycles with power-of-two lengths in cubic graphs The Erdős–Hajnal conjecture on finding large homogeneous sets in graphs with a forbidden induced subgraph The Hadwiger conjecture relating coloring to clique minors The Erdős–Faber–Lovász conjecture on coloring unions of cliques Harborth's conjecture that every planar graph can be drawn with integer edge lengths The total coloring conjecture The list coloring conjecture The Ringel–Kotzig conjecture on graceful labeling of trees The Hadwiger–Nelson problem on the chromatic number of unit distance graphs Deriving a closed-form expression for the percolation threshold values, especially (square site) Tutte's conjectures that every bridgeless graph has a nowhere-zero 5-flow and every bridgeless graph without the Petersen graph as a minor has a nowhere-zero 4-flow The reconstruction conjecture and new digraph reconstruction conjecture concerning whether or not a graph is recognizable by the vertex deleted subgraphs. The cycle double cover conjecture that every bridgeless graph has a family of cycles that includes each edge twice. Does a Moore graph with girth 5 and degree 57 exist? Conway's thrackle conjecture Negami's conjecture on the characterization of graphs with planar covers The Blankenship–Oporowski conjecture on the book thickness of subdivisions Group theory: Is every finitely presented periodic group finite? The inverse Galois problem: is every finite group the Galois group of a Galois extension of the rationals? For which positive integers m, n is the free Burnside group B(m,n) finite? In particular, is B(2, 5) finite? Is every group surjunctive? Model theory Vaught's conjecture The Cherlin–Zilber conjecture: A simple group whose first-order theory is stable in is a simple algebraic group over an algebraically closed field. The Main Gap conjecture, e.g. for uncountable first order theories, for AECs, and for -saturated models of a countable theory. Determine the structure of Keisler's order The stable field conjecture: every infinite field with a stable first-order theory is separably closed. Is the theory of the field of Laurent series over decidable? of the field of polynomials over ? (BMTO) Is the Borel monadic theory of the real order decidable? (MTWO) Is the monadic theory of well-ordering consistently decidable? The Stable Forking Conjecture for simple theories For which number fields does Hilbert's tenth problem hold? Assume K is the class of models of a countable first order theory omitting countably many types. If K has a model of cardinality does it have a model of cardinality continuum? Is there a logic L which satisfies both the Beth property and Δ-interpolation, is compact but does not satisfy the interpolation property?[24] If the class of atomic models of a complete first order theory is categorical in the , is it categorical in every cardinal? Is every infinite, minimal field of characteristic zero algebraically closed? (minimal = no proper elementary substructure) Kueker's conjecture Does there exist an o-minimal first order theory with a trans-exponential (rapid growth) function? Lachlan's decision problem Does a finitely presented homogeneous structure for a finite relational language have finitely many reducts? Do the Henson graphs have the finite model property? (e.g. triangle-free graphs) The universality problem for C-free graphs: For which finite sets C of graphs does the class of C-free countable graphs have a universal member under strong embeddings? The universality spectrum problem: Is there a first-order theory whose universality spectrum is minimum? Number theory: abc conjecture (Proof claimed in 2012, currently under review.) Carmichael's totient function conjecture Erdős–Straus conjecture Do any odd perfect numbers exist? Are there infinitely many perfect numbers? Do quasiperfect numbers exist? Do any odd weird numbers exist? Do any Lychrel numbers exist? Is 10 a solitary number? Do any Taxicab(5, 2, n) exist for n>1? Brocard's problem: existence of integers, (n,m), such that n!+1 = m2 other than n=4, 5, 7 Distribution and upper bound of mimic numbers Littlewood conjecture Congruent number problem (a corollary to Birch and Swinnerton-Dyer conjecture, per Tunnell's theorem) Lehmer's totient problem: if φ(n) divides n − 1, must n be prime? Are there infinitely many amicable numbers? Are there any pairs of relatively prime amicable numbers? The Gauss circle problem – how far can the number of integer points in a circle centered at the origin be from the area of the circle? Catalan's Mersenne conjecture Goldbach's conjecture Twin prime conjecture Legendre's conjecture Polignac's conjecture Dickson's conjecture Bunyakovsky conjecture The Gaussian moat problem: is it possible to find an infinite sequence of distinct Gaussian prime numbers such that the difference between consecutive numbers in the sequence is bounded? Are there infinitely many prime quadruplets? Are there infinitely many cousin primes? Are there infinitely many sexy primes? Are there infinitely many Mersenne primes (Lenstra–Pomerance–Wagstaff conjecture); equivalently, infinitely many even perfect numbers? Are there infinitely many Wagstaff primes? Are there infinitely many Sophie Germain primes? Are there infinitely many Pierpont primes? Are there infinitely many regular primes, and if so is their relative density ? Are there infinitely many repunit primes to every base except perfect power? Are there infinitely many Cullen primes? Are there infinitely many Woodall primes? Are there infinitely many palindromic primes to every base? Are there infinitely many Fibonacci primes? Are there infinitely many Lucas primes? Are there infinitely many Pell primes? Are there infinitely many Newman–Shanks–Williams primes? Are all Mersenne numbers of prime index square-free? Are there infinitely many Wieferich primes? Are there any Wieferich prime in base 47? Are there any composite c satisfying 2c - 1 ≡ 1 (mod c2)? For any given integer a > 0, are there infinitely many primes p such that ap - 1 ≡ 1 (mod p2)? Can a prime p satisfy 2p − 1 ≡ 1 (mod p2) and 3p − 1 ≡ 1 (mod p2) simultaneously? Are there infinitely many Wilson primes? Are there infinitely many Wolstenholme primes? Are there any Wall–Sun–Sun primes? Is every Fermat number 22n + 1 composite for ? Are all Fermat numbers square-free? For any given integer a which is not a square and does not equal to -1. Are there infinitely many primes with a as a primitive root? Artin's conjecture on primitive roots Is 78,557 the lowest Sierpiński number? Is 509,203 the lowest Riesel number? Fortune's conjecture (that no Fortunate number is composite) Landau's problems Does every prime number appear in the Euclid–Mullin sequence? Does the converse of Wolstenholme's theorem hold for all natural numbers? Elliott–Halberstam conjecture Partial differential equations: Regularity of solutions of Vlasov–Maxwell equations Regularity of solutions of Euler equations Ramsey theory: The values of the Ramsey numbers, particularly The values of the Van der Waerden numbers Set theory: The problem of finding the ultimate core model, one that contains all large cardinals. If ℵω is a strong limit cardinal, then 2ℵω < ℵω1 (see Singular cardinals hypothesis). The best bound, ℵω4, was obtained by Shelah using his pcf theory. Woodin's Ω-hypothesis. Does the consistency of the existence of a strongly compact cardinal imply the consistent existence of a supercompact cardinal? (Woodin) Does the Generalized Continuum Hypothesis below a strongly compact cardinal imply the Generalized Continuum Hypothesis everywhere? Does there exist a Jónsson algebra on ℵω? Without assuming the axiom of choice, can a nontrivial elementary embedding V→V exist? Other Maths Problems: Invariant subspace problem Problems in Latin squares Problems in loop theory and quasigroup theory Dixmier conjecture Baum–Connes conjecture Novikov conjecture Generalized star height problem Assorted sphere packing problems, e.g. the densest irregular hypersphere packings Closed curve problem: Find (explicit) necessary and sufficient conditions that determine when, given two periodic functions with the same period, the integral curve is closed. Toeplitz' conjecture (open since 1911) Statistics: How to detect and correct for systematic errors, especially in sciences where random errors are large (a situation Tukey termed uncomfortable science). The Graybill–Deal estimator is often used to estimate the common mean of two normal populations with unknown and possibly unequal variances. Though this estimator is generally unbiased, its admissibility remains to be shown. Meta-analysis: Though independent p-values can be combined using Fisher's method, techniques are still being developed to handle the case of dependent p-values. Behrens–Fisher problem: Yuri Linnik showed in 1966 that there is no uniformly most powerful test for the difference of two means when the variances are unknown and possibly unequal. That is, there is no exact test (meaning that, if the means are in fact equal, one that rejects the null hypothesis with probability exactly α) that is also the most powerful for all values of the variances (which are thus nuisance parameters). Though there are many approximate solutions (such as Welch's t-test), the problem continues to attract attention as one of the classic problems in statistics. Multiple comparisons: There are various ways to adjust p-values to compensate for the simultaneous or sequential testing of hypothesis. Of particular interest is how to simultaneously control the overall error rate, preserve statistical power, and incorporate the dependence between tests into the adjustment. These issues are especially relevant when the number of simultaneous tests can be very large, as is increasingly the case in the analysis of data from DNA microarrays.[citation needed] Bayesian statistics: A list of open problems in Bayesian statistics has been proposed. Neuroscience: Consciousness: What is the neuronal basis of subjective experience, cognition, wakefulness, alertness, arousal, and attention? Is there a "hard problem of consciousness"? If so, how is it solved? What, if any, is the function of consciousness? Perception: How does the brain transfer sensory information into coherent, private percepts? What are the rules by which perception is organized? What are the features/objects that constitute our perceptual experience of internal and external events? How are the senses integrated? What is the relationship between subjective experience and the physical world? Learning and memory: Where do our memories get stored and how are they retrieved again? How can learning be improved? What is the difference between explicit and implicit memories? What molecule is responsible for synaptic tagging? Neuroplasticity: How plastic is the mature brain? Development and evolution: How and why did the brain evolve? What are the molecular determinants of individual brain development? Free will, particularly the neuroscience of free will Sleep: What is the biological function of sleep? Why do we dream? What are the underlying brain mechanisms? What is its relation to anesthesia? Cognition and decisions: How and where does the brain evaluate reward value and effort (cost) to modulate behavior? How does previous experience alter perception and behavior? What are the genetic and environmental contributions to brain function? Language: How is it implemented neurally? What is the basis of semantic meaning? Diseases: What are the neural bases (causes) of mental diseases like psychotic disorders (e.g. mania, schizophrenia), Parkinson's disease, Alzheimer's disease, or addiction? Is it possible to recover loss of sensory or motor function? Movement: How can we move so controllably, even though the motor nerve impulses seem haphazard and unpredictable? Computational theory of mind: What are the limits of understanding thinking as a form of computing? Chemistry: What are the electronic structures of high temperature superconductors at various points on their phase diagrams? Can the transition temperature of high temperature superconductors be brought up to room temperature? Is Feynmanium the last chemical element that can physically exist? That is, what are the chemical consequences of having an element with an atomic number above 137, whose 1s electrons must travel faster than the speed of light? How can electromagnetic energy (photons) be efficiently converted to chemical energy? For instance, can water be efficiently split to hydrogen and oxygen using solar energy? What is the structure of water, and how do water molecules form their transient networks of hydrogen bonds with neighboring water molecules in bulk water. Is an abiologic origin of chirality as is found in (2R)-2,3-dihydroxypropanal (D-glyceraldehyde), and also in amino acids, sugars, etc., possible? Why are accelerated kinetics observed for some organic reactions at the water-organic interface? What is the origin of the energy barrier to bond rotation (e.g., in ethane), simple steric hindrance, hyperconjugation, or another explanation? What is the origin of the alpha effect, that is, that nucleophiles with an electronegative atom with lone pairs adjacent to the nucleophilic center are particularly reactive? What is the nature of strong gold-chalcogens in thiols and other organochalgogens (i.e., sulfur and higher chalcogen-containing organic compounds)? Better-than perfect enzymes: Why do some enzymes exhibit faster-than-diffusion kinetics? Protein folding problem: Is it possible to predict the secondary, tertiary and quaternary structure of a polypeptide sequence based solely on the sequence and environmental information? Inverse protein-folding problem: Is it possible to design a polypeptide sequence which will adopt a given structure under certain environmental conditions? RNA folding problem: Is it possible to accurately predict the secondary, tertiary and quaternary structure of a polyribonucleic acid sequence based on its sequence and environment? What are the chemical origins of life? How did non-living chemical compounds generate self-replicating, complex life forms? Protein design: Is it possible to design highly active enzymes de novo for any desired reaction? Biosynthesis: Can desired molecules, natural products or otherwise, be produced in high yield through biosynthetic pathway manipulation? Geoscience: How did Earth and other planets form? Were planets formed in situ? Or are orbital changes relatively frequent? What determined the different deep layering of the solar planets? Was there ever a collision of the Earth with another planet Theia, giving birth to our satellite? There is compelling evidence, such as measures of a shorter duration of the Earth's rotation and lunar month in the past, pointing to a Moon much closer to Earth during the early stages of the Solar System. What is the long-term heat balance of Earth? How did its internal temperature decay since it formed by accretion of chondrites? How abundant are radiogenic elements in the interior? Did a "faint young Sun" ever warm a "snowball Earth"? What made plate tectonics a dominant process only on Earth? How did the planet cool down before plate tectonics? Was the Earth's crust formed during the early stages of its evolution or is it the result of a gradual distillation of the mantle that continues today along with crustal recycling? Is the crust still growing or does its recycling compensate for crust formation at mid-ocean ridges and other volcanic areas? Can the now widely available topographic data be used to derive past tectonic and climatic conditions (in the multi-million year scale)? Do we know enough about the erosion and transport processes? Does the stocasticity of meteorological and tectonic events reflect in the landscape? How much has life contributed to shape the Earth's surface? Can classical geomorphological concepts such as peneplanation or retrogressive erosion be quantitatively understood? Old mountain ranges such as the Appalachian or the Urals seem to retain relief for >108 years, while fluvial valleys under the Antarctica are preserved under moving ice of kilometric thickness since the Neogene. What controls the time-scale of topographic decay? What are the erosion and transport laws governing the evolution of the Earth’s Surface?[Willenbring et al., Geology, 2013] Rivers transport sediment particles that are at the same time the tools for erosion but also the shield protecting the bedrock. How important is this double role of sediment for the evolution of landscapes? How resilient is the ocean to chemical perturbations? What caused the huge salt deposition in the Mediterranean known as the Messinian salinity crisis? Was the Mediterranean truly desiccated? What were the effects on climate and biology, and what can we learn from extreme salt giants like this? How were the normal marine conditions reestablished? Information Theory: Capacity of a network: The capacity of a general wireless network is not known. There are some specific cases for which the capacity is known, such as the AWGN channel and fading channel. Capacity of the broadcast channel: The capacity of the broadcast channel, or the case in which a single transmitter is sending information to many receivers is unknown in general, though it is known for several specific cases. Capacity of the interference channel(Two User): The capacity of the interference channel, or the in a case when there are two transmitter and receiver pair that interfere among each other, is unknown in general. Capacity is known in special cases: strong interference regime, injective-deterministic. Capacity is known in approximate sense or with in a gap for: injective-semi-deterministic, additive white Gaussian noise with per block power constraint. Capacity of the two-way channel. The capacity of the two-way channel (a channel in which information is sent in both directions simultaneously) is unknown. The capacity of Aloha: The ALOHAnet used a very simple access scheme for which the capacity is still unknown, though it is known in a few special cases. Quantum capacity: The capacity of a quantum channel is in general not known Physics is going to take forever so instead I'll give you a link to a pdf: Page on wikipedia.org 