★What do terms like CDMA, GSM, 3G, and 4G mean?Pretend you're explaining this in practical terms to my grandmother.
Imagine that it is summertime and you decide to attend a nice convention by the beach. At the convention center, there are many activities that involve talking to fellow grandmas and grandads. Initially, you gather at an auditorium and everyone starts talking all at once. With your slight difficulty in hearing, nothing makes sense to anyone present.[1] So you decide on a set of rules. You divide the people in groups and arrange each group around a table. At a table, everyone takes turns to talk and you have a gala time, cracking jokes and discussing politics. However, you have some problems with your echo interfering with what you say. This is, in principle, GSM (2G) where "table" is a set of "frequency channels", and talking in turns is called "time division duplexing". It performs badly in real scenarios that suffer from multipath propagation (akin to "echoes"). [2] A retired professor of Physics then comes up with a bright idea. He removes the tables, and pairs up people who speak the same language/dialect. Then, he allows everyone to talk at the same time, with strict control that each pair uses a unique dialect. As everyone gets a large chunk of time to speak, they can talk at a slow rate to counter echoes. This is the concept of CDMA/3G, where each user can talk all the time, using all the frequencies available. They are separated from interfering by using codes, which act as "dialects". As the evening progresses, the conversation warms up and there are so many parallel conversations that any new pair is drowned out by the collective noise. The system has reached its capacity. So you bring back the tables, and again ask everyone to take turns to speak. You sit a genie at each table whose task is to reduce the effect of echoes. The genie captures sound from each (fast) speaker, and splits it in many (slow) parallel streams. At the receiver, it merges them back to the single (fast) conversation. This is the concept of OFDM used in 4G/LTE, where each "channel" is split in multiple "subcarriers" so that the effect of multipath propagation ("echoes") can be reduced even for fast data rates*.[3] [1] Cellphone users do not talk peer-to-peer, it is always via a base station, which is not apparent in this answer. [2] This is an oversimplifiication (as is rest of the answer), and doesn't completely motivate why we need 3G/4G. [3] 2, 3 and 4 "G" are marketing classifications based on a broad range of data rates provided and technologies used. There is more overlap and differences are more subtle than given here.   *UPDATE: Rupert Baines pointed out in the comments that the genie analogy isn't very intuitive. Here's his analogy for OFDM (4G) vs 2G: If you had a load of letters instead of putting them all in one big truck that might get delayed or lost (GSM), you spilt them between loads of bike couriers (OFDM). Even if some are lost, your message is delivered more reliably.