What is the most improbable thing people have ever seen?
My phone number. I may have already related this story on Quora, but I can't find it. It's a good one, though, so maybe you won't mind hearing it twice. The story begins in 1987, a few years after the Bell Telephone monopoly was forced to break up. Until then, people couldn't own their own telephones: they were forced to rent them from the phone company, with the monthly charge applied to your phone bill. The basic model looked like this: When you ordered your phone, it would be delivered with your phone number already on it, appearing on the white label in the center of the dial. Take note of this: it figures into my story. One of the first things that happened after the breakup was that the public were finally allowed to purchase their own telephones at places like Radio Shack. Trouble was, these phones were hella expensive: about $100 minimum. But compared to the rentals (which was still an option), it was a great deal, and people gave up their rentals in droves. I was in college at the time, living with my parents, with no need for my own phone. However, when someone at my work advertised that they had a bunch of these basic phones -- used -- for sale for five bucks. I figured I'd take advantage of the deal for when I had my own place, and phone line. So I picked one out of this big pile: a pink rotary-dial model similar to the one pictured above. Got my own place in a few years later, but phone technology had progressed, and prices had dropped. I believe my first phone actually had a built in answering machine, and push-button dialing. The old phone was relegated to a closet. Moved a few more times, changing phone numbers each time (you couldn't take your number with you back then either). Never used the phone. Fast-forward to 1992. I was preparing to move -- yet again -- and was purging my old junk. Found the phone. Took a good look at it and I was astonished. Printed on the white label was my current phone number. Whoever owned this phone, way back when, was assigned this same number. Freaky coincidence and almost unimaginable odds. Since I was (and still am) not a big believer in coincidence, or the occult, I ended up giving the phone to Goodwill after all. I saw it there a few weeks later. The white label had been removed. But that's my improbable weird thing story. Updated 152w ago • View Upvotes