How difficult is it for the average person to become a computer programmer?
I wont add much here, since there are lot of good answers to your questions and doubts, especially answer by Abhineet Swain, read it several times till you get each and every point. I am assuming you want to be a good programmer and not the one expected by most of the well known Service industries. So, do not bother about which language is most used or any new language to learn to prepare. Instead start implementing few smaller snippets as you come across in any of the programming language you know. Look for smaller problems surrounded to you. You might want to start from simple mathematical concepts, like prime number generations and to a complex solutions like reverse indexing, inverted indexes, etc. Do push your limits every time. Do not just hold book and read it. Instead solve as many as problems, and some time you may find the last solution to a problem can be improved or redesigned with efficiency, and when you realize this at that point of time you have crossed a first mile which majority of people can not even dare to start. So, just go on doing rather than reading. And last but not least start participating in online forums and question and answer sites for Computer Science like Stack Overflow, Programming and Web Development Help | DreamInCode.net, geeklist. From learning perspective refer these points: Learn Pure Mathematics concepts like Number Theory, Discrete Structures, statistics, etc. Focus on learning Algorithms and Data structures. Learn all possible algorithm concepts including searching techniques like Inverted Indexing, Reverse indexing, etc. Learn about any of the source version systems like GIT, SVN, etc. (Most Important) Participate into hackathones whenever possible, they will give you ex-poser to real world problems as well as make you socialize with the development community. For getting number of good problems which will give you great understanding of algorithms, data structures, improving understanding of basic concepts of computer science which you probably have read already, as well as prepare yourself with good coding skills for jobs go to CodeEval - Evaluations Made Easy. Implement every possible problem on codeeval ranging from simplle, medium and hard category. Most of them are real questions used by companies like facebook, bittorrent, etc. for their hiring processed. This will be a best coice to start your journey, as well as will give you recognition into world wide programmers listing. FYI: Learn means implement and understand and not just merely read. All the Best! 