How does one become a great coder?
I am currently learning to program and my single goal, bottom-up, is to do great things from the beginning. I wouldn't say I'm a great coder or even good, but I would say I learned more in three days from this technique than any book has ever taught me. This is how I am learning to program. If there are errors in this post, forgive me, I am just starting to learn and I welcome feedback of all kinds. First and foremost, you must read a book called Code: The Hidden Language of Computer Hardware and Software By Charles Petzold. This is the definitive book (in my opinion) on understanding how computers work from bits all the way up to high level languages and graphics. Best part is that your grandmother can understand and enjoy this book. Indubitably a must read to start out on the right track. Afterwards you should: Build an 8-bit computer from scratchThis helps to implement what you know and will make you very passionate about a machine you have built from scratch. It will be reminiscent of Woz in the old days...or at least that's how I felt by building it. How to Design, Program, and Build Your Own Working Computer System by Robert P. Haviland http://www.amazon.com/design-pro... Program an Operating SystemProgram an OS for your newly built 8-bit wonderfully engineered machine! You will feel like a boss and your passion will be way way way up by this time. How to Design, Program, and Build Your Own Working Computer System by Robert P. Haviland http://www.amazon.com/design-pro... Build your own programming languageOkay. Maybe not an entire language on your own. But you can build a small dialect of Lisp in C with beginner level coding skills that will teach you an incredible amount about the C programming language. This is a seriously fun activity! www.buildyourownlisp.com Build a ServerI haven't exactly gotten to this step yet, but I am very excited to build it! I'm not sure what I'm going to learn from this little exercise, but I am most certainly positive it will just make me much more confident that I can do anything I set my mind to, especially computer science related. http://www.techrepublic.com/blog... Complete the MIT Computer Science degree plan from start to finish...FOR FREEScott H. Young set out one day to complete an MIT CS degree in less than one year. He ended up completing the degree in about 10 months. If he can do it in 10 months with focus and discipline, you and I can do it in one to two years with discipline. The courses are also made free online thanks to MIT Massive Open Online Courses. http://www.scotthyoung.com/blog/... http://ocw.mit.edu/help/rss/ By the time we get to the end of this little hands on curriculum, our passion and desire to study computer science will have soared to newer heights. I know because I am only on step 3 of this journey and I can't stop thinking about computers. I drove passed a street the other day called Assembly Dr. and I swear it was a sign from the heavens that I needed to learn some more assembly. In all honesty, it was probably just a coincidence, but my point is that once you can say you've built something, you have pride in what you do and it builds on itself. You just want to learn more and more. The passion consumes everything you do all day. Someone mentions a Ruby necklace they got for their birthday? Yup, first thought in my head is "wow I LOVE the language Ruby!" Someone mentions a terrible, terrible movie called Snakes on a Plane? Yup, my first thought is "Python is so powerful. I must learn more about it. Only one way of doing things? Hmm I like that kind of structure." Someone mentions shoestrings, Main Event, drying their clothes, kissing a loved one? Yup, my first thoughts are "...strings are an interesting invention...I wonder why they call it int main() in C...don't repeat yourself (DRY)...keep it simple, stupid (KISS)", respectively. My point (yes, I thought of pointers while typing this and how nervous I am to learn such a notoriously difficult concept in lower level languages) is that it becomes all consuming and all loving, the idea of coding and programming. Honestly? This is where one wants to be for any worthwhile endeavor. I can confidently say I am in flow. This next passage could be you... "...I've just started learning CS on my own and so far I've (a) built my own computer AND programmed an operating system for it (b) created a programming language, a dialect of Lisp I call "Lebron" (naming the dialect you are building will be an exhilarating experience, even if the dialect is useless and has a thousand projects similar to it) (c) built my own server and use it for an application I've built that's similar to Dropbox but instead the data is stored on MY FREAKING SERVER I BUILT PRACTICALLY FROM SCRATCH and (d) completed MIT CS program online, a typically 4 year program in 14 months." How proud of yourself would you be after such a journey? How much would you know after completing an escapade like this? Yes, there will certainly be gaps in your knowledge, but that's where the growing passion comes in. Once you like something and enjoy learning about it enough, the minor details you once skipped over simply for learning purposes becomes pure joy to learn which is a really exciting feeling to have as a beginner on the way to greatness. Some concepts will be insurmountably difficult, but who cares? You did it. And in the 21st century, where programming is quite possibly the best skill to have, no one can ever take that away from you. Thanks for reading this. Gotta get back to designing my language, Chopin (named after Frederic Chopin, the polish pianist)! Disclaimer: I know nothing about computer science and I am just learning. Much of what I've said in this post can potentially be very very wrong. But I just thought I'd answer from the perspective of someone that is going through the the same question and struggle in my head, day after day. Edit: I'm now a student at Turing School of Software and Design. I'm studying Ruby and JavaScript and I can say with confidence that this program as well as my tinkering has brought me a life I had never expected. I'm searching for a job as a software developer now and if you are looking for an ambitious lad...message me :) Updated 7w ago • View Upvotes