What is the point of pure mathematics?
It might be useful to consider the history of math, starting from what most people consider the birthplace of modern math: Ancient Greece. "Pure" math, at least in its beginning stages, was not actually any different from physics and philosophy. The Ancient Greeks were interested in fundamental questions about existence and the physical world: Why are we here? What are things made of? Why do things behave the way they do? In investigating these types of questions, they were able to develop relatively systematic and rigorous methods of thinking — this was arguably the beginning of what we now call logic. People like Archimedes and Euclid were able to employ these new methods to develop more effective and more rigorous understanding of the physical world. It is no coincidence that the word geometry, which comes from the Greek word γεωμετρία, means measurement of the earth. The "point" of "pure math" was the same as the "point" of physics and the "point" of philosophy: To simply try to better understand the world we live in, its laws, its phenomena. Again, it is no coincidence that we use the same word law when we talk about scientific law as well as civil law. Next, we come to the era of the Enlightenment in Europe, with its emphasis on reason and the scientific method. As figures like Voltaire investigated questions about politics and society, others such as Galileo and Newton investigated fundamental aspects of the physical world. It is again no coincidence that Newton's magnum opus Philosophiæ Naturalis Principia Mathematica, in which what we now know as calculus was first developed, contains the term "Natural Philosophy" in its title. It is no coincidence that people like Pascal and Descartes did work in philosophy and religion and theology as well as in "pure math" — and even in their intersection!, see Pascal's Wager. For these Europeans, just as for the Greeks, I think the pursuit of "pure math" was at its core no different from any other scientific or philosophical pursuit. It was mainly driven by a simple and primal urge to better understand nature and the world that we live in. In my view, pure math today is in large part the continuation of the traditions of Euclid et al. and of Newton et al., just as much of our contemporary Western political thought and ideologies can be traced back to people like Plato or Rousseau. To me, it seems that many of the greatest pure mathematicians of more recent eras — Abel, Galois ("What is symmetry?"), Gauss, Hilbert, Riemann, Weil, Serre, Grothendieck ("What is a space?"), Thurston ("How are things shaped?") — were probing deep and fundamental aspects of nature and reality in much the same way that Euclid, Archimedes, Galileo, and Newton were. Sometimes pure math does have or lead to great practical applications. There are many many examples of this. It's no surprise, really, if you think about it — of course understanding nature will help us to harness and control it. How could it not? But still — perhaps "what's the point?" is the wrong question to ask. All of these things seem to me simply a part of the long and continuing thread of the intellectual history of humanity, and our beautiful striving to better understand ourselves and our world. Updated 140w ago • View Upvotes