What are all the All India rank 1s in IIT - JEE doing with their lives?
Here is a detailed breakdown of all the toppers from 2000 to 2014 2000 IIT JEE AIR 1- Nitin Gupta Graduate College: IIT Kanpur Field: Computer Science Where did he go post IIT: University of California, Biology What’s he upto now: Assistant Professor in the Department of Biological Sciences and Bio-engineering The only one in the list to go do a masters degree abroad and return  to India, Nitin joined IIT Kanpur in July 2014 as an Assistant Professor  in the Department of Biological Sciences and Bio-engineering. He plans  to set up a cognitive neuroscience at IIT Kanpur. He is an inspiration  to many who want to contribute back to the educational system in India. 2001 IIT JEE AIR 1- Arvind Thiagarajan Graduate College: IIT Madras Field: Computer Science Where did he go post IIT: Ph.D from MIT What’s he upto now: Research Scientist with Amazon in the US Arvind Thiagarajan has written numerous research papers in the area  of mobile computing. During his PhD, he interned with Yahoo and Google  which are the among the best Silicon Valley companies. With 42 patents  to his credit, in 2011 he founded InFix, amobile computing company. 2002 IIT JEE AIR 1- Dungara Choudhary Graduate College: IIT Kanpur Field: Computer Science Where did he go post IIT: AirTight Networks What’s he upto now: Principal Member of Technical Staff at Oracle in San Francisco One of two toppers in this from Rajasthan and one of the few who has  not gone for a masters degree, Dungara Choudhary has written a thesis in  distributed parallel architecture after topping the JEE examination in  2002. 2003 IIT JEE AIR 1- Shashak Dwiwedi Graduate College: IIT Mumbai Field: Electrical Engineering Where did he go post IIT: MIT What’s he upto now: Research/Teaching Since Shashank is not on social networks, we have been able to get  limited information on him. We have sent him a request for additional  information and will update this post accordingly. 2004 IIT JEE AIR 1- Sushant Sachdeva Graduate College: IIT Mumbai Field: Computer Science Where did he go post IIT: Princeton Univeristy What’s he upto now: Ongoing Ph.D at Yale in Computer Science After his bachelors in IIT Mumbai, Sushant went to Princeton for his  masters degree He has finished research internships at Toyota, Microsoft  and ETH Zurich. He has also published numerous research papers in  prestigious conferences throughout the world. 2005 IIT JEE AIR 1- Piyush Srivastava Graduate College: IIT Kanpur Field: Computer Science Where did he go post IIT: Univeristy of California, Berkeley What’s he upto now: Ongoing Ph.D at Caltech in theoretical Computer Science The only topper from UP in this list, Piyush Srivastava has had 3  stints as a research intern at Microsoft in 2009, 2011 and 2013. 2006 IIT JEE AIR 1- Raghu Mahajan Graduate College: MIT Field: Physics & Maths Where did he go post IIT: Ph.D at Stanford After topping IIT JEE in 2006, Raghu took admission in IIT Delhi.  However, after 2 years, he left for MIT and finished his Bahelor in  Science in 2011. He has been working with AAP in Delhi 2007 IIT JEE AIR 1- Achin Bansal Graduate College: IIT Mumbai Field: Computer Science Where did he go post IIT: Morgan Stanley What’s he upto now: Morgan Stanley Achin Bansal is from the small town of Kotkapura, Punjab He was also a  summer research intern for 3 months at the prestigious University of  Bath in United Kingdom. Post IIT, Achin has been at Morgan Stanley as an  analyst and then an associate. He is one of the two JEE toppers from  2000-2009 who neither opted for higher studies nor left the country. 2008 IIT JEE AIR 1- Shitikanth Kashyap Graduate College: IIT Kanpur Field: Computer Science What’s he upto now: Research at Institute for Quantum Computing in Waterloo, Canada Representing Bihar on this list, Shitikanth Kashyap from Bihar, Patna  topped IIT JEE in 2008 and has interned as a Research Assistant at  Laboratorie d’Informatique Algorithmique: Fondements et Applicaions in  Paris 2009 IIT JEE AIR 1- Nitin Jain Graduate College: IIT Delhi Field: Computer Science What’s he upto now: Working for Twitter in Canada Nitin Jain from Faridabad secured did his internship from Zomato in Dublin. During campus placements, he got a job at Twitter. The more recent JEE toppers have only just begin their career or are still in college. 2010 IIT JEE AIR 1- Anumula Jithendar Reddy Anumula completed his electronics and communication engineering  degree at IIT Mumbai. He completed his internship from QEA Eduventure  and is presently a Research Assistant at Caltech SURFriends in Pasedena,  California. 2011 IIT JEE AIR 1- Prudhvi Tej Prudhvi Tej not only topped IIT JEE in 2011, but was also 7th rank holder in AIEEE . He is presently pursuing Electrical Engineering from IIT Mumbai and will graduate in 2015. He plans to become an IAS officer and serve the country. 2012 IIT JEE AIR 1- Arpit Aggarwal The 2nd IIT JEE AIR 1 holder in 4 years, Arpit Aggarwal is  currently pursuing Computer Science in IIT Delhi. He has worked with  Google India after scoring a rank of 122 in the Google APAC. 2013 IIT JEE AIR 1- Pallerla Sai Sandeep Reddy Pallerla Sai Sandeep Reddy received admission in the prestigious  Indian Institute of Technology, Bombay in the Computer Science stream.  He wishes to further pursue post-graduation in robotic technology. 2014 IIT JEE AIR 1- Chitraang Murdia Chitraang Murdia is doing his B.Tech. in Computer Science from IIT  Mumbai. He goal is to go for research. He believes that there is a lot  of scope in research has a desire to give back something to the society. Source: Where are the IIT JEE Toppers Now? on coachingadda.com Updated 41w ago • View Upvotes