Why is it difficult to understand quantum computing?
Its not that difficult to understand the basic concepts of Quantum computing, there's been a lot of hype created which makes it sound a lot more mystical and difficult than it actually is, Quantum phenomena are not a violation of the classical phenomena, infact classical mechanics is a limiting case of quantum mechanics, which is fundamental , but Quantum Phenomena have incomplete interpretation, say when we talk about the dual nature of subatomic particles, when we talk about a particle, all we think of is a rigid and solid billiard ball,  and when talking about a wave we generally tend to think that subatomic particles following the curve of a sine or cosine wave. However Quantum entities in some ways behave like particles and in some ways behave like waves, but they really have their own unique way, which is neither particle nor wave.  It is indeed paradoxical, unintuitive, and radically strange. Let me mention some  odd features that make Quantum computing a bit different and difficult to understand. Complete knowledge of a system's state is forbidden, measurement reveals only a small amount of information. These particles are so small that you can't measure them without disturbing them! (pain in the ass!) The act of measuring a particle fundamentally disturbs its state. Quantum entities,unlike their classical counterparts, do not have any trajectories. We can measure a particle at position X and later at position Y but we cannot say anything about the path that it took to get from X to Y! Quantum mechanics is inherently probabilistic, to put that in layman terms, say, if we prepare two identical quantum registers   |a> , and |a>, and then measure them, the results may be different, this also implies that quantum logic gates are reversible, unlike their classical counterparts. To get a good hold of the principles of elementary Quantum computation one needs to have a good grasp on Linear Algebra, it will help you understand the basics of Quantum algorithms (Grover's algorithm, Shor's Prime Factoring Algo.) easily. 