What is it like to have dinner with Donald Knuth?
I had dinner with Professor Knuth 2 months ago (November 2013). The dinner took place at the Stern dining hall at Stanford. There were 8 people at our table - 2 professors and 6 students. To tell the truth, Donald Knuth turned out to be one of the nicest and friendliest people I have ever met. Answering the questions, he never missed a single detail and demonstrated a great sense of humor. At first I think I should explain how I, a person with no computer science background (except for the CS106A at Stanford) got a chance to sit for 2 hours next to Donald Knuth - one of the greatest CS scientists in the world. It all started 2 weeks earlier, when I attended the talk on the "Art and Technology" at the Green Library at Stanford. Professor Knuth was one of the panelists at that talk and he came for the reception before the event. I came at the reception as well and the first person I met there was Diego - a Stanford freshman who was crazy about computer science and admired Donald Knuth since he was a kid. He came to that event specifically to meet Professor Knuth and he was shy and didn't dare to talk to him. I cheered him up and we walked to Knuth's table together and introduced ourselves. We told professor Knuth that it was an honor to meet him and asked some questions about the event and his future talks at Stanford. After that Diego invited him to the Faculty Night - a monthly dinner when Stanford undergrads can invite any professor to their dorms' dining halls. And Donald Knuth accepted the offer. Diego also made sure that I could attend that dinner as well. That's how I got to that event. Donald Knuth came on time and started his dinner with dessert. Only after he finished the cake he proceeded to the salad. He explained that order of courses by not being consistent. We talked about Stanford, computer science, his books, family and many other topics. One student asked him why he stopped teaching. He said that he chose to spend his time writing books. To the follow-up question "why?" he said that anyone could teach computer science and only he could write his books. Another student asked him whether he tried to solve the P versus NP problem. Professor Knuth answered that he tried and that he thought that P equals to NP, but the statement of that theorem needed clarification. Somebody asked professor how he came up with the linear time string matching algorithm (Knuth–Morris–Pratt algorithm). Knuth said that once he read an article by a Berkeley scientist about push-down automaton with linear size stack. After that he spent 10 hours thinking how to apply that theorem to the string matching problem. By the end of the night he came up with the implementation of the linear time algorithm for that problem. When Donald Knuth was talking about his family, I asked him why his daughter decided to major in biology rather than in computer science. He said that if she had chosen CS and published an article under her last name - Knuth, that would have attracted a lot of attention to her work. He also shared a funny story from his life. For his 64th birthday his wife wrote to him "Happy 1,000,000th birthday", because 64 is 1,000,000 in binary.  After the dinner, he put on a helmet with a flashing light on the forehead and biked home. We stayed at the dining hall for some time sharing our impressions about how great that evening was and what an interesting, friendly and nice person Donald Knuth turned out to be. 