What were the greatest intellectual achievements of the 20th century in science and mathematics?
My perspective differs from previous posts because I am looking at the question from a utilitarian point of view. As my strength is in the latest advances of science (not math), I will confine myself to scientific achievements: 1) Fertilizer. The Haber-Bosch process is a chemical reaction by nitrogen (a relatively unreactive gas) is converted into ammonia. Subsequently ammonia can be fixated and used as a fertilizer. This is important since industrially produced crops would have not been possible today without this. i.e. the world would be a hungrier place. 2) Catalytic Converter. Sure, automobiles, airplanes and fossil-fuel based transportation are awesome. But these would not operate nowadays in the absence of the catalytic converter. Although deceptively simple, this is a remarkable piece of engineering that is crucial to have these kind of transportation in large scale without having health/environmental ramifications. 3) Petroleum Chemistry. If you want a versatile compound look no further. Petroleum-based products are everywhere. By no means our technological advancements would have come in the absence of this liquid gold. 4) Chip. While I agree that transistors are important, I think that of equal importance is to be able to fit them into a small footprint. The laptop that I have in my lap would be the house of my condo if the chip did not come into existence. To fathom that I have more processing power than what the first mission to the moon had means that this is a disruptive technology. I am assured that our workplaces are much more efficient due to computers. 5) Man on the Moon. Asides from being able to muscle out the Soviet Union, the man on the moon program created a lot of spin-off technlogies. Examples include smoke detectors, home insulation, water purification, LEDs, composite materials, telecommunication technology, etc. 6) Internet. Do I need to say more? 7) Antibiotics. Although I share the sentiment that these have been used irresponsibly, it is also important to highlight what are the contributions. A lot of the bacterial diseases have been eradicated and modern meat production in CAFOs depend on this to operate. Furthermore, they have helped enormously the biotechnology industry since antibiotic resistance is often used as a marker to choose those genotypes that show a desired mutation. 8) Biotech. I would not be working in this field if I did not believe it can change the world. I think that it has already started to change the medical (monoclonal antibodies as drugs, vaccine production), food (better crops, bad condition resistant crop), energy (ethanol, butanol) and materials (bio-PDO) world; however, I also believe that there is way more for this to go in the next century. 