How does one become a great coder?
There are thousands of great resources for learning to program, though I’m sure there’s no canonical guide. Becoming a great programmer is probably like becoming great at anything else. There will never be a step-by-step guide, but there are certainly fundamental principles for learning effectively. Everyone learns differently, but I’ve found there to be three core tenets for improving at something. To be clear, the three tenets below are not mutually exclusive. They must happen in concert to be truly successful. Develop a habit. Discipline is a subtle and inherent aspect of a habit. Learning how to program will require you to write or read code nearly every day. This level of discipline is challenging, until it becomes a habit. Habits are almost unconscious, and become part of your daily routine. Like going to the gym in order to get fit, writing or reading code for an hour a day needs to become part of your routine. Make yourself uncomfortable nearly every day. Tutorials are great for giving you context and building momentum, but you must extend and challenge yourself to truly learn. It’s critical to make yourself uncomfortable, because you’ll improve the most when you feel that way. To make yourself uncomfortable, extend tutorials on your own, build original products, and contribute to open-source repositories. Find a mentor and a supportive group to help you. This is the most important thing you can do, and is fundamental for developing good habits and challenging yourself. A great mentor and a supportive group will keep you moving forward, despite the many factors that may stop you. Fortunately, these tenets don’t require access to education, money, or being in the right geographic location. That being said, there are many coding schools which will help you learn by applying these fundamental strategies. Like most things, you can learn to program without spending a dime, but if you want to accelerate your education and ensure that you are making the most efficient use of your time, it may be worth an investment. If you find yourself needing support, I write curriculum at Bloc, and we’ve built a career-changing program around these simple tenets. 