What is the funniest thing you have ever coded?
I made the logout buttons on facebook and gmail invisibleI Lived in a hostel for four years. Sometimes friends would borrow my laptop and logout my gmail and facebook accounts so that they could check theirs. This used to happen way too often. It was annoying because if you just want to check your accounts, you can do so in a private browsing/incognito session. This way the owner wouldn't have to re-login. So one day I installed the Stylebot extension and modified styles for mail.google.com and facebook.com. I added a.gbqfbb {    display: none;} for url=mail.google.com and #logout_form {    display: none;} for url=www.facebook.com And the result: No logout button in either gmail or facebook! For days it was fun to teach them about incognito mode. EDIT: OK, so as of now, it's 603 votes on my answer and overwhelmed by that, I've decided to mention another few of my pranks. Messing with start-up in windowsAs some of you might know, in windows, the folder located at  %appdata%\Microsoft\Windows\Start Menu\Programs\Startup is the startup folder. Just try pasting the given path into the Run dialog and it will open. So being a startup folder, what it means is that if you put a batch file into this folder, then it will be executed at startup.  One day, Nishchal Chandna and I decide to be creative. We made a batch file which First copies itself to the startup folder Prints some creepy "YOUR SYSTEM HAS BEEN HACKED" message in red for like, 100 times starts itself in a new cmd shell. Restarts the computer in 15 seconds. Thanks Nishchal Chandna for reminding me. Now, if you double-click on this file, it installs itself into your computer and acts like a super-virus undetectable by most antivirus programs. I'm not providing code for this so consider that a warning to not do this. The only way to remove this, once installed is to live-boot into linux and remove it from the startup folder. But if you really want to try it, consider adding "pause" statements in between the script. Also, convert it to an exe before "shipping". Another time, Gaurav Ashok and I added a batch file in a friend's startup folder that started a porn video in vlc media player(vlc has a command line interface). On top of that, vlc has a feature that allows you to start a video from a specific time. So basically, we provided it the time value of the "noisiest" part IYKWIM ;). The Keylogger Kids, this is a story of when I was in my first year of college. The only people who had laptops in the wing were me, Shashank Verma and Gaurav Ashok. Other people used to check their mails/orkut(yes, the story is that old) etc in the Hostel's Computer Room, the General Computing Lab(GCL) or the Computer Service Center(CSC) or sometimes, on our laptops. Now, those days, the proxy limit was 100 MB/day, 500 MB/week. Not that I used much, but I always wanted to get other people's proxy passwords(new-found ambitions of becoming a hacker), specially those who went home very frequently--the localites. So I installed a keylogger in my laptop(and disabled the antivirus).  So one day, Tarang Gupta comes in and asks to let him check his gmail. After he's finished, I noticed the keylogger was on and now I had his gmail password. So I decide to have some fun with it. I waited for a few days and then told him that I had hacked his gmail account. I said his password was so simple anyone could hack it(:P). He freaks out and immediately decides to change his password. And what a coincidence, he came back to my room to change the password(:D). So I still had his password. After another couple of days, I told him again. It was hilarious, poor guy was so confused. After that people feared me and my laptop for some time. I didn't do any funny stuff to his account though(boundaries, right?). And I did succeed in the original purpose of installing the keylogger. I got Shashank Gupta's proxy who didn't notice it for a long time. Updated 138w ago • View Upvotes