What are arrays?Here's an analogy. A single variable is like a box with a name on the outside, and a number on the inside. The name on the outside could be "Health points remaining" or "Price of one barrel of oil". The number inside could be something like "42" or "90.66". The name on the outside is the variable name. The number on the inside is the value of the variable. Each box can contain only one number. You can look at the number inside the box, and do calculations. You can change the number which is inside the box. For example, at the start of a game you might put "100" into the variable "Health points remaining". If the character in the game gets hit, the program would look at the number stored inside the variable, subtract 1, and put the new number back into the variable, erasing any trace of the old number. Another part of the program checks the value of "Health points remaining". If it is less than 1, then the game is over. An array is like having a row of these boxes. This time the entire row has a name. For example, an array might have the name "Daily closing price of IBM for 2012". Each box in the row has a sequence number on the outside, "1", "2", "3" ... Each box contains a different number. The first box might contain "186.30". The second box might contain "185.54". This might represent "On the first working day of 2012, the closing price of IBM was $186.30" and "On the second working day of 2012, the closing price of IBM was $185.54". In an array, the name on the whole row of boxes is the variable name. One box in the row is called an element of the array. Each element has two parts. The number on the outside of one box is the index of that element. The number inside one box is the value of the element. In order to look at a number inside one of the boxes, you have to give two pieces of information, the name of the whole array, and the index of the individual box. The same is true if you want to change one of the numbers inside one of the boxes in an array. The array described above is a one dimensional array. Once you have given the name of the array, you only need one index to specify an individual box. You can also have an array with more than one index. For example, a two dimensional array is like a rectangle of many boxes. To get to the box in the second row down, and the third column over, you have to specify the name of the whole array, and two indexes, the row number and the column number. 