★What are the recent trends that are revolutionizing online and mobile Payments?
"Hello, credit card, old friend" -Every online/mobile payments company What do Braintree, Stripe, Dwolla, LevelUp, Square, Venmo, Google Wallet, Isis, Lemon, iZettle, Amazon, Apple, Groupon, Uber, card.io, Cardlytics... have in common? Most online/mobile payments companies are different routes on the same Credit Card highway ...and they all pay the same price. Credit Cards (and their funky uncle Bank Accounts) have long been the crux of any online and mobile payments technology. As have the restrictions, fees, and other problems that make payments such a pain for everyone in the system. Want to use any cool new payments service without handing over a credit card or bank account? Good luck. You'll soon realize that throwing a dollar at your friend has more revolutionary qualities as a mobile payment than most venture-backed companies. The companies we regard as innovative are simply helping increase the adoption of a system originally developed over 50 years ago: Square makes it cheaper for physical merchants to start accepting credit cards. Stripe and Braintree make it easier for online merchants to start accepting credit cards. LevelUp defers the cost of accepting credit cards. Venmo makes it easier for you to pay your friends using a credit card. Amazon and Apple make it easier for consumers to buy stuff online with credit cards. Dwolla makes it cheaper for merchants to accept payments using bank accounts. ...credit cards credit cards CREDIT CARDS!!! (and bank accounts) A different pig? Add marketing value to payments LevelUp resurfaced the concept of using payments to track customer retention/loyalty. The merchant doesn't pay processing fees until it's clear that the consumer has paid enough times to be considered loyal. You find a similar theme - loyalty programs that are associated with payment behavior - with the same outcome: the usual credit card processing costs persevere. Meh. A different pig? Change the funding source of payments Green Dot, Blackhawk Networks, Incomm, ePay, Topps Digital, Qiwi... these guys are taking credit cards and bank accounts out of the picture by allowing consumers to digitize cash by buying a prepaid card at a store. Not bad! What's the result? A lot of people without credit cards and bank accounts can now buy stuff online. Also, some people tend to agree that this isn't a terrible idea. Bango, Boku, Zong... are also avoiding the credit card highways by letting people pay with the balance on their mobile phone account. Sure, some people pay their phone bill with a credit card, so this isn't exactly going off-road, but a lot more people have prepaid accounts which aren't a far cry from the Green Dots of the world. A different farm? Rethinking the highways BitCoin and its imitators have tried taking us off credit cards and bank accounts and onto a system that gives power to the people! A cool idea for payments - yes, revolutionary - but when you're early adopters are meth-heads, and your business model is based on a sci-fi novel, you may want to rethink the program. ...like Ripple, which rethinks the BitCoin program without the weirdness by turning the tables on credit cards and bank accounts, giving them the option to ride a highway that's friendlier to merchants, consumers, financial institutions, whatever. Want a revolution? Allons-y, Robespierre!    Embed Quote