★What are the recent trends that are revolutionizing online and mobile Payments?
Payments are an incredibly exciting space right now.  Below are the three biggest the trends I have seen, though others may exist. 1 - The digital wallet: The biggest trend in payments right now is a move towards the concept of a "digital wallet."  Adoption of the mobile phone as a payment method represents the most important change in the payments industry since the invention of the credit card.  Although many companies are still working to define the concept of a wallet more precisely, I believe it is the ability to replicate everything that is held in your physical wallet (payment cards, gift cards, tickets and loyalty cards) in the cloud.  Furthermore, the ideal digital wallet can be accessed through PC's, tablets and smart phones, enabling commerce both online and offline.  Who is doing it: V.me, Google Wallet, Pay with Square, Apple's Passbook, PayPal Conclusion: Companies are aggressively attacking the digital wallet.  Each brings a certain strength to the game, though none have cornered the market.  Some challenges include the lack of a ubiquitous technology standard or scalable economic business model. 2 - The move offline: Until recently, the offline payments space has been characterized by a lack of innovation.  Companies are very focused on revolutionizing payments at traditional brick-and-mortar stores.  PayPal's partnership with Discover and Square's partnership with Starbucks are two examples of this trend.  Who is doing it: PayPal, Square, MCX (Merchant Exchange) and others Conclusion: In the short-term, I would expect to see more partnerships of this kind.  They bring new technologies to a large number of merchant locations without forcing merchants to invest heavily to upgrade their current point-of-sale terminals.  In the long-term, I would expect to see greater acceptance of mobile payment methods at retail locations using QR codes, geo-location or NFC technology. 3 - Disruption: New startups are entering the payments space with a vengeance.  These companies have identified consumer and merchant segments that were very underserved by the existing payments network and have successfully used the smartphone as a tool to address those needs.  These disrupters have enabled some of the following abilities:  - Small and micro merchants can accept credit card payments at the point-of-sale  - Small merchants and developers can accept payments in apps and websites  - Consumers can send peer-to-peer payments using just a mobile phone number Who is doing it: Square, LevelUp, Dwolla, Braintree, Stripe etc. Conclusion:  These players are "increasing the pie" or generating new demand to bring payment processing capabilities to new types of merchants and consumers    Embed Quote