★Have genetic algorithms been used for multivariate testing of web pages?There are a lot of systems that offer multivariate testing, but how do they actually test the individuals? Do they require testing of every possible individuals, or do they use genetic algorithms of some sort?
To clarify, here's what you're asking: Can we create some kind of A/B or Multi-Variate testing algorithm on a website that uses automatic mutation of website elements along with a kind of feedback loop to automatically converge on some kind of "optimum", using some kind of optimization algorithm. While this sounds cool in theory, I don't know of any places where these kinds of automatic optimization algorithms are actually used on a meaningful scale. I know for a fact that we never did anything like this when I was at Amazon. Partially because the internal A/B testing platform didn't support anything like it, and partially because it's just a pretty terrible idea for most thing non-trivial: On any non-trivial website, futzing around with element placement programmatically can easily lead to non-local effects, e.g. screwed up alignment and placement of other elements elsewhere on the page. Same with mutating font and text size. Web designers spend a lot of time playing around with size and placement to make sure they work right on multiple platforms, and deviating from that hand-tuning could easily lead to issues. Changing color schemes on buttons or text can drastically affect brand perception, so it's not something you want an algorithm to do to. Significant site/color changes would definitely have to be handled by hand. I could see this being useful for a *very* small subset of problems. For example, determining the *exact* shade of "purple" on a "Buy Now" buttons. Or determining the exact order in which to display a model's pictures so that people stay on a modelmayhem profile the longest. But most things boil down to a small handful of practical testable and discardable choices (remember, you don't want to ruin your customer's experience in the name of experimentation), which is why this kind of thing isn't more generally applicable.    Embed Quote