★How do I create a neural network for Alzheimer's detection?
So these kinds of prognostic questions are always interesting. But lots and lots of care to be taken in this minefield. First,  If one is to devise a data-driven method for estimating survival with ANY disease, much less Alzheimer's, one would require specific collection of multivariate data from human subjects who present the disease, and survival models validated additionally against one or more groups who do not. So the first part is the hurdle of data collection on human subjects. And there are many regulations which govern that. To add to that hurdle,  individuals who are identified to present with the disease of interest will generally be relatively rare in a given population (unless we're talking say, norovirus and 'stomach bug' frequency). So data from this group will be naturally more scarce, and thus one or more potential predictors may not have otherwise critical data to inform any reasonable conclusions about survival. Bayes was aptly mentioned, and here I would add Bayesian survival analysis does help in that informative priors can be input to a survival function when direct patient data are scarce. But one will still need to acquire human subject data which will either support or not support conclusions from those priors. That is, the patient data should eventually supplant the priors. Once there, and you think you have a reasonable survival model (and we're talking post simulation, etc) a learning method could be applied to improve survival estimates at the individual level. But  what that method is however would be difficult to know, as things like neural nets aren't informative (how inputs are processed is the proverbial cognitive black box). Poor improvement in survival estimates may indicate a need to test more predictors that weren't captured before. For rare events, it would likely require alot of training to develop a reasonable range that meets the expectation of 'how long do I have' (the inevitable final hurdle of such a project). I think such an undertaking is actually worthwhile. It could bring people the all important peace of mind and allow them to make decisions about their life's trajectory given a terminal constraint. But if uncertainty is not accounted for in such a model, or if the interpretation of an estimate were issued sloppily to a patient or those close to the patient, such a development could do more harm than good (to the patient and/or developer). Hippocrates comes quickly to mind here, as treading very thoughtfully, carefully, and empathetically in this arena is warranted to the highest degree.    Embed Quote