★How do I create a neural network for Alzheimer's detection?
Edit:  Since my focus has been maintaining quality of life, I haven't researched Alzheimer's in many, many years, because I felt it was a waste of my time.  I've been practicing what I believe to be "preventive medicine" and engaging in healthy lifestyle choices.  So my answer is based on information I researched about 8 years ago. ---------------- Sadly, the misdiagnosis of Alzheimer's is so high, I don't see how this would be reliable.  Autopsy is the only way to verify a correct diagnosis. Whatever data you collect would not be sufficient to make an accurate prediction.    My mother lived an additional 10 years after her official diagnosis, but she was mentally ill for a much longer period of time before that, perhaps her entire life.  She needed help for maybe 15 or 20 years total.   It's my personal belief that Alzheimer's is secondary to other pathologies.  It would be better to research those pathologies leading up to an Alzheimer's diagnosis.   Unfortunately, the medical community isn't quite there yet. ----------------- My findings from 8 years ago (This might not be helpful since I'm not a doctor, but here's what I've concluded. I don't know if this makes sense the way it's written, but it's the best I can come up with in a flash.)   In my estimation, the predictors are not for Alzheimer's.  They are for diseases known to lead to Alzheimer's.   We can use MS and auto-immune disorders as an example.   Here's my very rough outline of what I did to discover preventive measures that have been working for me:   1. Test for "predispositions". 2. Test for deficiencies in the blood, like nutrient deficiencies. 3. There should be a common thread between specific deficiencies and specific predispositions.   For example:  A common thread with MS and auto-immune diseases is deficiency in Vitamin D.  People with MS and auto-immune disease are known to progress to dementia and Alzheimer's.   You won't see symptoms of MS or auto-immune disease, because it's just a "predisposition".    What you will eventually see are inexplicable symptoms of Alzheimer's.   It seems that the body can bypass those other illnesses, and lead straight to Alzheimer's symptoms.   So the predispositions are the tell-tale sign of what's possible to either prevent or overcome down the line.    Embed Quote