★What are the toughest neural networks and deep learning interview questions?
Interestingly, this question as applied to Deep Learning does have a definitive answer for me, whereas the general form of the question may not. It is a relatively new topic in the general software engineering population. It has not yet been taught for years in college by professors who have extracted insightful ways to teach the fundamentals. So a lot knowledge here is gleaned from watching advanced talks and reading research papers. Unfortunately, this also means that many candidates have a strong functional knowledge of the state-of-the-art Whats and Hows, yet not fully mastering the Whys. So, I find that there are indeed "toughest NN and Deep Learning" questions, where many otherwise knowledgeable candidates fall down. They might give you technically correct answers, using lots of jargon, but never getting to the heart of the issue. They might give you an answer involving a lot of correct Hows, but that reveal they don't really understand the fundamental Whys. The best answers to these questions cannot (yet) be easily Googled. They are invariably of this pattern: Explain the following, so that a colleague new to the field/an eighth grader can understand (in no particular order, not exhaustive): What is an auto-encoder? Why do we "auto-encode"? Hint: it's really a misnomer. What is a Boltzmann Machine? Why a Boltzmann Machine? Why do we use sigmoid for an output function? Why tanh? Why not cosine? Why any function in particular? Why are CNNs used primarily in imaging and not so much other tasks? Explain backpropagation. Seriously. To the target audience described above. Is it OK to connect from a Layer 4 output back to a Layer 2 input? A data-scientist person recently put up a YouTube video explaining that the essential difference between a Neural Network and a Deep Learning network is that the former is trained from output back to input, while the latter is trained from input toward output. Do you agree? Explain. Etc. Try these yourself and see if you do indeed have mastery of the fundamentals. If you do, an eighth grader ought to be able to understand and repeat your explanation.    Embed Quote