★Machine Learning: What would a neural network with schizophrenia look like?Alternately, what does a neural network without schizophrenia look like?
Let's start with an ordinary neural network: All neurons in a layer are connected to neurons in the next layer. We will assume, that the large neural network was successfully trained on some good data, representing different situations, which usually induce certain emotions, in order to have an example of a healthy "mind" to compare with. Basically, now we have a neural network, which is able to determine, how an average person would react on a situation, described by a vector in dataset. For the moment, it works fine. Now, according to the definition of schizophrenia, let's try to model some disorders. Suppose, Input#2 on the picture above is meant to get a component of the vector, representing the particular emotional aspect of the situation, for example, whether or not the situation is generally pleasant. And now we somehow destroy that node and all the edges it contains. The outputs of such a network will show the traits of a severe disorder, which, according to the definition, can be viewed as a symptom of schizophrenia. Let's make something even more bizarre. As far as the neural network is already trained and no additional training is performed, we simply move some connections across the topology. What happens next is amazing: the output of some neuron, which is, for example, heavily influenced by intensity of romantic experience, can be connected to a neuron, responsible for violent behavior. This is a very simplistic model, since the actual human brain is much more complicated and fail-proof in terms of distributed systems, but, nevertheless, what you get as an output will be a very good example of reactions of the patient with schizophrenia. I would suggest a slightly more interesting approach. Let's change the way the NN computes the output, to make everything even more realistic. The output of a particular neuron looks like , where is the weight of a connection, an inner parameter of the model. Now, we will add some zero-mean Gaussian noise to a weight whenever we use . will be just a little strange...most of the time. But sometimes it will show you horrible results, such as violent tantrums in output, when the input is representing the evening at a luxury spa resort. These are my suggestions how to get an idea what it will look like, but, as far as artificial neural networks are commonly used as universal approximators of math functions, modelling the personality disorders with them is a pretty tough question. :)    Embed Quote