★What problems in artificial intelligence cannot be addressed using artificial neural networks?How about using deep belief networks? Some relevant links: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Art... How can knowledge representation be done in neural networks?
I agree with Yoshua Bengio: if artificial neural networks are expanded to include the yet to be discovered "algorithms" and abilities of human and other natural neural networks then there is nothing that cannot be implemented by artificial neural networks. Anything that humans can do will be done these (near?) future artificial neural networks. So for the rest of this answer, I will just refer to these as neural networks. I disagree with Anon User who claims that traditional algorithmic pre-processing or encoding of input data will be required for neural networks to be effective. The proof is that pre-processing is not needed by natural neural networks - these natural neural networks are all neural networks from input sensor to output effector with no pre- or post- processing required. Similarly, neural networks will be able too handle natural language processing, hierarchical symbolic problems and variable data structures since human neural networks are able to solve those problems. While it is true that neural networks are black boxes in the sense that we will not be able to understand "how" they achieve their results, that really is a non issue if we really can use a neural network to achieve human level artificial general intelligence. It is true that since we won't understand the algorithm, we won't be able to re-implement it in another more traditional programming language implementation, but why would we need to or want to do that if the neural network works? I also don't believe that complicated and sophisticated reward / reinforcement / inference algorithms are required to get these effective neural networks.  The wet and messy human brain cannot be implementing any of these kind of sophisticated complex reductionist global algorithms - the brain must be using relatively simple, messy, approximate and local mechanisms to implement learning and prediction by modifying, creating or destroying the synapses that connect neurons. Once we figure out those relatively simple local mechanisms, we will be able to create human level artificial intelligence.    Embed Quote