★How do I create a neural network for Alzheimer's detection?
Thanks for A2A. I have built artificial neural networks from scratch before, but have not used PyBrain yet. However, there is some documentation on the Github page that looks fairly straight forward pybrain/pybrain. Before you get started on the actual coding there are a few points that you will need to consider: What input data is available. Ideally you want a lot of input data e.g. at least tens (if not hundreds or thousands of features) and as many examples of this data as you can get. Whilst you could start work with a small number of training examples you will almost definitely find that the model overfits the data and does not generalise well (see Chris Prosser's answer to How would you explain the bias-variance tradeoff to a five year old?). What output is required. The most straightforward network would involve a simple True/False outcome for each test case and a confidence level to go with this. More complex outputs can be built such as multi-class classification e.g. grouping outcomes which would effectively work the same with a True/False and confidence level for each (if they are discrete outcomes). For the training/test data you need both the input data and the correct result. This would then be used to build a classification model that can take the same inputs for another case and predict the outcome. You will be able to measure the accuracy of the model by splitting the training data into groups, training the model on a subset e.g. 60%, testing different parameters e.g. regularisation factors etc on a cross validation set e.g. 20% and then testing the model / parameters selected on the remaining set. It should be relatively straight forward to come up with a prototype and measure it's accuracy. Measuring the accuracy on the training data and the cross validation / test data should ensure that the risk of overfitting is mitigated. This would then enable you to determine whether you have sufficient data to make good predictions or whether you need more training examples or whether the data for each example is insufficient to make a good prediction. It should be noted that sufficient information must be in the data feed into the model to be able to make good predictions. It may be in the form of a complex pattern that has not been recognised by a human, but more often  performance is roughly in line with an human expert (or not far behind) i.e. if a human expert can not use the inputs to make accurate predictions there is a good chance that the neural network will not be able to do this either. If you have gathered the data and are looking for collaborators in the development process I would be interested to be involved with this.    Embed Quote