★How do I create a neural network for Alzheimer's detection?
The average time from diagnosis to death of Alzheimer's-type dementias is running about 12 years-  but remember, that's an average, not a predictor,  it is from diagnosis, not first symptoms, and there are so many other factors involved in the advancement of the disease, I'm unsure how your neural network could give any kind of accurate prediction. For instance, most experts now agree the damage Alzheimer's TYPE dementias cause to the brain-  the actual structural changes- start up to ten years before first symptoms.   Also, if someone is in their 3rd year post diagnosis, sliding easily into mid-stage dementia, and that person has a CVA, that person's dementia takes three or four giant leaps forward.  If that same 3rd year person sliding along normally falls and breaks a hip, the progression can be just as fast.  A UTI is going to be a wash, progression-wise, but pneumonia is going to move it along faster.  And all of these events are unpredictable.  And that word "TYPE" is important, because researchers now realize Alzheimer's is one type, and there are many other, loosely related dementias, which don't follow "normal" Alzheimer's progression exactly, but do so closely enough that they are of a type-  rather like all terriers are dogs, but not all dogs are terriers.  Frontal lobe dementia is usually quite slow in progression (unless there's the aforementioned CVA) and alcohol-related dementias are totally unpredictable.  Parkinson's has its own dementia component, as does Huntington's and some forms of Multiple Sclerosis.  Then there's vascular dementias (multi-infarct disease and, often, severe heart or pulmonary diseases, for instance, which rob the brain of oxygen), and Lewy Body Disease. All of these are dementias which are, usually, lumped under the umbrella "Alzheimer's type"-  even though, once we can look at the actual brain, we discover this dementia didn't have the typical structural changes of "Alzheimer's".  Only researchers, some doctors and people like me really care what actual type of dementia a person has, because, really, we're going to treat you the same:  Palliatively.   We can't stop the disease, we can't slow the disease, we can't fix what is happening, all we can do is support the person with the disease through until the end of the disease, and so that's what we do. So your network is going to have to contain a whoooooole lot of data, individualized, for each person, including family history of all these other diseases and risk factors, what medications are in place for co-morbidities, if any, because drugs can speed the progress along AND cause other complications, and then you're going to have to wild-card it for things like falls and pneumonia-  which are totally unpredictable. So, I don't know a darned thing about programming for this idea, but I can tell you I'd take any prediction your network made with a HUGE grain of NaCL until you had a good decade of accurate predictions under your "PyBrain".  There's just way too many factors which affect progression of the various types of dementias.    Embed Quote