★What is the best book for learning neural networks?
I have a rather vast collection of neural net books. Many of the books hit the presses in the 1990s after the PDP books got neural nets kick started again in the late 1980s. Among my favorites: Neural Networks for Pattern Recognition, Christopher M. Bishop, Oxford press, 1995. He also has a more recent book called Pattern Recognition and Machine Learning (Springer, 2006) that devotes a chapter to ANNs, but is not nearly as comprehensive in its treatment. An Introduction To Neural Networks, James A Anderson, MIT Press, 1995. This is a very readable book that goes beyond math and technique. Neural nets are influenced by neurophysiology, cognitive psychology, and other areas, and Anderson introduces you to these influences and helps the reader to gain insight on how artificial neural networks fit it. I love the chapter that dives deep on the Limulus and describes lateral inhibition and distributed neural competition of its vision system, great bedtime reading. Adaptive Pattern Recognition and Neural Networks, Yoh-Han Pao, Addison Wesley, 1989. Pretty old book (will need to buy used). Discusses fuzzy logic and introduces a hybrid neural network called MAXNET. If your interest is in backpropogation nets (the most popular of them all), Neural Smithing: Supervised Learning in Feedforward Artificial Neural Networks (Reed, Marks, MIT Press, 1999) covers them in great detail and may be a good choice if you can only read one book. Good coverage of techniques for optimizing learning of BP nets, even covers use of Genetic Algorithms (clssically, multilayer feedforward nets are trained using an algorithm that backpropgates errors back from an output layer thru hidden layers in order to adjust connection weights in an attempt to walk a global error surface to some minimum, but other techniques are possible, including the use of genetic algorithms). SOMs (self organizing maps) are covered by their inventor, Kohonen, in the book Self Organizing Maps (Third Edition, Springer, 2001). These simple networks are quite powerful in some use cases (ones where you don't have any idea of what a particular dataset actually means, thus learning by supervised training is not possible).    Embed Quote