★Is watching Netflix outside the US via VPN legal?As the VPN server is located in the US, wouldn't Netflix still be technically broadcasting to the US? so they haven't broken any copyright agreement. What do you think about it ? is it still copyright infringement?
I am not a lawyer, just a network engineer - so please factor that. Legal - according to whom? This will vary depending on your jurisdiction.  What authority does the US Government have over you?  What do your local laws say?  It's only "illegal" if your country agrees to play along. Otherwise, your concern is regarding violation of their usage agreement.  That is a civil matter, not criminal.  So your concern then also factors the agreement between Netflix and the content owners, which is strictly a negotiation between them.  They are fully aware of people using VPN's to bypass "geoIP" restrictions. That said, the content owners are "playing games" with licensing.  As such, I think it's fair and reasonable to play along.  Say they want to charge regions differently; as per their methods and terms, and if you use means to subscribe as per the region of your choosing, and compensate them as per their terms - what is wrong with that? My view, you are acting in "good faith" in so much as you are paying Netflix as per the terms they apply to US subscribers, and you are utilizing a VPN to effectively become a US subscriber.  In other words, you are not attempting to defraud or steal from them.  Now, if Netflix streamed to your country, say at a higher subscription cost, and you chose to bypass that option - then there may be civil recourse, and only criminal if the laws of your country allowed such. If you're concerned with your liability, I wouldn't be.  Again, I'm not a lawyer.  On the other hand, maybe we all should fear large corporations.  But your legal concern is really a matter to be negotiated and enforced between Netflix and those they license with.  The Internet provides no borders, but companies still try to operate on old models and license like there is a physical cable to a home.  Some day policies and business models may catch up with technology. # edited on 2015-04-08    Embed Quote