★What is a VPN, in layman's terms?
Lets say you want to write a letter to another person in another country. But in order for it to get there, it has to pass through other countries and you don't want anyone else to be able to read it. Plus, people in the destination country want to be sure that any letters they get are really from who they say they are. So you encrypt the letter. But someone could intercept your letter and see who it is addressed to, and then they could try to impersonate you and send their own letter to the same person. But if you encrypt the address of that person, then no one who handles the letter will be able to deliver it because they can't read the address. So the destination country sets up a special service to all of its residents: a person in the country is assigned to be a 'proxy' for everyone in the country. So when I send my letter, I encrypt the whole thing, including the address. I stuff that message into another envelope addressed to the proxy. The letter passes through all the other countries and anyone can look at it, but the only thing they can read is the address of the proxy, not the address of the person it is really meant for. Eventually, the proxy gets the  envelope, opens it and decrypts the letter inside and then reads the address of the destination and delivers it to them.  The proxy is very trust worthy: the recipient is confident that the proxy will not withhold, alter or misdirect any letter, and the proxy vouches for anything he delivers. Plus, the proxy is well trained in security: he never uses a password like 'password' or any of the stupid things ordinary people do that compromise security. Its called a virtual private network because, even though the envelope passes through many hands, its contents are completely hidden to anyone between you and the proxy, so its kind of like you have a your own private path to the proxy. Of course someone in between can drop the message completely and not pass it to the proxy, but messages can be lost even if you really did have a private messenger to carry the envelope to the proxy, so you'd have to deal with lost messages anyway, via acknowledgements, etc.    Embed Quote