If all programmers and developers look things up as they code, why are coding tests often a part of the interview process?
This is a very interesting question and in a wider perspective, we should think about whether the current interview processes that focus on data structure/algorithms still make sense as programmers don't like memorizing anything. Language specific questions shouldn't be asked There's no point at all to ask someone what is the syntax in C++ to write an array or what is the new feature in C++ 11. This is testing the candidate memorization instead of his ability. The good news is that right now most companies don't ask this kind of silly question and if I were asked such question, I would definitely challenge the interviewer about that. Interview is more than coding Although in most technical interviews candidates are asked to write on whiteboard the solution, what are evaluated are more than the answer itself. In fact, the answer is really part of the whole picture. In a nutshell, a candidate's communication skills and analysis ability are evaluated in this process. When analyzing a new coding question, it's very important to see how the candidate works on it. More often than not, you can easily distinguish between good and bad candidate without asking them writing down the code because a good candidate has a very clear logic in his mind and could describe his thinking and ideas clearly. It's common for candidates to get stuck, but good candidate knows how to explore new solutions and they tend to react quickly when given a hint. However it's quite vague to evaluate one's soft skills in a short time and you can't give accurate scores to one's communication skills or other abilities. And I think that's the point to have a coding question that you guys can work on and discuss, which is also the most efficient way to evaluate his technical skills. There's no better way to interview candidates I strongly believe that the best way to interview someone is hiring him/her as an intern for 3 months and make the decision after that. However it's infeasible for a variety of reasons. As a result, the most common interview process nowadays is general technical interviews with some sort of focuses on your strength. 