What are the ways to excel in programming, given having only a little knowledge in coding so far?
It is NEVER too late to excel in programming. Understand your basics, learn good coding practices from the get-go, and listen to experienced programmers when they advice you. From my personal experience of working with some amazing programmers, the first, and most important thing you need, is to understand your basics. I am not saying you need to know ALL the algorithms, and remember how to delete a node off a balanced binary search tree in your head. Yes, that is important to get through some interviews, but that's not what makes you a great programmer. Again, this is my personal experience, and a whole bunch of people will disagree with me, but knowing how different data structures work, and why they are good (or bad) is important. It is important to know what a pointer is, how it works, how memory is allocated, and how it is handled. You need to learn what happens if you don't deallocate memory, understand datatype conversions, understand some basic level time-space analysis. Understand object orientation, and all the abstractions that are related to object orientation. This is going to be very important down the line, especially when you are writing complex code. Is all of this required to write good code? Probably not. But, if you learn all of this, you can pick up and run with ANY programming language on earth. I know some people who said "Well, I am going to learn Python, and learn it well." And that's great. Some of these people have become extremely good at it, and are the best I know at it. However, more often than not, they hit a wall - they either don't know how to take advantage of some pythonic capabilities, they don't understand object orientation and hence fail to fathom some of the abstractions that make coding simpler, or, in a lot of cases, just don't following some of the basic coding best practices (i.e., blanket exception handlers, forced datatype conversions, etc.) The other big problem that some of these guys face is the fact that once they learn Python, they cannot fathom a more structured language like C++, Java, or C# - and honestly, they don't have to, the world is moving towards interpreted languages for the most part. But to me, a good coder is someone who isn't dependent on a programming language to write code - a programming language just makes it easier to lay out your ideas, and make humans/computers understand them well. I've been fortunate enough to learn all of my coding by solving real world problems. I've gone from a shitty developer to developing some self-respect for myself as a coder. I wasn't a shitty developer because I didn't know how to code, or didn't understand what I was doing, but because I didn't care about conventions, about doing it right, I just cared about getting it done. A few years down the line, I spoke to people (and got downvoted a lot on StackOverflow for giving a hack instead of an elegant answer), and realized that coding isn't just about knowing the language, or writing an algorithm - it is about writing code that works 100% of the time, and that a human being can understand 100% of the time. Focus on doing that, and you will be awesome at what you do. Updated 141w ago • View Upvotes