Machine learning algorithms can be organized into a taxonomy based on the desired outcome of the algorithm or the type of input available during training the machine.
Supervised learning generates a function that maps inputs to desired outputs (also called labels, because they are often provided by human experts labeling the training examples). For example, in a classification problem, the learner approximates a function mapping a vector into classes by looking at input-output examples of the function. Unsupervised learning models a set of inputs, like clustering. See also data mining and knowledge discovery. Here, labels are not known during training. Semi-supervised learning combines both labeled and unlabeled examples to generate an appropriate function or classifier. Transduction, or transductive inference, tries to predict new outputs on specific and fixed (test) cases from observed, specific (training) cases. Reinforcement learning learns how to act given an observation of the world. Every action has some impact in the environment, and the environment provides feedback in the form of rewards that guides the learning algorithm. Learning to learn learns its own inductive bias based on previous experience.
Regression analysis Bayesian analysis Cluster analysis Combinatorial data analysis Geometric data analysis Topological data analysis Shape analysis Functional data analysis Tree structured data analysis Formal concept analysis Algebraic data analysis
Many models are used in the field defined at different levels of abstraction and modeling different aspects of neural systems. They range from models of the short-term behavior of individual neurons, models of how the dynamics of neural circuitry arise from interactions between individual neurons and finally to models of how behavior can arise from abstract neural modules that represent complete subsystems. These include models of the long-term, and short-term plasticity, of neural systems and their relations to learning and memory from the individual neuron to the system level.
Contrast set learning is a form of associative learning. Contrast set learners use rules that differ meaningfully in their distribution across subsets.[24]
Weighted class learning is another form of associative learning in which weight may be assigned to classes to give focus to a particular issue of concern for the consumer of the data mining results.
K-optimal pattern discovery provides an alternative to the standard approach to association rule learning that requires that each pattern appear frequently in the data.
Mining frequent sequences uses support to find sequences in temporal data.[25]
Generalized Association Rules hierarchical taxonomy (concept hierarchy)
Quantitative Association Rules categorical and quantitative data [26]
Interval Data Association Rules e.g. partition the age into 5-year-increment ranged
Maximal Association Rules
Sequential Association Rules temporal data e.g. first buy computer, then CD-Roms, then a webcam.
Different biclustering algorithms have different definitions of bicluster.[5]
They are:
Bicluster with constant values (a), Bicluster with constant values on rows (b) or columns (c), Bicluster with coherent values (d, e).
a) Bicluster with constant values 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 b) Bicluster with constant values on rows 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 4.0 c) Bicluster with constant values on columns 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 4.0 5.0
d) Bicluster with coherent values (additive) 1.0 4.0 5.0 0.0 1.5 4.0 7.0 8.0 3.0 4.5 3.0 6.0 7.0 2.0 3.5 5.0 8.0 9.0 4.0 5.5 2.0 5.0 6.0 1.0 2.5 e) Bicluster with coherent values (multiplicative) 1.0 0.5 2.0 0.2 0.8 2.0 1.0 4.0 0.4 1.6 3.0 1.5 6.0 0.6 2.4 4.0 2.0 8.0 0.8 3.2 5.0 2.5 10.0 1.0 4.0
The relationship between these cluster models and other types of clustering such as correlation clustering is discussed in.[6]
This section includes a list of references, related reading or external links, but the sources of this section remain unclear because it lacks inline citations. Please improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (June 2012)
In univariate problems, it is usually acceptable to resample the individual observations with replacement ("case resampling" below). In small samples, a parametric bootstrap approach might be preferred. For other problems, a smooth bootstrap will likely be preferred.
For regression problems, various other alternatives are available.[citation needed]
Decision trees used in data mining are of two main types:
Classification tree analysis is when the predicted outcome is the class to which the data belongs. Regression tree analysis is when the predicted outcome can be considered a real number (e.g. the price of a house, or a patient’s length of stay in a hospital).
The term Classification And Regression Tree (CART) analysis is an umbrella term used to refer to both of the above procedures, first introduced by Breiman et al.[3] Trees used for regression and trees used for classification have some similarities - but also some differences, such as the procedure used to determine where to split.[3]
Some techniques, often called ensemble methods, construct more than one decision tree:
Bagging decision trees, an early ensemble method, builds multiple decision trees by repeatedly resampling training data with replacement, and voting the trees for a consensus prediction.[4] A Random Forest classifier uses a number of decision trees, in order to improve the classification rate. Boosted Trees can be used for regression-type and classification-type problems.[5][6] Rotation forest - in which every decision tree is trained by first applying principal component analysis (PCA) on a random subset of the input features.[7]
Decision tree is the learning of decision tree from class labeled training tuples. A decision tree is a flow chart like structure, where each internal (non-leaf) node denotes a test on an attribute, each branch represents an outcome of the test, and each leaf (or terminal) node holds a class label. The topmost node in tree is the root node.
There are many specific decision-tree algorithms. Notable ones include:
ID3 (Iterative Dichotomiser 3) C4.5 algorithm, successor of ID3 CART (Classification And Regression Tree) CHi-squared Automatic Interaction Detector (CHAID). Performs multi-level splits when computing classification trees.[8] MARS: extends decision trees to better handle numerical data
ID3 and CART are invented independently of one another at around same time(b/w 1970-1980), yet follow a similar approach for learning decision tree from training tuples.
Principal component analysis (PCA): PCA seeks a linear combination of variables such that the maximum variance is extracted from the variables. It then removes this variance and seeks a second linear combination which explains the maximum proportion of the remaining variance, and so on. This is called the principal axis method and results in orthogonal (uncorrelated) factors.
Canonical factor analysis, also called Rao's canonical factoring, is a different method of computing the same model as PCA, which uses the principal axis method. Canonical factor analysis seeks factors which have the highest canonical correlation with the observed variables. Canonical factor analysis is unaffected by arbitrary rescaling of the data.
Common factor analysis, also called principal factor analysis (PFA) or principal axis factoring (PAF), seeks the least number of factors which can account for the common variance (correlation) of a set of variables.
Image factoring: based on the correlation matrix of predicted variables rather than actual variables, where each variable is predicted from the others using multiple regression.
Alpha factoring: based on maximizing the reliability of factors, assuming variables are randomly sampled from a universe of variables. All other methods assume cases to be sampled and variables fixed.
Factor regression model: a combinatorial model of factor model and regression model; or alternatively, it can be viewed as the hybrid factor model,[2] whose factors are partially known.
Hidden Markov models can model complex Markov processes where the states emit the observations according to some probability distribution. One such example of distribution is Gaussian distribution, in such a Hidden Markov Model the states output is represented by a Gaussian distribution.
Moreover it could represent even more complex behavior when the output of the states is represented as mixture of two or more Gaussians, in which case the probability of generating an observation is the product of the probability of first selecting one of the Gaussians and the probability of generating that observation from that Gaussian.
There are many different models, each with its own type of analysis:
Multivariate analysis of variance (MANOVA) extends the analysis of variance to cover cases where there is more than one dependent variable to be analyzed simultaneously: see also MANCOVA. Multivariate regression analysis attempts to determine a formula that can describe how elements in a vector of variables respond simultaneously to changes in others. For linear relations, regression analyses here are based on forms of the general linear model. Principal components analysis (PCA) creates a new set of orthogonal variables that contain the same information as the original set. It rotates the axes of variation to give a new set of orthogonal axes, ordered so that they summarize decreasing proportions of the variation. Factor analysis is similar to PCA but allows the user to extract a specified number of synthetic variables, fewer than the original set, leaving the remaining unexplained variation as error. The extracted variables are known as latent variables or factors; each one may be supposed to account for covariation in a group of observed variables. Canonical correlation analysis finds linear relationships among two sets of variables; it is the generalised (i.e. canonical) version of bivariate correlation. Redundancy analysis is similar to canonical correlation analysis but allows the user to derive a specified number of synthetic variables from one set of (independent) variables that explain as much variance as possible in another (independent) set. It is a multivariate analogue of regression. Correspondence analysis (CA), or reciprocal averaging, finds (like PCA) a set of synthetic variables that summarise the original set. The underlying model assumes chi-squared dissimilarities among records (cases). There is also canonical (or "constrained") correspondence analysis (CCA) for summarising the joint variation in two sets of variables (like canonical correlation analysis). Multidimensional scaling comprises various algorithms to determine a set of synthetic variables that best represent the pairwise distances between records. The original method is principal coordinates analysis (based on PCA). Discriminant analysis, or canonical variate analysis, attempts to establish whether a set of variables can be used to distinguish between two or more groups of cases. Linear discriminant analysis (LDA) computes a linear predictor from two sets of normally distributed data to allow for classification of new observations. Clustering systems assign objects into groups (called clusters) so that objects (cases) from the same cluster are more similar to each other than objects from different clusters. Recursive partitioning creates a decision tree that attempts to correctly classify members of the population based on a dichotomous dependent variable. Artificial neural networks extend regression and clustering methods to non-linear multivariate models.
OLAP systems have been traditionally categorized using the following taxonomy.[14]
The task of the parser is essentially to determine if and how the input can be derived from the start symbol of the grammar. This can be done in essentially two ways:
Top-down parsing- Top-down parsing can be viewed as an attempt to find left-most derivations of an input-stream by searching for parse trees using a top-down expansion of the given formal grammar rules. Tokens are consumed from left to right. Inclusive choice is used to accommodate ambiguity by expanding all alternative right-hand-sides of grammar rules.[4] Bottom-up parsing - A parser can start with the input and attempt to rewrite it to the start symbol. Intuitively, the parser attempts to locate the most basic elements, then the elements containing these, and so on. LR parsers are examples of bottom-up parsers. Another term used for this type of parser is Shift-Reduce parsing.
LL parsers and recursive-descent parser are examples of top-down parsers which cannot accommodate left recursive production rules. Although it has been believed that simple implementations of top-down parsing cannot accommodate direct and indirect left-recursion and may require exponential time and space complexity while parsing ambiguous context-free grammars, more sophisticated algorithms for top-down parsing have been created by Frost, Hafiz, and Callaghan[5][6] which accommodate ambiguity and left recursion in polynomial time and which generate polynomial-size representations of the potentially exponential number of parse trees. Their algorithm is able to produce both left-most and right-most derivations of an input with regard to a given CFG (context-free grammar).
An important distinction with regard to parsers is whether a parser generates a leftmost derivation or a rightmost derivation (see context-free grammar). LL parsers will generate a leftmost derivation and LR parsers will generate a rightmost derivation (although usually in reverse).[4]
Spatial data comes in many varieties and it is not easy to arrive at a system of classification that is simultaneously exclusive, exhaustive, imaginative, and satisfying. -- G. Upton & B. Fingelton[3]
Regression analysis Bayesian analysis Cluster analysis Combinatorial data analysis Geometric data analysis Topological data analysis Shape analysis Functional data analysis Tree structured data analysis Formal concept analysis Algebraic data analysis
