Can something that doesn't exist, actually exist and if so, what is the difference between things like fields, dark energy, dark matter, god, buddhist emptiness, string theory, etc?
The question sort of suggests that there would be a meta-model that would make those ideas comparable with respect to "being".  So far, no such comprehensive meta-model exists or has been formulated.  People continue to hope for this, for the main part, except perhaps the "nondualists" who say that being and non-being are both true, or equivalent, without the need for a "higher level" theory where things plainly do / don't exist.  Many things "exist" because we say they do, relative to a particular system of thought;  that is, we make Ontological commitments regarding them. Model-dependent realism or Epistemological pluralism would assert that things exist, but only relative to specific models, and that there's no known theory-of-everything that would make the objects (or concepts) from different models comparable.  Therefore, I'd say they both exist and don't exist depending on the model or category of thought.  In my opinion, to juxtapose god, buddhist emptiness, and dark energy (for example) can't be anything more than an interesting metaphor.  We shouldn't discount metaphor as a source of insights, but it can't bridge the ontological gap between the different models in which those concepts live. There's always a rhetorical competition going on between different models, expressed and performed through human discourse.  People commit to validating and perfecting particular models, to invalidating others, and to appropriating and assimilating aspects of competing models. People just don't seem happy with pluralism.  Maybe this is due to limited human rationality.  Perhaps it is due to an implicity mystical belief in a theory of everything, whether that's relative to a scientific model, or its theistic counterpart, a monotheistic god.   Perhaps the motivation is simply to acquire the social and pragmatic "goods" of allegiance and orthodoxy:  social support, recognition and reputation, meaningful conversation, funding; the list is endless. 