Do theories with extra dimensions display too much freedom?Like string theory has 11 dimensions and other theories involve extra dimensions and universes. The things i could do if i had an extra dimension. Isn't it a cheap way of just making things easy?
In the question details you say that extra dimensions are "a cheap way of just making things easy". On the contrary: adding more dimensions usually makes thing much harder. (Note: in the following, when I say "dimensions" I always include the time dimension. So 2 dimensions is 1 time and 1 space.) General relativity, for example, is completely trivial in 2 dimensions, very easy in 3 dimensions, and becomes much harder in 4 dimensions, which is unfortunate since our universe happens to have 4 dimensions. String theory has 10 dimensions not because it's "easier" in 10 dimensions. In fact, string theory is easiest in 2 dimensions. The reason that it is usually formulated in 10 dimensions is that string theory has a special symmetry that only works in exactly 10 dimensions, no more and no less. So it's not that people decided to add more dimensions to "make the theory easier"; it's that the theory doesn't work in any other number of dimensions. The fact that string theory only works in 10 dimensions is actually very bad for connecting it with reality. This is, of course, because the real universe has only 4 dimensions (1 time + 3 space). In order to try to connect string theory to reality, you must explain why we only see 4 of the 10 dimensions predicted by string theory. This is usually done by saying that 6 of those 10 dimensions are "compact", meaning that they are too small for us to see them. This "compactification" complicates the theory immensely. If we could formulate string theory in 4 dimensions, it would have been much easier to try to connect it with reality! So in conclusion, we don't add extra dimensions to string theory because it makes it easier, we do it because it doesn't work any other way. For other theories, maybe we add extra dimensions because it allows for some additional physical phenomena that are not possible in a 4-dimensional universe. But, again, adding more dimensions doesn't make the theory easier in any way. 