What is string theory?
Originally Answered: What is string theory in layman's terms?I think I passed out scrolling about midway through the top post. But since fate of humanity lies in the understanding of the String Theory, lemme try to explain in a simple manner. Remember that string theory, as of now, stands at 'unprovable'. We don't yet know where to start looking for definite proof of string theory. But the theory holds its ground against some major theories which break down in certain circumstances. Remember that i might be absolutely wrong. Or perfectly spot on. Even galileo was ridiculed at first. Then imprisoned, tortured and killed. But we won't go into that. So here it is: You know that E=mc^2. Light can be turned into mass and mass, into light. Albeit mostly theoretically. Light is nothing but electromagnetic waves/energy moving in a somewhat straight line. Now assume that there is a single type of material making up everything in this universe. EVERYTHING. It has no shape, no size. Assume nothing, coz you havent seen it. It's just there, like air. We'll assume it is some sort of electromagnetic energy wave. OR call it a 'string' in the HiFi lingo. Whichever you like. When those EM energy wave move in a linear fashion, they form what we call light, radio wave, xray, gamma rays etc. When these waves/string of energy move in a circular fashion, in such a way that they end up behaving like a dog trying to catch its own tail, they cease to exhibit properties of EM waves and become matter. With mass and charge and spin and other properties. Different vibrations of this string creates different types of matter particles. These strings have long half lives because their energy does not decay. They just keep rotating in void. Endlessly. Sometimes these strings destabilize and then you can see concepts of proton decay, neutron decay, things observed in Bubble chambers etc. A high energy string loses some of its energy and forms two or more lower energy strings. Basically. We can picture by using the stone tied to a rope analogy. This is a crude analogy. When the stone is swirled, it goes round and round. If you are strong(have mass), you can make it go round faster. More rotational energy. Now,  if the rope suddenly breaks(or string destabilises), the stone flies off in a tangential direction(photon). And suddenly, your strength(or original particle's mass) becomes irrelevant, having done it's job by energising the stone(or photon). Support for this line of reasoning can be found in theories of matter antimatter annihilation, pair production, black hole radiation, photon photon interaction, boson fermion conversion,  etc. So, To summarize, string of Energy, moving in linear fashion=light String of Energy moving in a circular fashion, looking like a dog trying to bite its own tail= matter There you go. STRING THEORY!! Hooray! For more complex answers, look at top answers. I have said WTF every single time they mentioned 10 dimensions. But hey, WTF? They might be right as well! A shorter version of this answer could be: String theory is the most beautiful painting ever but you can only see it through a microscope. One tiny area at a time. Guessing what the whole painting is about. Updated 18 Nov 2014 • View Upvotes