What is string theory?
Here is a nice analogy I like to use... Lets say you want to understand everything about water in all of its phases (solid, liquid, and gas). You perform a bunch of experiments and come up with one set of rules to describe the properties of ice, a different set of rules to describe liquid water, and yet another completely different set of rules to describe steam.  These three different sets of rules may describe all 3 phases with great accuracy, but it wouldn't even makes sense to try to apply the rules of ice to  steam (example: you couldn't talk about how the hardness of steam changes as you vary the temperature. Similarly, it wouldn't make much sense to discuss the surface tension of steam). It seems obvious to you that you NEED three sets of rules since they are simply incompatible. HOWEVER... now you stumble across molecular theory.. You learn that ice, liquid water, and steam are all made of the same exact "stuff". You learn that all forms of water are really just H2O molecules interacting via electromagnetic forces. You learn all about the various properties of these molecules such as how their average energy changes as the substance's temperature changes. You learn how molecule collisions are responsible for the propagation of thermal energy, you learn how under a certain temperature, a hexagonal arrangement of these molecules becomes energetically favorable, etc. Eventually, you come to realize that ALL of the properties you established when constructing your 3 sets of rules for the 3 phases of water can be RECOVERED by your new single set of rules for molecules. You can learn all about properties of gases, liquid water, and ice just by knowing exactly how molecules behave. In fact, you can even explain NEW things about h20 that your old sets of rules didn't address such as how phase changes occur. You now have no need for different sets of rules since you now have a single more FUNDAMENTAL set of rules to describe water in ALL of its forms.. That's what string theory aims to do for all of physics. String theory claims that all of the separate sets of physics laws we have developed over the centuries can theoretically be recovered by a single simple set of laws that describe to entity that makes up all of matter: strings. Quantum mechanics, thermodynamics, relativity, electromagnetism, particle physics, are all just the result of exercising the same theory in different ways. Since string theory aims to explain the behavior of ALL matter as one type of interaction, string theory is referred to as a theory of everything.  Like the molecular theory alluded to earlier, string theory even predicts NEW things that our old sets of physics laws did not predict. We hope to test some of these new predictions in the future. Keep in mind, that even if string theory were proven to be correct, using all of the old physics would be more convenient in many cases. The point is, however, that we would know that these different sets of laws are really just useful approximations and simplifications of the TRUE nature of all matter in different situations. The others did a great job at explaining exactly what these string are, but I thought, id help out by giving you a general idea of what exactly string theory is trying to do for the field of physics : ] 