What am I seeing when I look at an electron microscope photograph?For example in this photograph It's an electron microscope photograph of a piece of Gore-Tex(polytetrafluoroethane).  What are the blobs and connecting strings we can see? What would the size scale be for this type of image?
A long answer but I hope it makes sense. The photo is expanded by roughly 200,00 times. The threads (fibrils) and nodes shown are all of rapidly-expanded PTFE. The spaces hold air. The spaces are about 1/20,000th of the size of a small water droplet but are still much larger than a water vapour molecule. Thus the material is waterproof but can ‘breathe’ to release water vapour. Microscopy: A conventional microscope uses normal light to illuminate the object being studied. If the object is significantly smaller than the wavelength of the illuminating light it is by-passed by the waves and so ceases to be clearly visible in that light. The light may be thought of as a stream of photons or as a beam of waves. An electron microscope uses the wave properties of electrons (in accordance with the De Broglie equation) instead of light waves. Electron waves are very much shorter than normal light – about 100,000 times shorter. Thus much smaller objects can reflect the electron waves back to the receptor or interfere with them on their way through to the receptor. The human eye cannot detect the very short electron waves so an intermediate process is needed. This is similar to the working of a digital camera. The receptor is a CCD sensor with a huge number of megapixels sensitive to the very short electron waves. The electron beam is focussed by an electromagnetic or electrostatic field acting in a manner analogous to the lenses in a conventional microscope. What it ‘sees’ is converted into a digital image which can then be displayed on a computer screen or printed out. There are two classes of electron microscopes which ‘see’ the sample in a different way. The original system was the Transmission Electron Microscope (TEM). In a TEM the electron beam that has been partially transmitted through the very thin (and so semitransparent for electrons) specimen carries information about the structure of the specimen. The spatial variation in this information (the "image") is then magnified by a series of magnetic lenses until it is recorded by hitting a light sensitive sensor such as a CCD (charge-coupled device) camera. The image detected by the CCD may be displayed in real time on a monitor or computer.  A TEM produces two-dimensional, black and white images. The other system is the Scanning Electron Microscope (SEM) Unlike the TEM, where the electrons in the primary beam are transmitted through the sample, the SEM produces images by detecting secondary electrons which are emitted from the surface due to excitation by the primary electron beam. In the SEM, the electron beam is scanned across the surface of the sample in a raster pattern, with detectors building up an image by mapping the detected signals with beam position. TEM resolution is about an order of magnitude better than the SEM resolution.  A TEM can easily resolve details of 0.2 nm but an SEM’s limit is about 2 nm. On the other hand because the SEM image relies on electron interactions at the surface rather than transmission it is able to image bulk samples and has a much greater depth of view, and so can produce images that are a good representation of the 3D structure of the sample.  SEM images are therefore considered to provide 3D, topographical information about the sample surface but still only in black and white. With either system the limitations are often the durability (or otherwise) of the sample when exposed to the intensity of an electron beam. 