If proven, how does String Theory connect GR and QM?
Extra dimensions, whether strings, Branes, or something else address QM GR integration/conpatibility using one simple "hack". Specifically, we can postulate extra dimensions which do not "feel" one or more of the forces, i.e. fields, in the standard model but yet do experience gravity. How would this help? Well at a crude level at very heavy gravity force, and small scale, things break down. (For a pointer as to why think black holes, and think about how close sub atomic particles are, and how gravity forces go as inverse distance squared.) If gravity sheds its strength across hidden dimensions at small scales and heavy mass only, then we avoid singularities on the one hand in the "heavy small" regime and yet revert to the standard model otherwise. So we see extra dimensions can help. But why would one believe gravity would feel the extra dimensions but not, say, the electric force. The answer is gravity is inseparable from the fabric of space time. No other force warps these two entities. Hence it is reasonable, even perhaps necessary, to postulate that, in all dimensions of any plausible higher dimensional universe, gravity would be active. But other forces are free to be inactive without violating any deep invariance theory. More information: String theory exists solely due to the quest to merge QM and GR. That is the main reason to even speculate on string theory. We don't really need any new fundamental theory in physics if we stay clear of quantum mechanics and strong gravity. String theory attempts to reconcile the incompatibility of strong gravity which warps space time, and quantum which produces position uncertainty at small scales. It essentially replaces "objects" with "strings or vibrations". If we knew exactly how this reconciled GR and QM we would already have a theory of everything but we don't. A decade or so ago string theorists and advocates of hidden dimensions were two distinct communities in physics with little overlap. Recently string theory and higher dimensions have experienced a reconciliation of sorts. Specifically extra dimensions can be curved which makes them quite a bit like string theory. Warped Passages: Unraveling the Mysteries of the Universe's Hidden Dimensions: Lisa Randall: 9780060531096: Amazon.com: Books by Lisa Randall has a very nice treatment of all this if you are curious enough to devote the time to read it. Updated 22 Sep