Epics and folklore of India: Is there any connection between String Theory and the Sanskrit sound of Hindu origin "Aum"?
At the risk of disrupting the apple cart with the enlightened lot here let me say what I understand from the word "sound". Sound in Vedic philosophy is a property of space-time, not phonemes we hear. We can call it information or "form". The claim is that information precedes matter, and material objects are created from information. Since forms are a property of space-time, matter emerges from space-time but that space-time has to seen differently. As an ordinary example, before you make a car, you prepare a "design" of the car, which is objective, but not in the same sense as the car. Basically, you take the design of the car, and apply it on matter, to create a car. Information is objective design, and it exists in space-time, although not as matter. This idea existed in Greek times as well where they distinguished between matter and form, and matter was that which gave an object physical properties and form was that which made in an individual. The basic idea was that there are many "types" of objects, and physical properties don't tell us about types. I have written an interpretation of Quantum Theory called the "Semantic Interpretation" in which objects are treated as symbols which have both matter and information. Physics today studies matter as it were a "thing-in-itself" (Kant's words). Symbols - pictures, books, designs - are things about other things. There is nothing in a classical particle or wave that tells us about other objects; each object tells us about itself. My interpretation says that quantum theory is a theory of symbols and not a theory of particles. The basic property of quantum objects in this interpretation is that they are extended in space-time, and this extension is viewed as "form". Forms however are a property of space-time and matter "inherits" that property when located at some space-time. Getting back to the AUM question, if nature is comprised of matter plus information, and information is a property of space-time, then we can ask ourselves: what are the fundamental "alphabets" - the basic symbols from which all information is made. What kinds of unique (orthogonal) forms can we embed in space, given that space is three-dimensional and time one-dimensional? I.e. what are the unique ways in which we can "tile" space-time? That's a fundamentally different approach than String Theory where you are add more dimensions. I don't think there is any relation between String Theory and the idea of information, or at least I haven't seen one yet. 