Who are the some of the best young theoretical physics faculty today?I am applying for grad schools soon and would be delighted if someone could tell me who the best young faculty are and what they work on.
This is by no means a comprehensive list, but is heavily biased towards topics I have some degree of familiarity with. Patrick Hayden: A recent hire at Stanford and a collaborator of John Preskill, Hayden works on the interface between information theory and the quantum behaviour of black holes, especially in the context of the AMPS firewall problem. Sean Hartnoll: Again Stanford. He's been working on the application of AdS/CFT to understanding transport phenomena in materials that are characterised by approximate symmetries, or equivalently, almost conserved quantities. Of late, he has also been working on developing very general techniques for handling non-Fermi liquids based on the memory matrix formalism. John McGreevy: He recently shifted to UCSD from MIT and was a collaborator of Allan Adams, whom Matt has mentioned in his answer already. His areas of interest include the application of holographic duality to studying electron gases and Fermi transport. Thomas Faulkner: Currently at UIUC. He's a collaborator of McGreevy and Maldacena and works on problems related to entanglement entropy in a holographic context. Miranda Cheng: Currently at Jussieu and shifting to Amsterdam soon, she's working on the application of string theory to understanding what really is going on behind the mysterious Mathieu moonshine phenomenon connecting representations of the sporadic Mathieu groups and q-expansions of certain modular forms. Shiraz Minwalla: Faculty at the Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, Mumbai, currently on sabbatical in Princeton. He pioneered the study of relativistic fluids via holographic duality and even managed to generalise the Navier–Stokes equations. His current areas of interest include aspects of Chern–Simons theory (more specifically, the level rank duality) and the ABJ triality connecting string theory, QFT and Vasiliev theory. Simone Giombi: A very recent hire at Princeton, he's now working on higher spin generalisations of AdS/CFT. Mina Aganagic: She's currently at Berkeley and working on some of the fascinating interactions between mirror symmetry, topological string theory and knot homology. Liam Fitzpatrick: Not very sure, but I think he's just joined Caltech. Again, he works on the application of AdS/CFT to studying non-Fermi liquids and quantum criticality. Zohar Komargodsky: Faculty at Weizmann. He recently extended Zamolodchikov's celebrated c-theorem in two dimensions to 3 + 1 dimensions. David Ben-Zvi: He's in the Maths Department at UT Austin. Worked on vertex operator algebras and related topics with his doctoral advisor, Ed Frenkel, and is currently working on problems centred around the geometric Langands programme. David Tong: DAMTP, Cambridge. Introduced the notion of a 'strange metallic' phase in holography along with Sean Hartnoll and others. Currently working on various aspects of AdS/CFT and the behaviour of solitonic objects such as monopoles and vortices. Raphael Bousso: Berkeley. He's proposed an alternative argument for the existence of firewalls that doesn't rely on double entanglement and has made some progress on how the AMPS paradox might be resolved. Apart from this, he's also interested in the implications the BICEP2 and Planck data hold for inflation and the string landscape. Freddy Cachazo: Perimeter Institute. He's been working on twistor-space methods for calculating on-shell scattering amplitudes and loop integrands in Yang–Mills theories and gravity. Also, he collaborated with Nima Arkani-Hamed and Jaroslav Trnka on their recent work on positive Grassmanians and related developments leading up to the Amplituhedron. Niklas Beisert: ETH Zurich. His areas of interests include integrable spin chains and Yangian symmetries arising in on-shell methods for studying scattering in super Yang–Mills theories. Nick Halmagyi: LPTHE, Jussieu. Works on gauged supergravity, which, trust me, is an unmitigated orgy of indices gone cuckoo bananas and definitely not something for the weak of heart. Updated 19 Apr 2014 • View Upvotes