My amplifier is producing a slight buzzing sound when i connect it to my guitar. This sound stops when i touch the strings. Whats the problem?It is an ashton amplifier. The sound is more noticeable with distortion on higher volumes. The wires seem to be okay.
The bane of all musicians! The annoying hum. You have a grounding problem somewhere in your system. Let's step through this to try and isolate where the problem is. First, plug the guitar directly into the amp. No stomp boxes or any other effects. Did the buzz go away? Then it's a stomp box or other device causing the problem. Stomp boxes are notoriously not well made. And they take a beating. If it's the stomp box, well, you need a new one. Cables: Try swapping cables. Is the buzz there no matter which guitar cable you use? If so, try a friends cable which doesn't buzz for him on his amp. If there is still a buzz... Guitar: Try different guitars on the amp. The guitar has internal circuits and a bad ground wire in the guitar can cause buzz. If the buzz goes away with a different guitar, then your guitar isn't grounded right. Take it to a shop to get fixed. If the buzz is still there no matter which guitar you use, then just in case, take your guitar to a different amp. Did the buzz go away? Then the guitar is good. Amp: Well, now we're left with just the amp. Is it plugged in with a 3 prong outlet? Make sure you aren't using a 3 to 2 prong converter. That will always mess things up. If it's plugged in right and still has a buzz, well, you have a grounding problem in your amp or perhaps some bad shielding. So, well, you're stuck. But there are a few other tricks to help minimize it. Any amp can pick up radio signals or other noise in the air. My speakers pick up a short wave radio station after 8pm. Weird. The fact that it gets worse when you turn up the distortion kind of tells me it's interference leaking into the amp. Some tricks to help minimize the buzz. Move the amp! What is it next to? Keep it away from computers (which are very noisy), other speakers, TVs, electronics, etc. Turn the amp. Do you have florescent lights? They are very noisy. Try using regular bulbs in that room. Are you near the heater or AC? None of these things will fix the amp, but they may drop the noise down enough so the buzz is bearable. The House: Well, there is one last possibility. The electrical wiring in your house could be old and not great. You could be getting interference up through the power lines. Or the grounding in your house might not be great. If you have stomp boxes that you plug into the wall (not batteries), then make sure you plug the amp and the stomp boxes into the same outlet. In a badly grounded house, you could be getting different ground levels on different outlets which causes real problems with noise. So last thing to check is take your amp and effects to a friends house and see if the noise follows you. If so, it's probably the amp. I hope you find out where the problem is. Let me know when you figure it out! 