★What are the industrial applications of Information Retrieval?
Following are the top 10 uses cases of IR in industry: 10. Relevance Feedback. Relevance feedback is a process where users identify relevant documents in an initial list of retrieved documents, and the system then creates a new query based on those sample relevant documents. 9. Information Extraction. Information extraction techniques to identify database entities, attributes and relationships in full text. For example, for people interested in new joint ventures, an information extraction system could identify the names of the companies involved, the new company, the products, and the location, all from articles coming over a news feed. Companies and government agencies have considerable interest in these techniques, and see them as contributing significant "added-value" to the text databases they and others generate. Potential users also see these techniques as tools to help with data analysis, browsing, and mining using text databases. The current state of information extraction tools is such that it requires a considerable investment to build a new extraction application, and certain types of information are very difficult to identify. Research in this area is focused on reducing the effort required for new applications. Extraction of simple categories of information is, on the other hand, practical and can be an important part of a text-based information system. Examples of this type of information include company and other organization names, peoples' names, locations, and dates. 8. Multimedia Retrieval. Multimedia indexing and retrieval refers to techniques being developed to access image, video and sound databases without text descriptions. The perceived value of multimedia information systems is very high and, consequently, industry has a considerable interest in the development of these techniques. 7. Effective Retrieval. Finding text that satisfies a user's information need is not simple, and considerable progress has been made in developing ranking techniques that are significantly more effective than Boolean logic. 6. Routing and Filtering. Information routing, filtering and clipping are all synonyms used to describe the process of identifying relevant documents in streams of information such as news feeds. Companies and government agencies often indicate that routing is the main function required for a text-based system, with IR being a backup, secondary function. 5. Interfaces and Browsing. Effective interfaces for text-based information systems are a high priority for users of these systems. The interface is a major part of how a system is evaluated because they make the system easy to use and understandable. 4. Semantic Matching. The information need is often described using different words than are found in relevant documents. Techniques that address this problem by automatic expansion of the query are often regarded as a form of "magic" by users and are viewed as highly desirable. 3. Efficient, Flexible Indexing and Retrieval. With the increased accessibility of large, full-text databases and new algorithms designed to increase indexing and query speed are published regularly efficient retrieval is a major area New applications of text-based systems that involve real-time and multi-user constraints will also require more work on concurrency control, update, and recovery strategies appropriate for these applications. Web-based systems, such as Infoseek, have particularly strict efficiency requirements since they must deal with hundreds of! thousands of queries per day. 2. Distributed IR. With the advent of the World-Wide Web and the huge increase in the use of the Internet, there has been a corresponding increase in demand for text retrieval systems that can work in distributed, wide-area network environments. This demand also comes from groupware applications such as Lotus Notes, which facilitate the rapid creation of databases distributed throughout an organization. One problem of this type is addressed by Web search engines, such as Infoseek and Lycos, which index Web pages and provide access to them. 1. Integrated Solutions. The most important problem from the point of view of companies using and selling text-based systems is integration with other systems. A text retrieval system is a tool that can be used to solve part of an organization's information management problems. It is not often, however, the complete solution. Typically, a complete solution requires other text-based tools such as routing and extraction, tools for handling multimedia and scanned documents such as OCR, a database management system for structured data, and workflow or other groupware systems for managing documents and their use in the organization. [ref: W. Bruce Croft]    Embed Quote