★How is 'Information Retrieval'  by prof. Niloy Ganguly?
One of the very few classes that I really enjoyed in KGP with Animesh Sinha ! I still remember that we were some of the very few 3rd years who took the course. Here's why the course stands out : No matter whatever the amount of great resources on IR we currently have on the web ....Be it Raghavan and Manning , slides of some prof ,believe me - there's a lot of understanding , heuristics and more importantly intuition to search ! His course on Informational Retrieval is your gateway to Search at KGP!! Prof. Niloy addresses this from a different perspective focussing not on the different models of retrieval (that even Manning can tell you) but the very intuition behind things. The very understanding behind - why things are the way they are and thereby leading to your own understanding of IR. If you specifically want to know what is it about him and how can I affirm this strongly about him . Here's how : If you attend his classes and listen to him carefully - he believes in blackboard teaching and for every IR model that he taught us ( be it tf-idf , LM or later LSI) he has very good FLOW DIAGRAM that he draws on the board . Trust me very rarely have I seen such a thing in IR . Okay , well you might say so what's special about that too : He just doesn't draw the FLOW DIAGRAM at one go but rather at every point he questions every little thing (pointing out to some little thing that's the POINT OF INTEREST at that point of time) .That's why I said - There's a lot to Search :D Even Animesh and I often stayed amazed after the class discussing a thing or two on our way back to the hostel .If you are still not happy as to how's this is possible , I guess i'll just have to say : May Holy god bless your unconvinced soul and Bless you enough for you to take his course !! Okay what's more about Prof Niloy and the course . How often have you come across a course where the professor invites Researchers for a talk to give you an insight into the latest areas of research in the field . Brace yourselves , it's IR and I guess being a senior undergraduate now , I feel there won't be any more course like that  :( If you are interested in the details - Yes we had a researcher from MSR who had come to KGP to give a talk on Using query logs for search . So that's the affection Prof. Niloy has for even the students who take his course. He loves teaching and values his students :) Life is what happens when you are busy making other plans :P     Typically , here's how the B Tech project allotment happens in KGP. You are given a list of projects and you just have to give your choices for the same after which allotment happens on your choices and CGPA . We are undergrads right and we have don't have any idea about Research or what most of the projects are meant for . When I first got to know this is how BTPs are allotted ,I felt like : It was a bunch of photos of girls that some purohit brought for my mother and my mother said - "Beta , inme se acchi bandi ko pasand karo, thaaki kundli ke liye bola jaaye :P"                                                                                                                                                                   This apart , Prof. Niloy did put a mail to entire CSE 2010 saying - " You folks are more than welcome to come talk to me"  and given that he's very busy with things - he was polite enough to give his mobile number too. How often do you find that ! Out of the five projects that he had to offer , I chose the one on search ( something that I had great idea about ) Bingo!! If you were wondering what girl I chose , I guess I landed up with a supermodel ,Baby ;)  I still love her :-* High Five!! So a course went on to define my B Tech project and narrow down my research interests too . I'm really grateful to have known him and really lucky to have taken the course right in my 3rd year . Oh yeah , we just submitted a paper to Evolang X  (under his guidance)!! We even have a research group in KGP : CNeRG Complex Networks Research Group IIT Kharagpur    Embed Quote