★What are the most amazing applications of linear algebra?for example in the fields of computers science, 3d-animations, quantum mechanics, economics or engineering.
I'll give some applications in abstract math, because others have already covered "applied" applications. I consider these among the most amazing / significant applications of linear algebra. * In topology, we analyze shapes by expressing (much of) the information about the "loops" in a space (e.g. a donut) in terms of certain vector spaces upon which we can perform linear algebra operations. [A typical example being "curl-free vector fields (in some region of 3-space that you are interested in), treating all gradient vector fields as zero".] * Throughout mathematics and physics, symmetry arises, which we formalize in the language of group theory. When you encounter a symmetry group, the best way to understand it is to understand how it can be realized (in various ways) as a set of invertible linear transformations of a vector space. This is called the representation theory of the group. [A typical example: the group of symmetries of a square (aka the dihedral group of order 8) has a representation on a 2-dimensional real vector space (the one where the square sits, centered at the origin): the symmetries of the square are rotations and reflections, which are linear transformations of the whole space. So by doing linear algebra, you can perhaps learn something about squares. You can also replace squares by regular n-gons for any n, or by higher dimensional shapes. An especially interesting example is an icosahedron.] * Sometimes you can combine the previous two ideas to study things like "the set of solutions to y^2 = x^3 + x, modulo P^n for your favorite prime P". In this case you have a vector space that says something about how many loops are in the set of solutions to the equation over the complex numbers. (It looks like a donut, so there are two loops, corresponding to going around the donut the short way or the long way. This means the vector space in question is 2-dimensional.) But since we care about working modulo P^n, this vector space now lives over not the real numbers or the complex numbers, but the finite field Z/p. So it's pretty tiny, but it still carries a lot of information because it is a representation of an interesting group -- the Galois group of Z/p. * In general, a good strategy to study any complicated set of mathematical objects is to try to prove that they are somehow "the same" as a set of vector spaces and linear maps. For example, if you have a group like the dihedral group, the set of representations of the group is described in terms of linear algebra. You can check that they symmetries of a square, for example, are all generated by combining the rotation by 90 degrees (I'll call it R for rotation) and a reflection (I'll call it F for "flip"). These satisfy the conditions that doing R four times, or F two times, is the same as doing nothing, and doing F then R then F is the same as doing R three times. So a representation of the symmetry group of a square is the same as a vector space with two linear operators on it, call them R and F again, which satisfies the rules above. OK, that example is kind of ho-hum. But if you have a much more complicated (infinite) symmetry group -- such as a continuous symmetry group, like a Lie group -- then it is not clear a priori how to study an arbitrary one of its representations using a finite amount of linear algebra data, i.e. a vector space and a few linear maps. That things like this can be done is a major theme of 20th century math.    Embed Quote