★What are the most unexpected places you've seen determinants come up?
Suppose that I have a finite set , and I want to pick a random subset .  There are a number of ways you can do this, but one of the more interesting ways is to take some symmetric positive definite matrix and define for every .  If you do this, you get an example of something called a determinantal point process.  These processes and their generalizations to larger sets are a hot topic in probability theory and machine learning right now because it's very easy to prove nice theorems about them. The reason I'm writing about them here is that a lot of seemingly unrelated phenomena turn out to be DPPs.  Off the top of my head: If you define where are independent standard Gaussians, you get an analytic function with probability one.  The zeroes of this function are distributed according to a DPP. If you sample uniformly from the minimum spanning trees of a graph, the set of edges you get are distributed according to a DPP. If you generate a sequence of random digits, the locations where the next digit is less than the current one form a DPP. If you start random walks on the integers and condition on the event that they never collide, their locations at any time are distributed according to a DPP. The eigenvalues of random matrices drawn from certain distributions are distributed according to a DPP. If you choose a random subset of a finite set with probability proportional to its cardinality, the subset you pick is distributed according to a DPP. And my favorite: if you take a rate one Poisson process on the right half-line and delete all the odd-indexed points, the joint distribution of the remaining points is a DPP.There are also several examples of things that are not DPPs converging to DPPs in the limit, but those tend to be a little bit more complicated.  One of them is related to the tiling example that Paul Handorff brings up, and it's discussed in detail in [math/0306216v3] The arctic circle boundary and the Airy process.  And yes, that's the same Airy kernel that Ricky Kwok mentioned.    Embed Quote