★What are some important points of intersection between linear algebra and other branches of mathematics?For example, differential equations, analysis, statistics, etc.
As another example of Qiaochu Yuan's statement that linear algebra touches on everything, let me mention something entirely non-obvious. First I need to explain about sparse matrices. A matrix is sparse if there are enough elements that are zero that you can't ignore the fact. That's a nice and imprecise definition, and it's good enough. Traditionally, sparse matrices were associated with engineering sciences (Finite Difference and Finite Element methods and such), but lately they have been coming from an unexpected corner. Let's a make a big matrix, with a size equal to the number of web pages that exist. Now put a one in location (i,j) if page i has a link to page j. This gives you a sparse matrix, and there is a lot of interesting theory about them. For the following result you don't actually need sparsity; but I thought I'd point out the connection between matrices and "things being connected to each other". Ok, you might say, that's not actually a matrix, that's just a table. Well, sit back and see linear algebra in action... Let's say that a web page's importance goes up if lots of important pages link to it. That's a circular definition, so it's not easy to compute. However, you can show that a ranking of pages exists so that if you evaluate the ranking again based on that, you get that same ranking. In other words, there is a well-defined consistent notion of ranking. If you write this out in math language, you find that this ranking  of pages is en eigenvalue problem, and with a lot more math you can prove that you can find that ranking by just multiplying your big matrix a number of times against a random vector. And that's what mathematically PageRank, the Google search algorithm, does: it gives you the highest ranking pages that contain your search terms, where that ranking comes from the eigenvector corresponding to the largest eigenvalue of that connectivity matrix.    Embed Quote