★What are some important points of intersection between linear algebra and other branches of mathematics?For example, differential equations, analysis, statistics, etc.
Linear algebra intersects every other field of mathematics, all the time, everywhere. It's not much of an exaggeration to claim that the only part of mathematics that mathematicians really understand is linear algebra, and everything else is us trying to figure other stuff out by reducing it to linear algebra. Giving examples would be misleading because I would leave out more than I would include. This is true in both pure and applied mathematics. Edit: But maybe it would be instructive to give examples anyway. Here are just a few, starting from your examples. The easiest differential equations to study are the linear differential equations, which are the ones whose solutions form a vector space. The study of the very simplest ones, the linear constant-coefficient ODEs, can be reduced to the study of Jordan normal form. But the connections between linear algebra and differential equations go much deeper than this. The easiest metric spaces to study are normed vector spaces. This is the subject of functional analysis, which is a big and important part of analysis. It has applications, for example, to the study of differential equations. Many important topics in statistics are essentially topics in linear algebra, including but not limited to least-squares regression and principal component analysis. Linear algebra can be thought of as a special case of Commutative algebra, particularly the parts of commutative algebra having to do with modules (Module (mathematics) ) . Commutative algebra is in turn foundational to several parts of mathematics, including algebraic number theory and algebraic geometry. Linear algebra can also be thought of as a special case of Lie theory, which is perhaps one of the most central topics in mathematics, connected to nearly everything else. Many aspects of geometry and topology can be thought of as attempts to linearize a complicated nonlinear situation: for example, the study of Homology (mathematics) can be thought of as a linearization of the study of Homotopy. Linear algebra can be used to study an interesting collection of related topics in combinatorics and computer science involving Regular languages and Finite-state machines. The short version of the story is that a number of interesting combinatorial sequences count the number of words of a particular length in a regular language, and it is always possible to describe this count in terms of powers of a matrix related to the adjacency matrix of a finite state machine recognizing the language. For example, the Fibonacci sequence is related in this way to the matrix ; if you take powers of this matrix you'll start to see the Fibonacci numbers appear, and this can be used to give a conceptual proof of Binet's Fibonacci Number Formula. Again, I feel like any list will leave out more than it will include. Rest assured that linear algebra is important for just about everything.    Embed Quote