★What are the most amazing applications of linear algebra?for example in the fields of computers science, 3d-animations, quantum mechanics, economics or engineering.
Almost all computer graphics are plagued (for lack of a better word) with applications of linear algebra.  For video games, you have to cope with 3D transformation matrices as well as some lossful but fast image compression/display methods.  In the latter case, you can take the bitmap of an image, take the Singular Value Decomposition of the matrix, and preserve only the values of the SVD. SVD: Then if you eliminate some columns and rows of the SVD matrices (U, Sigma, and V transpose), you preserve the general shape of the image, but massively decrease the size of the data representing the image.  The computer program then takes some of this data and places it into the GPU's vertex buffer, where the GPU renders a pixel mapping of the image onto the screen. The former case, 3D transformation, really just performs rotations, shears, and the likes on pseudo-3D graphics.  If you have ever done a bit of DirectX programming, you may recognize the function SetTransform(), which sets the transformation matrix for DirectX to use.  The matrix argument to SetTransform() can come from the D3DMatrixTranslation() function for translation movements, the D3DMatrixRotationX(), D3DMatrixRotationY(), and/or D3DMatrixRotationZ() functions for rotations, or the D3DMatrixScaling() function for scaling[1].  After using those, you can perform a 3D projection onto 2D to prepare the object for insertion into the vertex buffer, again using linear algebra (in the DirectX function implementation code, so you never see it). On top of pure graphical usages, linear algebra helps in solving Markov chains, a very useful probabilistic tool that is used in all sorts of areas, from biological population dynamics models to economics predictions to traffic flow models to incompressible fluid flow dynamics.  Linear algebra is used to find the steady-state solution to the Markov chain via solving for the eigenvalues (lambda) and eigenvectors (columns of v) of a given Stochasticity matrix, P: Of course, humans rarely compute these eigenvalues and eigenvectors by hand, so computer programs are written to solve for them. Linear algebra also helps us solve some differential equations, like those involved in the basic Lotka-Volterra equations: Because the non-homogeneous parts have mixed variables, the solutions taught in most differential equations classes do not work.  However, because differentiation is a linear operator/transformation, linear algebra provides a solution. There are plenty more applications than those listed here, but these are what come to mind off the bat for me. [1]http://directxtutorial.com/Tutor...    Embed Quote