★What are some important points of intersection between linear algebra and other branches of mathematics?For example, differential equations, analysis, statistics, etc.
Here are few things I want to add. 1. In addition to the simpler geometry associated to linear algebra, we also have a good understanding of spectral theory of  linear operators. In many non trivial global arguments, there is some kind of spectral theory (change of basis to the "right" frame ) involved. Examples include fourier transform, studying zeta function to study arithmetic objects ( again a multiplicative transform), mobius inversion and many other dualities. Here is an example of basic ideas in linear algebra reflected in non trivial constructions. We have an explicit formula for trace of matrices -- related sum of diagonal terms (geometric) and sum of eigen values (spectral). This basic fact generalises to what is called trace formula of reductive groups --deep and not properly understood in many cases and corresponds to Frobenius trace formula for finite groups. We know that characteristic polynomials capture the spectrum and that algebra generated by the matrix is an important object. Understanding similar elementary objects ( commutative subgroups centralising a conjugacy class) related to geometric objects called Hitchin fibres was crucial in Ngo Bau Chau's integration of Hitchin flows and this is a part of Fields medal winning work on Fundamental lemma and related geometry!. 2. The arithmetic of the field we are working over, can be very well understood by studying symmetries of linear objects. If we study basic properties of functorial constructions of linear objects ( like tensor product, symmetric powers), we may get non trivial results for the underlying objects. This is the content of Langlands program. 3. Study of matrix groups forms a very important part of mathematics. There is a lot to be understood about geometry of these objects and  lot more about spectra in different families of groups.    Embed Quote