★Is Android phones prone to DDOS attacks?
In conclusion, no. Warning: For educational purposes only. Do not attempt a DDoS attack. It is evil. It may be illegal in your jurisdiction. It may be illegal in your target's jurisdiction and you could be extradited. You have better things to do with your time than doing time. There are two ways to interpret this question: Can an Android phone be the target of a DDoS attack? Can an Android phone participate in a DDoS attack?A mobile phone has two families of features: Voice, SMS and MMS features (the "dumb" phone legacy) IP or WiFi features (the data or "smart" phone features)Voice features are consistently available (as long as you have a signal). The tower needs to connect to you to complete the call. I don't see how you can consume a specific phone's voice features. You can swamp the tower, but a specific phone would be difficult. The data or IP features are inconsistently available.  If you watch the WiFi signal, you'll see it start independent of anything you're doing. It has to poll to see if anything is trying to "push" messages to it. Once completed, that radio goes silent until it is time to poll again.   While the radio is on, battery power is being consumed.  While you are using the data features, that radio stays on. Mobile phones would be poor candidates for servers, which need to be consistently available. How data is sent over 3G is not how data is sent over 4G and neither are how data is sent over WiFi. However, I believe they are similar enough for the purposes of this discussion that their differences do not effect the conclusion. Another insufficiently considered issue is the carrier's WAP Gateway. I don't believe that plays an role. Still, I may not have considered it thoroughly. If you want to attack a mobile phone through its IP features, you have to be able to reach it. It needs to have its radio on. It may be behind a router which inhibits your unsolicited requests. In that case, you'll have better luck attacking the router. If you want mobile phones to participate in a DDoS attack, you can model your attack after current DDoS approaches. You need a client on the phone and a way to get the client installed. The client could use the usual command and control architecture: the device (phone) checks with its controller to see if there's a command waiting for it. If no, it moves on. If yes, then it attacks its target until the battery dies (or controller ends the attack). Alternately, if you wish to avoid a C&C architecture, the client could be instructed to attack at a predetermined time. As an attacker, the mobile phone is like any other IP device. Battery life limits its usefulness. Bandwidth limits mean you'll want an awful lot of them to pose much of a threat. With more traditional infrastructure devices (typically servers) the compromised ("pwned", as the kids like to say) participant probably doesn't know they've been weaponized. Everything looks fine to them. There's no incentive to have the bot removed. A mobile phone, on the other hand, will be noticeably effected. The data plan was exhausted and there are overage charges. Battery life takes an unexplained dive. The customer wasn't doing anything differently, so the carrier or phone must have screwed up. Fix it. There's an incentive to have the bot removed. A significant portion of your participants will disappear. You'll have one good shot with your cannon. Summary: You wouldn't attack a mobile phone using DDoS, you would find a different way to deny service. You wouldn't enlist mobile phones in your DDoS army; you would need too many and the army wouldn't last. While technically possible, chances of success would be slim. So no, Android phones would not be prone to DDoS attacks.