★What are the plug-and-play solutions to DOS/DDOS attacks?Is there any software or system that you can use or put in front of your servers that can protect your servers from DOS/DDOS attacks? What are the approaches of companies like Facebook/Google/Twitter/Quora to DOS/DDOS?
There are many avenues to take once you are under a DDoS Attack: For Appliances as pointed out Arbor PeakFlow (www.arbornetworks.com) CP  (Converged Platform), SP (Service Provider) Edition box is the one box you can get that will generate a real-time ACL for you to implement on your router. The SP box will not cleanse (scrub) traffic, for that you would need the TMS (Threat Management System) which would would a DPI and then scrub the malicious traffic off and pass on the clean traffic to you. TopLayer (www.toplayer.com) is another player which provides a plug-and-play appliance. RioRey (www.riorey.com) is a very good alternative as well. They make some solid mitigation boxes. Some other contenders are F5 Networks, Brocade (formerly Foundry Networks, especially their ServerIron boxes, which can do brilliant rate-limiting and SYN flood protection). Juniper and Cisco too. Incidentally Cisco's Guard (which used to be RiverGuard) works with Arbor's boxes, a concept they call CleanPipes. IntruGuard (www.intruguard.com) is an appliance that many hosting providers provide as a subscribed service. One particular aspect of IntruGuard that I like is their ability to provide every HTTP request with a unique session and you have to "Click" to continue (think of it like Captcha). You cannot hit any other page directly, even if you know the URL. It provides you with a cookie, and once it sees human intervention, it will allow traffic to proceed ahead to the origin server. On the SaaS model, Prolexic (www.prolexic.com) is the King! They have a very large, distributed protective network that now can scrub and protect over 300Gbps of DDoS attacks. Neustar also offers a service for DDoS protection (albeit have not work with them). Verisign also now offers DDoS protection, (See http://www.verisigninc.com/en_US...). They are slightly more expensive than Prolexic. There are others (if you Google for DDoS protection, you will find dozens of service providers). Be very aware of some scam companies, especially www.Blockdos.net (or www.server4sale.com). This is a one-man show and has nefarious tactics to leech money of clients, and those who move away, get DDoS'd more. I wrote a blog entry you might want to check that pertains to what to do under a DDoS - http://dos-attacks.com/2010/11/0...