★How expensive is a DDoS attack?For a DDoS attack, the aggressor needs control over a large amount of computers, e.g. a botnet. This botnet has costs - either opportunity cost or direct cost (if the aggressor rents it). As with all in life, money governs - so it would be helpful to know the economics of the DDoS aggressors. Example: what do they pay for 1,000 computers for 1 hour?
In the 'underworld' (I hate using that word),  Botnets pricing is based on many different factors: 1. You can buy a complete botnet (meaning C&C as well as Zombies) typically for US$ 250-$500 for a small 50 zombie setup. By 'buy' it out I mean, it will literally be a turn-key operation and the entire bot control would be handed to you. Don't expect much damage to be caused by this. These are sold to newbies for 'research' and 'learning' purposes. There is always a market for people who just want to 'own' a botnet - and the hackers exploit this market to the fullest extent. 2. If you already own your own RAT (Remote Access Trojan) Controller, like Blackshades or DDoser, etc. Then you can buy 'shells' (akin to the shotgun shells, but actually referring to the command prompt shell). A 'shell' is a compromised PC. One that has been infected with a FUD trojan (FUD = Fully Undetectable, by A/V systems) and is now being controlled. A shell can be anywhere from 4-5 cents per shell. New installs are 8-to-10 cents per shell. Shells are traded on a wide variety of forums. Typical mid-sized botnets are between 250-500 zombies. 3. If you want to get into the market of larger botnets, 1000+ then you enter a very specialized setup, where the communication between the zombies and the C&C (Command and Control) Server is encrypted, and the C&C is hosted on a reliable, but well hidden IRC server, etc. This can run into a few $1000s and are sold only to those people who can be verified or referenced. 4. Anything larger than 4,000-5,000 are usually not sold, but leased by the hour or day. You can find many Latvian, Estonian, Russian and Chinese botnet herders lease it out from US$ 25/hour to $500/day. It all depends on how desperate they are for money and your ability to negotiate with them. Almost no one ever pays the advertised price. Do note, 4,000-5,000 bots does not mean all of them will be running at the same time. Only those machines that are on at the time (people do switch their servers, desktops and laptops off) - will be able to attack. A common misconception is that all the compromised PCs (Zombies) are from the East, that is not entirely true. With the advances made in RATs, more PCs in the West are being affected and the methodology for infections are getting cleverer by the day. The West also offers more bandwidth, so hence computers in the West are more preferred. Most botnet herders tend to maximize the utilization of the their botnet, as these bots are inherently discovered or the Antivirus signatures, etc. then are able to detect those FUD infections. Vengeance bot rentals can be like I cited, rented between $25/hour to $500/day. If you search around, you can negotiate with various providers and get a good bang for your buck. Some shell bot providers - also known as chicken scripts (chicken - because you are too chicken to setup the entire thing yourself) offer a 'complete' web based solution. You will have access to a website (with a very cryptic domain like say www.fghdfighghiudhi.com) and from there you can simply enter the URL or IP of the target and attack (by selecting your options). These are rented out between US$ 10 to US$ 25 per month.The only caveat is that you get a limited amount of 'botnet' time per month, For example most chicken-script operators will give you a total of say 3 hours per months. You can use it any ways you like. The larger the botnet size, inherently more difficult it becomes for the botnet herder to conceal it from LEAs (Law Enforcement Authorities). Large sized botnets get caught and dismantled very quickly. To explicitly answer your question - for 1 hour of 1,000 botnet rental, you're looking at around US$ 25-50.