Why do computers use base-2 instead of base-10?Decimal computers were once very commonplace, but why aren't they anymore? *Speaking as something with next to no knowledge of computer science.*
The real question is, why were computers ever built to work in base 10 at all? The advantages of working in binary are overwhelming. The basic operations are far simpler to implement, and were generally implemented anyway even on those computers that did offer base-10 operations. The answer appears to be wiring. By having 10 states per register digit, they could reduce the number of wires they had to string to achieve the same values. The actual operations performed at the end of that wire were more complicated than a binary operation, but there weren't as many of them. And they didn't have to have yet more hardware or operations to perform the conversions to and from base 10, which is the form that the computer's users wanted to write and read. But computers quickly grew to the point where running those wires by hand was simply no longer an option. The move to printed circuit boards, and then to integrated circuits, meant that the number of wires was no longer quite as big a constraint. Along with the transistor, this made the computers smaller (or at least denser), allowing them to shorten the CPU cycles, and the longer CPU cycles necessitated by pulsed representations of decimals slowed things down. For a while it remained because the COBOL programming language had Binary Coded Decimal (BCD) representations built right into it, and it was faster for programs to be optimized for BCD operations. But as compiler optimization got more sophisticated, the advantage diminished, and then became a hindrance. Decimal computers were never exactly "commonplace". They existed only for Big Iron. They were expensive to build and few were produced. By the time technology made computers cheap enough to cost tens of thousands, instead of millions, the decimal computers were gone. At best they continued to simulate the decimal operations with instructions in microcode, but even those operations disappeared by the time the price of computers dropped into the thousands. Updated 28 Apr • View Upvotes