Perl (programming language): Why did Larry Wall finally ship Perl6, and does anybody care?I realize that the question may sound snarky, but a lot of people are asking this very question. With the advent of Python and Ruby, do we really need Perl at all?
Allow me to answer your question in a few parts: He hasn't shipped it as yet. he spoke about the shipping of the second Beta which has the apocryphal term the 'Birthday Beta'. The plan is to ship a 1.0.0 release for Christmas 2015. I would imagine that if this was a different language, with a different name people would still be asking 'why' so that is moot as to its validity. We should, and will, question choices and quality, it is what we do best and how we formulate discussions, and that's a good enough reason. Python has been in existence since 1992 and Ruby since 1995 so calling them an 'advent' is slightly underestimated. Why do we need Python or Ruby because we have PHP (1995) or PHP as we have JavaScript with Angular and Node.js (1995 for JavaScript). Why do we have any when there is Go or Java or Haskell or Scala - you see why that is a redundancy. We have them because people use languages in different ways and find more use out of some than others. Personally I advocate polyglot environments that are mostly language agnostic. In such an environment Perl is a good glue and often that's really useful. Do we really need Perl...that's pretty much the question we could label at any language. Why any high-level languages when we have C, or Assembly, or Binary, why are we not just using hex and binary dude, this whole meta-stuff with its separation layers and abstractions is just going to slow everything down...but seriously, I answered this above. people have their own quirks and preferences and they have their own way of doing things and for some people Perl feels like the natural choice. They use it, make it better, and build with it. Perl has some good points, it has bad. If the sum of all of these things could be examined in abstract we'd probably all be forced to use Lisp. Larry is releasing Perl6 because 15 years ago he decided to re-write his creation from the ground up. It was a long journey and it took them to places he didn't imagine and the quest was different in the completion than in the onset. As for the validity of why he did this, that's a dumb question. We don't often do things just for validity, most of the time we are just scratching an intellectual itch, which he has done. I am pretty sure that some people are going to discuss it. If anyone wants to learn more there is a free Perl Workshop in London on the 12th December (London Perl Workshop) and they are discussing Perl6 and Perl5. I know that there will be lots of debate on the schedule about the validity of both, mostly because I am the one choosing the talks ;) Updated 9 Oct • View Upvotes