What is the significance of NULL in SQL?
I concur with Greg with the (widely accepted) opinion that Codd's original concept of NULL (3-state logics) was pregnant with many [I mean MANY] bugs in many [I mean MOST] applications. However, I still believe that the original idea of data with special-value was not that bad. Simply it shouldn't have been implemented in such a trivial way. As I rule of thumb, I would recommend the generalization of NOT NULL constraints (contrary to DBMS' default) and ALLOWING IT only on purpose when knowing exactly what the NULL value means. NULL was intended to avoid programmers to inject a variety of (often undocumented) special values in their applications meaning "I can't handle this). After all, I think it is better to use a NULL for, say, an "undefined date" than using a special value (like "9/9/99"...) with the same intent. The main problem, in my view, comes from the behaviour of relational operators, which make the handling of nulls a real chore. It could have been worked around by letting a  syntax at the statement level specifying how nulls are handled rather than filling your queries with isnull() functions everywhere.  Also the concept that NULL values cannot be part of indexes often leads to unexpected behaviours. Sorting with null's also leads to something generally unexpected by the developer. As a matter of facts, the trouble with the NULL value is that it may cover very different intents: undefined, not applicable, infinite value, Not a Number...  (think about math libs returning a "NaN" result). In many modelling situations however, I have to deal with the idea of an "undefined" state. The trouble is that we simply cannot use a single value 'NULL' to cover all special cases. I would rather have had strong typing with a special-value nomenclature at the dbms or table level really stuffed with semantics. Still, few developers do care about setting such a data-handling framework in their apps. As a consequence, much trouble comes from sloppy modelling practices using NULL for just about anything, and most likely with NULL meaning "I don't care" rather than a special state of data. [edit: typos] Updated 21 Feb • View Upvotes