How can I make my c language basics strong?
Perfect Question.  Lots of ECE students really wanted an answer for this question. Thanks for asking this question in Quora forum.            First understand the difference between C language and C programming. C language is a Knowledge. i.e. set of rules defined by Dennis Ritchie.  C programming is a skill. Since the question is about C language I  am explaining about C language here. I am not explaining about C programming.                  C language can be divided into 4 groups.                   1. Must have language features                   2. Extended language Features                   3. High Level language Features                   4. Maintenance Features           First any one learning the C language must understand the Must have features. These are common for any programming language. But here I am explaining based on C language only.                 Must have features in C language.                          1. Allocation                          2. Storage                          3. Operation                          4. Decision Making.                 These features are like Accelerator, Brake, Gear, Clutch and Steering Wheel in a Car. Without these parts one can not drive the Car. The same way without knowing these 4 must have feature in C one can not become strong in C language and can become a good C Programmer. 1. Allocation                In C the allocation is called Declaration or Data Type. You need to first declare the name of the storage and size of the storage. For examples if we have storage 4 bytes and like to give a name called "total", we need write a follows.                               int total;                    In C language the unit for allocation is in bits also the allocation is multiple of 8 bits. i.e. In C language you can allocate 8bit, 16bit, 32bit, 64bit and 80 storages only. It is not possible to allocate 10bit or 22bit or 36bit like that.              Dennis Ritchie named these 8bit, 16bit, 32bit, 64bit and 80 bit in different names.                        8 bit storage   -  char                      16 bit storage    - int                      32 bit storage   - int             Also in C the numbers can be stored as whole number (24,566,7896 ...) or decimal number (11.567, 235.001, 0.000001, ...).             The whole numbers are called Integers and Decimal numbers are called float.                  Based on the storage size the Integers are divided into 8bit, 16bit, 32bit and 64bit.                  Since Dennis Ritchie linked the storage size of int to the machine, it created a confusion among the programmers. In some machines int means 16 bit and other compilers int mean 32 bit. So to avoid the confusion Dennis Ritchie had provided some qualifiers like short, long etc. Later C Standards included long long.               Here are various integer types in C                                  char - 8 bit (1 byte) Integer                         short int  - 16 bit (2 byte) Integer                           long int  - 32 bit (4 byte ) Integer                  long long int - 64 bit (8 byte) Integer.                  So char is also an Integer only in C char a,b,c; a = 10; b = 20; c = a+b; printf("%d",c).                  The above program is legal and C compiler will not give any error. Also if this program is executed the result will be 30. Now lets us try to understand about allocating for decimal number (float)                In float data type there are 3 types.                            1. Single float (float)   - 32 bits                            2. Double float (double)  - 64 bits                            3. Long Double float. (long double) - 80 bits                        With this let us conclude the discussion about Allocation and proceed to storage. Conclusion - Allocation is about just allocate the storage in Memory. Some time it may not be true. Ex. register and extern. Let us discuss about these things later. 2. Storage               Since I have written long explanation for Allocation itself I like to stop here. I have explained about storage (assignment) in my answer to the following question. How assignment work in C language?                                                    All the best. Updated 9 Nov • View Upvotes