What's the hardest bug you've debugged?
i was asked to post this as an answer.  this is literally a copy & paste of my comment here: http://www.quora.com/Programming-Interviews/Whats-the-hardest-bug-youve-debugged/comment/186671?__snids__=306097869&__nsrc__=0#comment455443 I was a junior in college, working on a filesystem for my operating systems class.  the assignment involved writing a simple filesystem that worked on top of a block device.  it needed to use an inode-style layout that supported directories and such. being new to such programming, I decided to write a virtual machine that ran "filesystem instructions".  these were things like read a block, write a block, resolve a named inode number, etc.  the operations would work against some "registers" of block data. our fs had to work inside of an operating system kernel running on top of a hardware emulator running on Solaris workstations.  unlike modern virtual machines, this emulator linked with the kernel and fs statically.  that made development simpler because you didn't have to build a storage image from which the emulator knew to boot. I had been writing and testing code gradually, but then stuff mysteriously stopped working after some changes.  this was the days before my use of svn, so I didn't know what I changed to break things.  I started changing random stuff because I couldn't debug the problem, but when I did, other stuff broke.  this pointed at data corruption being the root cause, and there is ample opportunity for that to happen in fs code. after a day or two of futzing around, I had a stupid hunch: I wrote a virtual machine for the fs, and it is running inside a virtual machine.  I named a global variable 'regs' with default linkage.  changing this variable's name made everything work! this was really disappointing because I had changed completely unrelated logic and I had no idea what it all was (again, this was before svn).  there's also no particular lesson to be learned except maybe pay attention to the linkage of your globals! edit: actually, there is a very good lesson to be learned.  write tests. Updated 5 Feb 2014 • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Miguel Paraz