What's the hardest bug you've debugged?
I can think of three which might fit: Earlier this year, I was helping my PhD supervisor teach a first year Java class. 80 or so students, programming virtual robots to navigate a maze; with just two of us, you need to be very quick at finding and explaining a problem to move on to the next student. Spotting a single stray semicolon inside an if statement, which cancelled the effect of the "if" line, took more minutes than I like to admit. Before that, my home broadband line (VDSL2) was showing some packet loss. The ISP sent out an engineer (from Openreach, who maintain almost all phonelines) who did line tests: no problems found. On the fifth engineer visit, they finally moved me to another port on the MSAN: no change. A week later, just after the sixth line test came back clear, the ISP switched my PPPoE session to terminate on another router port for routine maintenance - and the problem disappeared. Moving me back restored the problem. Changing just the IP address of that router interface made the problem disappear again. Armed with this new datapoint, we escalated further with the backbone provider, who confirmed the problem and escalated further (to http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ada... in fact). Suddenly, they worked out what was wrong: their backbone had multiple aggregated groups of 10Gbps links, and the aggregation group to use was chosen by the terminating IP address. One of the constituent 10G links in one of those groups was faulty; as soon as they disabled it, the problem was fixed. (So, in answer to "how many DSL line tests does it take to find a backbone fault?", it would appear the answer is "six"; of course, the line test never tests backbone traffic, so could never have spotted the fault. On the bright side, they also stumbled across and fixed several faulty components in edge routers while troubleshooting this issue.) Hardest software bug? About a decade ago, I was doing some low-level stuff - though in userspace, not kernel mode - with Windows NTFS, and started getting a BugCheck ("blue screen of death") every time I closed a file. It turned out the anti-virus software I was using at the time had a bug which corrupted memory when I was opening the file, causing a crash later when it tried to clean up. Quite infuriating really! 