What's the hardest bug you've debugged?
This one didn't take to long to figure out, but it was one of my weirdest debugging experiences of all time. So, while studying electrical engineering at school, we had a class where you were supposed do a project related to embedded systems. Me and two classmates really enjoyed the course and decided to build an autonomous RC helicopter. We attached a MCU to a helicopter to control the servos with some input from an accelerometer. The project was a little to ambitious for the 3 month class, especially since we were all new to embedded systems. But it was very fun, and we worked hard, so things were moving along fine. One late evening we sort of had all the different parts of the system working and were ready to mount it all on the helicopter to start doing trial flights. The only problem was that once we started the system, the servos wen't bananas every now and then. We went over all code several times, removed more and more pieces the system but still couldn't get rid of this behavior. After a long night of debugging where less and less things were making sense we didn't really know what to do. One of the team members got so tired of everything that he leaned back, put his shoes up on the table and closed his eyes for a while. Suddenly, the bug didn't appear any more. Tired and out of ideas we started joking around about his shoes maybe being a magical cure for the bug. He played along and started taking his shoes up an down from the table. The freaky thing was that the bug actually wouldn't appear when his shoes were on the table, but did appear when they weren't. After a while we actually started considering that there could be a correlation. Half laughing, half crying of exhaustion we actually did 10-20 runs with feet on table / feet off table and the bug happened exclusively when his feet was off the table. I think this probably was one of my most confusing moments in life, at least related to technology. That's when it hit us. Common ground! Turns out we forgot to connect ground between two parts of the system which led to communication between them being extremely unstable and sensitive to pretty much anything. When my teammate put his feet on the table, he connected ground between the two parts of the system with his shoe and the table where the other part of the system was located. Even though this connection was probably extremely weak, it was enough to make make the communication a little more stable. As soon as we realized what happened, we connected the missing wire and everything was running perfectly (well, at least in regards to that problem). I guess we were lucky to stumble on the solution by accident relatively quickly so that it got to be more of a fun than painful memory. 