What's the difference between writing software for Windows and Unix?
As a C++ programmer, I feel that nowadays is much easier to create portable code than it was in the past. The standard team has create good API for things like threading, which used to be a pain in the past. Even socket's programming used to be painful because the windows abstraction of sockets is not as powerful as the int used in unix. That say, when you face barriers, there's almost always a portable solution. Boost helps with things that are not in the std library, Qt let's you write UI's for both unix and windows. etc. Now, that's the side of a C++ world, I'm pretty sure if you are going to use plain old C you may find the same problems I just described; but if statistics are to be taken into account, you are most likely to develop software in either java or some scripting language and then I think there's not too much difference between working in unix or windows. Things start breaking apart when you need to access system calls since each os has it's own totally incompatible api's. For example, the moment you want to do a fork in windows you are really screwed. Before I forgot to do mention another important fact: the tools you will use. This is a really hard one, unix is easy to administer and has much better console tools. You can really be productive using the console. But if you are the IDE kind of guy, in my experience unix is not so great, I like KDevelop, but the project on which I work now got so big that kdevelop is unable to load it. You can still use eclipse or other things, but must often than not I fallback to use emacs. On windows, I think IDE's tend to be more professional an better supported. Not only visual studio is a great tool with one of the best visual debuggers I've used. You can also find great third party IDE's (Embarcadero RAD studio for example). But you loose the great other tools you have in unix. True, I always have MinGw or Cygwin by my side when I'm in windows, but their performance speed is orders of magnitude slower than on unix (I once try to run a find command, and the unix version was done before the windows one had returned the first result, over the same folder and the unix version running on a VM). 