I really, really want to learn to code. However, upon taking classes and practicing (in C), I realized that I hate the whole process of programming (debugging, constant unclear/ambiguous errors, confusing logic). What can I do to get over this?
Based on your question I am assuming here that you have absolutely no background in computer science and simply want to learn programming, which is great since programming is becoming a must skill for 21st Century plus its super cool to play with it. That being said, You picked the wrong programming language to begin with for primarily three reasons. Steep learning Curve: It is true if you are a Computer science graduate you should always learn powerful languages like C since it helps you understand core of computer per say, But it really requires years including college projects to get comfortable with C or to build something useful. If you ask any programmer (with a computer science degree) not everyone but most of would say that they still aren't fully comfortable with C (at least the one's who graduated in past 8-9 years would say that due to popularity of more user friendly languages out there). Selling Point Once you learn a language you probably wanna make career out of it. You have to understand this that C is one of those special language these days which has very few but highly paid jobs. I can probably say this with absolute certainty that out of every 100 jobs out there 2 will require C, since the advent of more user friendly programming languages like (python, ruby, java). Chances are that company who want to hire C programmers are looking for C experts or at least someone who has degree in computer science/engineering. So honestly picking up C is a bad choice for you in terms of selling point. Building stuff C is super fast as compared to other languages like (python, java, ruby). It make sense to use C probably if you are making core software such as OS, Search engines, File system etc.. But if you are interested in building web applications which doesn't require core system level stuff you probably wanna stick to more user friendly languages. All this being said I can totally understand your frustration of not getting the "confusing logic" since C is not child's play. Now answering your question: This is what you should do to get a fresh perspective on programming and more important, enjoying it. Pick a language out of these 3: Python (Django framework) Ruby (Rails framework) Groovy (Grails Framework) The above three are super user friendly programming languages (extremely popular these days with decreasing order of popularity as listed, python being most popular) with their corresponding Web Frameworks to build cool stuff. The good thing about this is that you can very quickly build stuff and prototype them which is very important because you can actually see the things you are learning into practicality and will give you motivation to keep learning, which is the key for new programmers to continue learning. I understand that building web applications for someone who is just starting programming is difficult, that is why you should pick a language first, learn it (Do some online tutorial) and once you are little bit comfortable with the language *then only* start with web frameworks. Programming is fun stuff. Don't be disheartened if you don't understand something. In the world of coding, research, research research is the key thing. Always google stuff, read blogs about things that you don't understand. It requires hard work and at least couple of months to get smoother experience in this whole endeavor. P.S I absolutely believe books are best friends so if you are serious go ahead and order a book of your choice of the above mentioned languages. (I recommend Python). 