What's the difference between writing software for Windows and Unix?
The differences are large or small depending on the technologies that are used. For example, a Java application will need virtually no modification to run on UNIX and Windows, usually just some attention file path/naming conventions, and maybe a few lines of shell/batch script to start the program. Using platform-specific technologies complicates matters. For example, quite  a bit of contemporary Windows code is written using .NET technologies, only some of which have been ported to UNIX (Mono). There are UNIX and Linux technologies that also have no direct equivalent on Windows. When you begin to rely heavily on these, porting code becomes very different. In many cases, the core portion of the software can be written in a fashion that is exactly the same across multiple platforms. One can separate out the bits of the software code that don't rely on platform-specific features (for example, if you are writing image manipulation routines in C++, or database routines in C) from those that are platform-specific (for example, just about anything that deals with a graphical user interface). This goes a long way. Further, you can make a conscious effort to use libraries and toolkits that abstract away the underlying platform. For example, Qt and GTK provide a common API for user interfaces across Windows and UNIX. A project  that uses them instead of platform-specific APIs (Windows.Forms, or direct X11), will not need to write much code specific to a particular platform. The build process can vary between Windows and UNIX, though Windows ports of the UNIX tools can be used to make the process more or less the same on both platforms. For the sake of making development comfortable for developers, however, it's not uncommon to have separate but parallel build files for either platform. For example, one might use a Visual Studio project in Windows and Make files in UNIX. Even so, if one relies on a cross-platform IDE (like Eclipse), the project and build files can be the same. 