What's the best friendship theory you have came across?
I call it Varun’s orbital theory of friendship. Basically our friends are visualized as electrons in an atom. We are at the nucleus. And around us in each orbit there is one friend. 1) No orbit has more than one friend in it. 2) The distance between orbit & nucleus is inversely proportional to level of affection Af 3) Due to closeness in Af value for two friends the two orbits may seem to be one only.& two friends may seem to be on same level bt they are not 4) the lowermost orbital friend is the closest friend 5) Af value for each friend is not static. It varies with time ,so sometimes some distant friend may have higher instantaneous Af value than closer friends: Bt it does not bring him in closer orbits as the avg value of Af is considered for distance of the orbits 6)Each friend is connected to the nucleus with one or more domains D. Domains are school ,class ,work places ,neighborhood or simply sharing same interest. 7) Each orbit has fields called as common points CP.CP are such as some sports ,books ,class ,branch, hobby etc.CP is an variable length array & generally lower order orbital ( closer friend) have more CP elements. Generally Af value is function of CP 8) The nucleus & friend interact with each other on that CP. Thus we talk with closer friends on any topic. Bt we talk with some distant friends with only on specific topics. 9) When the arrival of new friend in the system occurs It slowly penetrate the orbitals replacing old ones .And as it comes closer its CP & Af increase 10)Af is also dependent on time & slowly it decrease with time so that old good friends become distant afterwards 11): For each friend there are two parameters other than Cp & Af which are responsibility index (ri) & expectation index (ei).The status of friendship is usually defined with these two para. For healthy friendship ri & ei are almost equal & for bad ones they differ greatly. 2D form of this model is stated as below 1) In 2D model each friend is now having its own orbitals of frndship & u can imagin it as two or more atoms mixed together 2) In 2D model the value of af for friend f1 of nucleus is given as af(n,f1) 3) Af level being decided by the nucleus af is not commutative So af(f1,f2) ≠af(f2, f1) In other words the friend may not have same affection for u as u hav for him 4) The values ri & ei are dedicated to pair of n & f they remain Same bt are interchanged That is ei(f1,f2) = ri (f2,f1) and similarly for other pair That is wht u expect from a friend is ideally responsibility of ur friend & vice versa bt these conditions are not met every time 5)The concept of best friends- Those two friends who have highest af value for each other in their own orbitals are termed as best friends. special  rights for best friends: Can send electromagnetic radiations of frequent sarcasm and mockery. Can break the quantum barrier of social conduct Have basic right to know every single change in intermolecular force. Can keep poking in the every small change in matter. And the best one- can use the 'mai tera best friend hu'(But I'm your best friend) favour once every orbital revolution. 6)The level of agreement over certain topic of interest can be determined by their spin, same spin direction meaning high level of agreement 7)An D friend can become a CP friend but converse is not true 8) Concept of mutual friend Closer level friends of our closer level friend which share the same domain D as with us are called as mutual friend & those are automatically added in our orbital: Bt they penetrate more slowly than actual frnd 9)Then there are some particles that enter the orbitals which can't be avoided cause they use the D quota. These particles are named as muons (basically morons) 10) Problem of disappointment- For pair f1 f 2 if f1 completes its ri bt f2 does not then disappointment occurs Severity of disappointment is directly proportional to af (f1,f2), but not related to af( f2,f1) 11) Problem of jealousy- consider nucleus n , & two closed orbitals frnds f1 f2 So f2 is not closer frnd of f1 bt they both are closer frnds of n & if ri index of n for f2 is more than f1 . f1 feels jealousy Severity of jealousy is directly prop to af (f1,n) & ri(n,f2) It is inversely prop to af(f2,f1) That means if all three are close to each other jealousy is least 12)Concept of grp - bunch of closer frnds which are also closer frnds of each other act as a single entity called grp or molecule. Frnds in molecule share almost same values of ei & ri for all other frnds bt it may vary slightly if frnds inside & outside share same domain D 13) There is intermolecular force of attraction & repulsion depending on domain D or Cp values  Advantages – concepts of best friend , mutual friend & problems in friendship are wee defined Disadvantages – solutions to the problems in friendships are not defined   Main theory - Varun Dandekar Puns & few additions - Omkar deokar 