There are two main types of beamformers. These are time domain beamformers and frequency domain beamformers.
A graduated attenuation window is sometimes applied across the face of the array to improve side-lobe suppression performance, in addition to the phase shift.
Time domain beamformer works by introducing time delays. The basic operation is called "delay and sum". It delays the incoming signal from each array element by a certain amount of time, and then adds them together. The most common kind of time domain beam former is serpentine waveguide. Active phase array uses individual delay lines that are switched on and off. Yttrium iron garnet phase shifters vary the phase delay using the strength of a magnetic field.
There are two different types of frequency domain beamformers.
The first type separates the different frequency components that are present in the received signal into multiple frequency bins (using either an DFT or a filterbank). When different delay and sum beamformers are applied to each frequency bin, the result is that the main lobe simultaneously points in multiple different directions at each of the different frequencies. This can be an advantage for communication links, and is used with the SPS-48 radar.
The other type of frequency domain beamformer makes use of Spatial Frequency. Discrete samples are taken from each of the individual array elements. The samples are processes using a Discrete Fourier Transform (DFT). The DFT introduces multiple different discrete phase shifts during processing. The outputs of the DFT are individual channels that correspond with evenly spaced beams formed simultaneously. A 1 dimensional DFT produces a fan of different beams. A 2 dimensional DFT produces beams with a pineapple configuration.
These techniques are used to create two kinds of phase array.
Dynamic - an array of variable phase shifters are used to move the beam Fixed - the beam position is stationary with respect to the array face and the whole antenna is moved
There are two further sub-categories that modify the kind of dynamic array or fixed array.
Active - amplifiers or processors in each phase shifter element Passive - large central amplifier with attenuating phase shifters
