Several fully worked numerical examples are available. A simple case uses one-way (a single factor) analysis. A more complex case uses two-way (two-factor) analysis.
Length and age are probabilistically distributed over humans. They are stochastically related, when you know that a person is of age 7, this influences the chance of this person being 6 feet tall. You could formalize this relationship in a linear regression model of the following form: lengthi = b0 + b1agei + εi, where b0 is the intercept, b1 is a parameter that age is multiplied by to get a prediction of length, ε is the error term, and i is the subject. This means that length starts at some value, there is a minimum length when someone is born, and it is predicted by age to some amount. This prediction is not perfect as error is included in the model. This error contains variance that stems from sex and other variables. When sex is included in the model, the error term will become smaller, as you will have a better idea of the chance that a particular 16-year-old is 6 feet tall when you know this 16-year-old is a girl. The model would become lengthi = b0 + b1agei + b2sexi + εi, where the variable sex is dichotomous. This model would presumably have a higher R2. The first model is nested in the second model: the first model is obtained from the second when b2 is restricted to zero.
Several fully worked numerical examples are available. A simple case uses one-way (a single factor) analysis. A more complex case uses two-way (two-factor) analysis.
In sequence modeling, the graph of interest is usually a chain graph. An input sequence of observed variables represents a sequence of observations and represents a hidden (or unknown) state variable that needs to be inferred given the observations. The are structured to form a chain, with an edge between each and . As well as having a simple interpretation of the as "labels" for each element in the input sequence, this layout admits efficient algorithms for:
model training, learning the conditional distributions between the and feature functions from some corpus of training data. inference, determining the probability of a given label sequence given . decoding, determining the most likely label sequence given .
The conditional dependency of each on is defined through a fixed set of feature functions of the form , which can informally be thought of as measurements on the input sequence that partially determine the likelihood of each possible value for . The model assigns each feature a numerical weight and combines them to determine the probability of a certain value for .
Linear-chain CRFs have many of the same applications as conceptually simpler hidden Markov models (HMMs), but relax certain assumptions about the input and output sequence distributions. An HMM can loosely be understood as a CRF with very specific feature functions that use constant probabilities to model state transitions and emissions. Conversely, a CRF can loosely be understood as a generalization of an HMM that makes the constant transition probabilities into arbitrary functions that vary across the positions in the sequence of hidden states, depending on the input sequence.
Notably in contrast to HMMs, CRFs can contain any number of feature functions, the feature functions can inspect the entire input sequence at any point during inference, and the range of the feature functions need not have a probabilistic interpretation.
The following mathematical descriptions are fully written out and explained, for ease of implementation.
A typical non-Bayesian HMM with Gaussian observations looks like this:

A typical Bayesian HMM with Gaussian observations looks like this:

A typical non-Bayesian HMM with categorical observations looks like this:

A typical Bayesian HMM with categorical observations looks like this:

Note that in the above Bayesian characterizations, (a concentration parameter) controls the density of the transition matrix. That is, with a high value of (significantly above 1), the probabilities controlling the transition out of a particular state will all be similar, meaning there will be a significantly probability of transitioning to any of the other states. In other words, the path followed by the Markov chain of hidden states will be highly random. With a low value of (significantly below 1), only a small number of the possible transitions out of a given state will have significant probability, meaning that the path followed by the hidden states will be somewhat predictable.
This section requires expansion. (March 2009)
Suppose we have measured the quantities each with normally distributed errors of known standard deviation ,

Suppose we are interested in estimating the . An approach would be to estimate the using a maximum likelihood approach; since the observations are independent, the likelihood factorizes and the maximum likelihood estimate is simply

However, if the quantities are related, so that for example we may think that the individual have themselves been drawn from an underlying distribution, then this relationship destroys the independence and suggests a more complex model, e.g.,

with improper priors flat, flat. When , this is an identified model (i.e. there exists a unique solution for the model's parameters), and the posterior distributions of the individual will tend to move, or shrink away from the maximum likelihood estimates towards their common mean. This shrinkage is a typical behavior in hierarchical Bayes models.
Logistic regression is used extensively in numerous disciplines, including the medical and social science fields. For example, the Trauma and Injury Severity Score (TRISS), which is widely used to predict mortality in injured patients, was originally developed by Boyd et al using logistic regression.[4] It is also employed in marketing applications such as prediction of a customer's propensity to purchase a product or cease a subscription, etc.[citation needed] For example, logistic regression might be used to predict whether a patient has a given disease (e.g. diabetes), based on observed characteristics of the patient (age, gender, body mass index, results of various blood tests, etc.). Another example might be to predict whether a voter will vote Democratic or Republican, based on age, income, gender, race, state of residence, votes in previous elections, etc.[citation needed] The technique can also be used in engineering, especially for predicting the probability of failure of a given process, system or product.[5][6] In each of these instances, a logistic regression model would compute the relevant odds for each predictor or interaction term, take the natural logarithm of the odds (compute the logit), conduct a linear regression analysis on the predicted values of the logit, and then take the exponential function of the logit to compute the odds ratio. Conditional random fields, an extension of logistic regression to sequential data, are employed in natural language processing.
