★If you run a B2B company, what are the most important performance metrics for your VP of Marketing?
Agree with most of the metrics mentioned in the answers here, but one thing people haven't talked about is how you are going to achieve those metrics. Lead Generation: Expecting thousands of 'high quality' leads with little or no marketing budget is a sure sign of setting yourself up for failure. You need to spend money on the right mix of media, campaigns, databases etc and if your company cannot do that because of fundamental reasons (like not having any money to spend on marketing), then you do not need a VP Marketing. Collateral: Expecting 'high quality' collateral and branding efforts without a clear internal understanding of your product's positioning is also a big mistake. If you and your team have not articulated a clear product strategy, don't expect your VP Marketing to automatically 'get it' and churn out collateral that defines the company's products. It' the other way around - get the key people in the company along with the VP Marketing to freeze on product strategy, positioning and target audience first, THEN create collateral. Do not change every 2 months - invest in that strategy for a longer period before thinking of a course correction. Branding: Do you have a product that is truly unique? Or is it just another mediocre player amongst a sea of hundreds of similar competitors? The less unique your product is, the more you need to spend on branding. After all, if your product is not interesting and unique enough to attract attention on it's own, then you will have to spend money to get that attention. Get the fundamentals right: Don't look at marketing as only a set of tactics and metrics that will give you traction - you'll end up generating a lot of "marketing activity" which results in very little actual business. Your VP marketing is not the only answer to fixing your company's revenue problems. One or two stand-alone marketing campaigns in a year are NOT going to fill up your pipeline of leads and suddenly make your sales team's lives better. You need to plan to sustain your marketing efforts over a period of time. That's when the metrics you  are tracking will actually be of any value.    Embed Quote