★What are the most important performance metrics for tech support?I'm specifically looking for things like "time-to-resolution" and "average time spent with customer", etc. Anything specific to a company is great but I'm also looking for industry standard terms. Measurements involving cost are also OK but I'm more interested in non-cost related metrics. Literally any answer or lead would be appreciated, thanks!
I don't personally believe in Metrics for grading performance. For a number of reasons, but mainly because they put a standardization on something that is absolutely NOT standard. Each support call is unique and should be treated as such, and therefore cannot be measured against another call. Sure some calls fall in the same category, yes. But the expectation that each call can be categorized and measured against another is false. There will be a time where some kind of exception to the rule or unusual circumstance will force you to deal with this call differently than another. Thus, your metrics will be grading something the Metrics were not designed to grade. I firmly believe that if you take care of your employees, your employees will take care of your clients. It should also be said that a strict vetting process should be in place while hiring. Hiring based on the employee fitting into the workplace culture should be at the top of the list with qualifications and experience. When you have employees who want to work for you because they know you will take care of them, they will want to take care of you because you are their security. I don't want to screw up my job because I know how well they take care of me. Thus, I make sure I take care of my clients to the utmost level of excellence. Metrics, in my opinion, cannot motivate your employees like the method I described above. In fact, it takes focus from the client, to the metrics and your focus is now ensuring you don't get in trouble for not meeting metrics, fostering a sense of fear rather than comradery and pride. This is the major issue with metrics.    Embed Quote