★How does the team performance metric or 'fitness function' work at Amazon?It is said that every team at Amazon has a fitness function which is an equation that translates the business value of this team into a single number. Every function needs to be approved by Jeff Bezos. Its benefit would be a quick overview of a team's performance, especially for those less familiar with the actual team. Is this still being used? How do teams come up with their functions?
While fitness functions were a very cool idea, some projects generated clear-cut business value that was very easy to measure, while other projects generated value that was much harder to measure. When I was at Amazon I worked for a few years in the community team on the customer reviews and customer reputation projects. While no one could deny the value of customer generated product reviews- if reviews ever experienced technical errors that limited availability this would be considered a "sev2" level emergency that merited paging me and the other engineers out of bed in the middle of the night to address the issue- customer reviews were one of many features on the extremely high traffic product detail page that all together contributed to massive clickthroughs-to-purchase. If for example a million dollars per day came from a pipeline of clickstreams that went through the product detail page that contained a variety of features, how much of that million dollars should be attributed to the customer reviews on the product detail page, vs the customer discussion boards, vs the richness of the product's metadata, vs whether the product was available for prime shipping, etc. Removing the customer reviews feature from the site and testing the resulting loss in sales is obviously not a good idea. And perhaps the value of reviews depends on time of day, customer segment, product segment, seasonal availability, etc. So, it ends up being a hard problem to quantify contributions of projects sharing fat click traffic pipelines. But this doesn't mean that these projects aren't worth working on, and it probably doesn't mean you want to spend valuable developer weeks designing and testing various fitness function options vs improving the feature richness or scalability of the project. By comparison the Amazon Vine project, where publishers pay for the privilege of putting prerelease products in front of top reviewers, had a clear cut business model and easy to measure revenue that was not confounded by other variables like sharing a high-traffic, high-revenue clickstream pipe with many other services. So ultimately I think the fitness function concept made sense for some but not all projects, and was one of many organizational ideas that pushed teams to be more customer and data centric.    Embed Quote