★If Chicago Teachers are demanding pay raises, shouldn't they at least consent to stricter evaluations and performance metrics?
This was done, but not due to the contract. The PERA law in Illinois required the development of new evaluation system. As with most such systems, there are numerous flaws.  It's essentially requiring us all to be aspiring Charlotte Danielsons.  Of course, even Charlotte Danielson will acknowledge that her tools are meant for reflective practice rather than evaluation and that an overall "distinguished" rating is unattainable.  There are also serious flaws with value-added data and over-emphasizing growth on standardized tests of which families have the right to opt out. Something else to consider is that the professional practice of teaching is constantly changing.  I recently dusted off an old syllabus for a course I'm teaching again after many years. I basically threw it out and had to start over. I teach very differently now because of new research on how we learn, new opportunities from various community partnerships, and the changing social dynamic of our world.  There are very effective strategies I may have used a decade ago that I wouldn't bother with today or would use with major adjustments.  Young people come to my class with a very different set of tools and experiences than they used to. They are much more familiar with technology and absorb new information more quickly, but their attention spans tend to be much shorter. I find myself increasingly breaking things down into ten minute increments. Twenty minutes can be pushing it.  I noticed this trend accelerate following the rise of You Tube, where the average video length is five minutes.  Our children are as brilliant as always, but anyone who has been teaching over a decade will tell you that things change and there are no magic solutions to what we do.  Personally, I feel that since we are certified professionals with degrees, that should be enough.  I'm confident that it is much easier to fire a teacher than it is to disbar a lawyer or strip a doctor of a license. Teachers are licensed professionals from the state and have to meet state standards for professional development in order to retain their license. Once hired, teachers have a trial period of several years before tenure, which is NOT in any way a guarantee of employment, merely a system of due process and seniority which is important for schools facing economic hardships or declining enrollment.    Embed Quote