★What are performance metrics for a product development team (especially for a technology startup)?For a technology startup, which has product portfolio rather than single product. How should investors/CEO track the progress ? Agility is very important but How should it be measured ?
This largely depends on the phase the product is in, for a startup. If the startup is following a lean development style, you would want to decide metrics for those specific set of features. But, before you get into this here's a warning: You should be careful not to get drowned in metrics. There's a whole bunch you can do but you don't want to do. A good way to decide your metrics would be to: Know what are you overall business objectives example: do you want to validate product, do you want to validate one feature, do you want to scale Know what your product is meant to do: example: is your product for reducing timespent by people to decide on buying a car, or is your product helping people date, or is your product helping them review an airline. Know what you want to do next: Every metric should lead to an action. For that you want to know what kind of actions you would want to take next. This largely comes from your business objectives/product objectives. Example: If time spent for buying a car after using your product is not reduced by 10% from earlier for an average customer, then we might want to make reviews of cars more elaborate. Something like! Here's some generic metrics that you can calculate eitherway: MVP Stage: 1. Total downloads   : glimpse into your mkting strategy, validate your understanding of need product for problem trying to solve 2. trend of # of active users  : use of current set of features; an increase would indicate perceived value of current feature set. 3. Attenuation of users: duration before raise in attenuation shows if product is serving value or if users reached a stage where they need more. 4. Use of particular feature: shows you what feature to scrap, what to keep & built on. 5. # of users in target segment : shows effect of marketing strtgy. You would keep measuring the above till you understand a stable feature set in which the attenuation is low. You can use a cohort technique to evaluate this. Remember... you can always figure easy ways to get the metrics. So keep it simple and actionable.    Embed Quote