What are pros and cons of PostgreSQL and MySQL?With respect to reliability, speed, scalability, and features. I've heard a lot about how Postgres is superior to MySQL in a number of ways, but I only have a loose understanding of the differences.
Originally Answered: What are the relative benefits/drawbacks of MySQL vs PostGreSQL?I have used both quite extensively and I'll talk from experience. If you are operating behind an ORM like Django's and if you want to just  develop a web application, it doesn't really matter. Pick whatever you would want and get started. People will often cite speed as a quantifier but if your database models and queries are bad, there is not much you could do with any database. Increase CPU and RAM later on, if speed is the constraint. But since the question is about the comparison between both, I'll answer it as it is... First up, I would not so much call them benefits and drawbacks but would merely call them their working style. In my experience I have found that MySQL works better when you have a low write/read ratio and offers low scalability as the write/read ratio grows while on the other hand PostgreSQL is very good with the latter while the performance dips at low concurrency levels (all though not drastic). PostgreSQL has a superior feature set and it works well (possibly an understatement) without any extra plugins. PostGIS is just exceptional. if you were to deal with special data types like spatial data, while MySQL needs some extra setting up. Don't buy into anyone who says MySQL is fast. It is fast when you use MyIsam engine but if you need features like triggers, integrity constraints, transaction support - you will have to choose from the other engines and that is just as good as PostgreSQL, if not less. MySQL features work not like they are expected but like they are advertised and you'll see a lot of weird bugs with it, but this shall pass with time, you'll get used to it. Of the two databases, MySQL comes with more powerful admin tools, including mysqladmin (I like PostgreSQL's PgAdmin too) and file corruption recovery and replication is quite simpler on MySQL than PostgreSQL This might help : MySQL vs PostgreSQL. Or better yet, there is something called Google on which you can do mysql vs postgresql - Google Search. Hope that helps. Updated 6 Dec 2013 • View Upvotes