How many Chinese characters can a foreign-language student expect to learn in one, two, etc years?Naturally this depends on the intensity of study (college class, full-time, etc) and other factors.  Those could be part of an answer, or an answer holding those factors fixed could be a useful benchmark.
Since this question introduces a huge amount of boundless variables, I'm going to assume an average value for all and give this answer: 500. I'll provide some information too to show how I came up with this relatively arbitrary number. The website remembr.it claims that you will memorize over 2,200 characters in three months if you use their service as directed.  I have been a member for about three months and, according to their feedback system, I have studied well over 1,000 now and "memorized" about 800.  I use the site as regularly as possible but I have not been anywhere near capable of keeping up with their prescribed 30 new characters a day.  However, considering the strong recall I've experienced of the characters that I've learned, I would say their claim is probably accurate.  Of course, a lot of these characters I am learning from the site I already knew beforehand, as the lessons provided by the service are the same for everyone, regardless of level (which at first I found annoying but now I like because it gives me a review of a solid foundation). I have studied Mandarin for over five years.  By "studied," I mean I majored in Chinese in college, then moved to China after graduation, where I now consider "studying Chinese" to be merely living here and tooling around with various forms of learning software, chatting online and the occasional venture into the Chinese web. In college, I really did study.  Three hours a day, minimum.  At that point I don't know how many characters I knew because a ton of them were thrown at us daily.  It's important to note that we almost always learned words, not individual characters.  Characters are like "idea building blocks" that combine with other characters to form words.  Some characters are words on their own, but not many.  So it's hard to say how many "characters" I knew.  At my prime in my student days I probably knew around 2,000 words, but many of these words recycle the same characters, recombining them in different ways.  I have forgotten a lot of them because they have fallen into disuse, but normally if one comes up, it looks familiar and I can remember what it means in context.  If I have to look it up in the dictionary, that once-again reference usually wedges it in my brain again pretty well. I just took an online test ( http://www.clavisinica.com/chara... ) that uses probability metrics to determine approximately how many characters you know based on how many you can recognize from a random selection.  It said I knew around 2,300. According to that site, a "beginner" knows 300 and a "low intermediate" student knows 800. They say you need to know about 2,500 characters to read a newspaper.  I try reading newspapers from time to time and its still a pretty laborious process for me, although I think this speaks more about me reading newspapers "from time to time" than my lack of character recognition. So... If you are an average student, studying abroad in China, trying your best but also partying quite a bit, skipping class sometimes, getting Bs on your homework and tests (you'd really have to try to do worse, otherwise why are you even here; it's not required like US history or something) and using Chinese occasionally like to talk to the cutie at the bar, I'd say you could learn 500 characters in one year. 