How did 99+ percentilers prepare for CAT?Please provide your complete/exhaustive preparation details, if possible.
CAT'12: 84.5 CAT'13: 60.12 CAT'14: 99.29 The CAT 2013 results were a downer but I knew I could do better. From my previous results, I understood that you have to become serious. The exam isn't as simple as it looks. What brought the change from '13 to '14 was: 1. I immediately joined coaching and went on weekdays after office so that I could have the weekend to prepare on my own. Coaching helps especially if you are working. 2. Norman Lewis Word Power Made Easy. I read the book almost 3 times. It is a terrific book to improve your vocabulary. 3. Practice RC's. With the changed format of 50 q's, there would be around 20 RC questions and there is no escaping them. Practice from websites, from anywhere. 4. Don't leave any topic uncovered in Quant. On D'day, it might so happen that your favorite topic springs up a difficult question while the topic you have left has an easy one. 5. DI & LR. All types of Q's should be bread and butter for you before the exam. This is the section which makes in the final %ile being a 99.1 or a 99.9 5. Mocks. Give as many as you can. I gave around 30 Mocks for CAT and it will take time for that consistency to show in your scores. One area where Mocks help is that they tell you what your weak and strong zones are. It is important to analyse your mocks. Never hesitate to give them again. 6. Last year Q's. I have always believed that solving previous year q's gives you the confidence no other thing can give. 7. Make your own strategy for the exam. Don't listen to what others are saying. Keep practising and form your own plan. Before the exam, my advise would be to take a minimum 15 day leave if you are working and work on your build up to the exam. My personal advise is that CAT is a very unpredictable exam. So, don't miss out on stuff like watching movies or going on trips while you are preparing. Keep practising but keep enjoying as well! If you like, you can go through my interview experiences this year: Abishake Koul's answer to How was your IIM interview experience? Some useful tips for PI: Abishake Koul's answer to How should I prepare for the group discussions and personal interview conducted by IIMs after CAT? 