How did dinosaur arms evolve into bird wings?
Taken from my answer: How did wings evolve, given that they're not useful unless they're evolved enough to enable flight? There are some common assumptions about "flightless bird wings" that I want to address (though, these may not all apply here): That flightless wings have no use.  (Clearly they could have and currently do on a great many creatures). That we can easily understand the behaviors of those with flightless wings by fossil evidence alone.  (We don't always have answers at this minute, but a lack of an answer doesn't mean that there isn't one.  Just like the ancient Greeks not knowing that the Sun was a giant ball of super-heated plasma -- the right answer existed but was just too far beyond their ken). That the pre-evolution of wings somehow endeavored towards wings of flight. (Each "thing" on an animal existed in its own right; it didn't hope for an ending or endeavor towards something else, it was merely an adaptation that served a purpose at that time). I always begin discussions about evolution with these warnings: Evolution doesn't deal in subjective values. Evolution is merely adaptation.  There is no "more evolved" or "less evolved".  There's only adapted. Evolution doesn't always work to the absolute benefit of the creature.  If it did, nothing would ever go extinct. Many evolutionary adaptations drove and continue to drive a select species into extinction because certain changes in that animal's characteristic may have suited one niche that was poisoned or taken away by the introduction of a new niche, environmental shift or the arrival of a new species. Evolution doesn't have a goal.  It doesn't "aspire" to things.  It is a non-conscious process. Evolution isn't a "thing", rather it's just a word to describe the many hundreds of environmental and biological pressures that cause a species to adapt to its environment. One of the fatal mistakes people make in trying to understand evolution of avian wings is that the proto-wings must have had a use that we understand and while it is true that they certainly had a use that we could understand, it may not be true that we do understand them yet.  Just like the ancient Greeks (I mentioned above) who did not understand that the Sun was a giant ball of super-heated plasma, there are many things outside our ken.  Just because some things remain beyond our understanding, doesn't mean we should -- as the Greeks did -- plug a magical deity into the gaps of that knowledge just as a place-holder to make themselves feel better. Evolution doesn't try to make us understand.  The universe doesn't owe us an explanation. That -- again -- is human hubris. Things don't happen for our benefit.  There are and will continue to be many, MANY things about science that elude us, even while the actual explanation is out there.  Even if we never discover a scientific explanation for a thing, doesn't mean that we plug magic into those gaps.  [Again, I am not inferring that the questioner is positing this.  I'm just covering all bases.] Now, when we discuss wings, the really fantastic news is that we have so many to chose from in existence now AND so many fossilized ones to choose from that we really have a splendid, logical model of how wings evolve and what they can be used for EVEN if they don't facilitate aviation.  We have flying fish, flying squirrels, bats, insects and a bazillion species of birds to study.  When we look at them closely, we see many parallel ways of how and why wings would evolve.  In the case of birds, we know that even flightless wings serve a magnificent purpose. Take the Gallus Gallus (the Colonel's favorite wild bird).  These guys don't fly.  They get a small amount of lift off the ground.  And while we know they evolved from birds who did fly, it doesn't stop us from using the wild chicken as a model of how flightless wings have uses.  In the case of this flightless bird, the wings are useful for getting some lift under-foot while getting into perches AND for jumping out of trees without worrying about slamming to the ground and breaking legs. And that last part (about jumping out of high places) is of some use in understanding where and why wings would evolve that ability.  Take a look at that bird in the picture above.  That bird is called Arhcaeopteryx.  Some scientists think it flew around and some say it didn't.  But all agree that it -- at the very least -- had Gallus-Gallus-like abilities.  And that's quite useful in understanding how such wings would have been beneficial to Arhcaeopteryx. See, that proto-bird's ancestors were reptiles who — MORE than likely — evolved feathers as an evolutionary advantage to allow themselves to regulate temperature internally.  Just like your great [great x 2^10] grandfather evolved fur to do the same (protection from the elements).  Evolutionary pressures steadily selected a creature with fluffy plumage that allowed it to keep and regulate internal temperatures, rather than depend upon the Sun for its metabolism. Over time, those feathers grew.  Some creatures had enough elongated feathers on their small frames to jump, rather than crawl out of tall trees when predators were chasing them.  The great-great-Arcyaeopterix's Grandmother survived the attack and squeezed more eggs out of her cloaca.  Evolutionary advantage:  plumage.  Her descendants carried that extra plumage and thus the trait was passed on to a clade who had a reproductive advantage over their kind and their threats. But what could make those feathers grow longer in the first place?  Well, for starters, longer feathers might have provided more warmth during seasonal changes (which is important).  Thicker feathers would have grown in the winter, lighter feathers in the summer.  Just like animals do today. A secondary reason may have been the fault of women.  (Yeah, tell me about it!  Amirite guys!?)  It turns out that female animals have a habit of sexually selecting males to look and act a certain way.  While some of these traits result in sexual dimorphism, some of them cannot be parsed between the genders and a selected trait shows up in both.  So, the pressure that selected for longer plumage may have been the ladies wanting men with big, long, giant, dangly . . . . feathers. A tertiary reason may have been more complex.  One of the behaviors we see in birds and lizards today is a trait passed down from our early acanthostega ancestors.  They made muddy-dabbly nests in swamps and laid their eggs in those muddy pools of water.  They were kept out of reach of predators.  Their ancestors took the nesting onto land and laid their eggs in muddy thickets of decaying sticks and branches (covered with leaves to keep them both warm and wet).  Their ancestors took the nesting instinct even FURTHER inland and built nests on dry ground (once the shell was thick enough) and constructed them of dirt, bones, branches, leaves and other materials.  Further still, the first feathering creatures may have "self selected" for those with a lot of plumage to pull out of their bodies.  Once they adapted to a seasonally-shifting environment (learned to live in places that weren't perpetually warm), their eggs would have needed excellent insulation to be protected from the climate.  Feathers would have been a great adaptation.  Thus -- the feathery proto-bird had more plumage to pull, which ensured more hatchlings.  A fourth benefit (as pointed out by the brilliant Miguel Valdespino) is that -- like a lot of creatures -- feathers may have been a defensive adaptation.  Camouflage to hide them from predators, enlarged appearance when frightened, menacing coloration (like Peacocks today) when angered, disposable/detachable when grabbed by a predator (for some reason King Missile comes to mind). Either way, big feathers began growing.  Sexual selection and environmental selection were almost certainly factors.  At some point, the smaller Archaeopterix lept from a high perch while being chased and used its feathers to create friction in the air.  It then passed on this trait to its descendants.  Future selections allowed/drove birds with more and more feathers on its arms to jump from higher and higher places and escape more and more attacks.  Over time, its gliding range increased by tiny margins.  It never "jumped one day and figured it could fly", so much as its gliding distance steadily increased over time until it essentially became limitless. Updated 5 Oct 2014 • View Upvotes