Can an A-10 Warthog airplane take down an advanced Russian tank, like a T-90, with its Gatling gun alone?
Thank you for the A2A! TL;DR: Yes. (Revised and expanded as of 7/13/2015.) Long Version: That is a great question, and one which necessitates the most beloved of A-10 (and perhaps fighter pilot in general) responses: "It depends." What is a "Take Down"? There are almost as many ways to take down a tank as there are to skin a cat.  These multitudinous ways are generally grouped into three categories that describe the effect on the tank/target: M-kill - A mobility kill.  In today's highly mobile battlefield environment, an immobilized tank can quickly become irrelevant as the battle lines sweep past them.  They also become a lot easier to hit by just about everything, including artillery. F-kill - A firepower kill.  Neutralize the weapons on a tank (especially that big metal pipe that swings around on top), and it becomes the most powerful contender in a demolition derby.  Beyond running into things, it can't do nearly as much as it used to. K-kill - The dream shot... a catastrophic kill.  (Why is it a k-kill instead of a c-kill?  No idea, except maybe the military loves alliteration.  Or perhaps it's a "kill" kill instead of a "sort of" kill.)  A k-kill is usually accompanied by Hollywood effects like fire, smoke, and maybe even an explosion. So, considering the full spectrum of "take down," yes, the GAU-8 Avenger cannon is able to effectively combat neutralize a T-90.  Tank armor is great for protecting the softer insides (crew, ammunition, fuel, engine, etc.) but there are plenty of exposed and vulnerable spots that, if damaged, would knock the tank out of the fight. Now, let's talk about how difficult it is to crack the shell... The A-10 and the GAU-8 Avenger In the blue corner, we have the most powerful gun ever mounted on a fighter-scale aircraft. The GAU-8 was designed to penetrate hard targets like tanks.  Since the gun was built, tank armor has continued to evolve, but A-10 ammunition hasn't.  (Remember, though, that you don't have to actually poke holes in the armor to "kill" a tank.)  Let's look at some unclassified (a.k.a. "best guess") numbers. Sources vary on their data, but let's pick some numbers for discussion's sake.  My fuzzy memory says that the 30 mm API (armor piercing incendiary) rounds can penetrate somewhere over 100 mm (4 inches) of rolled homogeneous armour (RHA).  Online sources say up to 200 mm (8 inches, which I think is a very generous rounding up).  Let's give the GAU-8 a head start and say 200 mm worth of penetrating power. [NOTE: The A-10's 30 mm API rounds are depleted uranium (DU).  In case you were wondering.] The T-90 Main Battle Tank And in the red corner, we have one of the most advanced targets... erm... tanks... ever built. The T-90 is mobile, fast, powerful, and armored to shrug off just about anything you can throw at it. I must admit here that I'm about to use some terms that I'm not an expert in.  Still, the numbers should be instructive. Armor type: Steel-composite-reactive blend vs. APFSDS: 550-650mm, with Kontakt-5 = 800–830mm; vs HEAT: 1,000mm with Kontakt-5 = 1,150–1,350mm Here is where things start getting fuzzy, and for some reason manufacturers don't like to advertise anything other than the thickest armor on their tank.  It should be immediately obvious that an A-10 shooting straight up the schnoz of a T-90 will do little more than activate some reactive armor and create a cool looking shower of sparks.  (Unless, of course, the tank commander is up getting some fresh air.  Then things get messy.) So... tanks carry their thickest armor on the front, expecting that is where they're going to take most of their hits.  (This is likely true on an average day, and we CAS flyers are happy to let them continue to think that way.) The problem with armor, though, is that it is heavy.  Eventually you reach a point where your engine can't push the hulk around the battlefield, or that bridge you have to cross just cries "uncle" and collapses.  Also bad for your tank. So, where do you trim the weight?  Well, in the areas you expect to not get hit as much, of course. So, the sun roof and back doors tend to be less well protected.  Which is good for those of us who can maneuver to get a good look at those tender areas.  Here's the kicker, though... I haven't been able to find exactly how thick the skin is in those areas. Plus, it looks like someone figured out that aircraft sometimes take an interest in tanks and thought about slapping some additional protection on top.  One source says: "Explosive reactive armor [ERA] bricks on the turret roof provide protection from top-attack weapons."  (T-90 at Federation Of American Scientists -FWIW.) So, the question remains... is it enough? What's Your Angle?  (Attack Angle, That Is.) Since we don't know exact numbers, let's just estimate the front armor average to be about 1,000 mm.  If the top armor is only 10% of that, we're looking at 100 mm, which is what the A-10 can fairly consistently punch through... at a 90 degree impact angle.  While it is possible to do that from the top, that sort of attack is as hairy as it is exciting.  (See How effective are air brakes in aircraft?)  In most cases, your shots will be at some angle less than 90 degrees. Tanks like to move, and diving at one from directly above usually means that by the time you get your nose pointed straight down at it, it has moved on, forcing a non-straight-down shot anyway.  As a result,  even from medium/high altitude, any gun attacks will usually be from a direction that results in hitting one of the sides (rear preferred) from an elevated angle. Truth be told, I don't recall armor thickness being a prevalent topic of conversation when discussing tanks as targets.  It was all "shoot any tank in the rear if you can, and in the side if you can't.  Don't bother with the front." [NOTE: A huge h/t to Paul deHolczer for sharing this classic, and for helping me answer the question of what to give as a gift this Christmas: Cold War Coloring Book Taught A-10 Pilots to Kill Soviet Tanks] Jj Hantsch provided this enlightening information (thanks Jj!): I have seen stats that when first brought out in 1983 the T-90 had just under 20mm of roof armor. This was augmented to 90mm of roof armor and then finally an added 101 mm of applique. Of this just 21 mm is the hardest shell stuff and the rest is there to prevent fragmentation. If that is the case (and it does jibe with the note about ERA bricks), then we're looking at just under 200mm of armor, some of it questionable quality. If anyone can share some definitive numbers on the top side of T-90 tank armor, that would go a long way towards answering that question for sure.  Unless it is down in the "10% of front armor" range, though, after factoring in the optional ERA bricks, your odds of perforating the skin are still mighty slim, Slim. The M1 Abrams Main Battle Tank Let's detour a little bit to get some more perspective.  While this section isn't about the A-10 or the T-90, there is some interesting information on the T-90's contemporary vs. 25 mm and 30 mm rounds. From M1 Abrams at War by Michael Green (p.99-100) Armor-piercing rounds from an enemy 30mm gun (possibly from an Iraqi army BMP-2) disabled one Abrams tank after hitting it in the rear of the hull, near the engine exhaust grilles - a mobility kill.  Two Abrams tanks were lost in friendly-fire incidents during the opening stages of Operation Iraqi Freedom.  In one incident, an army Bradley infantry fighting vehicle (IFV) fired a number of 25mm armor-piercing DU projectiles at the rear engine grilles of an Abrams tank and destroyed its gas turbine engine. There you go.  Documented accounts of modern main battle tanks being "taken out" by a lowly 25mm round.  If they can do it, the GAU-8 can do it. Conclusion So, yes, it is possible for a 30mm round to "take out" and advanced modern tank.  It's all a question of where you put that round.  You can expect a frontal shot to be laughably ineffective, while a shot to the rear can stop the tank dead in its tracks.  Or remove the tracks altogether.  Whatever works.  As we say in the fighter world: "A kill's a kill." Now, the question remains: "Can you ventilate the crew compartment?"  (Isn't that really what you were thinking when you first read the question?)  For that, we'd need to know how thick the armor is around said compartment.  If you happen to know for sure and can solve that mystery, please chime in with a comment! But Wait!  There's More... Something to keep in mind through all of this, though...  Most of the A-10's targets today aren't as hard as a T-90.  The rounds are still highly effective against older machines, softer targets like armored personnel carriers, artillery, wheeled vehicles, and the ever-present LPC (leather personnel carrier... a.k.a. boots on feet). It remains a versatile, precise, and effective weapon that is (relatively) safe for use in close proximity to friendly forces.  Compared with any high-explosive weapon, you can get closer to friendlies with the GAU-8 than with just about any other weapon hanging from a fighter.  That is a vitally important consideration in an infantry war.  So, while we often think of the A-10 as a "tank killer," its application has grown far beyond that, and it has proven to be highly effective on today's battlefields. But, back to the T-90... There are still many ways to skin that cat with the GAU-8, too.  You can either deliver an F-kill or an M-kill on a T-90, effectively removing that piece from the battlefield, OR... you can go out loaded for that particular kind of bear. I give you... the AGM-65 Maverick missile. (See the Maverick in action at 0:27 in the video below.) Parting Shot There was once some discussion about fitting the A-10 with the AGM-114 Hellfire.  Those things are so small and light, you could almost store extra rounds in your flight suit pockets and chuck 'em out the window at targets.  The A-10 could carry a bazillion of them (well, 16 at least), and still have room for everything else and the kitchen sink. Much Tanks!... er... Thanks! Thank you to the following Quorans whose comments and information helped to make this response better than where it started: Paul deHolczer - The first to remind me about exactly how thin tank armor can get on soft spots, with some hard numbers as examples. Jj Hantsch - Who shared the first of any kind of real numbers on the T-90's armor thickness on the top side. Sorin Adam Matei - For asking the question to begin with! Updated 9 Oct • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Sorin Adam Matei