How many lines of code can a good programmer write in one hour?
So Barry Rountree asked me to make this a seperate answer as he felt having a real world example would be useful. Many years ago I wrote a set of patches to OpenSSH to improve performance (I got tired of trying to support users that didn't knwo why their transfers were so slow). Currently this patch set is at ~2000 lines of code (it's called HPN-SSH - it's currently the  default implementation in FreeBSD). That number has fluctuated (both  higher and lower) over the years. This has been because of implementing  efficiencies and because the OpenSSH code is constantly changing. I've  been maintaining it for close to 10 years now. The initial pass  took around 20 hours of time. This was a naive proof of concept  implementation focused specifically on recv buffer enhancements. After  that panned out I think I put another 60 hours into it to clean it up,  fine tune the methods, and so forth. Over the years more enhancements  got built into it and all of those took lord knows how long. One of them was a multithreaded AES-CTR cipher which I'm really proud of.  In any case, most of the  time wasn't spent coding but staring at code and figuring out what's  going on. For example, when they changed the authentication sandbox it  took me some time to figure out just what they were doing and how to  work with it. Once I figured that out the actually coding only took a  couple of hours. All in all I know I've put several hundred  hours into this (maybe 500+). Some of it was coding, some of it was  writing documentation, a majority of it was just thinking about how to  do things. So I don't know how many lines of code per hour that works  out to considering how long I've been working on this. Probably a pretty  damn small number. Of course, that has to be weighed against the  impact. All in all I'm pleased with the results. So if you break it down by LoC/hour the rate is *really* low. I mean really really low. However, the impact the code has had over the years has been remarkable. It's being used by major organizations (Google, Facebook, the IRS, banks, universities, militaries, etc) and has really helped a lot of people out. That might be a better metric - not how many lines of code but the impat the code has. 