How did 99+ percentilers prepare for CAT?Please provide your complete/exhaustive preparation details, if possible.
CAT is an exam that tests your expertise in 3 basic fields: 1. Mathematics and Data Interpretation 2. English and Reading Comprehension 3. Logical Reasoning If you are serious for CAT, you cannot ignore any one of the sections. One has to be a jack of all the three sections to ace the test, this becomes more important since one never knows what the composition of the CAT paper is going to be next year. I started preparing for CAT 2014 sometime in August 2014, and only prepared using Self-Study. So, this article should help you if you are interested in preparing on your own, not looking up to any of the coaching classes. First and foremost you should do is to figure how much time you have and then judge yourself as to which section do you need to work more on. For example I knew I had to work more for English part than mathematics or logical reasoning. Second thing must be to decide your sources of preparation based on these judgments about your strengths and weaknesses and time availability. You will find a plethora of books and websites and coaching centers available to you - choose wisely. Third and last thing : Now that you have the materials, work out a plan to prepare. Be sure to include 3 things in your planning: a) Time to cover the theory of each of the 3 sections. b) Time to write mock tests and review them. c) Leave last 2 weeks for relaxing rather than slogging at the end. Now let's see what I did for each section: 1. Mathematics and Data Interpretation: There are a variety of questions asked in Mathematics. I used T.I.M.E's study material I got from a friend as the only source to prepare for maths. They cover all the topics and all the variety of questions asked in the CAT. Do all the exercises after each chapter. Though they also provide a booklet of solution, on getting stuck I used to post the question on the following Facebook groups: https://www.facebook.com/groups/... and https://www.facebook.com/groups/... . You will not only get solutions here, but at times shorter and better ways to solve the problem. Also, I highly recommend joining the groups since you will also get to see variety of problems posted by others. Moreover, a couple of teachers used to be available and on weekends used to host topic wise tests purely out of their interests! 2. English and Reading Comprehension: I would not be of help here if your English is really poor. I had some 'feeling' about grammar which I used in questions, and could never learn and apply the rules. So, I don't know how can one prepare for grammar. However again, T.I.M.E's material gives you an idea of every type of question asked in the CAT. Apart from grammar you need to be good at vocabulary since sometime direct questions on vocabularies could be asked (none in CAT 2014) or they will definitely help in reading comprehension. For getting hold of words, I used the following website: Barron's 333 High Frequency Word List - GRE. They let you remember words at your pace and make sure you keep revising them! As for reading comprehension, you need to improve your reading speed. Read newspaper everyday - and mind it I am not referring to 'Times of India' when I say newspaper. Read 'The Hindu' or 'The Economic Times'. Reading apart from increasing your speed of understanding, also helps you recall the words you would have to remember, and throws new words to you. 3. Logical Reasoning: I believed it was my strongest side, so never really prepared for it (This was believed to be the toughest section in CAT 2014 and even I got stuck and wasted time here). Also, I personally don't think one can teach you reasoning - you either get it or you don't. T.I.M.E 's booklet again has all the varieties of questions asked and some basic tips for each type as and when needed. As I mentioned I began in August and used about 3 hours a day to cover all the topics. By this time CAT had announced the new pattern to be followed this year. So, all the test series providers were updating there test patterns for mock tests. I waited till mid August for new CAT pattern mocks to be available before starting mocks. While you are preparing the topics, keep giving mock tests side by side. But you should be done with your theoretical preparation fully by September end i.e. 2 months time at the maximum. Then all that is left is mock tests. Write as many mocks as possible! I used the following three mock tests during my preparation: 1. Online Practice & Preparation Platform - OliveBoard : It is paid and the test levels will be a bit tougher than the actual CAT. Helps you prepare for various levels of difficulty. 2. Best Coaching for CAT, GRE, GMAT, Banks, SSC, CLAT, CSAT by Bulls Eye - Bullseye: It is free. Though with a free account you only have access to half the tests. Once you do well in their tests, they open the remaining tests also for free to you. The difficulty level was identical to CAT. 3. IIM CAT 2014 preparation, coaching/ training for MBA Entrance exams in India - IMS:   Got it for free just because they came to give a talk at IIT Madras. Difficulty level identical to CAT. All-in-All I would have written around 40 mocks. The last and most important thing I have to say is take reviewing these mocks more seriously than the mock itself. The 3 mock series I mentioned above were all needed because they all gave different types of analysis: time you spend on each type of questions, your accuracy with respect to difficulty level of questions, percentage of students who got a particular question right etc. Analyse these and keep refining your test taking strategy. For starters if your maths is strong, you could start giving first 90-100 minutes for maths section and the rest 70-80 minutes for English section.   Long Story Short: 1. Prepare a schedule according to time available and your weaknesses. 2. Improve vocabulary and read newspapers. 3. If you are addicted to Facebook, go to Facebook for the 2 groups mentioned above! 4. Give mocks and review them seriously. If the test takes 170 minutes, the review must at least take 100 minutes. Refine your test strategy. 5. Be in touch and practice. Don't just read theories and stories. Practice questions every single day. 6. Leave last 2 weeks for chilling out. Sources to prepare: 1. T.I.M.E's booklets. 2. Facebook groups mentioned above. 3. Three test series websites mentioned above. 4. Newspaper Reading + Vocabulary website mentioned above. Do the above and you can crack with 99+ %ile in 3 months of dedicated preparation. Over and Out!! Updated 17 Jan • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Abhishek Shende