How did 99+ percentilers prepare for CAT?Please provide your complete/exhaustive preparation details, if possible.
Let me clarify one thing first. Although my bio might suggest otherwise, I am by no means an appropriate person for giving suggestions. However, since someone asked me to do this, I'll do so. Most of these things I might not have done myself, but from what I've gathered, they could be useful to you. I realize some things might have already been mentioned here before and my apologies for the same. 1. Get yourself in the right frame of mind - Most of us out there think of the CAT exam as one insurmountable hurdle that only a "chosen" few can surpass. Let me assure you. It isn't. If you want to do an MBA, think of it as just the first step that will enable your career. Don't work towards clearing the exam, work towards climbing the first step to the rest of your professional life. 2. Identify your weaknesses - You have lots and lots of time to prepare for this exam, and you can start first by ID-ing your weaknesses. Your natural instinct might kick in to just move ahead with your strengths and ignore your weaknesses. God knows I did it. But you don't. Tackle your weaknesses first, and once you take care of them, all topics are balanced out for you. Then you can work to bring up your levels across the board by lots and lots of practice. 3. Take mocks (lots and lots of mocks) - This I DID do. And I think this is the single most important factor in my "cracking" the exam. Once you start taking mocks, you familiarize yourself with the testing pattern and range of topics covered (with the approx. number of questions topic-wise). You understand how to manage your time and which parts to give more importance to. Also, a very, VERY important point I must bring in here is that you need to identify, through these mocks, the questions that you CANNOT attempt. Find these questions. Block them. Don't waste your time. 4. Read boring stuff - Dull magazine and newspaper articles, editorials etc. or even non-fiction reads help you adjust to the RC passages in the exam. The RC passages can get really drawn out and might suck the life out of you, but if you have the hang of it, you'll retain and understand much better. (Added bonus - helps you later when you want to knock those IIM GDPIs out of the park) 5. Don't doubt yourself - I relied a lot on my instincts while taking the actual test and mocks too, and it usually served me well. Doubt creates confusion which leads to wrong attempts. If you're not sure of something, don't attempt it. If you're attempting something, don't doubt yourself. 6. Join classes if you can - I know that ideally, one doesn't need classes and self-preparation works for a lot of people. I would, however, advise you to join classes if you can. Find the right mentors and learning will be so much more fun and interesting. Also, it'll keep you in the loop and act as a check on the effort you're putting in. You'll meet like-minded people and can discuss your problems/setbacks/strategies/ideas with them, making the process a whole lot easier. I know it did for me. 7. Have fun - The operative word in CAT is "Aptitude". It tests your aptitude. Not your command over fancy topics or fancy words, but your natural ability to deal with simple problems. I always had fun while studying and testing for the CAT, and I hope you will too. It's the best way to deal with it. Hope this helps! Thanks for the A2A Yash. 