How did 99+ percentilers prepare for CAT?Please provide your complete/exhaustive preparation details, if possible.
Having attempted CAT and getting 90 and 85 percentiles earlier, I found myself at the corner with my parents and friends. First thing I had done after these two unsuccessful attempts was to start looking for a job and joined a company. The idea then was to take a break for one year, refresh myself and give a shot one more time.   Joining a company is a confidence booster where people may not appreciate what you are doing, at least they will not treat you like a loser. Took one year break and was thinking whether to start the preparation or not in March 2006. Being only son had its disadvantages as my mother started giving hints of marriage proposals though I was 23 then. This coupled with friction at work place made me realize that I had to crack the CAT at any cost.   One fine day joined coaching institute in April 2006. With 8 months to go and having had two bad CAT experiences I decided that I had to re-look at what I was doing in terms of preparation and motivation levels. One of the primary reasons for not scoring well earlier was due to stoppage of preparation after faring badly in mock CATs. This time I decided come what may, I won’t stop my preparation.   Like all engineers, VA was my nightmare. To make things simple, I had to list out various areas from which questions came. I always thought I was not good at VA due to grammar related issues.It became clear to me that VA could be aced provided I concentrate more on reading comprehension, jumbled paragraphs and other non-verbal reasoning. I made a broad plan and started working on these areas. Similarly, I had done analysis of Quant and DI. Once this exercise was done, I was atleast aware of my areas of strengths and weaknesses.   Then I started implementing the strategy to ace each section. For quant, I started with numbers and byhearted all the tables, numbers and percentages. I made up in my mind that whenever I see any number I will try to add the digits in them, multiple them and do whatever to improve my speed. For RC, I started getting myself familiarized with various topics and sub-topics ranging from philosophy, economics, polity etc. Word power made easy, Better English by Norman Lewis really helped me with the sentence structuring and vocabulary. Hindu editorials were very helpful in covering various topics.   For Quant and DI, I made sure separate notes were maintained for all the formulae and tricks. This really helped me at the time of revision. How to crack Quant Aptitude by Arun Sharma is very good in covering various trickiest questions those frequently appear in CAT. This entire exercise took me approx 3~4 months. I started implementing various strategies at each AIMCAT of TIME. This time I started doing well in AIMCATs where my percentiles and ranks improved and able to overcome VA where I was in top 200 consistently across India. The confidence I got from acing AIMCATs really motivated me to give my best shot. I was not thinking of alternatives.  Every day I used to wake up at 5 in the morning and do practice till 9~10 and then start for office. I kept a very low profile to focus on cracking CAT. Paagalguy helped me a lot with revision whenever I found spare time at office.   In some of the AIMCATs, I did not perform well and this kept me grounded. But I tried to learn from my mistakes and started improvising. By September month end, 2~3 strategies were in place based on different kinds of situations. In last 2 months, I completely focused on revising fundamentals and doing mocks at regular basis to get acclimatized to CAT as much as possible. Sometimes I used to write mocks at 6 in the morning and 12 in the night to test myself at different stress levels. This experience helped a lot. I completely stopped my preparation 2 days before CAT and simply kept myself relaxed and revised the notes.   On D-day, I was mentally prepared for any kind of situation and, CAT, true to its surprise, cut short the questions from each section by half from 50 to 25 and increased the marks allotted to each one. Slight adjustment was made to my existing strategy and sailed through the exam. I was anticipating more than 99 percentile and all IIM calls but ultimately got 99.11 and one IIM call. So converted it. P.S: I tried to motivate myself in different ways while preparing for CAT (find below my desktop wallpaper): Updated 11h ago • View Upvotes