What are pros and cons of PostgreSQL and MySQL?With respect to reliability, speed, scalability, and features. I've heard a lot about how Postgres is superior to MySQL in a number of ways, but I only have a loose understanding of the differences.
The page by Eunji Choi is pretty neat, but might be a bit mis-leading. It says that MySQL is not ACID compliant. That's wrong, it you run MySQL with InnoDB, it is ACID compliant. Here's my take, if you're the kind of user who just installs a DB and start using whatever universe has offered you, go with PostgreSQL as it offers you a room of feature set ready. If you can tweak, go with MySQL. MySQL source is a pleasure to work with. Even if you don't work with MySQL source, MySQL won't compare with PostgreSQL well with default config, but if you tweak, differences converge. Here's an example -- MySQL is known for mysteriously ignoring foreign key syntax while creating tables. If you look in the code, this happens due to the datastore. This sort of activity will not happen if you are using InnoDB. Same for Hash indexes. MySQL does not support partial indexes, explicitly. But this is something that can be done by placing a layer between your application and DB, something similar to what FriendFeed did. Doing that, one can create indexes in a non-blocking way, which is another feature lacking in MySQL which PostgeSQL has. I feel PostgreSQL is more of an instant candy. Everything works right from install. It takes the database concepts far away from your application. But as one grows, replication becomes a pain. PostgreSQL has no covering index support, so if you become the next big thing, there is no way of selecting without punching your data tables. PostgreSQL lacks this feature in its design, so I don't think they will add it anytime soon. Check their MVCC. But there are places where PostgreSQL actually does better work: PostgreSQL handles transactions better. The only way to do it in MySQL is with InnoDB, but PostgreSQL does it better and it's more native. Much more query features of SQL than MySQL. This is why some people love it so much, more than anything else. Better use of geo data. PostgreSQL uses R-Trees. PostgreSQL gives you advantage in earlier stages, as it has more standard SQL features. But when things grow and sharding and partitioning happens, it all goes to waste. Then, MySQL looks better because of highly battle tested replication, simpler design, non-complex source and better speed. Basic crunch: If you prefer ANSI SQL standards, PostgreSQL is your product, if you prefer ODBC standards, go with MySQL. 