Biochemistry: What are some of the most controversial topics in biochemistry?
My answer is restricted to cellular membrane (bio)physical chemistry. I don't know if they are *the* most controversial**, but controversial research questions nonetheless. Cholesterol composition and distribution: cholesterol plays a HUGE role in cellular membranes, it modulates fluidity, permeability, might play a role in clathrin and calveolae mediated endocytosis and even cell signaling. However, we don't fully understand how cholesterol is distributed in the cellular membrane. Some studies claim that it is largely present in the outer leaflet [Membrane lipids: where they are and how they behave.], and some, inner [Sterols are mainly in the cytoplasmic leaflet of the plasma membran...]. Cholesterol has a tendency to flip flop across leaflets, and hence it is quite difficult to experimentally determine their composition. There are simulation studies, but then who is going to trust simulation data without experimental validation?? Lipid raft hypothesis: many biochemists, biophysicists and even some cell biologists, believe in the lipid raft hypothesis [specialized lipid domains that participate in cell signaling,/Lipid raft]. Countless papers get published every year on the composition, role, function or relevance of lipid rafts. However, there are  challenges in studying these dynamic micro domains in living cells. So, we don't know if they exist. Even if they do exist, we don't know if they have any biological significance.[Lipid rafts: elusive or illusive?, Single-molecule microscopy reveals plasma membrane microdomains cre...,Nature Reviews Molecular Cell Biology] Lipid-lipid interactions: the full and complete composition of mammalian plasma membrane is unknown. There are more than 100 different types of lipids, and we don't know how they interact with each other. Most of the biochemical studies are done with model membranes, how well this correlates with a complex plasma membrane, the properties of which are affected by temperature, composition, and asymmetry  is often a matter of debate. What is more interesting is that, even in model membranes, many get contradictory results due to the techniques we use. **multiple contradictory papers published in the field 