Is it true that Python is a dying language?A friend of my grandmother is a Computer Scientist from MIT, he told me that I should not learn Python because it's a dying language and that I should learn Assembly because it's better than Python.
All languages are dying languages and here's why... JavaScript creator Eich's latest project: KILL JAVASCRIPT. The machine code revolution is coming. We're building a code mountain. Every programmer is sitting in a back room thinking his/her product, market, data task is unique. So they create new code. Probably exactly the same code as someone has created before. Think Infinite Number of Monkeys with Typewriters and you get the current state of code development. Now imagine when Google creates a program to download and organise GitHub. And scrape every website worldwide. No-one will ever have to write a line of code again. I'll bet they've already done it. Would you start from here? Code has built up from some pretty old languages which have been added to and added to, like building up a product from papier mache. Python can trace its history back to Fortran and others and slowly it is becoming every more complex and patch on patch. But it is now much easier to recompile for ever smaller devices. Don't just think designing for mobile - think designing for things in the Internet of Things. Machines have a Native Language Machines don't run programs - they run machine code. Imagine we had a babel-fish which automatically translated the words "do this, then this then this" into machine code. No need for a programming language in the middle - all we need is an interface which says what do you want to do (think Scratch) and turns it straight into machine code. Whose language is it anyway? Machines are learning faster than humans. Already creating their own code in machine learning programs. Soon most programs can be automatically created on the fly by the computer. They'll program millions of lines in minutes. Have an almost infinite library of snippets they can pull in, debug and deploy before you can say google. Where do you want to go today? Parallel and quantum processing mean that much more complex programs can be created. Deep learning, big data and machine learning can be a matter of course. Whole universes of complexity away from the stuff we do today. Yet faster than our simplest programs, because all the redundancy, error checking and interfaces have been made redundant. Python - because it is involved in creating all these possibilities - will last longer than most. But it is doomed and probably much quicker than we think. 