Which two programming languages together are powerful and cover the largest field in programming?
About 15 years ago I would have said "C++ and Pascal (Delphi)" but things change continuously and Pascal used to be very popular back then but nowadays it is in decline. The most powerful language today is C/C++ and all the various dialects that are similar to the C syntax. This includes C#, Objective-C, Java and (more or less) PHP. The C Syntax family is used at low-level development for devices but also for high-end purposes and web development like in JavaScript and PHP. That's basically one large group of languages and not just one language. But you ask for two languages and I feel I should name a second language that's not related to C. As I said, that would be Pascal about 15 years ago but nowadays? The C family has become very powerful. Still, I can think of one other language, although many don't really consider it a programming language: XML and XML-based languages. The Extended Markup Language is a powerful tool to send messages between devices, to hold configuration data and is related to HTML. It can be used to define data models (XSD) and it can be used to write code (XSLT) plus many more purposes. And true, JSON is considered to be an alternative but JSON is basically JavaScript and thus part of the C family. I also considered SQL but the use of SQL is actually in decline a bit. Sure, SQL is used to connect with databases by many applications but most applications have special frameworks around the SQL part (e.g. LINQ in .NET 4.0 and higher) so developers are writing less and less SQL code. Nowadays, programmers with no knowledge about SQL can still write database-aware applications. - But the reality is that the World of Programming is continuously changing. The C syntax still inspires the development of other, similar languages and it is hard to say which of those dialects will be the top language. Newer languages are still being developed, though. And not all of those follow the C syntax rules, although that syntax is almost written in stone already. A new Pascal-based language would be nice, though. But it would confuse most of the current programmers who are too used to the C syntax already. So, that's unlikely to happen, although one never knows for sure... 