What are the big pros and cons between Composite and Informatica Data Services for enabling data federation solution patterns?Composite Informatica EII data federation services SOA
A key aspect that needs on-going clarification in the market is that simple, traditional data federation is not data virtualization. Data virtualization is all about simplicity - its about hiding and handling complexity. It is about enabling the business user to directloy combine and access diverse data instantly.   But, dealing with enterprise data is a complex proposition which calls for connecting to any data and not ignoring a specific type of data just becuase one cannot get to it. It is also about rich data transformations and not limiting the user to SQL or XQuery only transformations as simple, traditional data federation does. Additionally, simple, traditional data federation assumes that the data in the backend data stores is ready for consumption - that it is of good quality, which is not typically the case. You cannot just propagate bad data in real-time and then loose the advantage gained to post-processing. You need to do these complex transformations including data quality or even data masking on the fly, on the federated data. And even before you do all that, you need to be able to profile the federated data in real-time, to identify issues, without staging. Informatica Data Services is truly a data virtualization technology, built to hide and handle complexity and enable the business user to have the data he needs, at his fingertips.   Informatica recently released the latest version of its data virtualization solution, Informatica Data Services version 9.1, as part of the Informatica 9.1 Platform.   http://www.informatica.com/produ... http://www.informatica.com/Pages...   Key highlights for this release are: The capability to dynamically mask federated data as it in flight, without processing or staging, just like what we were doing with the full palate of data quality and complex ETL-like data transformations before. This is helping end users leverage a rich set of data transformations, data quality, and data masking capabilities in real-time. The ability for business users (analysts) to play a bigger role in the Agile Data Integration Process, and work closely with IT users (architects and developers), using role-based tools. This is helping in accelerating the data integration process, with self-service capabilities. The ability to instantly reuse data services for any application, whether it is a BI tool or composite application or portal, without re-delpoyment or re-building the data integration logic. This is done graphically in a metadata-driven environment, increasing agility and productivity. Here is a demo and chalk talk: http://vip.informatica.com/?elqP... http://vip.informatica.com/?elqP... 