What are the growth stages of a programmer?Can someone share their journey and what clear stages you can identify over the years? e.g. learning your first programming language, first IT jobs, career decisions, understanding goals of corporate IT, etc?
I'll answer for my own personal experience. 1. first exposure to source code- a BASIC game 2. inspired by a programmer friend to learn 3. in high school learn of "programmer" occupation 4. get my first computer 5. buy first book- on C programming 6. teach myself to program with pencil/paper 7. buy my first compiler at Egghead Software 8. begin research, often involving programming tasks 9. enter junior college, major in computer science 10. learn Java, C++, SQL, and a few other languages 11. work a couple of p/t jobs, mostly unsuccessfully 12. complete my BS degree in computer science 13. try to start a business with programming 14. do lots of CS research using programming 15. get ahold of Linux, learn PHP & many languages 16. get a job as a software engineer 17. boss tells me I'm "insanely talented" 18. problems w/ coworkers, fired after 2 months 1 week 19. try to start a business with programming 20. continue my CS research, get very bored of programming 21. consider other career opportunities 22. enroll in graduate school, pursue MSCS 23. get a p/t programming job for 9 months 24. learn stream programming on GPU 25. meet a programmer better than me 26. earn MSCS 27. get another software development job 28. learn JSF, boss says I'm "very talented" 29. quit after 2 months 30. specialize in Java/JSF (certifications) 31. tutor others in programming and CS 32. consider starting a business, determine I should not 33. continue CS research, drawn to very challenging problems 34. use programming as a tool to pursue other experimental projects I am now a master programmer. It's a skill serving as an extension of myself. It's a part of my life, and always will be. The corporate employment model doesn't work for me. When working with others, I quickly become a target. I am unable to justify engineering software for the severely depressed wages in our rigged market which is distorted by unlimited outsourcing, excessive H1-B immigration, and unchecked/unbalanced corporate power. Most people would say that with regards to my career I am a loser. I agree that I am an utter failure, but I am not a loser. 