What are the best online big data courses for people with no programming background whatsoever?I am an Engineer with an MBA in Finance and currently working in the fraud detection industry as an auditor. I am looking for a big data course that will help me with analytics. I do not have any prior programming experience or knowledge and looking for something that provides solution from scratch. Thanks in advance!
Let's be straightforward. You need good amount of knowledge about programming and operating computers. However "big data" is a vast field and you can find a niche that fits the amount of effort you want to give. On a personal note to OP, I work for fraud detection startup based out of Mountainview, and we have an MBA as Business Analyst who's expert in working with so called big data tools like Cassandra and OrientDB. Before I move to online courses, here's a list of things you'll have to learn: 1. Computers : Operating linux, command line tools, basic network configurations, learning how to install stuff, compile programs etc. 2. Theory : Distributed systems, C 3. Tools : there's a lot to discuss here Let's begin. The journey will be long and hard - brace yourself, and never be afraid of learning. Don't expect a single course to make you an expert from scratch. It took Mozart ten years to produce his first composition. It took 30 years to Microsoft to develop a web browser that doesn't suck :P 1. BasicsGet started with linux. Do this course. If you'll later need anything more after this course, just google it. That's how we all learn. Introduction to Linux If you're scared of your programming abilities, there's a widely celebrated course from Harward. There are first year arts students who're building computer games. CS50 : Introduction to Computer Science Meanwhile Udacity has a short cool course on Python programming specially targeted towards beginners. Intro to Python Programming Course 2. TheoryIf anyone asks you to skip theory, you must immediately understand that they are not great in their field, of they don't want you to learn. UIUC has recently announced a specialization track on Cloud Computing on coursera. They teach a perfect mixture of theory and practical tools that are used in the industry. You can begin with this course : Cloud Computing Concepts : coursera.org/course/cloudcomputing You can view lectures from this theoretical course on Distributed Systems. Distributed Computer Systems Engineering 3. ToolsBegin with a top level view about cloud computing. Page on coursera.org There are new tools coming up every month. And few of them become a world-wide standard. You'll have to keep learning. This course covers Hadoop from Data Science perspective. Introduction to Data Science : Page on coursera.org Another tool called Spark is being said to be the assassin who'll kill Hadoop. Introduction to Big Data with Apache Spark Moving towards Data stuff, MongoDB is becoming a standard for document storage. They've their own mooc platform : MongoDB University Cassandra is a different type of NoSQL databse. You can access their course material here : Free Cassandra Tutorials and Training Optional When you work in an organization, we need automated processes that streamline the decelopment without causing any conflicts. Optional. Intro to DevOps 