How did 99+ percentilers prepare for CAT?Please provide your complete/exhaustive preparation details, if possible.
CAT is designed to see how you skip tough questions and apply your concepts. Also remember it has some patter :) - The obvious answer is the Wrong Answer With the number of questions going down, there are hardly any 'sitter' questions in the recent CATs. The obvious answer (the one you can guess without spending much time on), is likely to be the wrong one, so be careful. - Guess if you can eliminate at least ONE answer Do NOT become emotionally involved with any question. Even if you think the questions is outrageously difficult or outright incorrect. Just try to eliminate at least one answer, guess and move on. - Know that time can be your biggest enemy Certain questions by their very nature take more time to answer. The first step to better time management is to recognize these questions. While doing your practice tests, try to become more aware of how much time you have taken to answer a question. You will soon begin to develop an Internal Clock that will help you meet the pacing requirements of the CAT and reduce test anxiety. - Compare & Discard This is immensely useful for the Reading Comprehension section of the CAT Exam. While there may be a 'Perfect' answer to a question, it may not appear as one of the options. What you need to do is compare the different answer choices and choose the best one available. In fact you can usually zero down on two choices and discard the ones that are distinctly different from these two. - Use Short cuts Only when necessary As I have explained in detail in my book 'Ways of the CAT Winners', it is extremely important to be aware of all the possible shortcuts that are available to you, however, these are to be used only if you are unable to apply the 'regular' methods. - Analyze your Strengths & Weaknesses and create a study plan unique to these. The important thing here is NOT to ignore your strengths, and to stick to your study plan. - Managing Test Anxiety More than anything else, the CAT is an test of your nerves. There are hundreds of brilliant students who score MUCH lower in the CAT than they do in their practice tests. It is important to manage your test anxiety. You can try using techniques like 'Thought Stopping', 'Self-Talk' and 'Visualization. Edit-2 Edit-2 Last two moths are crucial for this I missed out in my previous answer few more in depth point Quantitative Ability section is made up of topics in Arithmetic, Algebra, Geometry, Trigonometry, Mensuration and all those topics which you have studied prior while in school. Verbal Ability covers reading, grammar, comprehension and vocabulary. Then, divide the work load into two simple steps. Step one. See your performance in the vocabulary section of the mock test. Are you good at knowing the meaning of difficult words? Is there a lot of room to improve? Then, if so, set a target. Let us say to memorize thousand difficult words in two months. Divide it up into chunks and seriously master each chunk. Memorize with a fresh mind . Read books like Word Power Made Easy by Norman Lewis to improve your vocabulary skills. You can use the difficult words assigned for the day in conversation or in your writings to help you practice. Improve your context skills and learn how to free associate. Play word games online or with friends and crossword puzzles. Use memory tricks like mnemonics. Practice using mock vocabulary tests. They are available free online. Target to improve your results each time. Use flash cards available from online CAT preparation courses to practice your vocabulary. Get excited about learning new words. Next, see your performance in the reading comprehension section of the mock test. Are you quick in picking up the context and meaning of what you are reading or do you need some time? Practice by doing a lot of reading. Read books, articles, blogs, websites, newspapers etc. of varying topics and length. Reading newspapers like the Hindu, Economic Times etc is a good start. Certain international newspapers and magazines like The New York Times, Economist and New Yorker (all available online) will give you international perspective and good reading practice. This will improve your reading speed and comprehension Step two. See your performance in the quantitative section of the mock test. The basic idea is to get your fundamentals strong.  Generally, quantitative questions in the CAT are based on simple concepts, and this makes it an absolute must that one has a working knowledge of these concepts. For this, a few core skills should be developed. These core skills include accuracy and speed. (Refer to the four quadrants mentioned earlier.) It also includes the ability to perform simple and/or complex calculations under time pressure; and the ability to use logic and reasoning while solving mathematics questions. Furthermore, pacing is an important aspect. It involves the practice of moving onto the next question if you are stuck on a single question so to cover more of the test. Do not waste most of the time in a few questions while missing out on the rest. Last important tip Use online resources you can learn lot through experiences Handa Ka Funda - Online CAT Coaching Classes | CAT 2015 Coaching | CAT Preparation Nice resource by Ravi Handa Pagalguy- Popular and informative  forum for  MBA Doubt Point - Cool Q&A forum where you can post doubt and get answers from leading institutes like IMS, TIME etc for free! Android Apps on Google PlayHope this helps !! Upvote and share if you like my answer :) Updated 14 Jun • View Upvotes