How did 99+ percentilers prepare for CAT?Please provide your complete/exhaustive preparation details, if possible.
CAT – the most coveted MBA entrance exam in India is taken by around 2 lakh aspirants every year. It is considered to be one of the most difficult exam to crack. But believe me it is not the case. I consider three P’s to crack an exam: ·        Potential ·        Preparation ·        Performance(under Pressure) Potential is something in which some have the advantage. Aspirants who are avid readers or math wizards or good problem solvers have an edge over the other candidates. No doubt your potential has a significant role to play but preparation and performance are the major factors. Once you know your strong and weak areas, start preparing for the exam. In order to get the best result, strengthen your forte and improve in your weak zones. Now the question arises how to start the preparation? First of all go through previous papers to get an idea of the topics covered in the exam. You may need assistance for your preparation. There are some good coaching institutes with proven results. But I would recommend to use online resources because it saves your time and since CAT is an online exam, they provide you a better practice. Here are a few recommended sources for preparation: ·        Go for any mock test series by the top coaching institutes. Though the papers are usually difficult than the actual CAT, these mocks let you know where you stand among the crowd. ·        A site which I’ll highly recommend is Oliveboard(Online CAT 2015 Preparation). The best part about it is that as you take the mocks, it will identify your weak areas and provides you more practice stuff on the same. So it’s a very good source to improve upon your weaknesses. ·        For reading comprehension, read editorials of good newspapers, read business magazines, read articles on philosophy, world history, economics, technology, medical science, etc. You may not like many of these but these are generally the topics where you get the RCs from. ·        You can also get a lot of videos on quant shortcuts on youtube. There’s a channel Takshzilashikshak which explains quant concepts in a very good manner. It is good to prepare from more than one source as it gives you more stuff but don’t go for too many options as it may eventually become a burden on you. 1-2 hours of practice on weekdays and 3-4 on weekends for 3 months is sufficient. On weekdays, practice topic wise and on weekends take mock tests. 15-20 mock tests with proper analysis are more than enough. Now the most crucial part is the exam day. No matter how well you are prepared, you’ve got to hold your nerves on the big day. Many aspirants despite being well prepared fumble during the test and eventually end up getting a poorer result than they deserved. Here are a few tips: ·        Don’t try to study new topics in the last 15 days but only focus on what you have covered. Remember no one is perfect in all the topics. ·        Don’t touch anything on the day before the exam. Go for a movie or chill out with friends. Have a proper diet and a sound sleep. ·        Don’t get afraid by the number of test takers. A very few of them are serious. ·        Reach the exam center on time with admit card and other docs. ·        Don’t panic if the first few questions you face are difficult. There will be low hanging fruits, solve them first to gain confidence and build score. ·        Don’t waste too much time on difficult questions, move ahead. Remember every question has the same weightage and no one solves the entire paper. ·        It is good to maximize the attempts but never make wild guesses for the questions where you’re doubtful. There’s negative marking which may hit you badly. ·        As per past few years’ analysis, if you attempt 75-80% of the paper with around 90% accuracy, it is good enough to secure 99+ score. Enough tips given! Start preparing for the test and wish you all the best. 