What skills are needed for machine learning jobs?I am a learner sitting at home and learning linear algebra. Very interested in working in Machine Learning someday, but not sure: a) What technical skills are needed for an interview/job. b) Any relevant mandatory work experience. I have taken an initiative to at least start rather than just think about doing it so any suggestion/guidance would be very helpful and appreciated.
There are mainly two jobs in Machine Learning (ML) i.e. ML Engineer and ML Researcher/Scientist. 1. Machine Learning Engineers are the ones who can quickly deliver correct solutions. These engineers are familiar with many languages, API's and data formats so that they can use any open source or third party codes. They know what techniques give the most, in terms of human and total computational time. These engineers analyze the available data, organizational objectives and the ML Algorithms known to operate on what type of problem and to what type of data. Skills required for these jobs are: Data Analysis, Algorithm Selection, Feature Engineering, Cross Validation and Trouble Shooting the solution. 2. Machine Learning Researcher is the one who works on 'Leading Edge' problems. They should have a passion to solve unusual problems using their own personal insight and Mathematics. They are expected to modify the existing algorithms and come up with better solutions which provide better results. They have skills which are well suited for tackling problems with no known solutions. There are few other jobs like Data Engineer who needs to know a broad set of tools and be effective in getting the data extracted, scraped, cleaned, joined, merged and sliced for input to the ML Solution. Many of the skills needed to manage Big Data, belong in the Data Engineer category. No machine learning algorithm is complete unless and until you are thorough with Data Structures in depth, Performance under immense load and the Scalability of these Data Structures. Get some idea about these ML algorithms mentioned below as these are very commonly used: 1. Radial Basis Support Vector Machine 2. Boosted Trees 3. Random Forest 4. Lasso / Ridge Regression / Elastic Net 5. K-Nearest Neighbors 6. Neural Networks 