What is the integrity constraint in relational databases?Or a contraint in general? What types of constraints are there in relational databases?
To fully understand this term, it’s important to know three key concepts: relational database, information integrity, and integrity constraints. ·        Relational database model is a type of database that stores information in the form of logically related two-dimensional tables. The term relational stems from the fact that each table in the database contains information related to a single subject and only that subject. For example, a data set containing all the real estate transactions in a town can be grouped by the year the transaction occurred; or it can be grouped by the sale price of the transaction; or it can be grouped by the buyer's last name; and so on. Such a grouping uses the relational model (a technical term for this schema). Hence such a database is called a "relational database." ·        Information Integrity is the trustworthiness and dependability of information. More specifically, it is the accuracy, consistency and reliability of the information content, processes and systems. Information integrity is also a prerequisite, because you need it for many other management decisions. If certain information cannot be trust and has a low level of integrity than a business has a low chance of success.  You need information integrity to have a successful business. ·        Integrity constraints are sets of rules that can help maintain the quality of information that is put up.  Integrity constraints are mostly used when trying to promote accuracy and consistency of data that is found in a relational database.  This is very important to companies because information can be considered as an asset to certain organizations and it must be protected. Therefore, relational Integrity constraints are rules which all instances of the relational Database must satisfy in order to correctly model the real world.       • A relational database schema (i.e. Database definition) consists of       – relation schemas (table definitions)       – integrity constraints       • Any operation that would violate a declared constraint will be disallowed. Source: Relational integrity constraint - Computer Business Research 