What was the greatest challenge you faced as a software engineer?
The project I've found most challenging and rewarding was hand-translating the assembly-language code, art and music for the arcade game Mortal Kombat from an obscure Texas Instruments DSP with lots of memory to an obscure Sunplus single-chip CPU so that the whole game fit inside of a joystick and maintained its original gameplay and timing. This was an embedded system with a custom operating system, lots of customer-facing features, severe cost, CPU power, memory, and schedule constraints, and two CPUs with disparate non-traditional architectures (the Sunplus has no 8-bit data types, and can blit only small square "tiles" of color, for instance). In addition, even though this project was done with full cooperation of the game's makers, there was no source artwork (e.g. PDF files or equivalent) for the game's art assets; the project required reverse-engineering all of the art assets from ROM images and, in the case of the multilayer parallax scrolling backgrounds, taking thousands of screen shots in a MAME emulator in order to manually cut out and composite the portions of each layer that were visible at each scroll position into whole images for the layers. Since there wasn't enough memory to keep all of the animations in memory, and this hardware had no mass-storage other than ROM, and since even in ROM all of the assets had to be stored compressed, the Sunplus version of  the game had to anticipate likely sets of moves and decompress animation on a background thread. There also was nowhere near enough memory to keep all of the music in RAM or in ROM, so, we had to MIDIfy / "demo" all of the music, by hand, from WAV files, while keeping it sounding true to the original richly-layerd tracks. We did this project in a few months, with one programmer (me), one artist, and the contracting services of a great sound guy. It got great reviews, touted as playing more like the arcade version of Mortal Kombat than did several mainstream game console ports. Many, many software engineers have done things that I find more impressive. This project, is just one that I loved for the way it challenged me, and for the pride I could take in the results. 