How did 99+ percentilers prepare for CAT?Please provide your complete/exhaustive preparation details, if possible.
The following are tips I'm giving from experience. I may not have followed most of these below, but understand the importance and potential impact of each: Get a head start. What I did wrong the first time (which was the time I gave the exam without any formal prep) was that I decided on taking the exam very late (late summer). You check this box since you've already become very serious. Start reading. My personal opinion is that this is overrated UNLESS you have weak verbal skills. Reading will definitely help you improve your grammar and vocabulary, but reading for the sake of reading will waste your time. So don't make quantitative targets like "I need to finish reading X number of books before Y date", and focus more on what you are absorbing and how to retain it. Brush up on the math basics and then work on speed rather than going deep. Trust me. Ego in the exam will hurt. If you can't solve a question, MOVE ON! Nobody will be winning if you let your pride get in your way while you're stuck at a problem. It's better to be done with 30 easy questions out of 50 than 15 easy and 3 hard, feeling satisfied about it. Be aware about what's happening politically and economically in the world. This will really help post your exam during your interviews. Plus it doesn't hurt knowing more about your surroundings. One added bonus of this activity is you feel more confident and satisfied about yourself, and this in itself is an underrated soft skill in India. In addition, it doesn't hurt that knowing about this things will very slightly increase your interest reading those boring boring RCs in CAT. You will feel prepared not just verbally, but contextually. DO NOT worry about the results before or during your exam. This is a one way ticket to getting a bad score. No one in this world performs well under pressure. And no, this is not like a cricket match, where some people thrive on the pressure. There is no adrenaline involved here. My second score was mostly because I did not bother about the result as I felt I am in a pretty decent job which I'm okay with even if my MBA plans don't work out. Plan a strategy. For your preparation AND for your exam. Just do it. You'll thank me later. Don't overdo in your studying. Don't exhaust yourself. Don't stress out about stuff which you can't control like normalization. Please PLEASE have a life outside CAT. Do something you like, play a sport, hit the gym. You should be in a situation where studying for CAT per day should not be more than 2 hours. In those 2 hours, you should be enjoying yourself rather than thinking of it as a pass/fail exam. It's an aptitude test after all! Chill out!----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- EDIT: I got into IIMA today (class of 2017)! :D So I guess this strategy worked for me. Updated 17 Apr • View Upvotes