Is it true that Python is a dying language?A friend of my grandmother is a Computer Scientist from MIT, he told me that I should not learn Python because it's a dying language and that I should learn Assembly because it's better than Python.
I have been a core Python user for  quite a few years now and am even working with them(Python Software Foundation) through Google's Summer of Code,2015 . Before I go on to explain how soon Python is going to die and Assembly achieve immortality , a few stats :- '  So 29.8% of the Computer Science community used a "dying language" in 2013 . So we should expect that there would be a drastic decrease in the number 0f Python users in the following year (Note : Assembly is not even on the chart , maybe more of the Coding community are not skilled enough to handle that eternal language) So lets see the data for the following year :- Hey , thats not possible ! Maybe someone tampered with the data.How can the number of users of a dying language increase ?  Maybe ,its not dying then ? Maybe, stats are for fools to ponder on. So, lets start by listing a few (maybe one of a millionth fraction) of the Software developed using Python Anki, a spaced repetition flashcard program Bazaar, a free distributed revision control system BitTorrent, original client, along with several derivatives Blender 3D (software), 3D art and animation program with a game engine. Allows for Python scripting in the game engine and in modelling and animation. BuildBot, a continuous integration system Calibre, an open source e-book management tool Chandler, a personal information manager including calendar, email, tasks and notes support that is not currently under development Cinema 4D, a 3D art and animation program for creating intros and 3-Dimensional text. Has a built in Python scripting console and engine. Deluge, a BitTorrent client for GNOME Dropbox, a web-based file hosting service emesene, a MSN/WLM substitute EventGhost, Free and open-source automation tool for Windows. Exaile, an open source audio player Gajim, an instant messaging client for the XMPP protocol GlobaLeaks, an open-source whistleblowing framework GRAMPS, an open source genealogy software Gwibber, a microblogging client Getting Things Gnome!, a to-do list manager for Gnome environment based on Getting Things Done philosophy Hexinator, a modeling tool for binary files. Uses Python for implementation of custom data types, extended parsing logic and other tasks. Image Packaging System, an advanced, cross-platform package management system primarily used in the Solaris operating system and OpenSolaris derivatives Juice, a popular podcast downloader Mercurial a cross-platform, distributed source management tool Miro, a cross-platform internet television application Morpheus, file-sharing client/server software operated by the company StreamCast MusicBrainz Picard, a cross-platform MusicBrainz tag editor Nicotine, a PyGTK Soulseek client OpenLP, lyrics projection software OpenShot Video Editor OpenStack, a cloud computing IaaS platform Pip, a package manager used to install and manage Python software packages such as those from the Python Package Index (PyPI) software repository PiTiVi, a non-linear video editor Portage, the heart of Gentoo Linux, an advanced package management system based on the BSD-style ports system Quake Army Knife, an environment for developing 3D maps for games based on the Quake engine Quod Libet, a cross-platform free and open source music player, tag editor and library organizer Resolver One, a spreadsheet RhodeCode, a python based source code management for Git, SVN and Mercurial repositories [2] SABnzbd, A Usenet binaries downloader Sage (sagemath) combines more than 20 main opensource math packages and provides easy to use web interface with the help of Python SCons, a tool for building software SpecScripter, screenwriting, story building and screenplay analyzing/critiquing software Stellar, a crossplatform python game engine inspired by Game Maker[3] Tryton, a three-tier high-level general purpose computer application platform Ubuntu Software Center, a graphical package manager, installed by default in Ubuntu 9.10 and higher Wammu, a mobile phone management utility Wicd, a network manager for Linux WikidPad, a free wiki-like outliner for personal thoughts, ideas, to-do lists, contacts, etc. with wiki-like linking between pages. YUM, a package management utility for RPM-compatible Linux operating systems MicroHOPE IDE, MicroHOPE (Micro-controllers for Hobby Projects and Education) is a micro-controller development system based on Atmel ATmega32. Developed by IUAC, New Delhi, and released as open hardware. Its IDE is written in Python.A few of the Web applications ERP5, a powerful open source ERP / CRM used in Aerospace, Apparel, Banking and for e-government Gate One, an open source terminal emulator and SSH client GNU Mailman, one of the more popular packages for running email mailing lists MoinMoin, a wiki engine OpenERP, new name Odoo, an open source comprehensive suite of business applications Planet, a feed aggregator Plone, an open source content management system Pyrat is a Laboratory Animal Facility Management Software (or Lab Animal Colony Management Software) written in Python. Its name means "Python based Relational Animal Tracking" Roundup, a bug tracking system Tor2web, an HTTP proxy for Tor Hidden Services (HS) Trac, web-based bug/issue tracking database, wiki, and version control front-end Turntable.fm, a discontinued social media site for interactively sharing music[citation needed] ViewVC, a web-based interface for browsing CVS and SVN repositories. Instagram Pinterest Disqus Bitbucket Mozilla .....and many any more !Video games! Bridge Commander Civilization IV uses Python for most of its tasks Disney's Toontown Online is written in Python and uses Panda3D for graphics. Battlefield 2 uses Python for all of its addons and a lot of its functionality Eve Online uses Stackless Python Freedom Force Frets on Fire is written in Python and uses Pygame The Temple of Elemental Evil, a computer role-playing game based on the classic Greyhawk Dungeons & Dragons campaign setting Unity of Command (video game) is an operational-level wargame about the 1942/43 Stalingrad Campaign on the Eastern Front. Vampire: The Masquerade – Bloodlines, a computer role-playing game based on the World of Darkness campaign setting Vega Strike, an open source space simulator, uses Python for internal scripting World of Tanks uses Python for most of its tasksA dying language has the most number of rapid development Web frameworks out there . You can create a fully functional blog in literally 10 minutes ! . CherryPy, an object-oriented web application server and framework Django, an MVC (model, view, controller) web framework Bottle, A fast, simple and lightweight WSGI micro web framework Flask, a modern, lightweight, well-documented microframework based on Werkzeug and Jinja 2 Google App Engine, a platform for developing and hosting web applications in Google-managed data centers, including Python. Pylons, a lightweight web framework emphasizing flexibility and rapid development Pyramid, is a minimalistic web framework inspired by Zope, Pylons and Django Quixote, a framework for developing Web applications in Python Topsite Templating System, another Python-powered web framework TurboGears, a web framework combining SQLObject/SQLAlchemy, Kid/Genshi, and CherryPy/Pylons web2py, a full-stack enterprise web application framework, following the MVC design Zope, an application server, commonly used to build content management systems Tornado, a lightweight non-blocking server and frameworkGraphics frameworks Pygame, Python bindings for SDL Panda3D, a 3D game engine for Python Python Imaging Library, a module for working with images Python-Ogre, a Python Language binding for the OGRE 3D engine Soya3D, a high-level 3D game engine for PythonUI frameworks Kivy, open source Python library for developing multitouch application software with a natural user interface (NUI). PyGTK, a popular cross-platform GUI library based on GTK+; furthermore, other GNOME libraries also have bindings for Python PyQt, another cross-platform GUI library based on Qt; as above, KDE libraries also have bindings PySide, an alternative to the PyQt library, released under the BSD-style licence Tkinter is Python's de facto GUI it is shipped in most versions of Python and is integrated in the IDLE. It is based Tcl command tool. wxPython, a port of wxWidgets and a cross-platform GUI library for PythonScientific packages. Astropy, a library of Python tools for astronomy and astrophysics. Biopython, a Python molecular biology suite graph-tool, a Python module for manipulation and statistical analysis of graphs. Pathomx, a workflow-based metabolomics analysis tool. NetworkX, a package for the creation, manipulation, and study of complex networks. SciPy, a library of scientific and numerical routines scikit-learn, a library for machine learning. scikit-image, a library for image processing. SymPy, a symbolic calculation package TomoPy, a package for tomographic data processing and image reconstruction Veusz, a scientific plotting package VisTrails, a scientific workflow and provenance management software with visual programming interface and integrated visualization (via Matplotlib, VTK).Mathematical libraries Matplotlib, an extension providing MATLAB-like plotting and mathematical functions Plotly is a scientific plotting library for creating browser-based graphs. NumPy, a language extension that adds support for large and fast, multi-dimensional arrays and matrices Sage is a large mathematical software application which integrates the work of nearly 100 free software projects and supports linear algebra, combinatorics, numerical mathematics, calculus, and more. SymPy, a symbolic mathematical calculations packageAdditional development packages Cheetah, a Python-powered template engine and code-generation tool Construct, a python library for the declarative construction and deconstruction of data structures IPython, a development shell both written in and designed for Python Jinja, a Python-powered template engine, inspired by Django's template engine mod python, an Apache module allowing direct integration of Python scripts with the Apache web server PYthon Remote Objects, a Distributed Object Technology PyObjC, a Python to Objective-C bridge that allows writing Mac OS X software in Python Setuptools, a package development process library designed to facilitate packaging Python projects by enhancing the Python distutils (distribution utilities) standard library. Sphinx (documentation generator), which converts reStructuredText files into HTML websites and other formats including PDF, EPub and Man pages Twisted, a networking framework for Python VPython, the Python programming language plus a 3D graphics module called VisualEmbedded as a scripting language Python is, or can be used as the scripting language in these software products. Abaqus (Finite Element Software) ADvantage Framework Amarok ArcGIS, a prominent GIS platform, allows extensive modelling using Python Autodesk Maya, professional 3D modeler allows Python scripting as an alternative to MEL as of version 8.5 Autodesk MotionBuilder Autodesk Softimage (formerly Softimage|XSI) BioNumerics a bioinformatics software suite for the management, storage and (statistical) analysis of all types of biological data. Blender Boxee, a cross-platform home theater PC software Cinema 4D Corel Paint Shop Pro Claws Mail with Python plugin Cyme, an Electrical Power engineering software DSHub Editorial, a commercial text editor for iOS ERDAS Imagine EventScripts, plugin for Valve's Source engine FreeCAD gedit GIMP GNAT The GNAT programming chain tool (Ada language implementation in GNU gcc), as a GNATcoll reusable components for the applications (with or without PyGTK) and as a scripting language for the commands in the GPS programming environment Houdini highly evolved 3D animation package, fully extensible using python Inkscape, a free vector graphics editor MeVisLab, a medical image processing and visualization software, uses Python for network scripting, macro modules, and application building Modo Micromine Minecraft: Pi Edition (game) MSC.Software's CAE packages: Adams, Mentat, SimXpert MySQL Workbench, a visual database design tool Notepad++ has a plugin named PythonScript that allows scripting Notepad++ in Python Nuke (compositing for visual effects) ParaView, an opensource scientific visualization software Poser, a 3D rendering and animation computer program that uses for scripting a special dialect of Python, called PoserPython PyMOL, a popular molecular viewer that embeds Python for scripting and integration QGIS uses Python for scripting and plugin-development Rhinoceros 3D version 5.0 Rhythmbox Scribus 3DSlicer, medical image visualisation and analysis software. Python is available for algorithm implementation, analysis pipelines, and GUI creation. SPSS statistical software SPSS Programmability Extension allows users to extend the SPSS command syntax language with Python Totem, a media player for the GNOME desktop environment Vim VisIt WeeChat, a console IRC clientCommercial uses CCP hf uses Stackless Python in both its server and client side applications for its MMO Eve Online NASA is using Python to implement a CAD/CAE/PDM repository and model management, integration, and transformation system which will be the core infrastructure for its next-generation collaborative engineering environment[citation needed]. It is also the development language for OpenMDAO, a framework developed by NASA for solvingmultidisciplinary design optimization problems. "Python has been an important part of Google since the beginning, and remains so as the system grows and evolves. Today dozens of Google engineers use Python." reddit was originally written in Common Lisp, but was rewritten in Python in 2005[7] Yahoo! Groups uses Python "to maintain its discussion groups"[citation needed] YouTube uses Python "to produce maintainable features in record times, with a minimum of developers" Enthought uses python as the main language for countless custom applications in Geophysics, Financial applications, Astrophysics, simulations for consumer product companies, ... EDF uses Python for their finite element solver Code Aster in combination with FortranNot only this , the popularity of this language has led to the development of a large number of Python implementations ActivePython, the Python implementation from ActiveState, includes a Windows Script Host scripting engine called PythonScript. Scripts written in PythonScript have the default file name extension of .pys. CPython - the reference implementation, written in C89. CLPython - implementation, written in Common Lisp Cython is a programming language to simplify writing C and C++ extension modules for the CPython Python runtime. IronPython - Python for .NET and Mono platforms Jython - Python coded in Java Parrot - virtual machine being developed mainly as the runtime for Perl 6, but with the intent to also support dynamic languages like Python, Ruby, Tcl, etc. Psyco - not an implementation, but JIT compiler for CPython PyPy - Python (originally) coded in Python, used in conjunction RPython, a restricted subset of Python that is amenable to static analysis and therefore a JIT. Stackless Python - Python with coroutines Unladen Swallow - the Python implementation from the Google team Nuitka - Python to C++ compilerThis is just a few of the many applications. Rarely do you see a programming language with so much of diversity and used in so many scientific and non scientific fields. Even if these were insufficient, I have been in touch with a lot of Python developers and there is one thing I can say with 100% confidence , you will find no other programming language with as great a community as Python. The community of Python users is where lies its "undying" spirit .  Being a new member to the organization I was guided with a lot of warmth and friendliness. I felt that I had been a part of their family for years! EDIT : A little something I cooked up fro my Facebook share :- PYTHON : print "Sorry Assembly , didn't want to be rude to you!" ASSEMBLY : section .text global _start ;must be declared for linker (ld) _start: ;tells linker entry point mov edx,len ;message length mov ecx,msg ;message to write mov ebx,1 ;file descriptor (stdout) mov eax,4 ;system call number (sys_write) int 0x80 ;call kernel mov eax,1 ;system call number (sys_exit) int 0x80 ;call kernel section .data msg db ' NO WORRIES PYTHON, GLAD THAT PEOPLE STILL HAVE SOME NOSTALGIA ASSOCIATED WITH ME', 0xa ;our dear string 