How did 99+ percentilers prepare for CAT?Please provide your complete/exhaustive preparation details, if possible.
1. Start early 2. Practise, practise and practise! My  story: I joined the Alchemist coaching classes in New Delhi during the  summer vacations after my second year (year 2013). Alchemist has an extremely flexible schedule and a  very friendly faculty, and they helped me clear all my doubts and  apprehensions. Since I study at IIT Kanpur, I had to complete the entire  course during the summer vacations in Delhi, and this was possible  because of the flexibility in schedule offered by Alchemist. After my summer vacations, though I was busy with my semester, I tried to keep in touch with all the concepts learned at Alchemist. In addition, I kept solving the previous years' CAT papers for more practice. I had more than a year before appearing for CAT, so I wasn't under a lot of pressure. In the summer vacations after my third year (year 2014), I went to Switzerland for an internship. I didn't find much time to prepare for CAT there, but since I had kept in touch with all the concepts, I was relaxed. But I kept solving a few questions now and then to maintain the confidence. After  that, once my vacations ended, I joined both the CL and TIME  test series in August'14. They are really good for practice and to check  where one stands in the competition. I gave each and every test with  full dedication, and revised regularly as well. Being  from the engineering background, my quant was decent so I did not have  to put in a lot of effort there. However, it is very important to strike  a balance between accuracy and speed, which one can experiment and  check in the tests. Initially,  I did face a lot of problem in the Reading Comprehension section, but I  overcame that fear of RCs through a lot of practice. Reading is one of  my hobbies, and that helped me a lot in the verbal section. Basically, the key is to start early, and practise with full determination and enthusiasm! 