What are the key differences between NASA's MAVEN and ISRO's Mangalyaan Mars Orbiter mission?
Purpose The two projects are being conducted for very different reasons.  ISRO's mission is foremost a technology testbed and secondarily a platform for obtaining Mars information.  NASA's mission is primarily a platform to obtain Mars information: Mars Orbiter Mission (MOM) (AKA Mangalyaan) A. Technological Objectives: Design and realisation of a Mars orbiter with a capability to survive and perform Earth bound manoeuvres, cruise phase of 300 days, Mars orbit insertion / capture, and on-orbit phase around Mars. Deep space communication, navigation, mission planning and management. Incorporate autonomous features to handle contingency situations.B. Scientific Objectives: Exploration of Mars surface features, morphology, mineralogy and Martian atmosphere by indigenous scientific instruments. (source: ISRO - Mars Orbiter Mission ) Mars Atmosphere and Volatile Evolution Mission (MAVEN) MAVEN is the first spacecraft that will focus primarily on the state of the upper atmosphere, the processes that control it, and the overall atmospheric loss that is currently occurring. Specifically, MAVEN will explore the processes through which the top of the Martian atmosphere can be lost to space. Scientists think that this loss could be important in explaining the changes in the climate of Mars that have occurred over the last four billion years. (source: Laboratory for Atmospheric and Space Physics (UC Boulder) - MAVEN " FAQs ) Payloads The two vehicles have very different payloads packages, as befitting their separate objectives.  MOM's instruments are mainstream, broad spectrum, and intended to give ISRO experience at measuring different types of planetary data ranging from atmospheric to surface morphology.  MAVEN's instruments are all focused on upper atmosphere and are cutting edge, measuring to greater limits, sensitivity, and accuracy than previous missions. Mars Orbiter Mission (MOM) (AKA Mangalyaan) Lyman Alpha Photometer (LAP) Thermal Infrared Imaging Spectrometer (TIS) Mars Color Camera (MCC) Methane Sensor for Mars (MSM) Martian Exospheric Neutral Composition Analyzer (MENCA) Mars Atmosphere and Volatile Evolution Mission (MAVEN) Solar Wind Electron Analyzer (SWEA) Solar Wind Ion Analyzer (SWIA) Suprathermal and Thermal Ion Composition (STATIC) Langmuir Probe and Waves (LPW) Magnetometer (MAG) Imaging Ultraviolet Spectrograph (IUVS) Neutral Gas and Ion Mass Spectrometer (NGIMS) Research Potential The separation here is again due to their separate objectives.  MOM is primarily intended to provide information to ISRO on how to plan, design, manage, and operate interplanetary missions.  It is an invaluable and essential process that will allow larger scale future missions.  The information will be of great use to engineers and mission planners at ISRO.  Although limited, the Mars information will also no doubt be of interest to researchers. MAVEN's data is far more specialized and of interest to smaller groups of researchers, but the project fits under one of NASA's "Big Questions" - specifically understanding how life developed on Earth.  Studying the atmosphere of Mars should provide insights to researchers interested in the evolution of Earth's atmosphere. Mission and Vehicle Parameters MAVEN is larger than MOM.  It has a wet mass of 2550 kg and a dry mass of 717kg.  MOM has a wet mass of 1350 kg and a dry mass of 500 kg. MAVEN at its aphelion will pull in 1215 W of solar power.  MOM pulls in 840 W. MAVEN's on-orbit mission at Mars is planned to last at least 1 year.  MOM is planned for 160 days. MAVEN's closest approach to Mars is about 150 km.  MOM's closest approach is 377 km Both vehicles arrive at Mars the same week (22 Sept 2014 for MAVEN and 24 Sept 2014 for MOM).  MOM is taking longer to get there because of the multiple Earthbound maneuvers in its trajectory.  Those maneuvers are part of the mission test objectives. Comparing the respective costs really isn't practical.  They are very different pieces of hardware with very different objectives.  They are built and operated by different countries with different economies. 