Why are C# and Java not considered as Object Oriented Language compared to the original concept by Alan Kay?Today I just learned that C# and Java don't support Object Oriented Programming (OOP) if judged by the standard of the original concept coined by Alan Kay.  Does that mean that all the things we've been learning about OOP and reading in books are a complete non-sense? Could anybody explain to me why?
There are seven Property , must have in  any programming language to be Pure Object Oriented. They are: Encapsulation/Data Hiding Inheritance Polymorphism Abstraction All predefined types are objects All operations are performed by sending messages to objects All user defined types are objects& A language is called FULL Object Oriented Language if it contains all the fundamental  features of object oriented programming and it can have primitive data types or  not. The Fundamental features are Encapsulation Inheritance Polymorphism AbstractionNow for JAVA & C# We can start checking from first Property. First Property (Encapsulation/Data Hiding) is supported by JAVA & C#. Second Property (Inheritance) is not purely supported by JAVA & C# because These doesn't support multiple inheritance . One can say that in JAVA we have Interface but here we are talking about the property of Object Oriented Language . Third Property (Polymorphism) is supported by JAVA.  Fourth Property (Abstraction) is supported by JAVA. Since JAVA & C# supports the All Property of any Full Object Oriented Language so These are called Full Object Oriented Language. At Fifth property JAVA Fails because it supports eight primitive type of data. These types are byte,short,int,long,float,double,boolean and char.These are not Object of any Class in JAVA . JAVA supports wrapper class but they are here To convert simple data types into objects, that is, to give object form to a data type; here constructors are used. To convert strings into data types (known as parsing operations), here methods of type parseXXX() are used. JAVA  can move one step ahead to be more Object Oriented By restricting the use of primitive Data Types , But it will increase the complexity in Java Programming Language . You can think yourself , If it is easy to declare. int i=4; or Integer i=new Integer(4); Note :- These to statements are different but i am considering the case when we don't have primitive type.Sixth property says "All operations are performed by sending messages to objects" so we can't use operator. Then c=a+b; will be replaced by   c=a.add(b) Similarly d=a-b will be replaced by   d=a.substract(b);. Seventh Property says "All user defined types are objects" it is supported by JAVA . These all points are equally true for C#. So C# and JAVA is not Called as Pure Object Oriented Programing Language But they are Full  Object Oriented Programing Language , generally referred as Object Oriented Language. Three Language can be called Pure OO . These are Eiffel, Smalltalk and Ruby . In other word these properties are not strictly followed to simplify programing and so Programers Life (They are also HOMO-Sapiens). For more reading you can visit http://www.jvoegele.com/software... 