What skills are needed for machine learning jobs?I am a learner sitting at home and learning linear algebra. Very interested in working in Machine Learning someday, but not sure: a) What technical skills are needed for an interview/job. b) Any relevant mandatory work experience. I have taken an initiative to at least start rather than just think about doing it so any suggestion/guidance would be very helpful and appreciated.
Big Data Bilingual As companies continue struggling with a number of challenges related to Big Data, there are a few challenges which are most pressing. According to David Meer (PwC Strategy), in order to find success with analytics, these challenges must be addressed first and foremost. Challenges Talent: Companies need to gather an elite of data scientists who are trained in, and able to use advanced statistical algorithms and machine learning protocols. Bilinguals: Companies need to identify and attract individuals who speak the language of business and analytics. Big Data bilinguals can translate between data and the needs of non-technical users within companies. Therefore, bilinguals must be able to work with the technologies, and interpret the resulting data, in order to uncover meaningful business insights. Culture: Companies need to cultivate the right values (intuition and experience). However, cross-functional collaboration (IT, engineering, marketing, finance, procurement) is often fragmented in many organizations. Therefore, new means of achieving more effective collaboration are critical in order to achieve the potential gains in harnessing the power of Big Data. Forms of Big Data: Companies need to learn how to manage structured and un-structured data (Twitter feed etc.). This skill is essential for any businesses to succeed. However, it can be tempting to rely only on machines to identify all potential data correlations. Therefore, companies must also develop the capability to mine data also from un-structured sources (utilizing traditional statistical approaches). Many companies have difficulty in identifying the right data and determining how to use that data effectively. Often this capability requires thinking outside-of-the-box, and also outside of traditional business models. Furthermore, un-structured data is often lacking connectivity, and companies do not have the right platforms to achieve connectivity (aggregate and manage data across the enterprise). Technology Stack: Companies need to invest in 'the field of dreams'. However, one should not invest in more technology than the organization can absorb. The technology landscape is evolving rapidly, and often companies might need to identify a strong and innovative technology partner to assist in constructing the necessary architecture. However, architecture must be agile in order that it can adapt to the discontinuous changes emerging on the business landscape.Organizations have to overcome these challenges if they wish to find success with analytics. Watch David Meer elaborate on the: The Big Data Challenge --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The author has curated this video and has no affiliation with PwC Strategy. Updated 1 Oct • View Upvotes