Which two programming languages together are powerful and cover the largest field in programming?
The "largest field covered" part of your question is a bit complex, as it involves different things: language APIs and standard libraries, available libraries that are commonly used and well supported, and quality of language communities. Most general purpose languages come well equipped with all the features needed to address a wide spectrum of applications: support for networking, databases, user interfaces, multiprocessing, etc. On the other hand, some other large application domains require specific languages (JavaScript for web front-ends, assembly for device driver or OS low level layers, etc.). Regarding the power aspect, I would say the answer strongly depends on the meaning of "powerful", which can be interpreted in different ways. If you are looking for power in terms of programmer productivity, then I would suggest you take a look at very high level languages such as Common Lisp, Python, Ruby or Scala. A language being considered "higher level" than another one if it offers more abstraction over the inner workings of the computer or things that are not directly relevant to the program's goal. If your main objective is execution speed, C is generally cited as the answer, but this has to be taken with a two grains of salt: In most real-life (i.e. large) projects, execution speed is essentially limited by I/O rather than raw CPU computation speed, so the language influence is often much lower than in small test programs. Still in large projects, low level languages such as C force developers to pay so much attention to every detail that it becomes difficult to keep track of the big picture. The result can be a program that is micro-optimized but that uses vastly inefficient algorithms or data structures. As a side note, it is worth considering that "interpreted language" is quite a vague notion: some languages are commonly implemented as interpreters, but one could say that any language can be interpreted, and that no language requires to only be interpreted. In conclusion, if I had to choose two languages and only two, I would probably pick JavaScript (for everything inside a browser) and Common Lisp (for everything else). But again, there are too many aspects to the question, many of them being highly subjective, for any choice to be considered universal... 