How many lines of code can a good programmer write in one hour?
First, lines of code? #include <stdio.h> int main (void) { printf ("Hello, world!\n"); return 0; } The above is 5 lines of code. #include <stdio.h>  int main (void) {   printf ("Hello, world!\n");   return 0; }Is one line of code, but exactly the same code! So, how do you count lines of code? My rule of thumb is to just count the actual statements, which in this case would be the printf and the return. Basically, counting semicolons. This is what I consider to be a line of code. The rest is just mark-up and doesn't count. - My best programming work was done in a weekend where I had to come up with a plan to make it possible to write two months of coding in just three weeks time. Yeah, the deadline was very close. During this weekend I wrote zero lines of code! The whole saturday was even spent without the use of a computer... I did write a technical design though. It said what had to be done, how things would have to work together and had very detailed information of what the code should look like. This would half the amount of time we would need to finish it, but would still take too long. But I copied the document and the copies went to my manager and two other programmers. We could start immediately, thus doing 4 weeks of work within slightly more than a week time. After a week, everything was connected to one another and the solution worked fine. Some minor testing and the whole thing was finished ahead of an impossible deadline! - Why is this a programming job? Well, there was a functional design telling us what should be done. There was a technical design telling us what data was available and a wireframe for the front-end but it did not focus on the code itself. I had spent two days to divide the work into smaller pieces that each could be written separately from one another so we could work as a team on it, with each a little piece of work that would not depend on the work of others. Patching things together was the last task of the process. Good programmers don't just write code. They think ahead about how the code can be divided into little snippets to be pieced together when needed. Each snippet should be short and compact. Basically, every method you write should fit the width and height of your screen, thus be about 120 characters wide and up to 40 lines high. If you need to write longer methods, you should consider creating more snippets instead. Counting lines of code is a bad way of measuring the performance of a programmer anyways, but you should be able to write one line in about two minutes so 30 lines per hour would be a good speed. Don't forget that you'd also have to write the mark-up and other code structures that I don't count as code. 