What are pros and cons of PostgreSQL and MySQL?With respect to reliability, speed, scalability, and features. I've heard a lot about how Postgres is superior to MySQL in a number of ways, but I only have a loose understanding of the differences.
My personal preference between the two (as the jOOQ developer) is in favour of PostgreSQL for these reasons: It implements the SQL standard very well It includes support for "advanced" SQL stuff like window functions or common table expressions It is very innovative in terms of how plpgsql interacts with SQL It supports lots of advanced data types, such as (multi-dimensional) arrays, user-defined types, etc. It supports all sorts of performance optimisation that you're used to from Oracle, SQL Server. I think that's not really the case with MySQL (I'm referring to what I've learned from this book: SQL Performance Explained) The drawbacks of PostgreSQL right now are: It is clearly behind MySQL in terms of popularity (DB-Engines Ranking, Newest 'mysql' Questions - Stack Overflow, Newest 'postgresql' Questions - Stack Overflow) It is thus a bit harder to get community support or to google for results Replication is not yet as well implemented as in MySQL MySQL vs MariaDB: It used to be unclear how MySQL vs. MariaDB will evolve in the near future, with Oracle having shown ambiguous signs whether to invest in its "second-best" RDBMS. This couldn't be farther from the truth in 2014. Watch Oracle Chief Corporate Architect, Edward Screven, and VP of MySQL Engineering, Tomas Ulin, deliver the MySQL Keynote at MySQL Central 2014: With this in mind, MySQL will certainly re-gain a lot of popularity again Both databases: Have very good tooling (MySQL Workbench vs. PostgreSQL pgAdmin III) Have companies behind them if you need professional support (Oracle and Percona vs. EnterpriseDB) Are proven and mature in production Are used by major players (Google Cloud SQL, Pinterest, Facebook, Twitter: MySQL / Amazon Redshift, Instagram: PostgreSQL) Two years ago, I personally felt that PostgreSQL will be the better database in 3-5 years. Today, I'm no longer sure with Oracle's heavy investments in MySQL. Updated 10 Dec 2014 • View Upvotes