What classes did David Simmons-Duffin take while he was at Harvard University?
Some of the most memorable: Math 55 with Noam Elkies. A consummate showman, Elkies would randomly flashcount words in his notes ("on the other hand, this 23 word theorem states..."). Somehow he left all the parents smiling and laughing after a 45 minute math lecture/performance during freshman visiting week (we students, stunned, did not know what to think). But mostly, this was a serious introduction to serious mathematics -- wow -- it was fun. CS 152 "Programming Languages" with Norman Ramsey. Covering functional programming, type inference, denotational semantics, interpreter design and more, this class was incredibly eye-opening (and beautifully taught). It totally transformed the way I code. Music 51 with John Stewart: A full-year introduction to music theory, based entirely on Bach Chorales. Stewart knew every chorale by heart -- after playing through your assignment in which you pathetically struggled to modulate smoothly from F major to F# major in half a bar, he'd say "actually Bach does that in chorale so-and-so, and it works kind of like this," and then he'd add a suspension and tweak a chord, and all of a sudden your composition would be transported from the land of funky elevator music to the rich harmonic landscape of 18th century Europe. We learned through examples how all of Bach, and so much of western music since Bach's time, is a string of V-I's -- and how this language is far more expressive than you'd ever guess. CS 124 "Algorithms and Data Structures" with Michael Mitzenmacher. Really fun course, especially the programming assignments which were open-ended enough to let you discover and explore a billion different ways to squeeze speed and memory efficiency out of your code. Of course, the biggest one was due on the same day as the midterm. Mitzenmacher: "I'm sorry?" Physics 253b "Quantum Field Theory II" with Nima Arkani-Hamed: Every theoretical physicist I've ever met is jealous that I got to take this course. Nima understands QFT like nobody else -- and he can explain it more linearly, logically, and enthusiastically than anyone else. His course dispelled a whole lot of confusion (caused by Physics 253a) and renewed my enthusiasm for fundamental physics. (If anyone wants a more complete list, feel free to message me.) 