Biochemistry: What are some of the most controversial topics in biochemistry?
My definition of "controversy" is that there are at least two old NAS farts who disagree about something and a bunch of important people have very strong opinions about about side or another. Koshland model of Induced Fit vs. Monod-Wyman-Changeux model in allostery. This may be one of those terminology battles but there is an endless debate about whether or not the structure of the Holoenzyme exists without the presence of the substrate. In Fischer's original "Lock and Key" model, he proposes that enzymes have a specific active site which recognizes the substrate. Koshland then proposes the Induced Fit model which suggests that the substrate active pocket is rearranged upon binding of the substrate suggesting that the active state appears due to allosteric changes that arise from substrate binding. Changeux then introduces the MWC aka the concerted model which returns to the Lock and Key model and suggests that the active confirmation does actually exist and that proteins interchange between the active and inactive states. When bound the active state becomes thermodynamically favored. However, the Induce Fit model could also explain that phenomena. This battle may have huge implications how other allosteric changes should be described and potentially impacts how one can interpret protein folding results. Controversial because many of the biggest names in enzyme catalysis fall into one camp or another. Essentially the battle comes down to how does one effective describe catalysis. Does it look like the left (MWC) or the right (Induced fit)? The answer depends on which academic tree you came from. What is really the answer to the question Why can't sodium pass through a potassium channel and vice versa? Sai Janani Ganesan has a great detailed overview over the selectivity filter that selects for the potassium ion over the sodium ion due to the thermodynamic penalty of stripping away the hydration shell around the ions. It's actually a very nice scientific story with a lot of very careful calculations and controls. Why then the controversy? As indicated by my comment to Sai's answer, there is a lot of discussion about the reliability of the crystal structure that was used to make this proposal. Furthermore, there is also a later gate which closes the exit. Since the channeled was significantly engineered to form the crystal structure, does the removal of the extra domains affect the true shape of the channel? When the channel is blocked, do the waters stay in the channel or does the channel collapse? Even without the gate, how do the waters actually go through? Is it through an Coulomb repulsion or due to a entropic change by hydration on the other side? How does the Ribosome initiate translation in Eukaryotes aka ideas that Marilyn Kozak hates? In multiple papers, the regular explanation is that the ribosome finds the ribosome binding site and start codon, brings along the initiator tRNA and things start going. With the advent of IRESs, the ribosomes may load without an mRNA cap and the initiation can begin. The only problem, Marilyn Kozak, the one who discovered the Kozak sequence and build most of the key principles of translation initiation thinks that all of these studies are crap and has written multiple reviews condemning people's conclusions. [1][2] Unfortunately for the many people who work on this field, she also happens to be the go to person as a peer reviewer which has made many people upset.[3] The real answer is somewhere in between and she has pointed out several real errors but the data around IRESs are now pretty solid.[1] New ways of initiating translation in eukaryotes? [2] Lessons (not) learned from mistakes about translation [3] New ways of initiating translation in eukaryotes. 