What is the role Big Data will play in materials science research?
Most likely not as pivotal of a role as in other sciences.  In fields like bioinformatics and some social sciences, the systems are so complex that the best way to gain information is via 'pattern recognition' in large data sets.  But in materials science, one can (usually; eventually; hypothetically) understand materials' behavior from first principles and/or toy models.  Another scientific field where 'data science' techniques play an important role is experimental particle physics, where experiments follow a needle-in-the-haystack model--an extraordinary number of 'events' are analyzed to extract a tiny signal.  Experiments in materials science don't typically function like this: usually if your signal is so small as to warrant hard core numerics, the common approaches are to improve the apparatus or to perform a different experiment which has more sensitivity for the phenomenon you want to measure.  That being said, I can think of two examples where big data can play a role in materials science. Materials discovery.  In my opinion, the ultimate goal of this field is materials-by-design--the ability to request a specific mechanical/optical/electronic property (e.g. a semiconductor with a direct band gap of a specific magnitude) subject to certain constraints (e.g. made out of earth-abundant elements) and have software suggest compounds/composites/metamaterials which fit the bill.  Ultimately, this 'advice' is most versatile if it is based on first principles and useful models, rather than a database of materials people have synthesized or calculated the band structure for.  However, the progress towards predictability begins with trying thousands of compounds.  Big data can help make sense of large swaths of 'materials genomics', perhaps providing insight for scientific models and first-principles methods. Data analysis.  Not every type of data analysis in materials science warrants 'big data' approaches (sometimes you just need to fit not-so-noisy data to a gaussian).  However, some types of data--particularly those that come in the form of images and movies (various types of microscopy down to atomic length scales)--can be analyzed effectively using machine learning techniques.  This is quite routine in astronomy, but I have recently heard about people using machine learning to identify features in scanning tunneling spectroscopy (STS) images with better accuracy and signal:noise than traditional analysis techniques. Updated 22 Nov • View Upvotes • Not for Reproduction • Asked to answer by Debangshu Mukherjee