What skills are needed for machine learning jobs?I am a learner sitting at home and learning linear algebra. Very interested in working in Machine Learning someday, but not sure: a) What technical skills are needed for an interview/job. b) Any relevant mandatory work experience. I have taken an initiative to at least start rather than just think about doing it so any suggestion/guidance would be very helpful and appreciated.
I don't hold a PhD in Machine Learning. I am a self-taught programmer who has been working in the area of NLP and ML for more than 5 years. Based on my experience and intuition, I can say few things.  I want to talk only from the technical side as a programmer. Employers mainly look for two things. As a developer, what you are going to contribute for tangible product. And, as a statistician or mathematician, how you are going to ideate and execute. This is based on experience from interviews. This can be subjective as well. a) Imperative Programming Language: Java, C, C++, Python 1. Java: Pros: Most of ML libraries Weka, Mallet, GATE and OpenNLP are implemented in Java. Cons: Latency is a big problem. When you want to develop real-time systems, time is the key. The problem with libraries like Hadoop it runs in a batch process. In real world, ad-hoc analytics is very much important in B.I. Some people have claimed to use Java for real time. Let us hope for best. 2. C++ Pros: Speed, accuracy. Number one choice for developers who write algorithms for Quantitative Finance.  Check out the performance of ML libraries like GraphLab. You will be amazed to see the performance when compared to Hadoop. Cons: Difficult to master. 3. Python: Scipy, Numpy, Scikit-learn Pros: Easy to master. Cons: Not used widely as compared to Java, C++. 4. Functional Programming: Scala, Lisp, Erlang. Pros: Very good for implementing natural language processing algorithms. Cons: Not many use the functional programming in NLP, ML. Yes there are very few exceptions. You have to set your goals. Are you planning to build efficient and new mathematical models ? Do you have an idea to build your ideas as a tool and make it useful for the community. Just interact with many data scientists and business analysts and know their needs before you plan your research. For eg: Hadoop is used in many companies. But still data scientists are not interested in batch process anymore. They want to develop and test algorithms in real time processes. This should be extremely scalable and real time. If you're a really good programmer and understand mathematics, you're definitely needed in the industry. 