How did 99+ percentilers prepare for CAT?Please provide your complete/exhaustive preparation details, if possible.
Thanks for A2A. Here is the high level plan of how to get to preparations for CAT which I had put together for a fellow Quorian who messaged me a similar question. Preliminary Analysis Understand the syllabus to estimate the extent of work you have ahead of you. Make a evaluation at high level on the areas you think you would be more comfy and ones which may need more preps e.g. those from engg background find QA easy, those prepping for MS etc. are comfy with Verbal. Get Theory Right You could start reviewing the theory section of your Times Material. Also it could be a good idea to get a book for each of the areas to support the theory and practice. After covering each section practice until you feel comfortable with the topic. The text book would help here as it would have much higher number of practice questions. If you are starting now for a Nov exam, you are pretty well placed and should have about 4-5 months for this. Mock Tests By April end you should start giving yourself mock tests. Try to take these in an environment as close to an actual exam as you can. After each mock, evaluate your performance and revisit areas which you think need improvement. If you ask me - target as many mocks as you can take. My experience tells me that mocks are the best way to prepare for this exam and the theory one reads is just a supplement. This is because the exam does not ask anything which  you would not know. The key is to crack them within the time limits and hence the practice is only thing that can help. Mocks are best way to practice. Some things to keep in mind during the preparations are : More practice and less theory Prepare for the exam like environment Mugging is not always wrong Develop a right approach to attacking the paper Give due importance to relaxation Here you may find some more material to help you with pointers to start with -Expressions by KT : Tarun's Blog Wishing you all the very best with preps. Updated 5 Jan • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Anonymous