Which two programming languages together are powerful and cover the largest field in programming?
Ha Ha! You didn't say that the languages have to be the most popular!   As others have said, it really depends upon what area(s) of development you intend to be working in.   I am going to speak in terms of web development.   JavaScript. When run in the context of a web browser, it is pretty much a necessity for creating client pages. It is somewhat Perl-like in syntax, easy to learn, and just plain fun. Personally, I prefer having a good time at work. On web sites that track such things, JavaScript is often rated within the top 5 languages in terms of popularity, and no matter what other languages you may know, JavaScript is often an additional requirement or "wish list" item for employers. In the browser context, JavaScript supports the browser event driven model as well as supporting objects.   We've got the client browser covered, now we need to handle the server side application that processes database, email, networking, etc for the client web page.   Perl. Some people will say that Perl is a dead language, or that it looks like line noise, or that it is a write-only language. None of these statements are true. You asked for powerful, and in the server-side web page processing arena, Perl has an undisputable historical edge for excellence. Some of the most popular "scripting" languages such as PHP and Ruby have taken much from Perl without improving on it. Perl makes a great language for the "P" in "LAMP", and it has some powerful features not found in other languages. One of those features is the CPAN which martials together well over 10,000 free modules that the programmer can use to do nearly anything, from web frameworks to any kind of database access to email and networking, etc. Some of the more modern languages have begun to host services similar to the CPAN, but without it's scope (yet). Perl works as both a procedural language, and an object oriented language. Perl is a long way from dead. It is usually rated at number 10 or 11 in terms of popularity, and it is used heavily in businesses that support web purchasing and internet advertising, such as Amazon and Ticketmaster. So it may not be the popular viewpoint amongst programmers, but for raw power in web development, it is hard to do better than JavaScript and Perl. 