What should everyone know about making good charts and graphs to represent data?I've seen so many charts and graphs that are misleading.
To create an effective visualization (chart, gauge, map etc.), these steps help: 1. Know your audience and their need for visualization Know the role of the audience. If your visualization is meant for C-level executives, do not show data that relates to line-item. Show the high-level picture, and aggregated data, which they can relate to. For example, a CEO might only be interested in total revenue vs predicted revenue, whereas your VP Sales needs to know regional revenues, by product line, by team etc., whereas a sales rep needs to see his sales vs quota. Understand what metric helps them drive their goals, and visualize this in an easy to consume format. These metrics are typically decided for each role, as part of their KRAs. 2. Choose the right visualization type and style Simple chart types work better than complex ones, unless your audience consists of domain experts who are expecting such chart types Basic types of data representation, as under, work well with general audience. If you're showing a trend over time, line or area charts work better. If your intent is to compare data points, column or bar charts work better. If you want to show composition of items, stacked charts work better. Pie charts, while not the best, are effective when there are 3-5 items to be shown. In specific cases like below, where the intent is to show difference between two data points (sales achieved vs quota) over a time period, a bar chart works better than multi-series line (Credit: Designing Data Visualisations & Dashboard in Web Applications). 3. Enhance/optimize it to augment the insight that is to be driven by this visualization. - Sorted column or bar charts work better for showing comparison. - Always use labels & legends on pie chart (if you use them at all). - Cut down un-necessary precision. When dealing in millions, do you really care about cents? - Use interactive features like tool-tips to increase data-ink ratio - Use dashed borders for data that is predicted (not actual) - Use annotations on charts to mark pertinent events - Enhance tabular data with shapes and colors Additional pointers: - Avoid vanity metrics - Just because you've some data doesn't mean you've to visualize it - The worst visualizations are those that make you think more than looking at a raw data table itself - If you're delivering visualization for a device, use interactive features like drill-down, visual filtering and exploring (via drag-n-drop of touch). - Some more pointers for data visualization in business are covered at Data Visualization for Business - Pallav Nadhani 