What are some really interesting machine learning projects for beginners?Preferably written using python. Any other languages is welcomed though :) Please do mention if you are using third party library or any reference regarding the project etc
In addition to the already mentioned "Getting Started" problems from Kaggle (making data science a sport), it would also be worthwhile to try out some very basic sentiment analysis (eg, whether a movie review is positive or negative). The advantage in working with NLP is that you are spared the mathematics of feature extraction which can be quite gruelling in signals and images (be advised, though, that even NLP does require a lot of advanced math, only not so much in getting started). There are a lot of openly available datasets which are very well labeled and conditioned. Beginners can design their own problems using these databases. Scikit-learn (scikit-learn: machine learning in Python) is a great place for python programmers to start. Just go to the docs and start coding! If you are a MATLAB user, the standard installation of the neural network toolbox provides a lot of good examples (if you ignore the inhuman cost, or simply use GNU Octave). Machine learning is so powerful that even a very basic algorithm can do wonders in predicting and classifying information. On the other hand, there are a lot of people who have a great amount of data on their hands which they want analyzed. These ideas complement each other nicely. If you are looking for such simple, hands-on project to start exploring your skills, ask around for such projects here on Quora, any stackexchange site or mailing list. If you are an active blog, try to see if you can predict where your audience traffic will come from, given the text of a blog post. If you are active on twitter, try to predict how  many people will retweet a tweet of yours. If you are active on Facebook, try to predict how many people will like a post. The point of mentioning all this is that even with basic machine learning at your disposal, you can make greatly useful tools. EDIT: Refer to this helpful guide I found on the Prismatic feed. 4 Self-Study Machine Learning Projects Updated 3 Jan 2014 • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Srijan Dubey