What is a good or proven technology stack to build a web based startup today?
This question should be broken down into different components which can more or less be mixed. Some characteristics you should consider are: ease of setup/maintenance, developer support and your application complexity. HTTP server: nginx The http server will serve all your static pages and images. You can also use nginx as a load balancer. I prefer nginx over apache due to lower memory usage and ease of setup. Some say Apache offers more customized modules but I found nginx to be sufficient. Database: MongoDB I prefer MongoDB because its data format and modeling(binary JSON) are most similar to web data. Like Paul mentioned, adding columns to a SQL store under load is hard. MongoDB has a schemaless design and does not suffer from this flaw. Used by: Foursquare. Full list: http://www.mongodb.org/display/D... App framework and App server will be dependent on your computer language choice: Ruby: Passenger/Ruby on Rails (or sinatra). While passenger is not the most performant app server for Ruby, it is the easiest to setup and maintain. Ruby and its ecosystem(rubygems especially) makes coding extremely fast. Used by: Twitter, YP.com, Scribd, 37signals, Groupon. Scala: Jetty/Lift(or scalatra) Scala/Lift does some stuff amazing well including integrated ajax/comet support. I find Scala better for complex data modeling due to static typing and object composition. Used by: Foursquare, Twitter(just backend). Python: Django or Pylons I can't say much else since I haven't used Python in a production setting. Used by: Quora. PHP: stay away :) "PHP was out of the question. Facebook is stuck on that for legacy reasons, not because it's the best choice right now." - quora founder Why did Quora choose Python for its development? Most PHP apps I have seen start as small scripts and grow up to its own one off app framework.  You may need a queuing system if your application needs to support long-running processes. ie. encoding a video. In any case, choose open source technologies so you can easily find developers and community support. Updated 9 Dec 2011 • View Upvotes