How did 99+ percentilers prepare for CAT?Please provide your complete/exhaustive preparation details, if possible.
I appeared for CAT 2009 and got 99+ percentile. 1. Since you can assume that CAT has a lot of easy questions related to std Xth Maths, practice is the key, so that you can know the tricks to find out the answer. Sometimes the trick lies in how to intelligently delete the remaining options, sometimes applying a shortcut in a given type of question which keeps coming time and again. However most importantly you need to know that accuracy is important in these kind of tests, so if you know how to solve a question, make sure you make it count by not marking the wrong option, or doing calculation mistakes etc. The only WAY out is practice and more practice. Give as many Mocks as you can and make sure you check the solutions with your answer, to get the feedback. For me personally, checking the solutions turned out to be really really helpful. 2. If you are weak in a given section, like I was in DI (Data Interpretation), you should try to solve questions from all the sources possible and discuss them with your friends/colleagues etc. I practised DI from Time, Career Launcher and other possible sources that I could lay my hands onto. I was totally clueless solving Time Questions initially and had to look for solutions almost every single time, But I persevered and things got easy once I got to know how to look for solutions. For ex - a question painting different sides of cubes (3x3) with different colours, I wasn't able to visualize the problems well during the first phase, but once I was able to think the structure of cube in my mind, things got easy. Mind you, before that I must have wronged dozens of questions. 3. People (generally engineers/people with good acads, like me!) think that CAT is going to be a cake walk and for many, eventually it turns out not to be. When I went for my first mock CAT, I was under the impression that I should easily score 95+ percentile even without preparation and I got 72ish. Next time, I went with some preparation and got some 96ish, got overconfident again and got 84ish in the next without any preparation. It was September then and I realized that its not going to work without any practice. I put in a lot of practice and gradually my percentile kept on going up and up. Results might not be instant, wasn't for me atleast. 4. Like any exam, CAT needs a lot of practice. Give as many mocks as you can and don't just copy someone because he/she is getting a better percentile than you. His/her methods might not suit you. Best of luck! 