Which two programming languages together are powerful and cover the largest field in programming?
I looked for these two languages for a long time, but recently I've realized that two languages are not enough to cover most of cases that appears around me. So I vote for three languages: C (or C++), Javascript (Node.js) and Python. Let me describe the niches of all of them: Python is good for quick experiments and batch data processing. It is not blazing fast, but it has amazing libraries to work with data (numpy, scipy, scikit-learn, pandas etc) and IPython notebook that allow you to employ Literate programming approach and use matplotlib to visualize data you work with. In fact Python with it's scientific stack is an opensource and modern replacement for Matlab. If you want to build something yours in Web, JavaScript is your best friend. It is necessary to use it for client logic in browser, and also there is Node.js which is dramatically grown in popularity during last years. The reason of growing popularity of Node.js, in my opinion, is it's speed, asynchronous nature and flexibility: there is no huge frameworks like Django or Rails in Node.js world, you need to choose the components of the system you build by yourself using existing specific libraries. I think that it is a kind of following to KISS principle. C (or C++) is necessary to be known if programming is your primary field. If you have to do something specific or fast, that could be easily integrated with previous two choices, your only way to go is C or C++. Each of modern scripting languages like Python, Node.js or something else allows to use extensions with C interface. One day you will find that your scripting language is not able to do what do want, and your only elegant choice to realize functionality you need is to write C extension (or maybe develop entire console utility and then call it). I don't want to discuss here about C vs C++, because in the case I've described there is not much difference between them, so it is more a question of taste. Updated 23 Nov • View Upvotes