How did 99+ percentilers prepare for CAT?Please provide your complete/exhaustive preparation details, if possible.
A2A by Shaumik. First and foremost 99.7 in CAT'14. So I guess I qualify. Now my approach was very different from the others here and in no way will I suggest it. My %ile is not a reflection of my preparation but of my dumb luck. Background: As for me, applying for CAT was impulsive. At the end of September. I am working and hence had very little time for preparation. Plus this time was only for experience, to get acquainted with the pattern as this time it changed. Preparation:  My only advantage was that I was fresh out of college. And back in college I appeared in all the placement aptitude tests and other aptitude test organized in the college. That ensured i stayed in touch. Plus I'd use weekend to brush up the basics of quant. However I'm lazy so basically I'd do this at most for an hour or two. Plus I wasn't serious this time. So not much preparation. Last day before CAT I just took a friend notes who was taking classes and got some tricks and tips on solving verbal questions. The day:  Being not so serious i was pretty cool that day. Went in with no expectation. That helped me keep my composure. No tension taking over. And hence a sharper mind. Questions were very easy. And i never looked back on a question i found answer to. I just tried answering as many as i could. If I'm getting an answer I'm not rechecking. I wouldn't wait more than 2 minutes per question. I kept it simple and direct. No rethinking no rechecking and answer maximum. I realized, lesser the tension, better the output. So my suggestions would be:- 1. Stay in touch with the basics of mathematics. Formulas and tricks for solving. 2. Be calm. Don't make it a matter of life and death leading to tensions and nervousness. When you are preoccupied with tension, you won't be able to concentrate on the task in hand. 3. Read. News articles, Editorials, Novels, anything. Gives a good sense of grammar and you know when something is wrong just because it sounds wrong. Helps in the verbal section. 4. Try to solve Logical Reasoning questions. They are a sure way of marks given the number has increased and they are much more definitive than the English questions, 5. Give an amount of time to each question, and never exceed it. If you see it's taking time, leave it. This time CAT was more about strategy than knowledge. That will be all. 