How did 99+ percentilers prepare for CAT?Please provide your complete/exhaustive preparation details, if possible.
I  have seen a lot of students approach this area with fear. Before  starting prep, the first question they ask is "Which chapters can we  leave?" NONE. Gone were the days where you could not prepare 3-4  chapters and still could have managed to get a call comfortably. - Keerti pendyal, 100 percentiler IIMA read more @ CAT is round the corner Detailing  all the books + other resources you need to cover. Break it down into  chapters, modules, components. Then have a weekly goalsheet of all the  modules/chapters/components you need to cover. Try and stick to it. - Deepak mehta , 100 percentiler IIMA read more @ Cracking the various sections of CAT Compete with yourself and you don't need to worry about the competition.   - Siva surya teja, 100 percentiler, IIMC read more @ Success Mantra from a CAT topper Data Interpretation is that only section of the examination in which you  just cannot go wrong if you’ve practiced judiciously enough. The  questions are quite straightforward where one has to infer  results/conclusions from tabular/graphical data. I do admit that  calculations can often be a pain in the neck but one can find ways to  overcome these impedances. I had to delve deep into our heritage to  rediscover the sheer beauty of Vedic Maths and its applications to boost  up the speed with which I calculate manually.  - Srinjoy Ganguly, 99.87 percentile read more @Meeeooowww! Most important trick. Take  a simple problem and try solving it in many different ways. It helps  you cultivate a quick-thinking ability and gives you contingency  strategies in case you get stuck in the real CAT - Jay puranik, IIMC read more @Crack CAT in 3 months If  you've decided that this is what you want to do, the most important  thing is to make CAT the highest and only priority in your life and  sacrifice on other worldly pleasures or shut them off from your mind - Subhash Raj 99.4 percentile read more @ CAT preparation with a year in hand And while preparing try to focus on the basics. If you have your bases  covered, you will do well. Don't give mocks every other day. But focus  on analysing the previous mock before you write the next one. Remember  if you give 140 minutes for a mock, you have to give at least another  140 minutes for the analysis, if not more. - Shahid hussain , FMS read more @ CAT journey of a working professional Lot of strategy notes are shared @ MBAtious. 