What are the growth stages of a programmer?Can someone share their journey and what clear stages you can identify over the years? e.g. learning your first programming language, first IT jobs, career decisions, understanding goals of corporate IT, etc?
Stage 1 will always start from technical interest. And curiosity trying to learn everything definitely with great memories and lots of energies. Getting aroused by technical skills and wanted badly to prove yourself. stage 2 , 2-3 years down the road you will more than definitely to leave the first job. At least for 80% of people does that. As they will have some basic skills by then but realized that they might deserve more salary and most employee does not set their newbie employees in career advancement radar. stage 3, you will be between 5 to 8 years. Pretty experienced and also inherited certain good and bad behaviours. You will be sensitive and more political towards organization and communication. But this is critical as if you do not have a personal goal and know what are your best fit, you will be thoroughly lost and hopefully not the bad influence to many. stage 4, if you know clearly what really is you...you will be working towards certain career objective and move into middle to senior management role and this we are talking about 10 - 12 years. Stage 5, 15-20 years in career. You will be either senior level or not being regarded and even face retrenchment because you are no longer young. And that is where the mid lift crisis happens. You will not be able to tackle technical better than the youngsters as you have more commitments so time and memories are failing you. So at this stage, you need absolutely the thing called 'network' you had accumulated since stage 4. If you do not have the right connection, seriously... the drop might be drastic. Some would be able to start their own SME business by then and some might be rich enough to live by investment. There is only one message to share.  Be sensitive about people not just your skills and process. Learn to be an eco-system expert. Always have a fail safe plan, MNC or corporate life will not give you a career insurance at all. And you realized that I have not touch on programming language, corporate goals too much because it is just a job. What matters end of the day is yourself. :) Sorry for the very advance answer that speaks the truth of life. 