How did 99+ percentilers prepare for CAT?Please provide your complete/exhaustive preparation details, if possible.
Although I decided to appear for the CAT sometime in March, I started preparing for it seriously only after my GRE, which was on 26th August (Interestingly, I don't plan to apply to any foreign university). The situation- I am a freelance writer and I read a lot, so my vocabulary was (and still is) decent - all I needed was practice. Quant or DI wasn't rocket science either, and theoretically, I knew every topic mentioned in the syllabus - but I wasn't fast and accurate enough. I believe if you are an engineering student with good communication skills, there's nothing much for you to "study". All you need to do is prepare your body for the 3 hour grueling exam. Test Series- I started with a free test series from HitBullsEye. Only in late September did I enroll in Career Launcher's test series. I still remember the CL teacher telling me that I was too early for CAT '15 ;) The Preparation- From August to November, I must have given at least 60 mock tests. After I was allotted the 3 pm slot sometime in mid October, I appeared for a mock test every day till the day of the exam. Yes. Every. Single. Day. By the time the test day arrived, giving a mock test at 3 pm had become muscle memory for me. (P.S. I am in my final year of a 5 year Integrated M.Tech. course and I had just one credited course in the semester, which helped me with the timings.) Appearing for these mocks is not enough. You need to analyze every single test - and solve the problems that you missed. Analysis is as important as, if not more important than, appearing the mocks. During these mocks, formulate your strategy. CAT 14 allowed you to jump between sections. Do you prefer starting with Verbal, moving to Quant, coming back to Verbal again? How many questions would you prefer to tackle each time you go through a section? Mocks are great at trying out different strategies. For many people, the verbal section is the difficult part. If it is the case, you need to work on it as you are giving mocks. Read books, newspapers or even Quora answers! If you don't have a habit of reading, you might find it difficult to start doing so. I would suggest reading about your favorite topics first to get into the habit. Do you prefer movies? Or sports? Read anything and everything. People also prefer going through the book by Norman Lewis. It's a good book to build your vocabulary, but in no way an alternative to reading. Lastly, preparing for the CAT taught me an important thing - leaving questions. In Quant, there would be questions that you think you can solve. However, you need to take into account the time it would take to solve them! If the calculations take more than 2-3 minutes, skip it for later or leave it altogether. There are ample amount of easier questions for you to solve. As for verbal, I frequently left questions that have very close options. If you can't eliminate three options to arrive at the correct answer, I would suggest you leave it. Thanks for the A2A Ram Nath, it's my first answer in a long time (blame the CAT)! Updated 5 Apr • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Ram Nath De