★What is unsupervised learning in the context of artificial neural networks?please explain in simple words!
Let's begin by answering, what learning means, in the context of Artificial Intelligence. There are plenty of problems, which cannot be mathematically explained, but learned by example. Think of this scenario: When you are in India, you will see an amazing ability amongst Indians. This ability is to talk to people in different languages. If you think about it, it's just amazing to see, how people use English with certain people, who appear sophisticated, their native languages with someone else, and Hindi with a few others. There is no way to explain to a foreigner, how Indians can identify and switch languages accordingly. Perhaps an Indian mind is trained to figure out attributes, based on which it determines the appropriate language to be used. Supervised learning means learning by example, where the attributes are labelled. Unsupervised learning means there are no known labels, but the essence of similarity between the attributes is used to group the supposedly similar objects to gethers. Take the below example: You are given a mix of two objects (you don't know what these objects are called), and you are supposed to produce two groups of objects, in which each contains similar items. (A mix of two unknown objects) How do you say that two objects are similar or different? Perhaps by shape, color, smell, taste etc. Can you define the shape of these two objects mathematically, to compare exactness? Possibly not, but you somehow know that shape similarity would help you build a similarity cluster. So, in an unsupervised learning model, normally the objects are clustered based on the notion of similarity or dissimilarity. This is done without any labeling or a predefined model.  If you were to run your unsupervised learning model, it would produce the below two outputs: (Group 1) (Group 2) It will tell you that the objects of group 1 are similar to each other and objects of group 2 are similar to each other, and there is some inherent dissimilarity between objects of group 1 and group 2. It will not tell you that group 1 is a collection of green apples and group 2 is a collection of oranges. Hope this helps.    Embed Quote