Area monitoring[edit]
Area monitoring is a common application of WSNs. In area monitoring, the WSN is deployed over a region where some phenomenon is to be monitored. A military example is the use of sensors detect enemy intrusion; a civilian example is the geo-fencing of gas or oil pipelines.

Health care monitoring[edit]
The sensor networks for medical applications can be of several types: implanted, wearable, and environment-embedded. The implantable medical devices are those that are inserted inside human body. Wearable devices are used on the body surface of a human or just at close proximity of the user. Environment-embedded systems employ sensors contained in the environment. Possible applications include body position measurement, location of persons, overall monitoring of ill patients in hospitals and at homes. Devices embedded in the environment track the physical state of a person for continuous health diagnosis, using as input the data from a network of depth cameras, a sensing floor, or other similar devices. Body-area networks can collect information about an individual's health, fitness, and energy expenditure.[7][8] In health care applications the privacy and authenticity of user data has prime importance. Especially due to the integration of sensor networks, with IoT, the authentication of user become more challenging; however, a solution is presented in recent work.[9]

Environmental/Earth sensing[edit]
There are many applications in monitoring environmental parameters,[10] examples of which are given below. They share the extra challenges of harsh environments and reduced power supply.

Air pollution monitoring[edit]
Wireless sensor networks have been deployed in several cities (Stockholm, London, and Brisbane) to monitor the concentration of dangerous gases for citizens. These can take advantage of the ad hoc wireless links rather than wired installations, which also make them more mobile for testing readings in different areas.[citation needed]

Forest fire detection[edit]
A network of Sensor Nodes can be installed in a forest to detect when a fire has started. The nodes can be equipped with sensors to measure temperature, humidity and gases which are produced by fire in the trees or vegetation. The early detection is crucial for a successful action of the firefighters; thanks to Wireless Sensor Networks, the fire brigade will be able to know when a fire is started and how it is spreading.

Landslide detection[edit]
A landslide detection system makes use of a wireless sensor network to detect the slight movements of soil and changes in various parameters that may occur before or during a landslide. Through the data gathered it may be possible to know the impending occurrence of landslides long before it actually happens.

Water quality monitoring[edit]
Water quality monitoring involves analyzing water properties in dams, rivers, lakes and oceans, as well as underground water reserves. The use of many wireless distributed sensors enables the creation of a more accurate map of the water status, and allows the permanent deployment of monitoring stations in locations of difficult access, without the need of manual data retrieval.[11]

Natural disaster prevention[edit]
Wireless sensor networks can effectively act to prevent the consequences of natural disasters, like floods. Wireless nodes have successfully been deployed in rivers where changes of the water levels have to be monitored in real time.

Industrial monitoring[edit]
Machine health monitoring[edit]
Wireless sensor networks have been developed for machinery condition-based maintenance (CBM) as they offer significant cost savings and enable new functionality.[12]

Wireless sensors can be placed in locations difficult or impossible to reach with a wired system, such as rotating machinery and untethered vehicles.

Data center monitoring[edit]
Due to the high density of servers racks in a data center, often cabling and IP addresses are an issue. To overcome that problem more and more racks are fitted out with wireless temperature sensors to monitor the intake and outtake temperatures of racks. As ASHRAE recommends up to 6 temperature sensors per rack, meshed wireless temperature technology gives an advantage compared to traditional cabled sensors.[13]

Data logging[edit]
Main article: Data logging
Wireless sensor networks are also used for the collection of data for monitoring of environmental information,[14] this can be as simple as the monitoring of the temperature in a fridge to the level of water in overflow tanks in nuclear power plants. The statistical information can then be used to show how systems have been working. The advantage of WSNs over conventional loggers is the "live" data feed that is possible.

Water/waste water monitoring[edit]
Monitoring the quality and level of water includes many activities such as checking the quality of underground or surface water and ensuring a country¡¯s water infrastructure for the benefit of both human and animal. It may be used to protect the wastage of water.

Structural health monitoring[edit]
Main article: Structural health monitoring
Wireless sensor networks can be used to monitor the condition of civil infrastructure and related geo-physical processes close to real time, and over long periods through data logging, using appropriately interfaced sensors.

Wine production[edit]
Wireless sensor networks are used to monitor wine production, both in the field and the cellar.