Who would win in a naval battle: the WWII Imperial Japanese Navy at its peak or a modern US aircraft carrier?
Let us assume the the US Navy is using the newest carrier type, of which the Gerald R. Ford (CVN 78) is the first. It incorporates a number of features which we will discuss as we move along. Spoiler alert, the Ford wins. The lonely Ford must deal with The IJN (Imperial Japanese Navy which at its peak totaled over 430 combat ships, comprised of: 12 Battleships 15 Fleet carriers 5 Light carriers 5 Escort carriers 18 Heavy cruisers 25 Light cruisers 169 Destroyers 184 Submarines The US Navy victory is based on: mission endurance; she's nuclear, and doesn't need time out to refuel complete situation awareness. Ford has advanced sensors, both for analyzing airspace volume and target acquisition. This is extended by airborne warning systems such as the Northrop E2 and satellite surveillance. unprecedented speed (60 mph) The elements of the Japanese fleet must pull back (or pause) for refueling, and, lacking radar, can't know Ford's location except by radio signals interception or visually. Thus Ford can select the battle space and time of engagement at will. Ford's one weakness is (evidently) no sonar capability. Order of Battle:  Ford positions itself at a great distance from Japanese supply ports, forcing the enemy to operate at the outer limits of their supply capacity and their warplane's operational range, and also forcing enemy subs to stretch the limits of their operational area. The first order of battle is to disable Japan's carriers. A typical Japanese Zero has a range of 1,600 miles; the Navy's F/A 18 is over 2,000. The US air to sea attack may be launched at a distance beyond effective anti aircraft fire from the IJN. The enemy carriers need not be sunk on first contact; it is only their capacity to launch and retrieve their air wing that must be defeated. It is unlikely that all 15 enemy flat tops will be grouped together; thus, in the early going, small sorties of US jets pick them off 1 or 2 at a time. The Japanese will realize, soon enough, that by the time they know they are under attack it will be too late to launch an air cover or even a counter-attack on Ford. Thus their carriers will be formed into squadrons with a 50 mile or greater separation; pilots will be actually seated in their cockpits, deck personnel will eat and sleep on deck -everyone is ready to go on split second notice. Submarines will escort the Japanese battle groups at periscope depth, so as to alert other carriers in the group that an attack is underway. In this way, even though a carrier is in distress, the submarine can signal the other ships. Planes launched in response to the US attack will find no targets; the US warplanes (a squadron of perhaps 8) are already headed back to Ford. The Japanese can't follow, because they don't know where Ford is. And the Navy planes, with a cruising speed of over 700 mph, will be beyond reach. The Ford will continue to loiter in areas far beyond Japanese support, and soon re-supply ships and oilers will be dispatched to refuel the Japanese fleet. Ford will detect this, and launch attacks to sink or damage the resupply force. In roughly 2 weeks, many of the Japanese carriers will be out of action. The Japanese will now attempt a Kamikaze style attack, sending entire wings and scout planes to search for Ford, with several in reserve. Ford will launch fighters to engage any that come within a 100 mile envelop with a course that would engage Ford. The obvious superiority of US fire power will destroy the Japanese planes. Nonetheless, once Ford has been located, radio transmission from surviving pilots back to the fleet will trigger the next swarm of Zeros. At this point, Ford launches enough fighters to knock down the attackers, in an engagement that may well take place several hundred miles from Ford, who maneuvers to put more distance between itself an the inbound enemy. Meanwhile, if any leakers get through, the Ford's own anti-aircraft defenses should be sufficient: RIM-162 ESSM RIM-116 RAM Phalanx CIWS M2 12.7 mm machine guns Even if a Zero pilot gets lucky and crashes itself onto the deck of Ford, Ford would not likely sustain much damage. (WWII US carriers had wood decks; not so the Ford). In one month, all Japanese carriers are out of the fight; no planes remain. At this point, Ford sets up a quarantine around the remaining fleet, squeezing off resupply missions.  There is no need to engage the fighting ships directly; simply let them run out of fuel and food. What about the Japanese subs? Some were capable of remarkable range - over 20,000 nautical miles, running on the surface. But a top speed of 16 knots on the surface, and perhaps 9 knots beneath, makes them easy to escape, and easy to detect on the surface. By the time they could reach the last known location of Ford, Ford would be long gone. Meanwhile, Ford, would, of course, be watching for them, using helicopters dedicated to that purpose. Although the subs were capable of long distance operations, the crews was not: no sub carried enough food for one 20K journey (50 days at sea!) In the end, the Japanese would have been forced to surrender, commit suicide, or starve. The engagement would be a clear victory for Ford, and nearly bloodless compared to action in WWII. 