I was thinking, what if interstellar space exploration was being tackled wrong. What if we used tiny satellites (the size of a coin) and accelerated them to half the speed of light around the Sun's gravitational pull? Is it possible?
I commend you for using an outside-the-box approach to problem-solving. However, there are some noteworthy constraints to the points you bring up. We have zero ability to accelerate any object to sustain half the speed of light. We'd be shitting ourselves with the chance to do 1% of light speed. Our fastest is expected in 2020, and that's a measly 0.067% the speed of light. Any object traveling at 1/2 light speed would not be orbiting the sun. It would be a electron orbiting a nucleus. Any camera the size of a coin would not be worth having. Its images would be...crap. Cameras must have significant pixel density and optics to complement. The shotgun approach of launching thousands of objects is initially attractive but economically unappealing: each launch would cost hundreds of thousands of dollars. It's more sensible to plan the trajectory of each probe. FYI, hitting objects is hardly worth considering. Space is simply to spacey to be of concern. Lots of space, not much debris. Just plan for the gravity wells of large objects and the rest will fall in line. The probes wouldn't reach other stars within our galaxy within an acceptable time frame. With current technology a probe could reach the nearest star after thousands of years. By that point we will have hopefully developed a means to surpass that ETA. Data transmission via light is presently the best and only option, and has been in effect for nearly a century, whether terrestrially or intrasolar. Radio. We've relied on it for the entirety of space exploration. The Inverse Square Law: double the distance, quarter the signal strength. A signal must be extremely powerful to be received from far away. Study this law and you will be shit-fucking amazed that we still pick up data from Voyager 1! In a way, you're right, though. If we could condense technological objectives into a smaller size it would be cheaper and easier to accelerate a sensor, given the laws of motion. Still, some sensors need to be physically large. Radio is long wavelength, so a receiver must be physically large. Terrestrial radio arrays are very large – the Square Kilometer Array aims to be...dun dun dun...a square kilometer. But if we could cram a power source, powerful transmitter, and powerful receiver into a teensy-tiny package we could theoretically send many of them to many destinations. It would take hundreds [to thousands or millions] of years even with a moderate improvement in propulsion. For the time being I suggest you write a letter to your representative asking for better funding for STEM and space exploration (as opposed to defense and satellites); and keep studying astrophysics. Your inquiry is valuable! 