When isn't radar safe?
Thanks for the A2A. There are a couple of solid answers already offered to this question. I'd only venture to add that even the most powerful radar isn't particularly dangerous if you put enough distance between it and whatever you're worried about.  This is a terrific illustration of what the "inverse square law" means when applied to radar.  It just was posted in January 2016, and I don't think I've ever seen anything that communicates the principle quite as well: Writer David Herres explains: "The inverse square law in action: The total number of flux lines is constant with increasing distance. The density of flux lines is inversely proportional to the square of the distance from the source because the surface area of a sphere grows with the square of the radius. So field strength is inversely proportional to the square of the distance from the source." (The inverse-square law and radar ) Ignore the "flux lines" for a moment and just look at what the picture is telling you. Because the emitted signal spreads out, it rapidly loses energy. The amount of energy that all passes through a given area at distance "r" from the source is the same amount of energy that reaches distance "2r," but it now is distributed over four times the area.  Really efficient phased-array radar systems minimize signal loss as much as possible by keeping the beam as narrow as possible.  ("Reducing side lobes" for the technomages among you -- see http://www.dtic.mil/cgi-bin/GetT... for a pretty good paper entitled "Fundamentals of Signal Processing for Phased Array Radar" if you want to get your geek on.)  However, from the moment it leaves the antenna, the energy starts spreading out regardless. This isn't to say the radiated energy isn't potentially hazardous (or that engineers always think things through).  In the late 1980s, a concern was raised regarding what might happen to the pyrotechnics associated with ejection systems if a fighter happened to fly through the beam of a phased array radar site that radiated across the final approach path to a runway.  The proposed means of studying this that came to my desk suggested having a manned helicopter fly directly into the path of the radar in question, equipped with a box containing representative ejection initiators, to see if any of the latter would cook off.  I was obliged to remind the test manager that (1) the helicopter needed to be flown by squishy carbon-based lifeforms that might not react well to being microwaved from close range; and (2) even if they decided that the risk to said lifeforms was minimal, the dang helicopter itself had pyro initiators associated with its fire extinguishers which themselves might cook off.  So, said I, no Air Force helicopter would support this test, thanks very much. So they found an Army helicopter and did it anyway. 