Which is the mightiest fighter jet that the world has ever seen?
This question is better asked in terms of the era in which it flew in combat, how well it did its job in that era, what was its overall impact to warfighting in the era, and how did it stack-up against its peers of that era.  About 10 years ago the "Military Channel" (now the American Heroes Channel) produced a series of shows that asked these kind of questions: the best fighter of all-time; the best bomber of all-time; the best transport of all-time, etc.      The only way a World War I fighter could be compared to a World War II fighter was to develop a standard set of criteria applicable to the basic aircraft purpose in each category, and establish a common scoring system for all aircraft, all eras, and all category characterisitics.      In a generalized question like the one written here, you can list the SU-35 or F-22; but, in 10 or 20 years these planes may be superceded by an even better 6th generation fighter.  As noted above, in any side-by-side comparison of aircraft, its "on-paper" capability, or capability based on flight test results is not of much value; combat is the real crucible.      The  Military Factory website  (http://www.militaryfactory.com/a...) published an article as recently as this month on a research project their staff completed on the "Top Ten Fighters In History."  Military Factory's results mirror very closely the T.V. show and qualification criteria I listed above.  A quote from the article states: "Our list seeks out those hearty performers with the historical numbers and stellar histories to reinforce their respective legacies."      Here's Military Factory's list of the Top Ten Fighter Planes of All Time, in reverse order (least-to-best): 10.  Sopwith Camel biplane  9.   Mikoyan-Gurevich MiG-17 "Fresco"  8.   McDonnell Douglas F-4 Phantom II  7.   Republic P-47 Thunderbolt  6.   Messerschmitt Bf 109  5.   Grumman F6F Hellcat  4.   Vought F4U Corsair  3.   Focke-Wulf Fw 190  2.   Supermarine Spitfire 1.   North American P-51 Mustang      Anyone who considers themselves to be a "true" fighter plane aficionado might dispute some of the Military Factory's rankings; but, they would be exposing themselves to ridicule if they tried to argue whether the P-51 was the #1 fighter or not.      Enjoy!                                      Steve Miller, Copyright (c) 2015 