Which is the mightiest fighter jet that the world has ever seen?
Without a Question, it has to be the plane so legendary they made a movie starring it. The F-14 Tomcat. (Yes I know there was Tom Cruise but he was mostly playing a side role) With its variable geometry wings that allowed it to gain the best possible lift-drag ratio and maintain energy better than most fighter aircraft, and powered by two huge GE-F110 engines providing up to 27 080 ib of thrust, the F-14 could power to Mach 2.34. A meaty, mighty speed. This amazing energy retainment capability meant that in a dogfight the Tomcat could make up for its (relative) lack in Maneuverability by forcing its opponent into a high energy fight. Going up against something like an F/A-18 or an F-16 would result in the Tomcat forcing the opponent into the vertical and winning with its superior energy management, even winning over Mach 2.5 F-15s who also had great energy management: (No Kill Like A Gun Kill!!) Its weapon-radar combo is also mighty. Its huge AWG-9 radar was the best in its time and digitized had a range of up to 370 km. It was far ahead of its competitors, tracking up to 24 targets at a time and capable of engaging (i.e. firing missiles at) 6 of them simultaneously. This is a radar so mighty that it was used in a Forward Air Controller role by US forces in Iraq. This, combined with the 190+ km ranged (actual range classified) AIM-54 Pheonix (have you ever heard a better name for a missile?) missiles, the first Active Radar Homing missile in the world, meant that the Tomcat could take out Russian bombers carrying cruise missiles from a very long distance indeed, making this the perfect fleet defense interceptor, but also proved surprisingly good at destroying small, maneuverable fighters like the MiG-21 (more of this in the Iranian combat use section below). The AIM-54 had incredible kinematic performance. It could climb to up to 100,000 ft and fly at up to Mach 5. Most modern missiles max out at Mach 4, in case you're wondering. But the AIM-54 was only the long range missiles. The Tomcat could also carry the AIM-7 Sparrow and the AIM-9 Sidewinder all at the same time in addition to a plethora of A2G munitions, making the Tomcat one of the few (maybe only, I'm not sure) NATO aircraft that can say "Fox Three" :D. The F/A-18's much heralded A2G capability was actually surpassed by the Tomcat's LANTIRN pod added in later versions, beating one of the key capabilities the Super Hornet was said to have over the Tomcat. The Tomcat's impressive 900 km combat radius (to the enemy and back) and great payload mean this legend is mightier in reach and punch than the F/A-18 replacing it, as well as speed, energy management, radar range and missile range, while the F/A-18 only exceeds in performance with low-speed maneuverability (evaporated when the F-14 forces a high energy fight). Cost and maintenance contributed, but the main reason was probably that Dick Cheney, US SECDEF, hated the F-14 and probably had some Boeing money in his pockets. Iranian Use Before the revolution the US had delivered 79 F-14As to Iran. These proved to be extremely effective against the Iraqi Air Force, racking up 159 kills. In one case, and Iranian F-14 fired 1 Pheonix missile which destroyed 3 Iraqi Aircraft. In one hit. It was an F-14 that shot down the most successful Iraqi pilot of the war. It was an Iranian who is the best F-14 pilot ever - Jalil Zandi, with 11 kills against Iraqi aircaft. The Iraqi Air Force were said to be so scared of the F-14 that in some cases if they were so much as detected by its radar they would turn right around and vacate the area, not returning to that area for weeks. Today, the F-14 only remains in Iranian operational service, with approximately 40 aircraft left operational (crashes, accidents and decay inflated the losses). The Iranian Air Force has expanded the capabilities of the Tomcat, providing its older TF34 engines with an APU (Auxiliary Power Unit) to prevent its stalling, fully digitizing the radar to give 350 km of range, and rebuilding the AIM-54 missile as the Fakour-90, improved to yield a range of up to 300 km. This version is called the F-14AM Mighty F-14AM Classic Mighty Tomcat But nothing speaks mighty more than this incredible photo. We have mighty pilot Dale "Snort" Snodgrass to thank for this mighty show of mightiness. (Yes I know I'm taking it overboard with the mighty thing, but it's in the question and it's such a nice word) TL;DR - Mighty F-14 is Mighty. Updated 1w ago • View Upvotes