What are the risks of solar satellites beaming energy to Earth? How beneficial can they be? Is there a programme going on to prepare to deploy them?
Without offering numbers since we have been notoriously poor at providing accurate budgetary numbers for large space based projects, let's take a qualitative  approach. Independent of the technologies chosen at each step, solar satellites insert several very ($) costly process steps each with its own additional (energy) loss mechanism in the chain from the sun to your wall outlet. We can already do this here on earth for a lot less money with higher maintainability and continually improving conversion efficiency. The problem of variable insolation angle and night time off hours in ground based solar is not solved by a space based system which must still maintain line of sight with its ground station. If you want more ground stations and envision a ground station hopping scheme you still have to straddle the oceans. The incident beam angle changes and presents the same problems as solar unless you invoke beam shaping and ground receiver technology immune to the angle change. Unless they have considerably higher power density (solar is a little under 1kW/m^2 depending on latitude, season, etc.) they have no advantage over solar in land area required at the earth surface receiving station. If they have a high power density multiple, they make the base station zones and some safety buffer around them uninhabitable. Solar can occupy roofs everywhere at no opportunity cost in loss of other uses. Depending on scale, spaced based solar may make power distribution more costly by reducing the number of ground stations and increasing their spacing.   In short, space is easy to fall in love with for the tech geek (I'm guilty) but a close look reveals many actual disadvantages. The business proposition just isn't there and it won't be long after ground based solar becomes viable on a larger scale. And buy the way, the largest, highest payback near term use of solar is water and space heating which seems to go by without notice in most discussion of solar that comes up. Space based solar has nothing to contribute to this. In a ($) resource limited environment, all energy sources trade against each other and space based would take away from others with more immediate value. 