Who would win in a naval battle: the WWII Imperial Japanese Navy at its peak or a modern US aircraft carrier?
the answers here have been of two sorts, those assuming a whole modern carrier task force and those assuming a single carrier. Basically the carrier task force could easily defeat the entire japanese navy but a single carrier alone has some vulnerability particularly to subs - very little sub detection and overall few defensive weaponry against either subs or surface vessels. I would assume the surface vessels would be detected by radar and or reconnaissance and dispatched long before becoming a danger but subs would be a possibly serious problem, esp if the Japanese knew what they were dealing with. Which brings up another important aspect. Do the Japanese know what they are dealing with or is it a total surprise? That would tip it in tactics. Knowing that a lone carrier has little defenses and knowing its weaknesses to submarines would induce them to engage with subs at a distance greater than the  range of the carrier's aircraft. Not having knowledge of the carrier's existence or its features would leave them open to surprise attack by jet aircraft wielding ASMs that would be deadly accurate and have their fleet annihilated swiftly. before they had an inkling of the danger. I also note Wiki's article on Nimitz class carriers says: "The ships were initially classified only as attack carriers but have been constructed with anti-submarine capabilities since USS Carl Vinson. These improvements include better radar systems and facilities which enable the ships to operate aircraft in a more effective anti-submarine role, including the fitting of common undersea picture (CUP) technology which uses sonar to allow for better assessment of the threat from submarines.[12] The changes included better support for S-3 Viking ASW patrol planes and SH-60F Seahawk helicopters with dipping sonar systems." so some of them but not all do have improved antisub defenses at this time; I imagine all will be updated when doing the midlife servicing. That makes a difference in my answers above in which I assumed a potential weakness for subs. Updated 76w ago