How can gravity be simulated in deep space?
As others have pointed out, the simplest way to do it is with centrifugal force. The problem with that is that the rotational motion has to be slow enough not to cause motion sickness. The rule of thumb is that rotation of 1 rpm or less is generally indetectable. To simulate earth's gravity with that, you need a radius of about 900 meters.   Building a space station with a 900 meter radius is beyond our current technology. A simpler way would be to build two ships or stations with equal mass, run a 1.8 km cable between them, and rotate them around a common center, then you'd have simulated gravity in each.   There are some challenges to that. a long rotating object like that would probably have trouble staying in orbit (though in interplanetary space it should be fine).  You'd have to send 1.8 km of high tensile cable into space (or more likely, several smaller cables of the same length, in case one breaks). That's quite a bit of weight. You'd also have to build both ships so that they can be suspended by a cable under their full earth weight without breaking. That would probably add some weight to them, which would make them harder to get into orbit.   None of these problems is insurmountable, the issue just hasn't been important enough to this point.   UPDATE: I've gotten interested enough in this to run some rough numbers. The ISS weighs about 400,000 lbs. If a similar station were divided into two parts of equal size, they'd each weigh around 200,000 lb. The highest tensile cable from Bethlehem Wire Rope can support 70 tons with a 1" cable. That means that 4 one-inch cables would be enough connect those stations together under 1g of centrifugal force. Call it 5 cables for safety in case one breaks.   Now, that 1" cable weighs 2.3 pounds per foot. 5 cables, each 1,800 meters long would weigh about 48,000 lbs (over 10% of the weight of the station itself). The lowest cost I've seen to get payloads into orbit is $3,000 per pound. That means that the cost, just to deliver the cables, would be around $150 million.    Now, once again, that's not strigently impossible, it's just hard to imagine justifying that, considering how limited space exploration budgets already are. 