Does the length of an antenna have any effect on the strength of a signal that can be transmitted/received?
Antennas come in many forms, types, and variations, so I will answer the question as generically as possible without any more specific information. For a single resonant element, such as the common half-wavelength dipole antenna, @FaisalKhan's answer is correct. The frequency that the antenna resonates at (operates at) is determined by the length of the antenna. In the case of the half-wavelength dipole, as the name suggests, the dipole antenna's length is half of the wavelength of the antenna's resonant frequency. For this sort of single element resonant antennas, the maximum gain/directivity (focusing ability) of the antenna is fixed and dependent on the operating frequency. A monopole antenna is the same as a dipole antenna, except it is a quarter-wavelength long and is typically placed on top of a reflective metal plane (to simulate a dipole in the half-space above). All antenna radiators are typically treated as passive elements so they have no amplification ability. Signal amplification is left to the amplification circuit (HPA or LNA) behind the antenna, often in a T/R module. Personally, I like to think of antennas as lenses with the ability to focus power at some level of efficiency. While antennas cannot amplify the signal, they can focus the input power into very specific directions, instead of isotropically radiating power in all directions. For large aperature antennas, such as a parabolic reflector or a phased-array antenna, the size of the aperature does largely determine the gain/directivity (focusing ability) of the antenna. These large antennas have the ability to focus a large amount of power in a very small directive antenna beam. These large dish antennas or phased arrays have aperatures many wavelengths long, which allow a gain of ~50dB in many cases, compared to ~2.2dB in our simple half-wavelength dipole case. This is why large parabolic reflectors are often used as satellite communication dishes, where the transmitted or received signal must travel a very long distance and be in a very specific direction. Tl;dr: To answer your question, if you are using a small resonant antenna, changing the length of the antenna will change the operating frequency, not the focusing ability of the antenna. However, if you are using a large dish or distributed aperature antenna, increasing the size of your antenna's aperature will create a more narrow focused antenna beam that will allow you to transmit longer over distances or receive much weaker signals due to increased directivity. 