Which is the mightiest fighter jet that the world has ever seen?
I love the English language! Certain words -- like "mightiest" -- offer great room for interpretation (and the equally entertaining arguments that follow). So, I appreciate the A2A, and I'm happy to start the conversation. I'll preface my response by saying that today's mightiest fighter is likely to be tomorrow's most popular target be something better. That is the nature of air warfare, or pretty much any warfare; a superior weapon is developed, and then a superior defense against that weapon is unveiled. With that in mind, my (current) nominee as the "mightiest" aircraft is the Lockheed Martin F-22 Raptor. According to Specifications · Lockheed Martin, it has greater than 1,600 nautical mile unrefueled range, and other LockMart sales talk elsewhere on their Web site includes three attributes I consider of particular importance: Advanced stealth, which enables 24/7 operations while remaining virtually undetected by enemy forces; Supercruise speeds greater than Mach 1.5 without afterburners, which enhances its survivability/lethality; and Information fusion – the ability to generate 360-degree "battlespace awareness" for its pilots. These are synergistic traits; they support each other. There are stealthy aircraft, extremely fast aircraft, and "wired" aircraft, but having all three capabilities in a single package makes it highly likely to succeed at whatever mission it is assigned to carry out. The F-22 remains stealthy by having the ability to carry a significant amount of weaponry internally. According to F-22 Weapons , the Raptor can carry a wide range of ordnance combinations to support different air-to-air and air-to-ground operations, including Advanced Medium-Range Air-t0-Air Missiles (AMRAAM), Joint Direct Attack Munitions (JDAM), AIM-9 Sidewinder heat seeking missiles, and an internal cannon. At the same time, because all of that stuff isn't hanging out in the wind, it's aerodynamically slippery and quite efficient. It can go fast, and isn't particularly thirsty doing so. Once it gets to where it's going, it can just continue to do its imitation of a black hole and not give away its position by virtue of its ability to receive everything its pilot needs to know to fight effectively without having to radiate at all. So, that's why I consider it "the mightiest," at least for now. Its odds of getting to where it's needed are good -- even over a long distance -- and it can carry enough ordnance to be useful once it gets there. 