Military Strategy: How useful is a Carrier Strike Group in the South China Sea?
Very good question. I'll answer it as best as I can. As you said, the South China Sea isn't blue water, so to speak, meaning that carrier groups are fairly vulnerable to diesel submarines. The important thing to understand however, is that a carrier strike group's effectiveness can differ widely. How useful is 'your' Carrier Strike Group (CSG) in asserting these claims? It really depends. If we're dealing with any country besides France or the US, the effectiveness of said carrier group drops substantially. China, for example, only has one carrier (the Liaoning), which even though it is comparable in size to France's Charles de Gaulle, it lacks escorts and AWACs aircraft to support it, meaning that such planes would have to be flown from China to provide support for the fighter group. So really, for a country like China, which is close to the South China Sea, a carrier presents more of a large target for other countries than a tactical advantage. Let's step back for a moment and suppose that we're dealing with the US, who is supporting the Philippines. Now, the aircraft carrier group has become important. Why? Well, because the US Air Force and US Navy don't have many bases in the West Pacific at the moment. Some new bases will be opening up soon probably, but Diego Garcia and Japan are pretty far away if you want good constant patrols of the skies. Even if the USAF moved a squadron or two onto the Philippines, 80 US Navy aircraft is a very good thing to have. Keep in mind however, this particular bit of the Pacific is a prime area for diesel subs like China has to destroy carrier groups. However, most of the US cruisers, destroyers, helicopters, and not to mention the new Littoral Combat Ships are getting prepared for brown water warfare. But if you park your CSG in waters close by SCS and use your aircrafts for force projection, how different is that to a land based aircraft rotating in and out of theatre, with or without air-refuelling? Most effective fighter aircraft have fairly short ranges. When you're dealing with air to air combat, you can run out of both missiles and fuel very quickly. Several countries also have "buddy" systems, where fighter aircraft can be configured to carry small tanks to refill other fighters that are close to running out of fuel or need a bit more to finish their patrol. So even with smaller areas like seas, it's always nice to have a moving carrier. 