When isn't radar safe?
Just as with any kind of electromagnetic radiation, people who live or work around large emitters have expressed concerns about long-term adverse effects of these systems on health, including cancer, reproductive malfunction, cataracts and changes in behaviour or development of children. We've heard the same concerns about such things as high-power electricity lines, microwave ovens, and of course, cellular telephone equipment. But what are the facts about radar specifically? Radar systems operate at radio frequencies between 300 MHz and 15 GHz. They generate electromagnetic fields, or RF fields. They do not produce ionizing radiation. RF fields below 10 GHz penetrate exposed tissue and produce heating due to energy absorption. The depth of penetration depends on the frequency of the field and is greater for lower frequencies. Absorption is calculated as a specific absorption rate  within a given tissue mass. This is specified as watts per kilogram of tissue mass. Absorption rates measure doses from about 1 MHz up to around 10 GHz. At least 4 W/kg is needed to produce known adverse health effects in people exposed to RF fields in this frequency range. RF fields above 10 GHz are absorbed at the skin surface, with very little of the energy penetrating into the underlying tissue. However, at power densities over 1000 W/m2 adverse health effects, such as eye cataracts and skin burns, are possible. Hand-held radar systems, such as those used by the police, emit RF in the milliwatts range. They are therefore quite safe. Larger arrays range all the way up to kilowatts. Continuous exposure to larger systems would most certainly pose a real risk to human health, but there are several factors that limit this: Radar systems do not operate continuously; rather, they send electromagnetic radiation in pulses. Radars are directional and the RF energy they generate is contained in narrow beams that are unlikely to expose humans. The energy of the beam falls off rapidly over a short distance. Many radars rotate continuously or change in elevation, thereby reducing the risk of continued exposure. Areas where dangerous human exposure may occur are inaccessible to people while the equipment is being operated. The health effects of radar have been studied extensively. Cancer studies have all proved inconclusive, and thus far, no direct link between RF exposure and any cancer has been demonstrated to anyone's satisfaction. The efficacy of these studies was more famously called into question regarding handheld cellular technology. Other health effects of high-power RF exposure include eye cataracts, and various physiological changes caused by thermal increase in body tissue. Exposure to pulsed RF radiation has been demonstrated to suppress the startle response in mice. Also, people with normal hearing have perceived pulse RF fields audibly with frequencies between about 200 MHz and 6.5 GHz. The sound may present as a buzzing, clicking, hissing, or popping sound. Radar can induce a charge in metallic objects which can then result in an electric shock or burns. The same currents can also ignite flammable materials and explosives. So, getting back to the question at hand, radar is only safe while sufficient precautions are taken to reduce or eliminate human (or animal) exposure. Interestingly, Percy Spencer invented the microwave oven quite by accident while working at Raytheon during World War II, producing magnetrons for radar arrays. He was standing in front of an active radar set when he noticed the candy bar he had in his pocket had melted. Spencer wasn’t the first to notice the effect, but he was the first to investigate it. Consequently, Raytheon filed the first patent for a microwave oven on October 8, 1945. It was originally called an "electronic oven". Spencer himself, despite being literally surrounded by intense RF energy for much of his life, lived to be 76. Updated 3h ago • View Upvotes