I was thinking, what if interstellar space exploration was being tackled wrong. What if we used tiny satellites (the size of a coin) and accelerated them to half the speed of light around the Sun's gravitational pull? Is it possible?
Consider the following: Pioneer 10 had a 2.7 meter diameter parabolic antenna that focused its radio signal in a tight beam in the direction of the Earth. This signal was then received by a 70 meter diameter parabolic antenna. When we last heard from Pioneer 10, its signal strength was almost as low as -190 dBm; that is a few times 0.000000000000000000001 watts of signal strength. It is a near miracle of communications technology that a cryogenically cooled receiver, operating at a temperature of just 3 degrees kelvin, was able to detect this signal AND decode data at the rate of 16 bits per second with a reasonably low error rate. Pioneer 10 at the time was just over half a light-day from the Earth. The nearest star is over 4 light years from the Earth, more than 3,000 times as far as Pioneer 10. Any signal from that star would be attenuated by distance by a factor of 10 million (another 7 zeros). And since cooling the receiver below the temperature of the cosmic microwave background (essentially, a noise background), what remains is using larger antennas and/or shorter wavelengths (e.g., lasers) but even so, the communication problem remains an almost insurmountable obstacle. And making a probe smaller actually makes the problem a lot worse. Then it becomes a question as to what a small probe can accomplish. Without a telescope, it won't see much unless it gets really close to... what? To know where any planets are, for instance, you first need to find them, but for that you need a telescope. In any case, even if you managed to accelerate your probe to near light speed, once it gets to its destination, it cannot decelerate, so it really cannot maneuver itself either... it just performs a very fast fly-through/fly-by. And accelerating even a small object to near light speed is well beyond anything we can do at present. A railgun might accelerate your probe, maybe, to a few hundred km/s. That is still just a fraction of a percent of the speed of light. So no, size (of the probe) is really not the issue here. 