What are the world's largest engineering projects?
I've split my answer into 2 parts - I.  LHC- the Largest completed engineering project(in my mind) II. Largest engineering projects that are either underway or planned. Part I The Largest completed Engineering project has to be [1] -- The Large Hadron Collider, or LHC built by CERN is without question the largest and most complex machine ever engineered and constructed by Humans. As of 2012 the LHC remains one of the largest and most complex experimental facilities ever built. Its synchrotron is designed to initially collide two opposing particle beams of either protons at up to 7 teraelectronvolts Electronvolt (7 TeV or 1.12 microjoules) per nucleon, or Lead nuclei at an energy of 574 TeV (92.0 µJ) per nucleus (2.76 TeV per nucleon-pair). Collision data was also anticipated to be produced at an unprecedented rate of tens of Petabytes per year, to be analysed by a grid-based computer network infrastructure connecting 140 computing centers in 35 countries by 2012, the LHC Computing Grid was the world's largest computing grid, comprising over 170 computing facilities in a worldwide network across 36 countries. The LHC is the world’s largest refrigerator, requiring 10,080 tons of liquid nitrogen and nearly 60 tons of liquid helium to bring the temperature of the collider’s huge electromagnets down to -271.3°C (1.9 Kelvin). The interior of the LHC’s ring tunnel is the emptiest place in the entire solar system – the machine’s particle beams will travel through an ultra-high vacuum with ten times less pressure than you’ll find on the Moon. Huge as it is, the LHC doesn’t look too impressive from the air since the actual 17-mile (27 km) tunnel lies buried an average 330 feet (100 meters) underground. It IS big however – part of the ring is in France; part is in Switzerland. Part II The largest Engineering Projects which are Underway or Planned [2] -- 1. The Ultimate Engineering Project(Planned) - TERRAFORMING Mars-- The most extreme engineering project in the history of the world will be performed OFF the world... on Mars. A variety of schemes have been floated over the past few decades with the intent of making Earth’s nearest neighbor more amenable to life of the earthly variety – in other words, Terraforming. Artist Impressions Naturally the scale is huge – comets may be redirected to impact the Red Planet to provide water for oceans, which would be seeded with algae in order to boost the oxygen content in the Martian atmosphere. Other schemes entail the placement of giant orbiting mirrors to focus sunlight upon Mars’ polar icecaps, thus releasing liquid water and gaseous carbon dioxide to kick-start a greenhouse effect. Terraforming Mars is no pie-in-the-sky scheme; it could be the salvation of our species should our actions on Earth continue to reduce our home planet’s livability. 2. The Bering Strait Bridge (Planned and Budgeted Russia Green Lights $65 Billion Siberia-Alaska Rail and Tunnel to Bridge the Bering Strait! [5] )--The Bering Strait was last crossed by humans 20,000 years ago during the ice age, when ice formed a bridge between North America and Asia. Today, 47 miles and some of the harshest ocean and arctic conditions separate the two continents. [3] The Bering Strait lies just south of the Arctic Circle and is subject to long, dark winters and extreme weather [average winter lows of −20 °C (−4 °F) with extreme lows approaching −50 °C (−58 °F)] and high winds. The strait is also choked with ice flows up to 6 feet thick for nearly eight months out of the year. The region is marked by frequent and sometimes large-magnitude earthquakes. Just south of the strait is the northern edge of the Pacific Ring of Fire, or "Circum-Pacific belt," which generates 90% of the world's earthquakes, according to the U.S. Geological Survey. Adding to these challenges is the barren desolation on either side of the strait. The nearest town of any size is 100 miles away, requiring thousands of miles of new highways and railways to support the infrastructure and workers for the project. In addition to the exceptional length, the greatest challenge to bridge design is speeding ice flows, most deadly in the spring when big sheets melt into fast-moving blocks. The supporting bridge piers would need to withstand up to 5,000 tons of pressure or more. [4] Connecting the continents with a bridge or tunnel would represent an  extraordinary engineering feat.  It would provide a vital economic resource for both Asia and Americas by providing an efficient link of not only goods and passengers but also fiber optic cables and transmission lines. Artist Impressions 3. A Space Solar Power Station (Planned) [6] -- A solar power station in geostationary orbit – is now on the drawing board and has been given a sky-high price tag of 2 trillion yen ($21 billion). The project, conceived by the Japanese government and industry researchers, will see a space-based solar power station built in orbit 22,360 miles (36,000 km) above the earth. The station will generate 1 GigaWatt of power from sunlight and beam the energy down to a receiving station where it can be used to power almost 300,000 homes. The trade ministry and the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency, which are leading the project, plan to launch a small satellite fitted with solar panels in 2015, and test beaming the electricity from space through the ionosphere, the outermost layer of the earth’s atmosphere. The government hopes to have the solar station fully operational in the 2030s. 4. Gotthard Base Tunnel (Underway) [7] - The Gotthard Base Tunnel (GBT) is a railway tunnel beneath the Swiss Alps expected to open in 2016. With a route length of 57 km (35.4 mi) and a total of 151.84 km (94.3 mi) of tunnels, shafts and passages, it is the world's longest rail tunnel, surpassing the Seikan Tunnel in Japan. Its main purpose is to increase total transport capacity across the Alps, especially for freight, notably between Germany and Italy, and more particularly to shift freight volumes from road to rail to reduce environmental damage caused by ever-increasing numbers of trucks. A secondary benefit will be to cut the journey time for passenger trains from Zurich to Milan by about an hour and from Zurich to Lugano to 1 hour 40 minutes. The tunnel excavation using 4 massive TBMs was completed in July 2011. It’s estimated that 459 million cubic feet (13 million cubic meters) of crumbly, porous rock had been removed during the course of tunnel excavation – that’s enough to fill the Great Pyramid of Giza five times over. It is expected to be commissioned in 2016. UPDATE: 5. I thank Arnav Goel for this one - The Square Kilometre Array(SKA) [8] [9] Project(Planned and Site Selection complete) - The Square Kilometre Array is a radio telescope in development in Australasia and South Africa which will have a total collecting area of approximately one square kilometre. Artist's impression of the 5km diameter central core of SKA antennas. It will operate over a wide range of frequencies and its size will make it 50 times more sensitive than any other radio instrument. It will require very high performance central computing engines and long-haul links with a capacity greater than the current global Internet traffic. It will be able to survey the sky more than ten thousand times faster than ever before. With receiving stations extending out to distance of at least 3,000 kilometres (1,900 mi) from a concentrated central core, the SKA will be built in the Southern Hemisphere, in Sub-Saharan states with cores in South Africa and Australasia, where the view of the Milky Way Galaxy is best and  radio interference least. The participating organisations are Participating countries - SKA Telescope One innovative development in the project is the use of Focal Plane Arrays using phased-array technology to provide multiple FOVs. This will greatly increase the survey speed of the SKA and enable multiple users to observe different pieces of the sky simultaneously. The combination of a very large FOV with high sensitivity means that the SKA will transform the exploration of the Universe. The SKA will provide continuous frequency coverage from 70 MHz to 10 GHz in the first two phases of its construction. A third phase will then extend the frequency range up to 30 GHz. Phase 1: Providing ~20% of the total collecting area at low and mid frequencies by 2019. Phase 2: Completion of the full array at low and mid frequencies by 2024. Phase 3: Building of the high frequency array from 2022. The frequency range from 70 MHz to 10 GHz, spanning more than two decades, cannot be realised using one design of antenna and so the SKA will comprise arrays of three types of antenna elements that will make up the SKA-low, SKA-mid and dish arrays: SKA-low array – A phased array of simple dipole antennas to cover the frequency range from 70 to 200 MHz. These will be grouped in 100 m diameter stations each containing about 90 elements. Artist's impression of a Low-Band SKA Sparse Aperture Array Station SKA-mid array – This is likely to be a phased array of "tiles" to cover the medium frequency range from 200 to 500 MHz. The 3 metre x 3 metre tiles will be grouped into circular stations, 60 m in diameter. Artist's impression of a Mid Band SKA Dense Aperture Array Station Dish Array – several thousand dish antennas to cover the frequency range 500 MHz to 10 GHz. It is expected that the antenna design will follow that of the Allen Telescope Array using an offset Gregorian design having a height of 15 metres and a width of 12 metres. Artist's impression of the Offset Gregorian Antennas With a budget of €1.5 billion, construction of the SKA is scheduled to begin in 2016 for initial observations by 2019 and full operation by 2024.The headquarters of the project are in Manchester. The project Timeline can be found here - The project timeline - SKA Telescope Refer to -- [1] Large Hadron Collider [2] 7 More Amazing Engineering Wonders of Today & Tomorrow [3] Bering Strait crossing [4] Connecting Two Continents: The Ultimate Engineering Challenge [5] Russia Green Lights $65 Billion Siberia-Alaska Rail and Tunnel to Bridge the Bering Strait! [6] Space-based solar power [7] Gotthard Base Tunnel [8] The Square Kilometre Array [9] Square Kilometre Array Updated 149w ago • View Upvotes