Which is the best 4th gen fighter aircraft in the world?
Hi Thanks for the A2A. First of all, I share the enthusiasm for the F15 variants as pointed out by others in this thread and it is the de facto, points on the board champion of the segment. However the F15C is very old and in subsequent years more modern types have surpassed it. Contenders: F16 F18 Rafale Eurofighter Grippen Mig 29 SU27/30/35 J10 I will deal swiftly with the competing American designs, the F16 and F18 have very  similar performance profiles to the F15. The F18 however being considerable slower at high altitude and with very limited fuel load. Both of the smaller jets are more manoeuvrable than the F15 however the F15 climbs faster than either and has higher top speed. The F15 carries the same weapons however it has a more sophisticated radar than either. Generally speaking the F15 is superior to these The competing European designs are much more dangerous to the F15's title. They are considerable newer, making more use of newer composite materials and having inherently unstable designs they are significantly more agile. Both the Rafale and Eurofighter are formidable aircraft, the latter being more focused on air superiority roles and the former bing more adept at A2G however both are truly multirole unlike any other aircraft in service today. They have one killer advantage ver the F15, helmet mounted sights for the heat seeking missiles. This has a transformative affect on dogfight engagement, not only are the more agile than the F15, they can gain a shooting solution far more quickly. Their BVR missiles are longer ranges than the AMRAAM too. The Gripen, is less talented than these two but is a very low cost alternative and also highly capable and truly multirole. In summary both the Eurofighter and Rafale are superior to the F15 in most ways. The F15 has a significant price advantage on these jets. The Russians. The Mig29 is not a good combat jet. It has the worst combat record of any modern aircraft and this is in part down ot it having poorly trained and equipped pilots and in part down to it being a really poorly designed aircraft, being inherently unstable and lacking advanced fly by wire flight control computers. This means that the pilot has to fly the aircraft 100% of the time, this is not great when you are also trying to fight a war. The SU family however is probably the highest profile challenger to the F15. Starting with the SU27 which is broadly equivalent to the F15 in all parameters and developing into the SU35 which has some advanced features that enable it to dance around an F15 in the sky - theoretically. In reality though the SU family has some weaknesses. Firstly Russian BVR missiles have an extremely poor record. The weapon systems on the F15 are far superior to those on the SU27. Later versions of the SU30 and 35 have much more advanced avionics and weapons systems in addition to supermaneuverability provide by vectored thrust. The Russian fighter also benefit from off boresight seekers and helmet sights that are not present on the F15. Its contentious to say but I rate the SU30 and 35 ahead of the F15. The J10 is somewhat of an enigma, a mixture of the most advanced 4+ generation materials and designs and looks very formidable. On the downside it is underpowered and little is known outside china of the quality of its weapons systems and avionics. It is perhaps broadly equal to the F15 in some parameters and superior in agility, it is probably more akin to the F16 and Gripen. So comparing the Euros with the SUs we have an interesting matchup. Recently the RAF and IAF had a joint exercise earlier this year and it has received significant coverage. Flanker and Typhoon Dogfight and  Have Indian Su-30s really “dominated” RAF Typhoons in aerial combat with a 12-0 scoreline? Most probably not. and Why ‘IAF versus RAF’ is a dogfight with shadows These articles point out that some of the IAF claims might not hold up and none the less it was not a war game but a joint training exercise. What we can tell from this excersise and the USAF's cope India exercise are that the SU30/35 is broadly equal to the Rafale and Eurofighter in capability. 