Who would win in a naval battle: the WWII Imperial Japanese Navy at its peak or a modern US aircraft carrier?
Consider the following contrasts in... ...Submarines: Japanese anti-submarine warfare weapons, detection gear and tactics were notoriously bad, even at the height of the IJN's supremacy in late 1941. Even during World War 2, the US Navy's submarine fleet was not overly concerned with Japanese ASW capabilities--and they had good reason not to be--the Navy waged the most successful submarine anti-shipping campaign in history against a force that was woefully unprepared and ill-equipped. A single USN aircraft carrier group may sometimes include state-of-the-art Los Angeles-class submarines in support. These would be totally undetectable to any WW2-era sonar, let alone to the modern navy least capable of hunting them at that time. A 688 / Los Angeles-class submarine (USS Asheville) ...Long-range detection: Even out of range of land-based aircover, a modern aircraft carrier group does not travel unsupported. The US military has the largest constellation of telecommunications and reconnaissance satellites of any power in the world, enabling it to detect and target enemies long before they're visible on surface-based radars. Map of civilian GPS satellite coverage [military coverage is probly bigger] Furthermore, a modern US aircraft carrier can embark E2-C Hawkeye planes, which greatly extend the group's integral detection capabilities, since the planes themselves can fly fast, far and stay aloft for quite awhile. I dunno if they're used for finding ships as well as planes, or just planes, but the point is that no attacking IJN aircraft could approach undetected. An E-2C Hawkeye landing on USS John C Stennis ...Fire control radars: In the IJN, few capital ships and no small ships carried radar, and Japanese radar technology during WW2 was far behind their American and German counterparts. Even in the later stages of WW2, Japanese gunboats found themselves outmatched because their optically-guided guns couldn't fix the positions of American opponents, whose artillery was radar-directed. By contrast, the US Navy aircraft carrier group carries very sophisticated radars which it can use both to detect ships far away and guide missiles to a target closer in. USS Lake Champlain, an AEGIS-equipped Ticonderoga-class cruiser In particular, A carrier group comprises several ships with the AEGIS system, which marries the ultra-modern AN/SPY-1 phased array radar with this ridiculously smart computer that basically tracks hundreds of targets at once, tells the ship's missiles which ones to engage first, and fires missiles as needed. ...Engagement distances: The RGM-84 Harpoon anti-ship missile (together with its sub- and air-launched equivalents) is capable of hitting its target more than 100 miles away, at speeds of over Mach 1. The furthest reaching weapons in the IJN arsenal would have been the huge naval guns mounted on its battleships, such as the 18-inch guns mounted on the Yamato-class battleships, the largest in history. These had a range of maybe 30 miles, give or take. A short video about the Harpoon missile In the air, the principal weapon of an American carrier's planes would be the AIM-120 medium-range air-to-air missile, a fire-&-forget weapon that can engage targets from tens of miles away (I don't know the exact range, but I do remember reading that the AIM-54 Phoenix, a less advanced missile used by the now-retired F-14 Tomcat, had a range of something like 100 miles). The longest-ranged Japanese airborne weapon would have probably been the 20-mm cannon, of which each A6M Zero fighter carried two. These cannon had ranges of maybe a couple miles, and fired "dumb" ammunition. The AIM-120 AMRAAM air-to-air missile ...Airplanes:  A US Navy carrier has dozens of F/A-18 Super Hornet fighter jets that can fly much faster and higher than the Zero, the IJN's main fighter, and can carry deadlier ordnance (and more of it) than the dive-bombers and torpedo-bombers (whose names I don't know) that the IJN relied on to attack ships. They are also more versatile: an F-18 can carry missiles capable of carrying both surface and airborne targets. Hence, one plane could fulfill the function of several WW2-era planes, where the task of sinking enemy ships had to be separated from the fighters needed to provide protection from opposing aircraft. The A6M Zero was agile and long-ranged but easy to destroy and lightly armed An F/A-18 Super Hornet, one of the most advanced carrier fighters today ...Anti-aircraft guns: The Japanese Navy of WW2 was deficient in its defenses against Allied air attacks: the most common weapon was an obsolete triple-mounted 25mm auto-cannon that lacked power and range against sturdily-built American planes. A replica triple-mounted 25mm flak gun used by the IJN Even in the 1940s, they were far behind the Allies in this respect: the US Navy equipped its ships with devastatingly effective 40-mm auto-cannon, usually quad-mounted. These were licensed from Bofors of Sweden and the gun system itself is so effective that it is manufactured to this day by Bofors for a number of roles, with relatively few modifications. The quad-mount 40mm Bofors gun in action with the US Navy If American planes stayed high and fast-flying enough, the IJN flak would probably not be able to hit them. By contrast, any IJN planes would have to penetrate a series of defensive barriers: (1) They would first have to get past the American jet fighters hundreds of miles away from the fleet; (2) The survivors would then come into range of the carrier group's air defense ships, where the AEGIS system would automatically take over the job of tracking, locking onto and shooting down the IJN planes. The AEGIS system is amazingly suited for this task: The AEGIS-equipped Burke- and Ticonderoga-class ships would engage the approaching planes as one gigantic SAM battery, armed with some combination of probably SM-2 or Evolved Sea Sparrow missiles ("ESSM"). A Standard missile being fired (but not from a US ship)   (3) Anyone having gotten through 1 and 2 would have to contend with two final problems: The radar-directed CIWS point-defense system, which fires 6,000 20-mm shells per minute in a hail of steel intended to take out latest-generation Soviet anti-ship missiles; and the Rolling Airframe Missile (RAM), which I don't know much about but is intended for a similar purpose. The Phalanx CIWS system All this is a long way of reiterating Barry Hampe's point: It would be no contest!! 