Does the science behind uBeam work?
I'm disturbed by the shallowness of the analyses I see (except Danny's -- good start!).  Path loss is not insignificant, and is both humidity and frequency dependent.  The operating frequency of the uBeam system is of significant importance. uBeam implies that their operating frequency is between 70 and 120kHz ("...only bats, cats, whales, and a few other animals could possibly detect the ultrasound that uBeam creates.")  http://www.lsu.edu/deafness/Hear....   This implies a path loss in air, at 20C of between 10dB and 100dB/100m, or 0.1dB/m to 1.0dB/m, depending on frequency. (http://i.stack.imgur.com/aLJBb.png) Their advertised use scenario involves wirelessly charging iPhones at coffee shops and in lecture halls.  Distances from emitter to target device could be meters to tens of meters, implying a path loss of from 0.1dB to 10dB. Since uBeam claims energy is delivered in focused beams, let's assume 100% of available transmitted power is received by the load.  Now, add a second iPhone to the scenario.  Available power is divided by two.  Now, factor in path loss.  You're down to tenths or hundredths of watts.  Beam forming is typically done by using multiple emitters with a phase difference between them.  There's a cost to this.  Only a small part of the overlapping beams will carry 2x the power of the individual beams, so there's a significant inefficiency there, between the total power delivered to each emitter, and the power in the focused beam (which will diverge, so there's some inverse square loss as well) I can't see how this is going to work in any reasonably effective way.  Certainly there is not going to be enough power delivered in an hour at the coffee shop to noticeably change the charge level of your iPhone, never mind the other 10 to 100 iPhones present.  uBeam clearly needs to change their advertising to portray a more realistic level of delivered power.  This isn't top secret proprietary secret information, this is basic physics.   If uBeam is serious, they'll easily be able to put some numbers out there without revealing anything.  If, however, as I suspect, they've discovered that path loss is significant and beam steering and focusing is harder than they thought, they're done for. Edit: Even my analysis left something out.  Area of the receiver is crucial, as is the receiver transducer's conversion efficiency (expressed in watts of electrical power produced for a given acoustical input wattage).   And for best power transfer, the receiver area should match the beam cross sectional area and be perpendicular to its axis.  Now, you not only need to steer the beam, you need to control its cross section to match the receiver, otherwise, you're wasting power.  And mechanical steering of emitters would seem to be more efficient than phased array steering. Updated 13w ago • View Upvotes