How are cryptographic hash functions developed?How does one discover a hash function? It supposed to be a "one-way function".  SHA-0 and SHA-1 were developed by the NSA.  How many people worked on them?  What was the process?
This is a really interesting question, I would definitely recommend you read the (fiction) book Cryptonomicon. In short, it's all math. The goal is to use math to transform an input (say a series of letters and numbers) into a message digest, one that is complex to the point where humans (and ideally computers) cannot reverse the process. From the wiki on cryptographic hash functions: "The ideal cryptographic hash function has four main properties: it is easy to compute the hash value for any given message it is infeasible to generate a message that has a given hash it is infeasible to modify a message without changing the hash it is infeasible to find two different messages with the same hash." To break that down, the ideal hash function is easy to compute (just a series of mathemetical operations on an input, not too intensive). The ideal hash cannot be easily guessed from an input. The ideal hash has few collisions, meaning that when fed two inputs they are unlikely (to the point of impossibility) to produce the same output. It must be complex (as aforementioned). It must be irreversable (one-way), such that mathematically the function only works in one direction, so one cannot perform math to get the original input from the message digest output (unlike the caesar cypher, more generally rotation cyphers). See Cryptographic hash function for details. RSA encryption (as we have today) generally uses a public and private key (asymmetric keys), and then uses math to perform a computation that only one with a public key would know without exposing the private key, but the Enigma, being an early, crude form of this (known as a stream cypher, see Fish (cryptography) for more details), used symmetric key encryption (see Stream cipher), that was easily brute-forced, was the enigma encryption that the Nazis used (for which Alan Turning most famously developed the Enigma machine). 