Cryptography: Are there any concerns using the NSA's common SHA-2 cryptographic hash functions?
I would say no. PRISM is about disclosing private communications. On the other hand, SHA-2 is a hash function, and can protect message integrity and authenticity as part of a signature scheme. Even if you fear SHA-2 has been intentionally designed with a "government backdoor", it is unlikely to help with information disclosure. SHA-2 is designed for mixing data in a non-linear, non-invertible  fashion, which should make recovering the original data difficult.  Installing a backdoor would likely hurt its properties as a hash  function, making it vulnerable to cryptanalysis, and that would probably  show up in academic papers by now. But let's assume SHA-2 has a backdoor installed, meaning that someone "in the know" can invert the hash function and recover information about the original message. At best, the amount of information SHA-2 could reveal would be no more than the hash size - which is a lot if you're hashing a small message (your password) but not a lot if you're hashing a long message (the contents of an email message). Let's assume the NSA is sniffing all communications in transit. In that case, the hashes could leak information about your messages. The ratio of the message size to the hash size means that SHA-2 could not reveal the full message contents. Given the allegations that PRISM involved accessing unencrypted message data directly at the point of storage - that is, your gmail inbox - it would seem that the any hash functions used are irrelevant. What if the NSA recovered the stored hashes of your password? Could a back door in the hash function allow for password recovery? Theoretically it could. Most of the industry uses password derivation schemes like PBKDF2, which churn the password through thousands of iterations of a hash function, making password recovery very difficult. Unless the hash function is perfectly invertible, which is far-fetched, your passwords would still be secure. Then again, if the NSA already has the contents of your communications, would they even bother with the password? At the end of the day, most passwords are much easier to guess than to cryptoanalyze. 