What is Bayesian inference in statistics?
The defining quality of Bayesian inference is treating unknown quantities as random. One of the simplest examples is estimating the bias in a possibly unfair coin which lands heads with probability . Analysis in a Bayesian framework treats as random. We start with a prior distribution on reflecting our information about before any data has been collected. If each value between 0 and 1 is equally likely, a flat (uniform) prior might be used; or if values near 0.5 are known to be more likely, the prior distribution might be more concentrated around 0.5. The flat prior is illustrated bellow. Suppose we now toss the coin 100 times, and 60 heads come up. Based on these observations, the prior distribution is updated using Bayes' Rule (which you can look up) to a posterior distribution, in this case something more concentrated around 0.6. The posterior distribution (represented as a probability density here) reflects our information about after collecting the data. Using this posterior density, we can make probability statements describing our certainty about the value of in light of the data we have now. We can read off any probability statement of interest by calculating an area under the corresponding part of the posterior density. The plot below illustrates the statement: . (96% of the area under the curve falls between the two points). This posterior probability statement is an example of Bayesian inference. Treating unknown quantities (parameters) like as random in this way is not the norm in mainstream (a.k.a frequentist) statistical inference.  According to the frequentist school of thought, is just a fixed number we do not know, and we should not be making probability statements about it. Frequentist inference typically describes uncertainty about unknown parameters using confidence intervals. The answers to What is the difference between Bayesian and frequentist statisticians? and What is a confidence interval in layman's terms? might also be helpful in understanding the two approaches.    Embed Quote Updated 30 May, 2012. 2,536 views.