Bayesian Inference: What is a Dirichlet process in layman's terms?
As a Chinese, I'd love to answer this question. :) Think about the process of going to a Chinese restaurant for meeting some of your old friends. The chinese restaurant means it 1) serves Chinese food. 2) has infinite number of tables which can host infinite number of people. 3) does not require reservations. 4) is friend enough to allow people to sit in, even  their friends do not show up yet. 5) can only help one new customer to find the table at the same time. 6) does not allow anyone to leave the restaurant ... (scary ...) 7) have a fun game which will introduced later. Someday, a friend of you calls you, and asks you to a Chinese restaurant for a party. You arrive there, and face two possible situations: a) Your friends are already waiting for you. You look around the resaurant, find out the table where your friends sit, and sit there. b) You friends do not show up yet. You ask waiter to assign you a new table, and sit there. Now, if all customers behave like you, imagine these two situations from a waiter's perspective. For some random new customer, two corresponding situations could happen: a) The customer has probability to sit a table which already has people sit there. b) The customer has probability to sit at a new table. After people sit in the restaurant, the fun game starts: Every people in the restaurant are required to write stories about themselves and their friends who sit at the same table, and only the stories are recorded. The game is to find out the table assignment based on the stories the people write in the restaurant. At first, it sounds insane, isn't it? In principle, it is possible: the stories are all about the writers, the writer's friends sit at the same table, and of course, there are some correlations between the stories from the same table. Let us think what a mathematician/statistician would do: 1) A story , no matter who write it, follows a distribution with parameters determined by the table 2) is actually not observed, but whatever, let us give some random number we believe. Therefore, for a collection of stories, , you write it as: . And it says is actually drawn from a Dirichlet Process with H as base distribution and as concentration number. Now, is it solvable? Yes. In short, the inference part is basically already solved by reserachers even for a huge number of data. Is it useful? It is super useful. In every application area I know, DP has its applications. For a given set of data, one question might be always in common is: are these data from the same distribution ( with same parameters) or difference distributions (s with different parameters).If it is the second case, how many s are there for generating such data and how they look like? For some random examples: Genetics: the stories actually refer the DNA sequences. How could you do to find out how many human ancestors (tables) are there given human's DNA sequences (stories). Documents/Image Analysis: How could you do to find out how many topics (tables) to classify a collection of documents, and how could you assign topics (tables) to the documents. DP is a very active research area, and I found out the following one is super helpful to understand: Dirichlet Processes: Tutorial and Practical Course There are also other analogues of DP, and I hope to see other Quaran's answers.    Embed Quote 