What are some reasons for the increasing popularity of Bayesian inference?
I can think of a number of reasons, but the majority of them revolve around an increasing need for their unique capabilities and a growing awareness in the data science community of this powerful technique. Bayesian networks are the only method for performing intercausal Sometimes referred to as "explaining away", this method allows you to use evidence regarding one random variable to update the probabilities of other variables far removed through a combination of causal/deductive reasoning and abductive/diagnostic reasoning. Click this link to read my answer to Reasoning: Besides deduction and inference, are there other forms of understanding? I've had the opportunity to discuss the broad potential for Bayesian networks to bring powerful solution capabilities to many vexing problems in data science with Stefan Conrady of http://Bayesia.com and we both agreed that the increasing difficulty of problems in data science are forcing people to look in other areas (such as AI) for tools they can use. Judea Pearl, who invented Bayesian networks in the 1980s, also developed causal modeling techniques using the same directed acyclic graphs (DAGs) used for BNs. Once you learn the basics of BNs, learning how to use DAGs to model causality is fairly straightforward. So what? Well, causality has typically been addressed through either (a) randomized, controlled trials or (b) structural equation modeling. Given the increasing use of Big Data that comes from God-only-knows-where, (a) is an unwise assumption to make. As more companies move away from predictive analytics to prescriptive analytics, I expect more and more use of Pearl's technique. Unlike other mainstream data science techniques, Bayesian networks are "white box" models. Other industrial-strength techniques, like neural networks, are "black box" models and are difficult to explain their reasoning process to non-technical (read "C-Suite") people. Research in Human Factors research has shown time and time again that decision makers are unlikely to accept the recommendation of a machine if they do not grok how it arrived at the conclusion it did. It's natural then for data scientists to start using Bayesian networks more frequently unless they are clearly the wrong tool for the job.For more reasons why Bayesian networks totally rock, you can read my list over at Mark Meloon's answer to What are some success stories for Bayesian Networks?But I believe the above four are most pertinent to your question of "why now?" How this helps, Mark    Embed Quote 