What is it like to experience a "blockbuster-like" life?
Not sure you would call it a block buster but it has been fairly exciting I guess. Started as a firefighter in 1964 at 18 years old and fought a few fires. A boat basin and dock fire was about the scariest then when it got so hot had to use a fog spray to protect ourselves from the fire about 200  feet away, then evacuating a barge as it was collapsing finally rescued by rowboat when the tide went out and the Coast Guard couldn't get back to us. Went in the army at 19 and never saw combat, but spent time in helicopters which was exciting. Ran an engine shop where we did repairs and replacement on Pratt & Whitney R-2800 Radial Recips. It was pretty interesting and challenging sometimes.  When I returned in January 1969 I continued as a volunteer firefighter more adventures including being in a gas explosion in the basement of an apartment building. I went to school for  a while then decided to work for VW as a mechanic. In 1973 I moved to the Vancouver area became a paid call firefighter and in 1974 a career firefighter.  Got married in 1975 and had our first child in 1977. In 1976 I joined the search & rescue team in Coquitlam as well. Have been in fires during flashovers where I thought we may not make it. Got separated in a big underground parking where the visibility was about zero, then found out the radio wouldn't work down there, (certainly gets the adrenalin going).  In the 1980's we purchased some land on a lake not far from Vancouver. The property was boat access only. Building a cabin was quite an adventure, living in tents the first summer, with my wife and our son & daughter. In 1990 I was at the cabin one evening with a friend when we had a slide, certainly an adventure escaping over downed rocks and tree's in the dark and reaching the boat.        There have been no shoot outs but have had a gun pulled on me twice, once when responding to a domestic dispute where there was an injury, as a firefighter. Another time threatened when on a search for three young boys. Have been involved in saving lives several times usually as a group effort, very rewarding experiences. Trying to get as much down without spending to much time, like most firefighters and SAR volunteers there have been numerous exciting times that would make this story ramble on, but it is too long already. It's been fun and exciting with 3 children and 2 grandchildren so far, completed 40 years of marriage so must be doing something right. 