What are the different composition rules in photography?
Photography is more about about guidelines than about rules. Here are some of the so called 'rules' listed for your convenience. I hope that these guidelines will help you take compelling photographs. Once you start clicking photos, you will notice that you will tend to stick to these guidelines spontaneously. Rule of ThirdsImagine that your image is divided into 9 equal segments by 2 vertical and 2 horizontal lines. Therule of thirds says that you should position the most important elements in your scene along these lines, or at the points where they intersect. Doing so will add balance and interest to your photo. Some cameras even offer an option to superimpose a rule of thirds grid over the LCD screen, making it even easier to use. Notice how the building and horizon are aligned along rule-of-thirds lines. Image by Trey Ratcliff. Balancing ElementsPlacing your main subject off-centre, as with the rule of thirds, creates a more interesting photo, but it can leave a void in the scene which can make it feel empty. You should balance the "weight" of your subject by including another object of lesser importance to fill the space. Here, the visual "weight" of the road sign is balanced by the building on the other side of the shot. Image by Shannon Kokoska. Leading LinesWhen we look at a photo our eye is naturally drawn along lines. By thinking about how you place lines in your composition, you can affect the way we view the image, pulling us into the picture, towards the subject, or on a journey "through" the scene. There are many different types of line - straight, diagonal, curvy, zigzag, radial etc - and each can be used to enhance our photo's composition. The road in this photo draws your eye through the scene. Image by Pierre Metivier. Symmetry and Patterns We are surrounded by symmetry and patterns, both natural and man-made., They can make for very eye-catching compositions, particularly in situations where they are not expected. Another great way to use them is to break the symmetry or pattern in some way, introducing tension and a focal point to the scene. The symmetry of this chapel is broken by the bucket in the bottom right corner. Image by Fabio Montalto. Viewpoint Before photographing your subject, take time to think about where you will shoot it from. Our viewpoint has a massive impact on the composition of our photo, and as a result it can greatly affect the message that the shot conveys. Rather than just shooting from eye level, consider photographing from high above, down at ground level, from the side, from the back, from a long way away, from very close up, and so on. The unusual viewpoint chosen here creates an intriguing and slightly abstract photo. Image by ronsho . Background How many times have you taken what you thought would be a great shot, only to find that the final image lacks impact because the subject blends into a busy background? The human eye is excellent at distinguishing between different elements in a scene, whereas a camera has a tendency to flatten the foreground and background, and this can often ruin an otherwise great photo. Thankfully this problem is usually easy to overcome at the time of shooting - look around for a plain and unobtrusive background and compose your shot so that it doesn't distract or detract from the subject. The plain background in this composition ensures nothing distracts from the subject. Image byPhilipp Naderer. Depth Because photography is a two-dimensional medium, we have to choose our composition carefully to conveys the sense of depth that was present in the actual scene. You can create depth in a photo by including objects in the foreground, middle ground and background. Another useful composition technique is overlapping, where you deliberately partially obscure one object with another. The human eye naturally recognises these layers and mentally separates them out, creating an image with more depth. Emphasise your scene's depth by including interesting subjects at varying distances from the camera. Image by Jule Berlin . Framing The world is full of objects which make perfect natural frames, such as trees, archways and holes. By placing these around the edge of the composition you help to isolate the main subject from the outside world. The result is a more focused image which draws your eye naturally to the main point of interest. Here, the surrounding hills form a natural frame, and the piece of wood provides a focal point. Image by Sally Crossthwaite. Cropping Often a photo will lack impact because the main subject is so small it becomes lost among the clutter of its surroundings. By cropping tight around the subject you eliminate the background "noise", ensuring the subject gets the viewer's undivided attention. Cut out all unnecessary details to keep keep the viewer's attention focused on the subject. Image by Hien Nguyen Experimentation With the dawn of the digital age in photography we no longer have to worry about film processing costs or running out of shots. As a result, experimenting with our photos' composition has become a real possibility; we can fire off tons of shots and delete the unwanted ones later at absolutely no extra cost. Take advantage of this fact and experiment with your composition - you never know whether an idea will work until you try it. Digital photography allows us to experiment with different compositions until we find the perfect one. Image by Jule Berlin. The Golden Ratio And now to confuse you even more, enter “the golden ratio.” While the rule of thirds divides your scene into equal thirds, the golden ratio divides your scene a little bit differently, into sections that are roughly 1:1.618. Unless you are a mathematical genius or at least a whiz, you’ll probably need to see this visually: Into the wood  by Flickr user Manu gomi As you can see, instead of being evenly spaced as they are in the rule of thirds, golden ratio lines are concentrated in the center of the frame, with roughly 3/8ths of the frame in the above part, 2/8ths in the middle and 3/8ths at the bottom. This idea has been around for centuries – millennium, really, and can be found in many of the great classic works of art. Of course I have given you a very oversimplified version of this idea. There is also a golden section rectangle, which looks like this and is based on a very complex mathematical formula: Golden section by Flickr user Absolute Chaos With the idea being that a perfectly composed image should follow the lines in this rectangle. Golden triangles and spiralsBut wait, there’s more. So far we’ve just talked about the perfect rectangle, which at 5:8 roughly corresponds to the size of a 35mm image. But if your image has diagonals, try composing it using “golden triangles.” To do this, divide your image diagonally from corner to corner, then draw a line from one of the other corners until it meets the first line at a 90 degree angle. Now place your photograph’s elements so that they fall within the resulting triangles. szent anna tó II by Flickr user 'Ajnagraphy' The golden spiral, as you might guess, is a compositional tool for use with objects that have curving lines rather than straight ones. This spiral is drawn based on that complicated series of rectangles we saw above, but you can actually visualize this based on nature’s nautilus shell, which matches the golden spiral shape almost exactly. If that seems a little too convoluted to you, just look for compositions where there is a spiral that leads the eye to a particular point in the image. Day 23/365 : Three silly drops by Flickr user ~jjjohn~ Rule of OddsMoving on to some simpler ideas, the rule of odds is somewhat related to the rule of thirds. The eye tends to be more comfortable with images that contain an odd number of elements rather than an even number. A photograph of three birds on a wire, for example, is probably going to be more appealing than an image shot after that third bird flies away. The reason for this is that the human eye will naturally wander towards the center of a group. If there’s empty space there, then that’s where the eye will fall. As a photographer, you want your viewer to look at a subject, not at an empty space. jump!by Flickr user cpboingo Leaving SpaceThis rule incorporates two very similar ideas: breathing room and implied movement. The leaving space rule probably comes naturally to you, but if you need a way to visualize it think of your frame as a box and your subject as something you’re going to be putting inside of a box. To make your subject comfortable, you need to give him a bigger box that allows him some visual freedom and/or freedom of movement. If your subject is looking at something (even something off-camera), make sure there is some “white space” for him to look into. (White space, of course, is not a literal term but a term used to describe the space that surrounds your subject, usually that part of the frame where there isn’t anything happening.) Likewise, “implied motion” means that if your subject is in motion you need to give her some space that she can move into. 2009 Richmond Jingle Bell Run/Walk  by Flickr user rogercarr Fill the FrameThe rule of space may seem to contradict this next rule, which is the idea that you should fill the frame with your subject. Filling the frame, of course, is different than crowding the frame. Crowding the frame means that you’re breaking that rule of space and putting your subject in a constricting box. The “fill the frame” rule, on the other hand, simply means that you’re looking for distracting background elements and cropping them out whenever you can. Or put another way, decide how important your subject is and then give him/her a ratio of the frame that is directly related to his/her importance. For example, an image of an old woman with interesting facial lines and features who is standing on a busy street corner will probably warrant filling the frame. But if you want to capture context – say that old woman is standing in the quirky second-hand shop she’s owned for 50 years – you may not want to use that “fill the frame” rule, because you’ll want to capture her with her environment instead. Portrait of a flower. (Explored)by Flickr user Linh H. Nguyen SimplificationAs a general rule, simple images tend to be more appealing than complicated ones. This idea is similar to the previous “fill the frame rule,” in that it demands that you get rid of distracting elements in your photo (see how all these rules are related)? To use this compositional rule, simply ask yourself this question: does that element add to my composition? If it doesn’t, get rid of it. You can do this by recomposing so that the element is no longer in the frame, zooming in on your subject, using a wider aperture for a shallow depth of field, or simply cropping the image later in post processing. Ashbridges Bay Skate Park by Flickr user thelearningcurvedotca BalanceEspecially when you are using the rule of thirds or the golden ratio, sometimes an image needs balance. A photo with a large subject positioned in the foreground at one of those sweet spots may end up creating an image that looks tilted, or too heavy on one side. You can create some balance by including a less important, smaller-appearing element in the background. The leading bridge by Flickr user Miroslav Petrasko HDRshooter Source : Digital-photo-secrets.com,  Photographymad.com 