Support Vector Machines: Why does SVM work well in practice, even if the reproduced space is very high dimensional?
Once upon a time there was a young mathematician named Vladimir Vapnik who encountered the infamous Baba Yaga while he was sitting in the forest writing proofs. The sun was setting as he was writing and shadows stretched upon his page of paper. They were the shadows of the pine cones and nuts that dangled from the tree under which he was sitting. He looked up at them and saw that they were not a cluster of pine cones and nuts as he had believed when he first saw the shadows upon his page, but that some of the pine cones were farther away mixed in with the nuts, and some of the nuts were mixed in with the cluster of pine cones, though they were still in the line of sight from the sun making the shadows seem as if they were all grouped together.     With a brilliant burst of inspiration, Vladimir declared, "I bet that with enough examples of shadows, I could project these two-dimensional representations into higher dimensions, and be able to cluster these pine cone and nut shadows and know which ones are actually hanging close together!" and he began to scribble furiously.     "HAW HAW HAW, FOOL!" a mighty booming voice resonated. It was Baba Yaga herself who had been waiting for Vladimir to fall into her trap, and the tree that Vladimir was leaning against was not a tree at all, but one of the giant chicken legs that held up her house. The pine cones were not natural, but were placed there by Baba Yaga to lure young mathematicians and computer scientists into a false sense of understanding for her own sick amusement, for she was wicked indeed.     Vladimir said "I can do this! This is a solvable problem!"     Baba Yaga knew that he was brilliant and that his intelligence might one day become a threat to her, so she decided to curse him. From orthogonal mixtures of snake blood, tree-tumor sap, and frog brains she created the Curse of Dimensionality for young Vladimir.     When the curse hit him, he realized then and there that this curse was not going to cure itself, nor could do it alone... so he left the forest in search of help from other people. He studied great works, and met with brilliant professors, mathematicians and world-renowned computer scientists, all to no avail. He still suffered from the curse of dimensionality, and started getting high on PCA to make himself feel better. Forlorn, he finally decided that he must travel further, across the world to seek out all the sages of the west, for he had heard of one who was the owner of a fried chicken chain of restaurants. This man was called "The Kernel", and was said to be great at lifting these curses of dimensionality.     So from Russia he flew first-class on a maximum-margin hyperplane that he himself had modified. His flight had no turbulence due to the perceptron of optimal stability that he had recommended to the pilot. However Vapnik still got a bit nauseous on the flight because of the inaccurate angles of the hyperplane’s flight. And to make matters worse, at his hotel there were pool adjacent violators which were quite annoying with all their adjacent pool violations.     The next day while eating chicken at the restaurant where he'd agreed to meet the Kernel, he realized the Kernel was not as smart as the rumors had implied. While he certainly was rational, the Kernel was uncreatively  straight-forward in his thinking about these dimensional curses. Even still, Valdimir  thought that if could somehow trick the Kernel to think in a different way, he could help to figure out how to lift the curse.  So, through clever wit, Vladimir  tricked the Kernel’s linear mindset into a radially biased one, and together, they jumped to new conclusions. Though helpful, however, the Kernel trick was not enough, and the radial bias was not the basis for lifting the spell.       "Well I don't have any other basis that you might find useful," said the Kernel, "Bring what I have taught you back to the sages of the East, and perhaps they can lift your curse."     It was time to move on from the Kernel's land, so Vlad decided to see what it would be like to not fly first-class, and thus perhaps learn from the common people, for there is great wisdom in the least-squares of us all.     Vapnik flew coach on his way home, and was astounded by the uncalibrated class membership probabilities. This injustice had to be reported immediately, however the flight attendant would not let him use his phone because the receiver operating characteristics while aboard the hyperplane were not always reliable.     He got mad. Really mad.     And what did Vlady do, but throw a tantrum right there on his hyperplane as he regressed isotonically! The flight attendant was not concerned because the usual monotocity of her job gave her simple, if partial, order. The flight attendant simply slapped him, and his mind, and the curse, shattered.     And that was his saving grace, for because of this brave flight attendant and Vlad's isotonic regression tantrum, he went on to bring these uncalibrated class membership probabilities to light. And even though his mind had been shattered, he now understood where each single part of his brain was *supposed* to be. Before his mind was shattered he had been trying to add too many dimensions to figure out an answer to this curse, and had only been getting more and more lost. He now realized that that itself, was the curse of dimensionality all along.     Later, as Vladimir contemplated the course of his life, and the lifting of Baba Yaga's curse, he realized it wasn't just the Kernel, his hyperplane, or even the monotocity of the flight attendant's job that had allowed him to break the curse of dimensionality. It was his own diligent research. Only thing was, he would never have been able to beat it without a lot of training. Updated 204w ago • View Upvotes • Not for Reproduction