What is the most rational evidence, if there is any, of the existence of God?
I believe this is the 'evidence' provided by creationists: Evolution However, most (respected) scientists in the scientific community do not consider the above link as evidence. Why? There are two main characteristics of scientific evidence: It must be empirical evidence (based on experimentation and observation, not anecdotes and testimonies) It must be interpreted in accordance with the scientific method. For scientists, evolution is a fact because it is supported by thousands of little bits of empirical evidence that all point to one logical conclusion; that new species arise from older ones. The Big Bang Theory is very good at explaining the current state of the Universe, although it is likely to be refined. In fact, creationists will have to bring forth a lot of evidence to disprove these theories. The Big Bang Theory The evidence in support of this theory is overwhelming. Edwin Hubble noticed that the light from distant galaxies and quasars had been shifted to longer wavelengths -- in other words, redshifted. If we interpret this redshift as a result of the Doppler effect, then you can conclude that either we are at the centre of an expanding universe (not possible because of the Copernician principle) or we are in a universe that is expanding uniformly in all directions. When cosmic microwave background radiation was discovered by Penzias and Wilson in 1965, the balance tipped in favour of the Big Bang theory. Now, what people don't realise about the Big Bang theory is that we are debating on matters like magnetic monopoles and the curviness of space -- and dark matter and dark energy and so on and so forth, not the expansion of the Universe. We have some great theories within the envelope of the Big Bang theory, and a lot of evidence does suggest that the Big Bang did occur. The Big Bang theory is a very good theory that has been stress-tested and has prevailed against all other theories. This means that you need to have a very very solid argument to topple this theory. We are also fully aware of the fact that the age of the Universe is about 13.8 billion years old (or, if you're picky, 13.799 ± 0.021 billion years old). How did we find out? Well, you know the CMBR? There are minute fluctuations in this radiation, and using that data, the density of the universe can be determined. This matter and energy density can be used to determine the rate of expansion of the Universe using general relativity, and then extrapolated until the Universe was a singularity (http://map.gsfc.nasa.gov/univers...). Evolution Evolution is a great concept for the existence of several species. It is possible for the components of life to have been produced from inorganic materials (check out the Miller-Urey experiment: http://www.bbc.co.uk/schools/gcs...). What people seem to worry about is actually this matter about missing links and natural selection. Missing links are simply transitional forms that link two different kinds of animals. The most famous one is Archaeopteryx lithographica, which is direct evidence of the link between reptiles and birds. There is no doubt in scientists' mind that Archaeopteryx is the missing link between reptiles and birds -- missing only because they are now extinct. The website I have cited at the very top appears to challenge Archaeopteryx by saying that Xiaotingia is a potentially-older avialan, thus proving Darwin's theory wrong. Yeah. They said that. Just because Xiaotingia might be older does not mean that evolution is wrong. If Xiaotingia is indeed older and shares similar characteristics between reptiles and birds, then we have found yet another missing link, strengthening -- not weakening -- the case for Darwin's theory. The confusion with natural selection appears to be the creationists', not the scientists'.  They seem to suggest that natural selection cannot explain the origin of new species; where do the new characters come from? The problem is that creationists wilfully ignore the refinements made to Darwin's theory over the course of 150 years (Darwin's theory was first published in 1859). Hugo de Vries suggested his theory of mutations, which was proven definitively through genetic studies. We know that mutations caused by DNA copy-errors create new characters that are subject to natural selection. There is no doubt. There is a ridiculous amount of evidence floating about on the Internet. --- I am not an atheist. I am a scientist. When I say that the 'evidence' put forth by creationists is unreliable, I mean several things. The citations are linking to websites and books which are not reputable, such as other creationist websites and books by creationists on evolution. It's only logical to think that evolution can be explained best by an evolutionary scientist, not a creationist. Creationists are creating what is called an argument by exclusion, which is basically, "Since it cannot be any of the things that you have said, it must be God. I have no solid evidence to say that it is God, but I have 'evidence' to say that it is not evolution. If it is not evolution, it must be God. Look! The complexity around you! Since it can't be random, it must be God." This is the quickest way to produce the shakiest argument. Creationist arguments stem from a fundamental misunderstanding of scientific terminology. "Evolution is just a theory, not a law or a fact." "Evolution is unscientific because it is not falsifiable." "Natural selection is based on circular reasoning." "If humans descended from monkeys, why are there still monkeys?" Their evidence is anecdotal rather than empirical. They haven't produced reliable stats on any of their claims, just a few freak examples and stories that can well be explained on other grounds. See this: When someone says he wants “proof” or “evidence,” not the Bible, one might respond as follows: You might not believe the Bible, but I do. And I believe it gives me the right basis to understand this universe and correctly interpret the facts around me. I’m going to give you some examples of how building my thinking on the Bible explains the world and is not contradicted by science. One can, of course, do this with numerous scientific examples, showing, for example, how the issue of sin and judgment is relevant to geology and fossil evidence; how the fall of man, with the subsequent curse on creation, makes sense of the evidence of harmful mutations, violence, and death; or how the original “kinds” of animals gave rise to the wide variety of animals we see today. (Ken Ham, March 18, 2010: Chapter 2: What’s the Best “Proof” of Creation? ) If evolution was truly a point of scientific debate, creationists wouldn't encourage people to shut down any kind of debate by saying, "I believe the Bible, so there." I hope this answers your questions. Feel free to comment. Updated 5w ago • View Upvotes