Which creatures on planet Earth would count as the most interesting, bizarre or amazing to observe? Give your reasons...
Some of the most interesting, bizarre animals on our Planet Earth to observe are: Cymothoa exigua or Tongue eating louseOne of the most disgusting species you'll come across. It is a parasitic crustacean that typically grows to 3 or 4 cm in length (1 in – 1.6 in). The parasite attaches itself at the base of a fish’s tongue entering the fish’s mouth through its gills. It then proceeds to extract blood through the claws on its front three pairs of legs. As the parasite grows, less and less blood reaches the tongue and eventually the organ atrophies. The parasite then replaces the fish’s tongue by attaching its own body to the muscles of the tongue stub. The fish is able to use the parasite just like a normal tongue and it appears that the parasite does not cause any other damage to the host fish. Once the insect replaces the tongue, it can feed on the host’s blood and/or feed on the fish’s mucus. This is the only known case of a parasite functionally replacing a host organ, making it a scientific marvel and poster-child for repulsion. Source: Cymothoa exigua CaddisfliesCaddisflies are an order (Trichoptera) of insects with approximately 12,000 described species. They can be described as small moth-like insects with two pairs of hairs membranous wings. One of the most interesting characteristics of the caddisfly is the ornate and highly intricate protective cases they build as larvae. Photograph by Bob Henricks( Uenoid caddisfly larva, Neophylax mitchelli) The caddisfly larvae is aquatic and can be found in a variety of habitats such as streams, rivers, lakes, ponds, springs and even temporary waters. The larvae collects whatever material it can to form its protective case, bonding the various materials together with silk that it excretes from its salivary glands near its mouth. Photograph by Jan Hamrsky | www.aquaticinsect.net Different species of caddisfly tend to use different materials for their protective cases making for a diverse array of cases. Artists have even taken it a step further, cultivating their own cadisfly and providing them with unique building materials like gold and pearls to create ornate protective cases that are preserved for their artistic merit after the cadisfly has undergone metamorphosis. Photograph by Bob Henricks Photograph by Cheryl Rose Here's a beautiful video of Hubert Duprat talking about the Phyrganas. Source: Caddisfly Moon Jelly Photograph by Alexander Semenov | Prints Available In this beautiful photograph by Alexander Semenov (underwater photographer extraordinaire), we see Aurelia aurita, commonly known as the moon jelly. It is translucent and typically ranges between 5-40 cm in diameter. They are carnivorous and primarily feed on small plankton organisms such as mollusks, crustaceans, tunicate larvae, copepods, rotifers, nematods, young polychaetes, protozoans, diatoms, and eggs. Aurelia are capable of only limited motion and drift with the current even when swimming. Source : Animal Diversity Web, Wikipedia The Clearfin Lionfish Photograph by The High Fin Sperm Whale on Wikimedia Commons Pterois radiata, also known as the Clearfin Lionfish, Tailbar Lionfish, Radiata Lionfish or Radial Firefish, is a carnivorous, ray-finned fish with venomous spines that lives in the Indian and western Pacific oceans. It is the only lionfish species which has spines without any markings and can also be recognized by the pair of horizontal white stripes on its tail. The species is generally uncommon and tends to inhabit lagoons and seaward reefs. They feed mostly on small crabs and shrimps and are quite capable of inflicting a painful sting. While they are suitable for home aquariums, they are one of the more difficult species of lionfish to keep because they are passive and do not compete well for food and are intolerant of poor water quality Source: File:Clearfin lionfish (Pterois radiata).JPG Transparent Eel Larva Photograph by Mie Prefecture Fisheries Research Institute In this close-up by the Mie Prefecture Fisheries Research Institute we see the larva of a Conger eel. A leptocephalus (meaning “slim head”) is the flat and transparent larva of the eel, marine eels, and other members of the Superorder Elopomorpha. This is the most diverse group of teleosts, containing 801 species over the span of 24 orders, 24 families, and 156 genera. Fishes with a leptocephalus larva stage include the most familiar eels such as the conger, moray eel, garden eel, and the freshwater eels of the family Anguillidae. Leptocephali (singular leptocephalus) all have laterally compressed bodies that contain transparent jelly-like substances on the inside of the body and a thin layer of muscle with visible myomeres on the outside. Their body organs are small and they possess only a simple tube for a gut. This combination of features results in them being very transparent when they are alive. They also lack red blood cells until they begin to metamorphose into the juvenile glass eel stage when they start to look like eels. Source : Leptocephalus Flying Fox The grey-headed flying fox is the largest bat in Australia – and one of the most vulnerable. Once abundant, there are now only around 300,000 left. The main threats include loss of habitat, extreme temperature events and human persecution (roosting in numbers, eating cultivated fruit and an undeserved reputation for bearing disease brings it into conflict with people). The bat is now protected throughout its range, but its future remains uncertain. Source: Ofer Levy / Veolia Environnement Wildlife Photographer of the Year 2012 Coconut Octopus Photograph by Mario Neumann (scuba.hamburg on Flickr) Amphioctopus marginatus, also known as the coconut octopus or veined octopus, is a medium-sized cephalopod belonging to the genus Amphioctopus. It is found in tropical waters of the western Pacific Ocean. It commonly preys upon shrimp, crabs, and clams, and displays unusual behaviour, including bipedal walking and gathering and using coconut shells and seashells for shelter. Source: Amphioctopus marginatus Golden Tortoise BeetleThe Golden Tortoise Beetle (Charidotella sexpunctata) is a widely distributed North American insect with a typical size of 5 -7 mm. Photograph via crapidrawatwork on Reddit Recognizable by their golden colour, they have the ability to change colours when disturbed. Photograph by Teh Soon Huat (Shunfa Teh on Flickr)  This color change is accomplished by microscopic valves controlling the moisture levels under the shell. Photograph by lika2009 on Flickr Photograph by Jessy Eykendorp (tropicaLiving on Flikcr) Their preferred food are Morning Glory leaves. Source :  University of Florida Institute of Food and Agricultural Services - BugGuide.net - Wikipedia The Giant Isopod Scientists call it Bathynomus Giganteus. Thought to be abundant in the cold murky depths of the Atlantic Ocean, it is the largest known Isopod in the world. Photograph by Daniel Stoker The Giant Isopod matures to a length between 19 and 37 centimeters (7.5 and 15 inches), and reaches a maximum weight of approximately 1.7 kilograms (3.7 lb). Photograph by NOAA, Ocean Explorer It bears a striking resemblance to the wood lice or potato bug. Sources: Giant isopod - Page on Scienceblogs Crafty Caterpillar Photograph by HOPE ABRAMS (Hopefoote on Flickr) The crafty little caterpillar above is known as a wavy-lined emerald moth or camouflaged looper (Synchlora aerata). It is a species of moth of the Geometridae family and can be found in most of North America. The wingspan is about 17 mm and adults are green with scalloped or wavy white transverse lines. Photograph by HOPE ABRAMS (Hopefoote on Flickr) The larvae feed on a wide variety of plants, including the flower heads of composite flowers and other flowering plants, as well as shrubs and trees. Recorded food plants include: Aster, Rudbeckia, Liatris, Solidago, Artemisia, Achillea and Rubus species. Photograph by JIM MCCORMAC @ jimmccormac.blogspot.ca Wavy-lined emerald moths are well known for their camouflaging technique where they attach bits of the plant petals/tissue along their backs using silk. Photograph by lika2009 (in the U.S.A.) on Flicr Depending on what plant they are feeding on, they may adorn all types of different coloured plants in hopes of avoiding detection. Photograph by HOPE ABRAMS (Hopefoote on Flickr) When the petals begin to wilt and discolour, they will discard their outdated camouflage and replace with a new ‘coat’. Source: Wikipedia, Fauna Deilephila elpenor, known as the Elephant Hawk-mothIt is a large moth of the Sphingidae family. The species is found throughout Britain and Ireland. Its range extends across Europe, Russia, and into China, northern parts of the Indian subcontinent, Japan and Korea (though not Taiwan). Introduced specimens have been found in British Columbia. Photograph by KEN RIPPENGALE  In most of their range, the adults are seen from May to July and the caterpillars from July to September, when they pupate. Photograph by RICHERMAN However in some parts of the Mediterranean and China the adults may be seen from April on, sometimes having two broods in a year. The larva is about 75 millimetres (3.0 in) long, green and brown in colour. Like most hawk moth caterpillars, they have a backward curving spine or “horn” on the final abdominal segment. The anterior of the caterpillar appears to have the shape of a trunk-like snout. It is this elephant look, rather than its large size, that gives the moth its name.  When startled, the caterpillar draws its trunk into its foremost body segment. This posture resembles a snake with a large head and four large eye-like patches. Caterpillars are preyed upon by birds, but these shy away (at least for some time) from caterpillars in “snake” pose. It is not known whether the birds take the caterpillar to actually resemble a snake, or are frightened by the sudden change of a familiar prey item into an unusual and boldly-patterned shape. Photograph by MARC WATHIEU Source : http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Dei... And my Personal favorite, The Mantis Shrimp Here are some of the videos of the Amazing Mantis: Source: Why the mantis shrimp is my new favorite animal Mantis shrimp Thanks for the A2A. 