How does a spider decide where to put up its web?
The most important factor is phylogeny. Each spider family has its own characteristic arrangement of spinnerets (the organs used to spin the webs), and they decide what type of web can be built. And this shape is adapted to one specific type of habitat. Here's a small, general guide (exceptions abound, as usual): Mygalomorphs (e.g., trapdoor spiders): most can only construct simple lines of silk, which can act as detectors. They live in burrows, with these sensory silk lines radiating out of them. When the lines are cut, the spider knows that prey is nearby and comes out and ambushes it. Sheet-web builders (e.g., velvet spiders, funnel-web spiders): As the name says, their silk comes out in massive sheets. And the best place to put a sheet is, of course, on some vegetation under a tree, with insects dropping from the tree being a good source of food. Funnel web builders have a bit more control over their webs, being able to connect a circular ("funnel shaped") burrow made out of silk in which the spider lives. Space-web builders (e.g., linyphiids, theridiids): These webs take up space. Linyphiid ones consist of a bowl made out of tangled threads, and attached to the lower branches of a tree. That way, anything falling from either the lower branches or the canopy will come into the bowl, and the spider (which stays on the underside the bowl) will just collect all the food easily. Theridiids (which are actually highly-derived orb weavers that build space webs, so I put them here) have slightly more refined webs, since they have specific combs on their legs allowing them to craft the silk into neat lines instead of a densely-packed bowl. To make up for the lack of catchment though, their silk is very sticky (like all orb-weavers) and they can also throw silk at their prey (kinda like Spiderman). Orb weavers have the most control over their webs. They're the typical meticulous geometric ones (they have their own classification, including radial webs and spiral webs, etc.). They're very finely-tuned to be as good as possible at catching prey. They show asymmetries depending on the specific tree/bit of vegetation they're at, so that each line is in the path of a flying insect; the spider will also use light cues and a gravity compass to make sure their web is in the best possible position. (The role of experience vs. genetic predisopsition would make a cool study, if it hasn't been studied already...) 