Why aren't there any more super genius mathematicians like Newton, Euler or Gauss?
This is an important question!  Consider some alternative possibilities: 1. A smaller fraction of people are super-geniuses today.  This could be due to     a. genetics     b. environmental changes     c. social changes affecting early development 2. There are many super-geniuses today, but they're unable to produce significant results. 3. There are many super-geniuses today, but we're unable to identify them. 1a. Genetics:  Has civilization advanced so that selection pressure is low enough, or changed its mores in ways so that reproduction is not proportional to success, so that we are "devolving" faster than we are evolving? Many of you will reply that there is no such thing as "devolving" because evolution is non-directional, but that's nonsense.  "Devolving" doesn't imply that evolution has a direction; it means that the loss of beneficial alleles plus the gain of detrimental alleles is faster than the gain of beneficial alleles.  You cannot simultaneously believe in evolution, and not believe that devolution will occur if selection pressure eases. A comparison of the selection pressure on modern humans with that on species in the wild suggests there is approximately no survival selection pressure on humans today.  The adoption of monogamy by most leading civilizations today also greatly diminishes the effect of selection of males by females, which could have been the greatest driver of human evolution. The greater mixing of genes from different localities--and I include crossing an Englishman with a Bavarian--must have some effect, but what?  No one knows.  Breeders speak of "hybrid vigor", the often-observed phenomenon that a cross between two established breeds is healthier than either of its parents.  This, however, is because the existing breeds having intrinsic health problems due to the artificial selection that created them.  I  suppose that the initial effect will be an increase in super-geniuses (because the population will briefly have many more distinct phenotypes, and so a higher variance), followed by a decrease (as the world population homogenizes and loses its linkage disequilibrium). 1b. There could be environmental changes that cause fewer people to develop into super-geniuses.  They could be chemical:  toxins or hormone analogues in the air and water, for instance.  17th-century pollution was biological: diseases and parasites. Chemical toxins are democratic:  everyone gets them.  Diseases have a binomial distribution.  We would predict there to be more super-geniuses in an era dominated by the latter than in one dominated by the former, because some individuals escape harm. 1c. Environmental changes could also be social.  A child growing up today has many more learning opportunities than one in the 17th century.  Or does he? Learning is well-studied.  But education research has no controls.  There are plenty of studies showing that one method of instruction is better for children than some other method, but there are no studies comparing one method of instruction to no instruction at all. Yet children instinctively want to learn.  A baby is fascinated waving its arms and making noises with its mouth.  A toddler pushes toys against each other and stacks them on top of each other.  A kindergartner throws balls and roleplays with other children.  Children of all species instinctively do exactly what they'll learn the most from.  Primary education assumes that all that is a waste of time, and what children need to learn most is facts: 1+1 = 2, adverbs modify verbs, Lansing is the capital of Michigan. I'm skeptical that primary education has value for children of above-average intelligence.  I taught myself to read before kindergarten, and learned to read and write by reading books I was not assigned.  In elementary school, I learned to add, subtract, multiply, divide, and read music.  That's all I have to show for those 7 years.  Everything else is a blur of state capitals, regional industries, dubious moral lessons, and other things long since forgotten.  Even the art classes were useless, since we usually made things out of macaroni, egg cartons, or styrofoam instead of learning how to draw.  When we did draw, we weren't taught, we were just told everything we did was wonderful. Mostly I remember repeatedly getting in trouble for trying to read books in school.  Primary school didn't educate me so much as it prevented me from educating myself. The mental failings I observe in adults are not due to a lack of facts.  They're due to a lack of critical faculties.  Primary education teaches children not to have critical faculties, but to accept what they are taught uncritically.  That's its purpose.  Public education in America was originally established to indoctrinate with religion and morals more than to educate. I suspect the effect of institutionalized education is one of levelling, which of course is one of its purposes, so call that a success if you choose.  Children who wouldn't have learned to read, write, or do arithmetic learn to do so, but children with greater abilities are prevented from developing them.  This would show up in the statistics as an increase in average IQ (the Flynn effect), but a decrease in its standard deviation, and in super-genius production. 2. There are many super-geniuses today, but they're unable to produce significant results:  People turn quickly to the "low-hanging fruit" idea, but I don't buy that.  There are many more research areas open today; there is low-hanging fruit all around us.  The problem is that scientists aren't allowed to reach for it. My career in science has taught me that it is hard to go after low-hanging fruit today.  "Low-hanging fruit" is a poor metaphor; these aren't things anybody can look around and see ripe for the picking.  Only the smartest people can identify what might be the current low-hanging fruit, and the smartest people don't get to choose what to investigate.  That's chosen by managers, by Congress, by boards of directors, by bored committees.  Research topics are chosen to be profitable, socially beneficial, safe, and popular. The famous men of science of the 17th through 19th centuries, including the 3 you mentioned, were free to pursue whatever research they chose.  They either had academic appointments, noble patrons, or were independently wealthy. It's curious that today there are no independently-wealthy gentleman scientists.  It seems not to have status anymore.  Speculating wildly, perhaps this is because of the death of God.  When everyone believed in God, the highest calling was to discover God's secrets.  Now that God is dead, the highest calling is to be God:  not to discover existing rules, but to create and impose your own rules and visions on others.  Young people today aspire to be like Steve Jobs, not like Isaac Newton. 3.  There are more super-geniuses today, but we don't know who they are: Consider the Zipf  distribution.  That means that the frequency of the nth most-frequent object is c / n for some constant c. Zipf distributions are common in nature.  City sizes have a (nearly) Zipf distribution.  You can explain this by a simple “accumulation” model, which says that the probability that someone will move to a city is proportional to the number of other people who have moved to that city. We expect the same affect in citations of scientific articles.  The more times a paper is cited, the more scientists will be aware of it, and the more it will be cited in the future.  That means that to find the merit distribution of scientific articles--the difference in citation rates to different articles based on their intrinsic merit--we must take the distribution of citations and subtract the Zipf distribution from it. When I did that, I found there was no remaining difference to attribute to merit.  Also, the distributions of citations in small fields and large fields differ as predicted by the accumulation model, but are impossible to explain by any merit-based hypothesis.  The effect of intrinsic merit on average citation count is indistinguishable from zero.  Why? It's true that the citation stats are dominated by review articles, which get the most citations yet have no merit of their own.  But I think the problem remains.  I believe it's because the number of scientists and papers grew dramatically in the 20th century, and our systems for identifying good scientists and good papers failed to keep up, and then broke down completely. Most especially I blame the system of elite universities.  For centuries, the system for identifying geniuses relied on getting them into elite universities.  As the number of scientists, research areas, and papers grew, the number of elite universities did not.  Yet at the same time, the importance of attending one grew.  Evaluating candidates for any scientific job or grant is so time-consuming that today approximately the only thing that matters on your resume is what undergraduate college you attended.  The first thing people do with a stack of resumes is pull out the ones that say Harvard or MIT. The typical student at one of these institutions is in the 98th percentile nationwide, according to SAT scores.  If you count the number of students in these institutions, as I have, you'll find that means that about 10% of the 98th-percentile students attend elite institutions. However, if you count the fraction of people with appointments at research universities, or who have won large grants, or gotten venture capital, or been interviewed in Wired, you'll find about 90% of them went to elite institutions.  Even if you're in the 98th percentile, going to an elite institution increases your odds ratio of success by a factor of ~80.  These universities concentrate all of our society's resources in the hands of just a small fraction of our brightest people. Starting around 1970, the costs of these elite institutions skyrocketed, and merit scholarships to attend them vanished.  Admittance to an elite American university in the years 1970-2008 depended more on the wealth of your parents than on your intelligence.  Today, after years of improving financial aid, the median Harvard student is in the 98th percentile in intelligence and the 96th percentile in wealth (Diversitas? Take a Closer Look | Opinion | The Harvard Crimson). This means that American science today is produced and controlled by people who were chosen mainly for having wealthy parents.  At least 90% of our super-geniuses are invisible simply because they were not rich. 