Could it be possible that there is a relation between the rise of an embryo and the forming of the universe?
TL; DRThe similarities do not prevail over the differences. So they are not that related. Good question!Of course they are somehow related! No matter how big or small, we all have to cope with the same universal physical laws.  Although? Some physical laws dominate on larger scales, while other dominate on smaller scales. So let’s look at the similarities (what got you here in the first place) and then at the differences. Similarities Both made of matter Visible with modern instruments Finite (confined within a bounded region) [math]\implies[/math]  there are probably some physical laws holding them together.  Curved arms and legs Differences Forces that dominate: Embryo's: molecular bonds, surface tension, vanderwaalskrachten, hydrogen bonds, .... all on macromolecular / molecular / atom level. Galaxy:  gravity. Number of arms: Embryos: 4 (let’s hope) plus a head. This number is coded in the DNA. Galaxies vary in these numbers, which is the outcome of a long dynamic process, with varying initial conditions, guided by gravity, conservation of inertia and rotational  momentum. We cannot predict the number of arms with a formula, however, we need computational expensive simulations. Symmetry: Embryos: symmetric in one plane. Left-right. Galaxy: rotational symmetry with one rotation axis, although this symmetry regards the main pattern, and not the make-up of the individual arms.   Mass: The mass of an embryo increases, fed by the mother In galaxies the mass is more or less constant (let's keep it simple) The formation over time (shapes over time) An embryo begins as a sphere (1,2,4,8, ...  cells), then becomes a 'cup'  (like a soccer ball without air), and then slowly develops small protruding extremities growing 'center-out'. A galaxy begins as a random distribution of mass (let's keep it simple), closing in (sometimes even pulsatile) while slowly developing into an oblate ellipsoid, becoming more and more a rotating disk. In this process the arms slowly become 'visible' and stable as they are concentrating in tube like forms (let's keep it simple) The cause of the bending Embryos have bended arms because 1) they were evolved to be able to bend, as this was favourable in nature, and 2) because they are confined within the womb. If enbryos try to extend their arms, they feel an opposite external force pushing them inwards again The bended shape of the galaxies' arms, however, are developed because the inner part of the arms start out with a higher angular velocity. This results in a curve (try to rotate a heavy rope around you), in which the curvature over the length of the arm (the radial angle at some point) depends is a balance between the 'central pull' and the 'forward pull' determined by the decrease in mass density over the arm. Last but not least: the ‘guiding’ processWhile I tend to see that the Galaxy formation just obeys a couple of physical laws, the embryo development is a result of a long process we refer to as evolution. ‘Everything’ has been tried out (within a certain tree-shape dynamic programming like learning process), and all that failed simply did not reproduce. It is hardly believable that this intrinsically complex process was ‘learned’ by nature, however, always imagine that it had a couple of billion years  to find this method. Conclusion All in all I would think there are more differences than similarities, so my conclusion is: "Nice to think about it for five minutes, but never again." Cheers! 