If more primitive animals have ventral nervous system and dorsal circulatory systems; the opposite of vertebrates, when, evolutionarily speaking, did the switch happen, and are there any missing links in the animal kingdom?
I am not a developmental biologist, but it is actually pretty simple.  Your so called "primitive" animals are all protostomes.  That means that in development the mouth forms first, and the anus second.  All protostomes have a ventral nerve cord, and a dorsal circulatory system.  In contrast your "advanced" organisms (including such advanced animals as sea urchins and acorn worms) are deuterostomes which means that in development the anus forms first, and the mouth second all have the opposite (dorsal nerve cord and ventral circulatory system). This difference in development is hugely important, since it is one of the first developmental features we see.  Essentially we (and all deuterostomes) are built upside down.  My guess is that there is little adaptive significance to whether the nervous system is dorsal or ventral, rather it reflects this very basic difference in development. As to when the switch from protostome to deuterostome took place, my guess is it is very ancient, certainly before the Cambrian.  I would also speculate that it is a consequence of the early deuterostomes being sessile (non-moving) filter feeders.  It is generally thought that the process that leads to the formation of the mouth or anus, gastrulation, is very ancient, and that it has to do with which cells had flagella, and which were reproductive (apparently you can't be both).  To wildly speculate, we can imagine that some early filter feeders perhaps started feeding face down in the mud, and developed to be "face up" filter feeders.  They then, rather than re-settling, might have reversed the flow of their gut to accommodate this.  This is of course wild speculation, so DO NOT pretend there is any reality to the scenario I speculated on. To be crude about it, us deuterostomes are built upside down and backwards, so if it sounds like I don't know what I am talking about, it is because I am talking out of my a**. 