I want to know everything about bikes. How do they work? What should be looked for before categorizing them into good and bad? What are cc, strokes, etc.?
In this answer I will be trying to make you understand the terms which you are going to face often on the web pages of different motorcycles. 4 Stroke Engine A 4 stroke engine is the one in which the piston completes four separate strokes while turning a crankshaft. A stroke refers to the full travel of the piston along the cylinder, in either  direction. 4 strokes can be categorized as following : (Please refer to this animation as I couldn't incorporate it in my answer Four-stroke engine ) Intake: Open the intake valve(right one in the following diag.) so that air fuel mixture can come into the chamber. Compression: Compress the air fuel mixture. Power: While the mixture is fully compressed and piston is at its top most position, ignite the mixture using spark plug.Ignition leads to expansion of air-fuel mixture and thus forces the piston down to its bottom most position. Expansion: Exhaust valve (left one in above diag.) is opened and the piston forces the residual air-fuel mixture out of the chamber. These days all bike engines are of 4 strokes so their is no need to get further into it. Let's start focusing on more important aspects. 4 Valve and 2 Valve In above diag. you can see there is one valve present for intake and one valve for exhaust of air fuel mixture hence the term 2 valve engine. In a 4 valve engine, there are 2 intake valves and 2 exhaust valves. Just as when you run at fast speeds you start taking breath from mouth as well, having 2 extra valves will help engine to get air-fuel mixture in sufficient amounts at higher rpms. Sports bike like R15 and CBR have 4 valve engine whereas 2 valve engines are more common in street bikes. SOHC and DOHC In the engine diagram shown above, just above the rods attached to intake and exhaust valves, you can see two rotating pieces having a bulge outside. This mechanical piece is known as Cam and the bulge present at its surface helps to open and close the intake and exhaust valves just at right moments. Both cams used to be attached to a single rotating shaft, known as Camshaft, as shown in the following diagram. Fig. 1: The two bulgy pieces are Cams and the whole structure of cams and shaft/rod going through them is called Camshaft. Orange pieces are the rods connecting intake and exhaust valves. (Refer Camshaft for complete animation) In a 2 valve engine a single camshaft is enough to open and close intake and exhaust valves by placing the cams at appropriate angles. Things get complicated in a 4 valve engine. There are two options to circumvent this problem : i) Use two camshafts, each camshaft having 2 cams for 2 inatke valves and  other camshaft having cams for 2 exhaust valves. ii) Use single camshaft alongwith more complicated mechanism to operate all 4 valves. Hence, the name dervied are : SOHC : Single Overhead Camshaft DOHC : Double Overhead Camshaft Fig 2: 2 Valve SOHC Engine ( Image source Motorcycle Specifications ) Fig 3: 2 Valve DOHC Engine ( Image source Motorcycle Specifications ) As the camshafts are present just directly at the head of the engine, hence the name Overhead. Just to avoid any confusion, camshafts are present outside the engine but just above its head. DOHC layout has better valve opening and closing timings and more precise also but increases the weight and number of moving parts in engine. SOHC although will be lighter but we will have to use rocker arms to control the valves. CBR has 4 valve DOHC engine while R15 has 4 valve SOHC engine. 2 valve engine bikes have usual SOHC. Spark Plug Position of spark plug plays key role in the efficient combustion of air-fuel mixture, as the ignition should spread evenly in the chamber. A 4 valve DOHC engine offers very favourable top central position for spark plug. In case of 4 valve SOHC engine, due to single camshaft present at top central position, spark plug is placed slightly away from this key position. Fig 4: 4 Valve DOHC Engine with spark plug in the middle of 4 vlaves (Image source http://www.caranddriver.com ) Bajaj has been using DTSi technology which use two spark plugs instead of one for more efficient combustion although other key players are able to give equivalent benefits using only single spark plug. Air Cooled and Liquid Cooled Air cooled engines are cooled naturally by outside air. They generally have fins present to dissipate more heat. Fig 5: Air cooled engine. (Image source http://zxj510228.en.ec21.com ) Liquid cooled engine is surrounded by a continusouly flowing coolant which absorbs the heat and dissipate it at the radiator. Liquid cooling is used in the engines having high compression ratio, which can operate at high rpms as sports bike. Fig 6: Liquid cooled engine (Image source http://www.iamabiker.com ) R15 and CBR use liquid cooled engine as opposed to air cooled engine in FZS, Gixxer, etc. Max Power and Max Torque These parameters are of great importance to look out for while comparing motorcycles but they are very hard to understand and quite confusing. I am incorporating few words from this article http://www.bikesindia.org/review... Power: The Power produced by any engine is the capacity of that engine to take the motorcycle to its maximum speed. Torque: The Torque generated by an engine is an entity which determines the pulling capacity of the bike.You will have to dive deep into this topic on your own. Displacement As given on Wikipedia, engine displacement is the volume swept by the piston inside the cylinder of engine in a single movement from top dead centre (topmost position) to bottom dead centre (bottommost position), commonly specified in cubic centimeters(cc). Generally higher the displacement higher the torque and power you get. But there is no direct relationship between displacement and power. For example Honda CB Trigger with 150cc engine given max power of 14 bhp whereas Honda CBR 150R with 150cc engine gives max power of 18 bhp. So instead of looking just at displacement, give more weightage to maximum torque and maximum power the engine can deliver. Disc Brake and Drum Brake In a disc brake, the brake pads squeeze the disc attached instead of the wheel, and the force is transmitted hydraulically instead of through a cable. Friction between the pads and the disc slows the disc down. Fig 7: Working of disc brake ( Image source http://auto.howstuffworks.com) In drum brake set of shoes or pads press outward against a rotating cylinder-shaped part called brake drum. Disc brakes are superior to drum brakes in stopping vehicle, they dissipate heat better and also have less wear and tear. General trend is to have disc brakes in front, as momentum is transferred to the from while stopping, and drum brakes in rear due to cost constraints. High end bikes have disc brakes in both front and rear. Fuel Injection and Carburetor Constant supply of air-fuel mixture in right proportions and in right amount to engine is of upmost importance and the amount should be adaptable according to the factors like the speed at which engine is running, load, etc. Before the advent of modern electronic sensors, this task was handled by a mechanical device called Carburetor. Fig 8: Carburetor (Image source http://www.rc-trucks.org) Now days, carburetors are replaced with electronic Fuel Injection systems which gather engine operation information using various sensors and then decide the control over the air-fuel mixture. Carburetor are still popular in motorcycles and there is a heated debate between which one to use. Carburetors can be diagnosed by a mechanic in case you got unlucky in some remote area and their performance have been quite satisfactory until now. Fuel injection systems provide better fuel efficiency and power but to what extent is a topic of debate. Also if you got unlucky with fuel injection system in a remote area, then there is not much that you can do. There are lot of other factors which you can find on internet. Twinshock and Monoshock Rear Suspension For rear suspension generally Twinshock absorbers are used but they add additional weight and get bendy and flexible in extreme riding conditions. Fig 9: Simplified view of twinshock absorber ( Image source The Car Maintenance Bibles ) These problems can be overcomed by the use of Monoshock absorbers. Fig 10: Monoshock absorber ( Image source BikeAdvice.in) Monoshock are more popular with high end sports bike and Twinshock with general street bikes. Full Fairing and Half Fairing A motorcycle fairing is a shell placed over the fame of some motorcycles with primary purpose to reduce air drag. Full fairings cover both upper and lower portions of motorcycles, as distinct from a half fairing, which only has an upper section, and leaves the lower half of the motorcycle exposed. Fig 11: Full fairing, most portion of engine gets hidden behind the fairing. (Image source http://sv1000.lsn.net ) Fig 12: Semi faired version of Karizma. (Image source Top Speed In) Kerb Weight Kerb weight is the total weight of a vehicle with standard equipment, all necessary operating consumables such as motor oil, transmission oil, coolant, air conditioning refrigerant, and a full tank of fuel, while not loaded with either passengers or cargo. So lesser the kerb weight more performance engine can provide. Wheelbase Wheelbase is the distance between the centers of the front and rear wheels. Well the shorter it is the quicker a  bike can turn and the longer it is the more stable it  will be. That is why criusers like Bajaj Avenger have much greater wheelbase compared to other street and sports bikes. Fig 13: (Image source http://www.carbibles.com )  More motorcycle geometry and handling factors can be read at Motorcycle Geometry 101. Tubeless Tyres Tubeless tyres do not require a separate inner tube and hence light weight and air leakage is slower in case of puncture. You can cover few more kilometers on motorcycle itself once tyre gets punctured. At the end of my answer, I will say that although the features described above play key role, factors which cannot be described but rather can only be experienced are handling, comfort, easiness in shifting gears, engine vibrations, noise and many more. I will also not recommend you to maximize the features described above as that will lead you only to Sports Bikes. Instead, first the select category from which you want your bike to be and then you can sort according to the above parameters. Bikes are broadly categorized as : Street Cruiser Sports Happy Hunting !! 