What are some interesting facts about spider webs?
The tensile strength of spider silk is greater than the same weight of steel and has much greater elasticity. Its microstructure is under investigation for potential applications in industry, including bullet proof vests and artificial tendons A few different types of spider webs are: Orb web Tangle web Funnel web Tubular web Sheet webDuring the process of making an orb web, the spider will use its own body for measurements. Every web begins with a single thread, which forms the basis of the rest of the structure. To establish this bridge, the spider climbs to a suitable starting point (up a tree branch, for example) and releases a length of thread into the wind. With any luck, the free end of the thread will catch onto another branch. If the spider feels that the thread has caught onto something, it cinches up the silk and attaches the thread to the starting point. It walks across the thread, releasing a looser thread below the first one. It attaches this thread on both ends and climbs to its center. The looser strand sags downward, forming a V-shape. The spider lowers itself from this point, to form a Y-shape. This forms the core support structure of the web. As it walks along the initial structural threads, it lays more frame threads between various anchor points. Then it starts laying out radius threads from the center of the web to the frames. The spider does not coat the frame and radius threads with sticky material, since it needs to walk across them to get around the web. After building all the radius threads, the spider lays more nonstick silk to form an auxiliary spiral, extending from the center of the web to the outer edge of the web. The spider then spirals in on the web, laying out sticky thread and using the auxiliary spiral as a reference. The spider eats up the auxiliary spiral as it lays out the sticky spiral, resulting in a web with non-sticky radius threads, for getting around, and a sticky spiral for catching bugs. The spider sits in the middle of its web, monitoring the radius threads for vibrations. If an insect gets caught in any part of the web, the spider will feel the motion through the radius threads and make its way to the vibration source. In this way, the web extends the spider's sensory system over a much wider area. The spider might also leave the web, to retreat to a separate nest, while monitoring the web via a connected signal line. The web is also electrically conductive which causes the silk threads to spring out to trap their quarry, as flying insects tend gain a static charge which attracts the silk. An experiment was conducted by NASA to check the effect of different drugs on a spider's web spinning ability. The aim was to see if spiders spinning webs under influence can be used to test different drugs and their toxicity. Here is a picture of a normal spider's web. This web was spun when the spider was dosed with Marijuana. The spider made a reasonably good start but appeared to lose concentration halfway Spider web created while exposed to Mescaline Web created while exposed to LSD The spider made this while on caffeine. It rendered the spider incapable of spinning anything other than a few random threads. Here's what the spider did on Benzedrine (speed). Spiders dosed with this sup with great enthusiasm but without planning and left large holes. Spider web on exposure to Chloral Hydrat (sleeping pills). The spider dropped off after barely starting. Another experiment was conducted by NASA in 1973 in which spiders spun webs in low earth orbit aboard the Skylab space station. The spiders proceeded to construct their web while a camera took photographs and examined the spiders' behavior in a zero gravity environment. Both spiders took a long time to adapt to weightlessness. However the web was completed after a couple of days. It was discovered that the space webs were finer than normal Earth webs. Although the patterns of the web were not totally dissimilar, variations were spotted, and there was a definite difference in the characteristics of the web. The space web also had variation in thickness while Earth webs have been observed to have uniform thickness. Recently researchers have developed a way to incorporate spiders' silk-spinning genes into goats, allowing the researchers to harvest the silk protein from the goats’ milk. This silk protein, known as BioSteel is 7 to 10 times stronger than steel compared for the same weight. 