If more primitive animals have ventral nervous system and dorsal circulatory systems; the opposite of vertebrates, when, evolutionarily speaking, did the switch happen, and are there any missing links in the animal kingdom?
This is a really interesting selection of partially-related questions. I have to start by saying that the evolution of dorsal and ventral nerve cords didn't happen in the way you assume. Early animals did not have a centralised nervous system, although they did have a digestive system with two openings (a mouth and an anus). Vertebrates, annelids (earthworms), arthropods (insects, millipedes, arachnids etc) and many other animal phyla are descended from such a simple common ancestor, and biologists broadly refer to our body plan as a "tube with two openings". Simple animals such as sea squirts that conserved the simple structure of a body with a digestive-tract cavity with two openings, and no central nervous system, survive to this day. (I don't know much about the development of the circulatory system, and such internal details don't fossilise well, so I can't answer that part of the question with any degree of reliability). Now, a centralised nervous system carries significant advantages, and in several branches of the early animal family tree, centralised nervous systems developed independently. In chordates (the parent group of vertebrates), the nerve cord condensed dorsally. In a common ancestor of arthropods, it condensed ventrally. This occurred before the Cambrian Period (so over 540 million years ago). Other patterns also evolved, such as the radial nervous system of sea stars. It's worth noting that there are chordates (with dorsal nerve cords) that are much simpler and more 'primitive' than many arthropods you can see today. The animal groups with dorsal and ventral nerve cord patterns are not rungs in a 'ladder of progress' (which is not how evolution works) but separate branches in the sprawling 'tree' of the animal kingdom. Your last question, about missing links, is commonly asked and has been answered many times on Quora. The answer is 'of course there are missing links', insofar as the term 'missing link' has any meaning. Think of it this way. Right now, there are many tens of thousands of species of animals on Earth, and we keep finding new ones. So there are many that are missing even now. Even among our closest relatives, the chimps, we didn't realise there was a second species (Pan paniscus, the Bonobo Chimp) until around the 1950s. And Pan fossils were first found in 2005! All these tens of thousands of animals are just the latest 'leaves' on the vast tree of life that extends back billions of years (or, at least, over half a billion for animals with complex body plans). New variations, species and subspecies are branching off all the time, with new subspecies sometimes appearing and then evolving into other distinct (though obviously very similar) subspecies in a couple of hundred thousand years. The species we see around us now represent the accumulation of hundreds of millions of years of gradual change. If we haven't found a single fossil example of a minor ancestor in the evolution of, say, the murray cod, then that would technically represent a "missing link" for that line. But there are many ways of measuring the relatedness of murray cod to other fish (such as genetic analysis and comparison of body structures) so not having a fossil of some obscure ancestral species is really quite meaningless. Almost all ancestral animal species that are no longer with us are "missing links", and this will always be the case, no matter how many fossils we dig up. I hope this answer has helped you better understand how dorsal and ventral nerve cords developed in separate branches, and how scientists think of the concept of the "missing link" (not at all, really). Updated 64w ago • View Upvotes