What are the most interesting facts you know?
The Man Buried in a Pringles Can In 1966, Baur came up with a clever way for Procter & Gamble to stack chips uniformly rather than tossing them in a bag. He was so proud of the achievement, he wanted to go to his grave with it. So when Baur died in June 2008, his children buried the 89-year-old's ashes in one of his iconic cans. Read more: The Man Buried in a Pringles Can - TIME Breaking News, Analysis, Politics, Blogs, News Photos, Video, Tech Reviews - TIME.com Nuclear Attack if BBC Radio 4 is off Word is that if the captains of the four Trident-armed subs of Britain can’t tune into Britain’s flagship morning radio show for three consecutive days, then they know the UK is done for and it’s time to break out the codes and fire off the deadly weapons Radio 4′s nuclear safety secrets: You won’t believe what’s in the airwaves Carl Sagan Units As a humorous tribute to Sagan and his association with the catchphrase "billions and billions", a sagan has been defined as a unit of measurement equivalent to a large number of anything. Finland's nuclear waste bunker built to last 100,000 yearsThere is a nuclear waste repository under construction set to be completed in 2100 and then sealed shut intentionally for over 100,000 years. The crew has considered placing markers on the site with every major language to warn future generations not to drill into the bedrock. Finland's nuclear waste bunker built to last 100,000 years Love Letter In Bottle Found 85 Years Later -- Fisherman Finds WWI Soldier's Note In 1999 a fisherman found a love letter in a bottle from a soldier in WWI. He returned said letter to the now deceased widows 86 year old daughter. Love Letter In Bottle Found 85 Years Later -- Fisherman Finds Soldier's Note The neurons of a dead squid in a japanese dish called odori-don are activated by soy sauce, causing it to "dance". Mona Lisa The Mona Lisa was painted with eyebrows and eyelashes, but they disappeared over time, possibly the result of over-cleaning. Solved: Why Mona Lisa doesn't have eyebrows - Telegraph Voyager: Engineers designing the Voyager mission planned it to avoid planetary encounters over Thanksgiving and Christmas. Porkchop plot Little Known Punctuations: Sarcasm: Rhetorical Question mark: 13 Little-Known Punctuation Marks We Should Be Using COSTA RICA: A Country without an army On the 1st of December 1948, Costa Rica disbanded its army in order to avert a civil war, but also and above all, to invest more in education and medicine, improving dramatically the standard of living of its inhabitants in less than 10 years Costa Rica: a country without an army Microsoft is making an astonishing $2 billion per year from Android patent royalties. Android is generating $2 billion a year... for Microsoft Power in case of both engine failure in Aeroplanes A Ram Air Turbine (RAT) is a small turbine that is installed in an aircraft and used as an alternate or emergency hydraulic or electrical power source. The RAT generates power from the airstream based on the speed of the aircraft and is connected to an electrical generator or to a hydraulic pump. In general, modern aircraft only utilize the RAT in emergency: either in the event of loss of hydraulic systems or following the loss of primary electrical generation. In these cases the RAT will power vital systems such as flight controls or flight-critical instrumentation, navigation and communication equipment. One of the first test already done in the A350 MSN1 test-flights has been the RAT emergency power system. "Sea Snake" for electricity generation using wave power Scots warm to power of the sea Digitizing Books One Word at a Time reCAPTCHA improves the process of digitizing books by sending words that cannot be read by computers to the Web in the form of CAPTCHAs for humans to decipher. More specifically, each word that cannot be read correctly by OCR is placed on an image and used as a CAPTCHA. Stop Spam, Read Books Sustainable Buildings - Bahrain World Trade Center The wind turbines are expected to provide 11% to 15% of the towers' total power consumption, or approximately 1.1 to 1.3 GWh a year. This is equivalent to providing the lighting for about 300 homes. Bahrain World Trade Center Women's Hair cutoff to prevent suicide That during the 1971 genocide in Bangladesh, the Pakistani Army would cut off the hair of women being held in Rape Camps to prevent them from committing suicide by using their hair to hang themselves. Rape during the Bangladesh Liberation War Hindu Kush Mountain Range between Pakistan and Afghanistan The name Hindu Kush means literally 'Kills the Hindu', a reminder of the days when Indian slaves from the Indian subcontinent died in the harsh weather typical of the Afghan mountains while being transported to Central Asia. Hindu Kush Updated 111w ago • View Upvotes