What are the benefits/differences between wood cut riftsawn, plainsawn, and quartersawn?
Riftsawn wood has the most consistent grain and is least likely to cup or curl with changes in moisture. As you can see from your diagram it is tough to saw like that and there is substantial waste. Most common uses of rift sawn would likely be split from a log and used for things such as high end musical instruments or other decorative wood working. You will never see rift sawn wood in most lumber yards. It would be a specialty item. Quartersawn gives most of the benefit of riftsawn, but has a lot less waste. While it is usually priced at a premium it is a lot more available.The resulting lumber is typically labeled as "vertical grain" Plainsawn is commonly used for lumber. It is easy and cheap to do, and contrary to Steve Davis's answer, it can be just as strong as quartersawn - dependent on the orientation of the load on the resulting board. Plainsawn often has the least attractive grain as the width and orientation of growth rings changes along the width of the board. You can see that the center parts of plain sawn wood are the same as quartersawn. Sometimes you can pick those prime boards out of a pallet of cheaper wood. Grain is important as regards to shrinkage and movement as shown in the diagram below: You can see that shrinkage is not different depending where you are in the log. Wood shrinks more across the grain than it does with the grain. In the diagram you can see that this can cause cupping or other distortions as the wood swells and shrinks with changes in humidity. You can also see the cracks in the wood where shrinkage causes irreconcilable tension. As they are radial, they are more likely in flat sawn wood. The other way of sawing which is not shown is rotarysawn wood. This is used for veneers and plywood as it can produce large consistent sheets of wood. Grain variation in this case depends on the type of wood and how close to cylindrical it is as well as how wide the growth rings are and how concentric they are. Additionally, these veneers can be put together into engineered lumber or laminated veneer lumber (LVL) This has the advantages of maximizing the strength and minimizing warps and checks as the plies can be oriented to produce something more stable and strong than natural lumber (which has stresses and defects which may cause it to fail). 