What is the greatest mystery of all time?
The phrase "unsolved mysteries" coupled with "famous" sparks one name in my mind, which all Pink Floyd fans, or otherwise, must be familiar with. PUBLIUS ENIGMA What is Publius Enigma? During the 1994 publicity of The Division Bell, EMI and Columbia Records did all sorts of weird stuff. Columbia Records floated a 59 meters long zeppelin airship (called the Division Belle) which conveyed the following message: "A spokesperson for Pink Floyd has issued the  following statement: You have spotted the Pink Floyd Airship. Do not be  alarmed. Pink Floyd have sent their airship to North America to deliver a  message. The Pink Floyd Airship is headed towards a destination where  all will be explained upon arrival. Pink Floyd will communicate." A person calling himself Publius appeared on the Usenet Newsgroup on June 11th, 1994 to help people solve the enigma by providing "clues". This quest is called The Publius Enigma. His most famous clarification for the follow up of the enigma was: On 16th July, Publius made the prediction  "July 18th, Flashing of white lights. There is an Enigma, Trust". Following this, on the 18th July 1994, the patterns in the lights on the front of the stage at the Pink Floyd concert in East Rutherford momentarily spelled out the words "ENIGMA PUBLIUS". (skip to 3:35 in the video to see the words ENIGMA PUBLIUS appear) Since then, many people have made futile attempts to connect the lyrics, artwork, music videos from the Division Bell to conclusively solve the enigma. It must be noted that Pink Floyd member Nick Mason himself confirmed the existence of the Publius Enigma. Who is Publius? To this day, the identity of Publius remains unknown! Why is the enigma famous? This specific enigma is famous not only because no one has solved it so far, but because nobody knows whether there is an enigma to be solved or not! EMI records and Pink Floyd claim that there certainly is a mystery in the Division Bell. Further, the unknown identity of Publius makes it even more intriguing. P.S. Those interested in the publius messages can find them here: The original, first Publius message: http://goo.gl/mmbql A compilation of ALL Publius messages: http://www.angelfire.com/co/1x13... Sources: [1] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pub... [2] http://www.pinkfloydonline.com/t... 