★Is peer-to-peer car-sharing a big market opportunity? If so, which company will win: RelayRides, Getaround, Wheelz or Upshift?Or none of the above. Can car-sharing become a big business like Airbnb or are the differences too fundamental to be mainstream!
For starters, I'm not sure that Airbnb is a huge opportunity. It has lots of challenges. But leaving that aside, I think car sharing is an even smaller opportunity. There are a lot of situations for which car sharing doesn't work: If you're in a rural or suburban area. Car ownership is virtually required in these situations, because things are spaced too far apart to make walking or public transit usable. Car sharing services require high enough population density for it to be easy to find a car near you. If you have kids. Do you really want to be putting car seats in and out of temporary rental cars? If you have a regular commute requiring a vehicle. Most jobs today are roughly the same hours. (As anyone who sits in traffic on the 101 knows.) Car utilization has peaks and troughs. Sure, my car may sit unused at an office 9-12 and 1-5. But few other people are looking for cars during those times, in a commute situation. City dwellers who don't have driver's licenses. As hard as it may be for some to believe, a lot of New Yorkers don't have driver's license. And the trend has been that people get their licenses later in life. I'm in the category of people for whom car sharing could theoretically work: I work from home, I live in downtown SF and can walk to most things I need. I use my car at most once a week to drive down to the valley for meetings. It would make some sense for me to either put my car on a ride sharing service or to sell my car and use Zipcar and Getaround for my car needs. My car is technically on Getaround, but I haven't rented it out once. The primary reason: I don't want to deal with short rentals. I live in San Francisco and have a convoluted parking situation. It's not worth my time to meet someone and give them the keys to my car for $10. Theoretically, Getaround could let me say that I will only accept rentals of two days or more. That would address that issue. (Update: Apparently the team listened to my previous complaining about this issue and added an option to set a minimum rental period. But the maximum minimum is 6 hours.) A secondary issue is that because I live in SF, I tend to store some stuff in my car. I don't want to have to take that crap in an out. Of course, each person is going to have his or her own threshold for what's worthwhile. But I'm not sure I'd want to rent a car from an individual owner who thinks it's worthwhile to rent out a car for an hour for $5. (hmmm.... how's the maintenance?) This is different from fleet companies who do this for a business and have reputations to maintain. For liability reasons, those companies have regular maintenance and inspection programs; many individuals don't. Suppose I sell my car because the combination of Getaround, Zipcar, Uber, Lyft, public transit and walking around is good enough for my needs. (Although they are each competitive to some extent, I consider them complementary goods.) In that case, the problem of "excess capacity" becomes diminished because I just sold off capacity. The popularity of such services becomes a constraint on growth. Overall, I love the idea for the potential environmental good and overall economic efficiency. I think the availability of ZipCar, Getaround, Uber, public transit and companies like car2go (Car2Go could radically transform urban transportation) could be a great option for urbanites to avoid buying cars. Around the margins, I could see it being used for specialty vehicles: I need a Costco run, let me get a pickup. It's a nice sunny day, I want a convertible. (But in that case, you probably don't want to rent that convertible to me.) But I'm not convinced it's a gigantic business. From a pure financial perspective, ZipCar is valued at $441 million. And ZipCar only has to sell to one side.    Embed Quote