★Which insurance broker can help me insure a peer to peer online rental business?If I am connecting people to rent from each other. How can I buy an insurance policy to make sure the person renting out the equipment is protected? The equipment that would be rented would be home and garden products. A lawn mower, power tools, tables, power washers etc.
I agree with Steven, no need to discuss which insurers write such business for most types of commercial insurance you will need to go through a broker.  I recommend you contact an independent broker specializing in commercial risks.    Certainly, there is coverage available for equipment rented to others; however, that is generally used for enterprises.  Doing this as a peer to peer system creates some difficulty in that you (as the party arranging the rental) have no insurable interest in the equipment itself (you neither own it nor are financially prejudiced if it is damaged) so you would not be able to get a policy.  What would be necessary to protect against loss or damage would be for each property owner participating to have coverage for equipment rented to others.  Most of what you describe as the equipment being provided would be considered contents under the owner's home owner's policy; however, most policies explicitly exclude contents rented out to others.  These owners could likely get an endorsement through their existing homeowner's insurance to remove that exclusion.  If their property insurers won't remove the exclusion then they will need to approach a specialty lines broker to get a stand alone equipment rental policy; however, unless they are renting out equipment very frequently or at very high rates it may not be cost effective for them to insure through this means and they may be better off just self insuring (given the cost of the equipment you describe is not all that great).   For you as the person arranging the rental; you'll probably want to get a Commercial General Liability policy and an Errors and Omissions policy.   Quick note... I'm in claims, so my business is investigating and interpreting coverage.  Any advice I give should be seen only as a starting point and you should definately approach an insurance broker, as they are specifically trained to assess your insuring needs and find products to protect you.    Embed Quote