★How should peer-to-peer marketplaces deal with trust and safety issues?Here's an article about what various startups are doing to ensure safety for their users: http://t.co/HYmRnup5
All the answers seems very legit, but I'd divide the way to 'handle trust & safety' into 2 different things: 1. Handling trust & safety for your company - catching fraud, avoiding scammers, dealing with trust issues and all of the risk management that has to do with p2p marketplaces. 2. Managing trust & safety for your customers - which is what you actually do when the customer experience becomes bad experience. I actually think that many people answered about most of the things that you can do about the first section - which is mostly technical and operational (and very important), and is probably a key success factor for the second section - of how you should manage it with your customers, which is much more important in the long run - as if you won't manage this correctly, you won't only lose money in the short run - you won't have a business to manage in the long run. However, one thing that Chad Wittman wrote - "Guarantees" - is much more important than you can imagine for a p2p marketplace. Trust is the basis of every transaction, downplaying that in any kind of way is just wrong - you can't go around the basic promise to your customer - that what you offer through your service should be exactly the same as you committed when they purchased it through you, it doesn't matter if it's a book bought through Amazon (company), a ride your'e taking with Uber (company) or a room you booked from Roomer - when something is not right, from shipping to check-in, than you have a trust issue. If your'e not ready to protect your customer when something that has nothing to do with you happens and hurts their customer experience - than your'e probably in the wrong business. For example, If you don't think that you should cover your customer for a broken iPhone that he bought through you, even though it was broken by FedEx - or if there was never an iPhone at all, as the seller was a fraudster - than you are in the wrong business. I think that the first thing to do is to think about the kind of company you are - you can have the best fraud system in the world, but to give a shitty customer experience - and many companies fail in that. I hope that my answer so far wasn't too fluffy and up in the air, so I'll try to conclude that in few points: 1. Decide - how great of a customer experience your'e going to guarantee (the answer you should give to yourself is THE FUCKING BEST). That will be a nice vision for start, but than will easily translate to KPIs of response time, emergency hot line staffing, manpower, refunds etc. The beautiful part about that is that if you do it right - you'll see an increase in retention, organic word to mouth growth, and people that actually care about your company, as it stands for something. 2. Act like it - It's easy to say "i'll have the best customer experience in the world". But when it comes to actually executing it, and paying for customer support training, hiring and refunding customers (even though it wasn't your fault) - than you are becoming the company you were envisioning. In fact, I don't know any company that ever said: "Let's have a shitty customer experience. Let's make people wait 45 mins on the line just to say - 'sorry, I can't help you'". But I know many companies that have a great vision for customer experience, but when the moment came they never budgeted the customer experience team well enough; they didn't measure the NPS; they didn't refund the customer because it seemed to expensive. Trust me - this is the test you want to pass. Not only for the customers - but for your company. How many people are sharing this awesome customer experience story - Zappos Milestone: Customer Service? 3. Keep improving - you can always do better job with your customers; Ship faster, answer faster, answer better, upgrade. If your business grows, the solutions you had for 5 clients are not the same for 500; and what you had for 500 isn't relevant for 50,000;  Keep improving. I hope this helps, Gon    Embed Quote