★How do peer-to-peer money transfers work?I am curious about how Square, Venmo, PayPal etc. handle peer-to-peer payments. Do they transfer the money through their own merchant account? Or can they give order to make direct transfers (ACH for ex.) between two accounts on behalf of their owners?
All payments are peer-to-peer. The basic axioms of a payment being made is typically there are two peers, one gets the debit and the other gets the credit. In the payments world, the word peer-to-peer has many different connotations. To understand how PayPal works, you might want to read up on this answer: Faisal Khan's answer to What is a Paypal account? To understand how a traditional money-transfer works, here is a detailed write up on that: Faisal Khan's answer to How does a remittance money transfer work? What are all the steps and who is involved? To understand how the wire-transfer element works, here is a write up on that: Faisal Khan's answer to What exactly happens when a wire transfer is made? Lastly, to understand how net deferred settlement occurs, you need to understand how that happens: Faisal Khan's answer to How does the settlement of payments work in banks? Most of the payment systems follow one of the above approach. The model of say TransferWise or CurrencyFair, who also do peer-to-peer transfers but do not actually exchange any money, is done by netting off  the demand & supply in each region. Consider two countries: UK and Australia UK: Bob want to send Jane GBP 1,000 to Australia. Australia: David wants to send GBP 1,000 worth of Australian Dollars to Mark. This is a perfect example of supply and demand. Wouldn't it be ideal if... Bob gives Mark the GBP 1,000 when he is assured that Jane will get money from David (GBP 1,000). In this case, no money transfers happen internationally. Both parties are replying on an exchange platform (like TransferWise, CurrencyFair, et. al.) to provide liquidity and the ability to pair currency-trades. When companies like Venmo, PayPal, etc. have monies in their wallet, the peer-to-peer payment (within their ecosystem) is simply an intra-bank movement (see the PayPal write up example quoted above).    Embed Quote