★How should peer-to-peer marketplaces deal with trust and safety issues?Here's an article about what various startups are doing to ensure safety for their users: http://t.co/HYmRnup5
Trust & safety must be an absolute top priority Any business in the P2P marketplace relies on trust & safety as a fundamental building block to the entire concept of the business. Said in a different way, your business won't work if you don't make it a top priority. Each business has their different ways of building trust & safety with their customers. I'll outline a few key ways that successful P2P startups take this issue seriously: Background Checks Insurance Inspections Interviews GPS Tracking Guarantees Customer Reviews 1) Background Checks When starting Dolly, I was shocked to learn what a background check is. At the end of the day, it's about proving (in court) that a company did their "due diligence" on the background of an individual. If the P2P marketplace is to thrive in this world, this must be changed. Luckily, most good businesses agree on this principle and have taken on the additional costs of running more thorough background checks. Certain businesses will require more or less thorough checks, but I believe that P2P businesses should be doing at least the following: Felonies Sex Offender Federal, State, & County Level Searches 2) Insurance All P2P businesses need insurance to a differing degree of intensity. This can range from full-on insurance coverage by a top tier firm to a policy that holds the company to their word (for example: promising to replace the value of an item if damaged or stolen). The archaic insurance industry is prime for disruption. These companies are dropping golden opportunity after golden opportunity to insure new emerging businesses that won't forget when they were turned down for a "new business model". Note: Any hungry entrepreneurs out there, consider building an insurance agency that will go out and provide insurance to these P2P marketplaces. 3) Inspections Each business will have a different need to "inspect" things. For Etsy, it might be to randomly buy products to get a feel for what they're selling. For Uber, it might be inspecting vehicles every 6 months. For Airbnb, it might be inspecting a home occasionally. Whatever the choice of the business, the concept of inspections should exist. The goal of the inspections is to instill a set of expectations within the consumer's mind. An interesting way of doing this at scale is to partner with a company (nationwide garages for Uber) or triggering inspections after low reviews (maybe something like Airbnb). 4) Interviews Interviews provide a human element of trust to the equation. Fair or not, they provide a layer of quantification around "niceness", "friendly", & "creepy" that we can't quite pull automatically. I've heard of interesting innovation around leveraging something like mechanical turk to churn through video interviews to gauge candidates against the previously mentioned variables. At the end of the day, it allows businesses to communicate to their customers that the person they've hired via the P2P platform meets a certain "human" bar of quality. 5) GPS Tracking This may not be an option for all P2P marketplaces, but let me speak about this for the businesses that heavily leverage smartphones. For a company like Dolly, we're able to GPS track our Helpers while they are transporting a person's belongings. This provides a layer of trust that enables the customer to "watch" their stuff along the way. It also provides a layer of trust after the completion of the job, as we now have a record of where this item went along it's journey. It's about holding people accountable to a multitude of variables that a customer would expect when paying a business for a service. 6) Guarantees Guarantees are timeless. The reality is: they work. Good P2P marketplaces stand behind their work, great P2P marketplaces stand behind the work of their supply. Guarantees don't have to be elaborate, think of Men's Warehouse: "you're going to like the way you look, I guarantee it". What does that even mean? None the less, a layer of trust has been added. 7) Customer Reviews Customer reviews are tough. In a day and age where they can be easily faked and deployed rapidly, it's harder to trust things these days. The key here is to provide real and specific customer reviews directly related to the supply. The closer you can move the review to the exact use case of the next customer, the better. For Etsy, it might be matching up demographic information of "buyers like me" to provide the most awesome and helpful reviews. For Dolly, it might be a very similar item that was moved recently. The user can "confirm" that a job of similar difficulty will be accomplish without a problem for themselves. Conclusion Each business will have it's own path & standards on how they choose to implement trust and safety for their customers. Each business will also have a vastly varying set of expectations from their customers. The final aspect of this challenge is that it will always be evolving as customer's needs change and technology enables new forms of trust building.    Embed Quote