★What are your experiences investing on the peer-to-peer lending site Prosper?Would be interested in getting a general understanding of your experiences and perhaps sharing your perception of the risk/reward trade off.
I heard about Prosper in late 2007, and wanted to know how it worked.  I got around to putting in $1000 on May 3, 2008, and figured I'd leave it there for about 3-5 years or so. My statement for the end of May, 2008 shows a value of $1007.04.  I remember being frustrated at not being able to invest as much as I'dve liked, as quickly.  I kept losing out on auctions, and ended up trying to just get into whatever seemed to be closing soon, so I could put the money to work.  I felt that there really wasn't enough information regarding the various borrowers, and didn't care much for the automatic investment plans, but I'd play.  It's much more interesting than Vegas, after all; and as both a commercial banker and former bond analyst, I was very curious to see how this process differed from the credit and investment analysis process that I was familiar with. Then, quite simply, I forgot about it.  I know the site was closed to additional investment for a long period of time. I was going to try to cash out, or at least try to figure out how I would go about having as much cash as I could take withdrawn from my account, but it was all too complicated to deal with, and I thought - $1000, whatever - I'll get back to it later.  I got back on and reinvested some of the cash in my account in March of this year. I just looked at my September 2011 statement (I had forgotten about it, again - statement notices get sent to an email account I don't check very often).  I have $364.63 principal value of active notes.  I have $527.13, in cash.  So, the total "value" of my account, as of September 2011, is $891.76.  My original investments were 46% rated A or better, according to the scoring system at the time, with a return anticipated, if I recall correctly, of more than 11% or even higher.  Looking back at my year-end statements, in 2008, I had $0 in charge-offs, and showed a total value over $1000, with only one note, at that time running late. In 2009, I had about $300 in charge-offs.  In 2010,  I had another $40 in charge-offs.  Recoveries have been very, very slim, and dwarfed by service and collection fees.  My current notes, all $350 are all current. And so, I'm going to put the rest to work.  What the hey.  I think it's quite possible that I could end up making a little money; certainly 2008/2009 was an anomaly, and Prosper has made some significant changes to its models and process.  Truth is, it's a lot of work, for little money.   I feel like maybe I'm helping out some people who are, for one reason or another, having challenges borrowing  elsewhere; from personal experience I know how bad things can be when all you need is a few thousand dollars for just a few weeks to keep your house from coming down around you, and there's no place to get it from. I am truly indebted to those friends who have helped me out in the past, and given me a moment to right my near-dire straits.  I think sites like Prosper serve a very important function in the consumer market for money.  I haven't tried Lending Club or Peerform, at least not yet. But maybe Vegas is a better bet; and perhaps there, I could drink for free. In about two years, I'll let you know.  I have a feeling I might end up with a pretty decent return overall, although I'm sure it will be a bumpy ride.    Embed Quote