★What is the best payment solution for a peer-to-peer online marketplace?
I work at Stripe and would be happy to pitch in here. You could use one of two products for your marketplace: Stripe Connect or our Transfers API (https://stripe.com/blog/send-pay...). I've outlined some of the main points of differentiation between the two models below, but we'd be happy to help you out at support@stripe.com if you have any additional questions about which one works best for your business. Stripe Connect is a simple and straightforward way for platforms to set up payments for their users without being directly involved in the flow of funds. Our Transfers API allows you to collect funds into one Stripe account and transfer funds via ACH with one simple API call. It's intended for Stripe users who are providing some service or product for their customers, but need to be able to pay out third parties like sellers, vendors, or service providers. Flow of funds With Stripe Connect, you'll send your users to Stripe in a co-branded flow that enables them to connect an existing Stripe account or seamlessly create a new one. They'll then be redirected back to your site, and you'll automatically have access to their Stripe account. When collecting customer payments, you'll redirect the payments to your users' accounts via their respective API keys, and all transfers are automatically handled by Stripe. You'll have full API access to charge your users a transaction fee on top of Stripe's fees (to be deposited in your own bank account) or refund payments, but you'll never have to worry about being in the flow of funds or dealing with any extra accounting. With our Transfers API, you'll first collect all of the payments in your own Stripe account. Your payees will likely never know about Stripe: they'll submit their bank account details directly on your site, and you'll have the ability to progammatically send them ACH transfers to their bank account via the API. This means you'll have fine-grained control over what, when, and where you send money to from your Stripe account. However, this also means that you'll need to keep track of how much you owe each of your users and trigger payouts explicitly. User Relationships With Stripe Connect, your users have a Stripe account, so they'll have a direct relationship with Stripe: we'll underwrite them, take care of sending them automatic transfers for the funds they've received, and handle issuing 1099-K forms. Your users will also have access to the full Stripe dashboard including reporting, analytics, and payment management functionality (though you're welcome to provide your own dashboard for your users by pulling the data through the API). With our Transfers API, you'll have full control over your relationship with your users. You'll vet and collect bank account details from individuals or businesses you'd like to send money to, handle payout schedules and customer support, and be responsible for sending them 1099-MISC tax forms, if necessary (If I'm transferring funds to a payee (sellers, vendor, etc) via the API, do I need to issue them a 1099-MISC?). Refunds, Disputes With Stripe Connect, the responsibility for refunds or disputes lies with your users and not with the platform (though, through the API, you have the power to take refund and dispute actions on behalf of your user). Your users should also have a direct relationship with their customers: their business name will appear on the credit card statements, and they'll be ultimately responsible for refunds or disputes. With our Transfers API, your platform will handle and is ultimately responsible for all refunds, disputes and customer support. It should be clear to your user that they're paying you directly, and your business name will appear on your customers' credit card statements.    Embed Quote