★What is the best payment solution for a peer-to-peer online marketplace?
As Justin Benson has already mentioned, Balanced is a great payments platform for online marketplaces operating in the US -- it's specifically designed for marketplaces (and crowdfunding platforms) -- but I wanted to provide a bit more information: Overview Balanced allows marketplaces to: Charge credit cards (aka Balanced Processing) Hold funds in an escrow-like account Initiate payouts via next-business day ACH (aka Balanced Payouts) Processing and Payouts can be used separately or together, as most of our marketplace partners are. Paying the middleman Using Balanced, the marketplace can charge User A $100 and payout $90 to User B, while saving $10 for itself, implying a 10% commission levied against the merchant. The marketplace could also charge User A $110 and payout $100 to User B, implying a 10% commission levied against the buyer. Or the marketplace could charge User A $100 and payout $100 to User B, implying no commission at all. Seamlessly Neither the buyer nor the seller need to create a separate Balanced account, and there are no redirects or iframes. Balanced offers a completely white-labeled API that allows the marketplace to tokenize card and bank information, and even underwrite a merchant without getting in the way. More info in our docs: Balanced Docs Security Balanced handles PCI compliance issues for the marketplace by providing a Javascript include -- balanced.js -- that can be used to submit sensitive information like card and bank info directly from the end-user's browser to the Balanced servers. You won't have to worry about storing sensitive information, just a Balanced token. Learn more about balanced.js: balanced.js Ruby Integration Check out our fully-supported Ruby client: balanced-ruby Who else is using Balanced? We've got some great companies like Fancy (website), Zaarly (company), reddit (website), etc. Check out what a few of them have to say about us here: Why do you use Balanced for payments?    Embed Quote