★What are the risks of investing in peer to peer lending sites like Lending Club or Prosper.com?
Here the risks & possible mitigants that any P2P lending platform entails. Credit Risk The credit risk emanates from borrower's inability to repay decline in borrower's ability to repay in due course ill intention on part of borrower Operational Risk the P2P lending operators have not yet broken even and if they never reach that level or in the event of they not being able to raise sufficient capital to reach a level of break even, they may be forced to shut down. Legal/Regulatory To begin with the regulators themselves are not clear about the category in which this new financial intrument falls in - investments/securities or lending/banking. Further on, p2p is in fact a para-banking setup, something that may not be viewed as healthy by the governments/regulators which can result in death of the instrument altogether. Taxability of the income earned from the platform Market Risk Though it sounds difficult, yet not impossible that the banking fraternity realises the threat it has from p2p, it may work towards reducing the interest rate spread which is the basic principal the p2p industry hinges on. Liquidity Risk This comes from the fact that in times of need an investor may not be able to liquidate his investment before the maturity of the loan. While players like LC and Prosper have secondary markets, not all the players have it in place either due to their size of operations or due to ambiguity on the legals aspects. Risk Mitigants Having enumerated all the above risks, let me also mention that one can surely mitigate the Credit risk to a large extent by diversifying the investment among several borrowers. Another way to do so will be by selecting the borrowers with lower DTI's and higher credit grade. However, the latter will dent the investor's return and make p2p investment not worthy of the effort. As for the remaining sources of risk, the business volumes and the rate of growth at least at the main players - LC , Propser and Zopa and Ratesetter in the UK reasonably suggest that risks other than the Market risk will wane off sooner than later.    Embed Quote