★Is peer-to-peer car-sharing a big market opportunity? If so, which company will win: RelayRides, Getaround, Wheelz or Upshift?Or none of the above. Can car-sharing become a big business like Airbnb or are the differences too fundamental to be mainstream!
Rakesh Agrawal in general I would agree with your thoughts just wanted to strecht some details. Those comments have a European view and therefore needs to be adapted to the US. There is a difference between the corporate car sharing offerings by car2go (Daimler AG/Mercedes), driveNow (BMW) and similar by Volkswagen VW/Audi, Citroen/Peugot and Deutsche Bahn (in German railways) compared to private companies including Startups like you mentioned. Those corporates can afford to make their cars available e.g. for marketing purpose to present new models for trials in a car sharing model. Those models - like the new A-Class or the next generation Mini will be seen on the street and public places. People can try those cars when using the car sharing service. It will bring out cars to the street even when people can not afford own cars and the needed costs for parking and services to maintain their own cars. Corporate car sharing services are able to fund this part of the marketplace and focus on renters to increase utilisation of their fleet. Later on they can sell those cars via car dealer to car owners for an affordable price. In high density areas and metropoles like London, Oslo, Paris, urban mobility will be impacted by banning private cars from city centers. Cities and their governments have already implemented restrictions who is allowed to enter city centres with their own car. Increasing parking prices and subsidizing alternative mobility solutions are another way to make people not owning a car. A car sharing provider can make a deal with those municipalities to supply in-city-mobility with their fleet and keep private cars out of town. No additional parking spaces would be necessary because the number of cars is known and stable. People will enter the citiy via public transport, get a car sharing service at certain locations e.g. central station, airport, park&ride locations and from their use car sharing services inside a given area. I fully agree with you, that it is more convenient to have your own car - however you need to be able to afford it. Looking at the current global financial and economic crisis this may not be the truth for many people in those countries and areas the economy is hit hardest. Car sharing may be the only option to have a personal mobility solution even if this is on a limited time frame. When electricity will have a broader impact on car driving we will be faced with another issue of supply. it takes hours to reload batteries of those care but much less time to drive around and eat up the power of those batteries. So while the car is in charging position you wouldn't be able to drive with your car when needed. Car sharing would give you this supply because one of those cars will be fully charged for sure. You valid point of letting the kids seat in the car along with other private items will most likely need to change but for another reason. However if you are forced to take your belongings from the car due to the charging problem why not taking it with you due to car sharing? I fully agree with you on the hype topic on valuations. In case you are interested read my recent blog post on hype and "out-of-bounce-deals" here: "The hype" - when values getting out of bounce just for information I need to disclose that I am a VC investor in myTaxi (http:www.mytaxi.com) and car2go is my co-investor in this investment.    Embed Quote