★What is the best payment solution for a peer-to-peer online marketplace?
To shine some more light on Robert Oswald’s “chain” payments comment, WePay does support this functionality, which was coined by PayPal. In our documentation, we call it “app fees”, and they’re practically identical to the fees that any payment processor would take out of (off the top of) your transactions as a service fee. That being said, it is the native functionality of the WePay API (API - WePay). In fact, our API is built to let the marketplace remain relatively hands-off from the payments side of the business. It turns out there is this big black box in payments integrations around risk and operations that many marketplaces don’t know they’re getting into when they start. Risk Payments are risky. There are uncertain regulations on the horizon, and there are immediate challenges around fraud, chargebacks, money laundering, and payouts. Why deal with all of that? If you’re developing your marketplace and you think about the things that get you up in the morning and make you excited to start working, payments probably doesn’t fit into those memories. Instead, it’s probably on the list of things that keeps you up at night. That’s no fun; however, payments are going to help you monetize, and that’s good. It’s probably best to leave payments to the risk experts without disrupting your end-to-end user experience. From a technical perspective, that means you want someone else to create payment accounts for your merchants. You don’t want to touch money as it flows in and out of your marketplace. Operations The even lesser known side of payments operations (especially if you go to build a team in-house to handle support issues) is that it is hard work. You’re used to working hard, but this is different. There is one number that almost no payment processor will post publicly, or even measure internally, and that is card failure rate. It’s an ugly truth of the industry, but one that leads to a lot of frustration. Someone types a number incorrectly, or misspells a name. It happens, and card failure is just one issue in the complex world of payments. Accounts that are against TOS or are displaying suspicious behavior need to be shut down at some point. Who is going to be there when a customer calls with an issue? Who will scale with you as your customer base grows? Are you going to do that yourself? Seriously, it’s a headache you’d much rather delegate and not spend the extra resources on at the end of the day. Hey, you just want to take your app fee and call it a day, right? Well, that and keep perfecting your product. Oh, by the way, did I mention we have a Ruby SDK and tutorial? SDKs - WePay API Build a marketplace - WePay API    Embed Quote