Machine learning algorithms can be organized into a taxonomy based on the desired outcome of the algorithm or the type of input available during training the machine.
Supervised learning generates a function that maps inputs to desired outputs (also called labels, because they are often provided by human experts labeling the training examples). For example, in a classification problem, the learner approximates a function mapping a vector into classes by looking at input-output examples of the function. Unsupervised learning models a set of inputs, like clustering. See also data mining and knowledge discovery. Here, labels are not known during training. Semi-supervised learning combines both labeled and unlabeled examples to generate an appropriate function or classifier. Transduction, or transductive inference, tries to predict new outputs on specific and fixed (test) cases from observed, specific (training) cases. Reinforcement learning learns how to act given an observation of the world. Every action has some impact in the environment, and the environment provides feedback in the form of rewards that guides the learning algorithm. Learning to learn learns its own inductive bias based on previous experience.
Many models are used in the field defined at different levels of abstraction and modeling different aspects of neural systems. They range from models of the short-term behavior of individual neurons, models of how the dynamics of neural circuitry arise from interactions between individual neurons and finally to models of how behavior can arise from abstract neural modules that represent complete subsystems. These include models of the long-term, and short-term plasticity, of neural systems and their relations to learning and memory from the individual neuron to the system level.
Contrast set learning is a form of associative learning. Contrast set learners use rules that differ meaningfully in their distribution across subsets.[24]
Weighted class learning is another form of associative learning in which weight may be assigned to classes to give focus to a particular issue of concern for the consumer of the data mining results.
K-optimal pattern discovery provides an alternative to the standard approach to association rule learning that requires that each pattern appear frequently in the data.
Mining frequent sequences uses support to find sequences in temporal data.[25]
Generalized Association Rules hierarchical taxonomy (concept hierarchy)
Quantitative Association Rules categorical and quantitative data [26]
Interval Data Association Rules e.g. partition the age into 5-year-increment ranged
Maximal Association Rules
Sequential Association Rules temporal data e.g. first buy computer, then CD-Roms, then a webcam.
Decision trees used in data mining are of two main types:
Classification tree analysis is when the predicted outcome is the class to which the data belongs. Regression tree analysis is when the predicted outcome can be considered a real number (e.g. the price of a house, or a patient’s length of stay in a hospital).
The term Classification And Regression Tree (CART) analysis is an umbrella term used to refer to both of the above procedures, first introduced by Breiman et al.[3] Trees used for regression and trees used for classification have some similarities - but also some differences, such as the procedure used to determine where to split.[3]
Some techniques, often called ensemble methods, construct more than one decision tree:
Bagging decision trees, an early ensemble method, builds multiple decision trees by repeatedly resampling training data with replacement, and voting the trees for a consensus prediction.[4] A Random Forest classifier uses a number of decision trees, in order to improve the classification rate. Boosted Trees can be used for regression-type and classification-type problems.[5][6] Rotation forest - in which every decision tree is trained by first applying principal component analysis (PCA) on a random subset of the input features.[7]
Decision tree is the learning of decision tree from class labeled training tuples. A decision tree is a flow chart like structure, where each internal (non-leaf) node denotes a test on an attribute, each branch represents an outcome of the test, and each leaf (or terminal) node holds a class label. The topmost node in tree is the root node.
There are many specific decision-tree algorithms. Notable ones include:
ID3 (Iterative Dichotomiser 3) C4.5 algorithm, successor of ID3 CART (Classification And Regression Tree) CHi-squared Automatic Interaction Detector (CHAID). Performs multi-level splits when computing classification trees.[8] MARS: extends decision trees to better handle numerical data
ID3 and CART are invented independently of one another at around same time(b/w 1970-1980), yet follow a similar approach for learning decision tree from training tuples.
