What are the algorithms for determining if a point is inside an arbitrary closed shape or not?
Well..the human visual system is really complicated (a fully trained neuroscientist will be able to answer this better than I can) but I will take a crack at it. But you are correct in saying a human can immediately identify where the black dot is in that image. Our eyes and brain have some unique features that make it easy to identify. There are (in general) two streams of visual processing: the ventral ("what") and dorsal ("where") streams. The dorsal stream of visual processing would help us identify where the black dot is above. Below is a list of some features of natural images (1), our visual inputs (2 & 3), and spatial attention (4) that help our brain identify images. Again, this is a gross simplification, but hopefully this will help. 1) Natural images (a painting vs. random static on your television) tend to exhibit redundancy. What I mean by this is that if you take a given pixel in the above image, chances are a red pixel will be surrounded by other red pixels, black pixels surrounded by other black pixels, and white pixels surrounded by other white pixels. 2) The individual cells that make up our visual inputs are center-surround cells. Center surround cells come in two flavors, "off center" and "on center". On center cells respond strongly to light spots against dark backgrounds. Off center cells respond strongly to dark spots against light backgrounds. These cells also essentially act to "compress" visual information so that it can be transmitted via the optic nerve. That's a whole different thing though. 3) Emphasize edges: The input from center-surround cells is processed in the visual cortex to emphasize edges and de-emphasize things with constant illumination. However, there is also attention, specifically spatial attention, e.g. our eyes / brain tell us where to look. One thing that makes stimuli stand out is their salience. 4) Salience: "Salient" stimuli are those which stand out the most. Things that are salient tend to stand out from their surroundings. The bright red shape, for example, is highly salient because it is oddly shaped and, well, bright red. When looking at that image, the first thing we see is the giant red blob. I know this answer is a little scattered-however I'm off of neuro right now and studying for other things, and unfortunately the neuroscience behind vision and spatial attention is really really hard . Hopefully, the bits of knowledge in my answer can help you craft some kind of algorithm. Also, as a final note, there is a researcher at Georgetown who is a true genius in the field of vision / visual processing / and neuroscience in general. His name is Dr. Reisenhuber. Here is his lab's website: http://riesenhuberlab.neuro.geor... 