What are the uses or possibly advantages of a multi-core processor without full connectivity between all of its cores?
You might look up the AsAP work by Bevan Baas' team. Bevan Baas' Home Page VLSI Computation Lab As I recall, the AsAP chips used a grid connectivity, where processors only had direct connections to neighbors that were one or two units away in Manhattan distance.  (Or something to that effect.) The AsAP folks showed many different applications (primarily signal processing chains) mapped onto AsAP cores.  The idea was if you have something that could be expressed as a compute pipeline, you could map stages of the pipeline to different cores (or if some stages were particularly expensive, multiple cores). Also, the Imagine architecture explored something similar, with small compute cores capable of implementing a simple kernel, fed by streaming DMAs.  Again, this was focused on limiting the connectivity between cores and instead structuring the communication.  ( Image and Signal Processor ) Going further back, I remember QuickSilver Technology had a quad-tree approach to chip-level system interconnect.  (EETimes overview:  A look into QuickSilver's ACM architecture | EE Times ) Their appropach was to still allow all endpoints on the die to see each other, but you'd structure your quadtree such that most communication would stay local.  Segments of the quadtree nearer the root would have higher bandwidth than the leaves, but going up the tree incurs higher latency.   I'm not sure if QuickSilver was ever commercially successful (I lost track of them over a decade ago), but they may have published some papers. (Note:  The EETimes link above isn't a great overview; it was just the best link I could find on short notice.  You can see their quadtree approach about 2/3rds of the way down.) Going even further back:  You might also see what fundamental research the big-iron folks did, such as the Connection Machine.  That employed thousands of small processors on big problems.  And the routing there was not uniform either, as I recall. The AsAP work sounds the closest to the ATAC approach, at least at first glance.  But, there should be plenty of relevant papers out there if you dig in the right places, and are willing to tilt your head sideways to draw connections betweeen different systems' results.  (Two things may not look related at first, until you start digging into it.) 