What are the uses or possibly advantages of a multi-core processor without full connectivity between all of its cores?
This was done in the PS3 with the Cell Architecture. Notice the ring bus between the cores.  You should also notice that not every core is connected to the I/O, not every core is connected to the CI, not every core is connected to the RAM and not every core is connected to the PPE.  Also not shown on the diagram is that not every core is connected to the GPU either. The strategy behind this architecture is called stream processing.  In the ideal case, a multicore stream processor will be heterogeneous -- that is, not every core is identical, but rather each processor core will be suited best for a different task.  The idea behind this architecture for the PS3 was to have separate cores to handle the streaming input (disk read), streaming output (to GPU for display), user interface, background game processes, etc. and each object would pass off information to the next core in the order they're needed. Unfortunately for Sony, game designers didn't do a particularly good job of figuring out just how powerful the CPU architecture could be if used correctly, so the potential of it was wasted as the games weren't programmed to take advantage of it.  It was eventually used well, but not before the announcement of the PS4. The concept of stream processing is very useful in many other applications, particularly in signal processing.  Each phase of a signal processing algorithm does not need to be connected to every other phase, so leaving off the extra connectivity allows for much less overhead, and each phase can be pipelined (that is, do its work independently from all other phases, waiting only for the output from a previous phase). In many applications, leaving off full connectivity is a performance sacrifice, but full connectivity means more connections between components.  The number of necessary connections scales quadratically with the number of cores.  For a large number of cores, this can lead to very serious issues, so cutting out some connectivity sacrifices the ability to have equal latency communication between components in exchange for avoiding so many connections. 