What is "branch and bound"?
Originally Answered: What is branch and bound?Branch-and-Bound Algorithms A counter-part of the backtracking search algorithm which, in the absence of a cost criteria, the algorithm traverses a spanning tree of the solution space using the breadth-first approach. That is, a queue is used, and the nodes are processed in first-in-first-out order. If a cost criteria is available, the node to be expanded next (i.e., the branch) is the one with the best cost within the queue. In such a case, the cost function may also be used to discard (i.e., the bound) from the queue nodes that can be determined to be expensive. A priority queue is needed here. 20.1 Cost-Based Tree Traversal A function can be considered to be a tree generator, if when given a node X and index i it produces the i’th child of the node. The following function produces a complete binary tree of 11 nodes. { 2X if i = 1 and 2X  ----1o---- ----- ---- ---2o---- --3o-- o--- -- o o- --o -4 -- --5-- 6 7 o- -o o-- - o 8 9 10 11 The recursive function provided for deriving permutations is another example of a function that may be used to generate trees. Besides for a tree generator function, we also need a cost function to decide in what order to traverse the nodes when searching for a solution. The algorithm proceeds in the following manner. 1.Initialization: The root of the of the tree is declared to be alive. 2.Visit: The cost criteria decides which of the live nodes is to process next. 3.Replacement: The chosen node is removed from the set of live nodes, and its children are inserted into the set. The children are determined by the tree generator function. 4.Iteration: The visitation and replacement steps are repeated until no alive nodes are left. In the case of backtracking the cost criteria assumes a last-in-first-out (LIFO) function, which can be realized with a stack memory. A first-in-first-out cost criteria implies the FIFO branch-and-bound algorithm, and it can be realized with queue memory. A generalization to arbitrary cost criteria is the basis for the priority branch-and-bound algorithm, and a priority queue memory can be employed to realize the function. 