It's 2150 and society has collapsed. What happened?
2150When the war started--the Final War--no one thought it would last a full lunar orbit. Even a year later, after the devastation inflicted on Earth and Mars, it seemed impossible to imagine such a catastrophe continuing. But the War outlasted all sane predictions, and when it finally ended it had outlasted 90% of humanity. Ironically, the Final War began at the peak of human civilization, after the scourges of the last 300 years had been conquered... 2025 Though far from obvious at its start, the 21st century was to be the most prosperous in human history. Decades of slow, steady, (and unheralded) economic development lifted billions out of poverty. It was an old story: technology increased efficiency, which lowered the cost of production, which increased economic growth, which got reinvested in technology. The twist this time was that it happened everywhere: in India (after a minor nuclear scare), in China (after its democratic revolution), and (most encouraging of all) in Africa. But economic development meant energy consumption, and despite the gains from shale oil and gas, peak oil did eventually arrive. 2050When it comes to energy, the human race has leapt from vine to vine. Burning wood like our ancestors was never going to be sustainable--all those trees took time to grow. Fortunately, the world discovered coal, which powered its steam ships and railroads for decades. Then, oil came along and provided a cleaner and more efficient fuel. When oil grew too expensive, it was replaced by a basket of exotic energy: solar power (after the Norman-Jiang chips went into production), fission power (once people trusted the new fail-safe reactors), and most amazingly of all, fusion power. With enough energy, many problems become trivial. Atmospheric carbon extraction is easier if you have lots of solar and nuclear energy. Abundant energy alleviated water scarcity through desalination and better waste treatment. And the economics of recycling improved drastically with cheap fusion power. But most importantly, cheaper energy allowed more of the world to prosper. The Four Great Powers comprising America, China, Europe, and India, were soon expanded to eight when Brazil, Turkey, Indonesia, and South Africa achieved a high standard of living. The last ancient scourge to be conquered was cancer. Retroviral therapies and personal genomics wiped out most forms of cancer. By mid-century, genetic interventions were done at conception: a few invitro tweaks to an embryo were enough to provide resistance to heart disease, diabetes, obesity, and dementia. For the first time, humans had direct control over their genetic legacy. By then the world economy required unimaginable quantities of resources. Earth had been plundered, and no one wanted to wrest more from her, so we turned to space: Near-Earth asteroids were filled with mineral riches, and orbiting solar stations could capture the sun's free energy 24 hours a day. Even fusion power made more sense in space, since it could dispense with its heavy (and costly) shielding. The first baby born in space attracted worldwide attention; but only ten years later there were a few hundred children who had never set foot on Earth. 2075 By 2075 there were a few hundred thousand people living and working at Clavius and Tranquilitatis. Even the far-side station of Korolev had over a thousand permanent residents. Counting the smaller but more diverse stations scattered across the NEOs and all of the Earth orbiters, there were dozens of communities with only intermittent contact with an Earth government. Life on the stations was hard. Rationing was common, luxuries non-existent, and the risk of sudden depressurization haunted every mind. The people who lived on such stations required mutual trust and social cohesion. The selfishness of even one person could doom an entire community. Castalia Station was the first to experiment with different forms of government. The capitalist/social-democratic pattern of the major governments was well-adapted to Earth, but the tight-knit, homogeneous communities needed something simpler and at the same time more radical: the individualism and competition of Earth yielded to communal government based on mutual obligations. These experiments in social organization were complemented by advances in genetic technology. The genetic underpinnings of loyalty/vengeance, empathy/jealousy, and greed/sacrifice had been mapped out by 2075. Most of the stations imposed limits on immigrants with anti-social genetics, and a few began encouraging in-vitro elimination of undesirable genes. Stations were too small and too fragile to tolerate anti-social behavior. Predictably, Earth was outraged. Such radical tampering with the human genome--naturally evolved over millions of years--was unimaginable, and frightening. There were scare stories about spacers born with no eyes and two mouths, and more than one 3DV serial featured mutated spacer enemies. The stations ignored the criticism. Incontestable science was behind their program, and no amount of Earth superstition was going to stop it. 2100Old Earth prospered, of that there was no doubt. But it was hard to escape the feeling that the future belonged to the New Worlds. The Selene Community was fully independent now and had more than ten million citizens. The NEOs had united into a loose confederation, nominally independent, but aligned with Selene. In theory any Earthborn could apply for citizenship in the New Worlds, but in practice the few slots went to the well-connected. And the New Worlds kept growing. Syrtis Station was founded in 2084, mostly to escape Earth's oppressive Genetics Laws. By 2100 it had almost a million citizens. All had been modified, both for social cohesion and for adaptation to the harsh Martian climate. Old Earth grew jealous. The New Worlds bought the bioluxuries of Earth with mineral and energy riches. Once the Clavius Museum of Humanity opened, it began buying its artwork and artifacts. Would Earth be reduced to economic dependency on the spacers? But the New Worlds looked outward. Stations on Ceres and Juno were followed by outposts on Europa, Ganymede, and Amalthea. By 2100 there were a dozen exploration rigs trolling Saturn's B Ring for minerals. 2125Even at the Founding it was clear that Earthers were pathetically archaic. Petty wars, greed, and xenophobia plagued them and created conflict with the New Worlds. They clung superstitiously to their ancient genome like children clutching a blanket. But they were human beings and the citizens of the Syrtis Orthodoxy felt nothing but empathy for them. On ST19 (2125 OE) the Conclave decided to help the Earthers to better themselves and to be less of a burden and danger to New Worlds. Project Atavist was conceptually simple: a compressed gene-package on a viral vector targeting pregnant women. Even a 10% infection rate would have been sufficient to improve the social development of Earth. For their own good, Earthers would be welcomed into the family of the New Worlds. ------- When the Martian Pathogen was discovered, it triggered emergency discussions at the Continental Council. North America and Europe urged immediate action, while Africa and Pacific Asia suggested time to build up defenses. Autonomous Antarctica abstained as always, but the rest of the Powers agreed to enforce Earth Law on all stations of the so-called New Worlds. Two hastily built carriers were deployed to Clavius, while assorted gunships brought the NEO rebels into line. Syrtis would have to wait for the dozen dreadnoughts secretly being built in orbit. The plan was to land a token force to enforce allegiance, but if that failed, all of the dreadnoughts were equipped with orbit-to-ground nukes. ------- On Syrtis, puzzlement overwhelmed anger. How could the Earthers react so violently? Was this not the best plan for the future? Why couldn't they accept the inevitable reality? But such questions were academic. The Conclave had no disagreement on what they had to do: protect the community. It took almost no time for their nanofacs to churn out their own nukes and the platforms to deliver them. It took a little longer for the fusion tugs to get into position. Once they did, they nudged a few dozen asteroids just enough to intersect Earth's path. It's sad that it has come to this, but it had to be done. How can humanity coexist with such a backwards race? 2150After the Final War almost nothing was left. A few hundred million eked out a subsistence living on Earth; a million or so were left on Mars. The Moon was barren again, and the NEOs all died or where shut down. Everyone remembered both the paradise of the old days and the horrors of the War. No one could agree on who to blame. But all are united by one thought: next time will be better. The human race has learned and war will never happen again. We will prosper once again. And anyone who opposes us should be destroyed. It's for the good of humanity. Updated 104w ago • View Upvotes