How do atheists explain how the world was created?
Well, this of course depends on the atheist. The fifth century B.C. Greek philosopher Anaxagoras of Clazomenae proposed his own theory of how the world (and the universe in general) was created: [...] everything is ultimately explained by the great rotation set in motion by nous. Further, [...] the cosmic rotary motion could produce other worlds like our own.  The rotation of the mixture begins in a small area, and then spreads out through the mass. As the extent of the mixture is unlimited, the rotation and expansion will continue forever, bringing more and more ingredients into the whirl. The force and speed of the rotation is much faster at the edges, where the expanding rotation meets the as-yet-unmoved mass of ingredients: what we perceive of the rotation (probably the motions of the heavens) is much slower than the unobserved rotation. The force is enough to pull apart and rearrange the ingredients [...] There are two sorts of dissociation. First, as the rotation enters the as-yet-unmoved mass of ingredients, that mass begins to break up and the ingredients start to shift in their concentrations. This causes the original arrangement of ingredients to break up and begin to be rearranged. Because the mixture is a plenum, any separation is at the same time a rearrangement of ingredients. Then, those new rearrangements are themselves subject to further break-up and further rearrangement.  [...] Over time, the rotation throws lighter ingredients towards the edges of the whirl and pushes the heavier ones to the center, thus putting more dark and heavy ingredients like earth in the center and throwing air and aether (fire) away from the center. This gives the traditional Greek picture of our Earth (itself a mixture of all ingredients, with earth and heavy ores and minerals predominating) covered (in many places) by water, with air and the fiery reaches of the heavens. excerpt from Anaxagoras (Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy) At around the same time in India, the philosopher Ajita Kesakambali apparently professed that life ended at death and that the world had not been created but simply existed in a steady state, with objects in the natural world behaving in the ways they did simply because it was in their nature to do so.  Unfortunately it's difficult to characterize his beliefs exactly as his own writings have not survived. The legendary French mathematician and astronomer Pierre-Simon Laplace (1749-1827), also the purported source of the (likely apocryphal) quote "God? I have no need of that hypothesis!" developed a better-supported theory: Laplace developed the nebular hypothesis of the formation of the solar system, first suggested by Emanuel Swedenborg and expanded by Immanuel Kant, a hypothesis that continues to dominate accounts of the origin of planetary systems. According to Laplace's description of the hypothesis, the solar system had evolved from a globular mass of incandescent gas rotating around an axis through its centre of mass. As it cooled, this mass contracted, and successive rings broke off from its outer edge. These rings in their turn cooled, and finally condensed into the planets, while the sun represented the central core which was still left. On this view, Laplace predicted that the more distant planets would be older than those nearer the sun excerpt from Pierre-Simon Laplace (Wikipedia) 