Who are some famous celebrities who converted to Hinduism?
Legendary Play back singer K J Yesudas. "Yesu-das" literal  meaning "Servant of Yesu (Jesus Christ), he has been in reality more of "Krishna-das" meaning "Servant of Krishna". I would not say converted and I don't think Hinduism needs or accepts conversion in the traditional sense which other religions want. But here is this man who in my opinion is the greatest Male singer of all time (strictly my personal opinion female being Lata Mangeshkar) who got maximum Indian National awards among singers. K J YESUDAS He is the man who is almost expelled from his christian community just because he is always seen closer to Hindu community. But then he was so "Big" a figure that they can't simply ignore him. It would be like "Sachin Tendulkar" being expelled from India by some group. While anyone can claim it, no one can really do it in reality because he is very much in the psyche of this country that nobody can seperate him even if some political party or some group of people decide it. He will continue to be a loved figure. There is this controversy when he wanted to visit the famous Guruvayoor temple in Kerala. They didn't allow him inside although they shouldn't have minded it because they won't be able to restrict any Non-Hindus in future if this legendary non-Hindu enters it with their permission. That is still a controversy and I am sure many people mostly Hindus don't agree with the stand taken by the Temple Board members. What he did then was he gone for an impromptu late night concert outside the temple singing songs in praise of Krishna (Diety of Guruvayoor temple). His guru who had come with him who was allowed inside the temple as he was a Hindu was unable to stop him singing with tears in his eyes standing in a dark corner near the temple. It would not be an over-statement that the reverberations of that incident can still be heard in Kerala every time discussion on religion starts there. The irony of the incident is that most of the Hindu devotional songs in Malayalam is sung by Yesudas himself. While the Hindu gods wake up early morning and go to sleep hearing the sound of this man in loud speakers across temples in Kerala, this man himself was unable to enter inside. Even when today this man is asked about this incident he says that "This is my relation with Krishna. This is a personal issue between me and Krishna" Although Yesudas could have made it a political issue and maybe entered the temple, the devotion is such that he feels it as if Krishna wants it, he will himself let in. Yesudas has been visiting Kollur Mookambika temple, Kollur, Karnataka on his birthday to sing keerthans of Saraswati devi,  the Goddess of knowledge, music and the arts. The music festival  started on his 60th birthday. The nine-day music festival begins every  January at Kollur Mookambika Temple. On Sunday, 10 January 2010, he  celebrated his 70th birthday (Sapthathi) at Kollur Sri Mookambika Temple  with 'Sangeetharchana' (classical devotional songs), along with 70  singers before goddess Mookambika. The Sangeetharchana included  "Pancharatna Gayana" of Thyagaraja's poems. I am sure most Hindus would find it wanting in displaying such a sense of devotion to the deity. The songs which Yesudas sung is so rich with devotion that most Hindus may agree that the love and devotion reflected for the Hindu Gods in his voice cannot be replicated even by a Hindu singer. Needless to say that while his name literally means "Yesu-das" meaning "Servant of Yesu (Jesus Christ), he has been in reality more of "Krishna-das" meaning "Servant of Krishna". Updated 14w ago • View Upvotes