Who are some famous celebrities who converted to Hinduism?
JULIA ROBERTS Julia Roberts converted from Christianity to Hinduism around the time that she was filming the 2010 film Eat, Pray, Love. JOHN COLTRANE John Coltrane was raised in a Christian household, but he explored many  different religions, including Hinduism and Zen Buddhism. He was said to  have been consulting a Hindu meditative healer near the end of his life  to help him treat his liver cancer. M.I.A M.I.A., born Mathangi Arulpragasam, attended Hindu and  Catholic convent schools when she was growing up in Sri Lanka. She  claimed that her infamous Super Bowl middle finger was a tribute to the  Hindu Goddess Matangi, whose symbol is the middle finger. GEORGE HARRISON   George  Harrison converted from Christianity to Hinduism in the mid 1960s.  After he died in 2001, his ashes were scattered in the Ganges and Yamuna  rivers in India. RUSSEL BRAND Russell  Brand practices Hinduism, and he is a vocal advocate of Transcendental  Meditation. His 2010 wedding to Katy Perry was a traditional Hindu  ceremony in Rajasthan, India. JERRY GARCIA Jerry  Garcia practiced Hinduism throughout much of his adult life. After he  died in 1995, his ashes were spread into the Ganges River at the holy  city of Rishikesh, India. KRS-ONE KRS-One is a spiritual man who wrote the book The Gospel of Hip Hop.  He believes that organized religion isn't necessary to have a close  relationship with God, but his name is a reference to the Hindu god  Krishna. LOUIS BANKS Louis Banks was raised in India in a Hindu household. He is known as the Godfather of Indian jazz. RAVI COLTRANE Like his father, John Coltrane, and his namesake, Ravi Shankar, Ravi Coltrane is a Hindu. KAL PENN Kal  Penn was born in New Jersey and raised in a Hindu household. His  grandparents marched for Indian independence with Mahatma Gandhi. TONY KANAL   No Doubt musician Tony Kanal was born in London to Hindu parents. Elizabeth Gilbert Eat, Pray, Love author Elizabeth Gilbert was  raised on a Christmas tree farm in Litchfield, Connecticut, but she  converted to Hinduism when she went on the journey that inspired her to  write her best-selling book. Ricky Williams NFL player Ricky Williams is a Hindu and vegetarian. He uses a Hindu-based pranic healing to recover from injuries J.D Salinger The Catcher in the Rye author J.D. Salinger converted from Zen Buddhism to Hinduism in 1952 after reading The Gospel of Sri Ramakrishna. J. Mascis Dinosaur Jr. musician J Mascis is a Hindu. In 2005, he released the album J and Friends Sing and Chant For Amma, which includes devotional songs dedicated to Hindu religious leader Mata Amritanandamayi. Alice Coltrane Like her husband John Coltrane, Alice Coltrane was a Hindu. She was a  devotee of the Indian guru Sathya Sai Baba and changed her name to  Turiyasangitananda in the late 1970s. Trevor Hall Musician Trevor Hall lives as a Hindu monk when he is not on tour. In 2013, he went on a journey to India. Kelli Williams "Army Wives" actress Kelli Williams converted to Hinduism when she married her husband, Ajay Sahgal, in 1996. John McLaughlin John McLaughlin introduced Hinduism into his popular jazz fusion albums. Christoper Isherwood British novelist Christopher Isherwood was a practicing Hindu. These are famous celebrities who converted or practiced Hinduism. There are many other famous people who weren't celebrities but did convert or practice Hinduism.. 