It's 2150 and society has collapsed. What happened?
Peak oil and global warming led to a dual catastrophe of energy crisis and famine, driving hyperinflation in most developed countries, and devastating the populations of poorer ones. China struck the first blow in WWIII by invading a weakened sub-Saharan Africa, pushing north to seize oil fields. This caused the Middle East to finally make its peace with with the West, who then consolidated North Africa against further Chinese territory grabs. North Korea got particularly desperate and used the West's distraction to drop a nuke on Seoul, killing a million people. Finger-pointing led to an all-out three-front war between Russia + China on one side, and India, the EU, the US, and Japan on the other. No other nuclear weapons were used, but the conflict consumed most of humanity's remaining resources, leaving neutral Brazil the "least-terrible-off" of the lot. Civil war erupted in the US over war shortages in the more populous South, which had had enough bullshit from the coasts, and it broke into several warring republics. Europe became a devastated pile of rubble for the third and final time, and the refugee crisis only made things worse in the US after Brazil turned them away. Africa went back to living in the bush, with no semblance remaining of even the dysfunctional governments that previously existed. Russia and China further devastated each other in a war ostensibly over who started WWIII, with China hoping to at least capitalize on Russian oil, and Russia trying to take Chinese farmland. Brazil was the last society left standing, but not for long. Global trade was nonexistent, oil was still prohibitively expensive, along with everything else, and they were forced to deforest the rest of their land in order to cultivate just enough biofuel for themselves. The rest of South America, and the world, begged to be let in, but they reinforced their borders and stalwartly refused. Realizing that their soil wouldn't last forever, and seeing the need to develop an alternative energy source, the Brazilians staged a last-ditch effort to perfect fusion, but the social problems from strict rationing kept them from sustaining enough of a scientific-industrial complex to get the job done. The lights finally went out in Brazil, and the world was left a chaotic shell of its past self, barely able to even carry out wars against each other anymore. 