I listen to Porcupine tree, Pink Floyd, Scale the Summit, Opeth, Tool, Dream theater. What similar bands would you suggest I should listen to?
First and foremost, Symphony X.  I was a die-hard DT-only fan for years until I discovered them.  They rival DT in their overall encapsulation of multiple musical facets.  They opened the door to me for many and various other Symphonic/Progressive Metal acts.  I've also seen no mention of Ne Obliviscaris in anyone's answers.  They're a little more hardcore and speed-driven than DT, but maintain a tremendous amount of Progressive skill.  A little taste: For a more Avant-Garde style there's Spiral Architect, Neurosis, Intronaut, Hypno5e, Sikth and The Algorithm; the latter of which begins to encroach on Techno-Industrial Metal akin to Front Line Assembly or Rammstein; but with much more progressive tendencies.  Then there's all the other Symphonic/Gothic Metal stuff.  After Forever, Within Temptation, Epica, Nightwish, Unshine, Zerath, Opera IX, Diabolus in Musica, Bal-Sagoth, Therion, Septicflesh, Coronatus, Artrosis, Anathema.   These guys push more toward the Orchestral/Symphonic (with occasional MetalCore peppering) and further away from the uber-progressive/jazzy styles.  More Jazz Metal groups like Conflux, Gru, Plini, Atheist, Pestilence and Sithu Aye sometimes blend that DT crunch with a more refined jazzy feel.  More mood-oriented and ambient akin to Pink Floyd at times. For a Bluesy, raw-driven edge there's Evergrey, Stonehenge, Pain of Salvation, Tapping the Vein.  These are more stripped-down and grimier; but with just enough production value to sound intentional.  To this day Evergrey is still one of the best live shows I've ever seen. I'm assuming you're familiar with the solo/associated projects that members from each of your listed groups have worked on.  If not: Liquid Tension Experiment, Platypus, Explorer's Club, Mullmuzzler, OSI, Transatlantic, The Bleeding Heart Band, No-Man, Bass Communion, Storm Corrosion, Continuum, islnds, A Perfect Circle, Puscifer, Pigmy Love Circus, Isis, Electric Sheep, Children of the Anachronistic Dynasty, Tapeworm, Replicants, Peach, Bloodbath, Katatonia, Witchery, Nifelheim, Talisman, Arch Enemy, Tiamat, Krux, Qoph, Gordian Knot, Ayreon, Behold the Arctopus, Mr. Fastfinger, Tribe of Judah, Shredding the Envelope, Adrenaline Mob, Bigelf, Flying Colors, The Winery Dogs, Sigma 6, The Tea Set, Stars, Jokers Wild, The Orb. I can speak kindly of all the groups I've mentioned.  I loathe and detest Opeth.  They're one of my least favorite bands ever.  Right up there with System of a Down. Jim Davis' answer to What are some good techno metal bands? Jim Davis' answer to What are some good progressive metalcore bands? Jim Davis' answer to What are the best symphonic metal bands? Jim Davis' answer to Some good progressive rock/metal bands? Jim Davis' answer to What are some intense alternative metal bands? Jim Davis' answer to What are some good metal bands? Jim Davis' answer to Which Heavy Metal band do you hate the most?  