Which university is better for Masters in Computer Science - Rutgers or Stony Brook?
I'd say Rutgers' CS department is VERY research heavy and it has some very renowned personalities. When it comes to theory, Rutgers is THE place to be. It is one of the best University for theoretical computer science. Check out DIMACS. When I decided to join Rutgers, I was myself looking for reviews on various forums and couldn't find any detailed review about Rutgers' CS department. Now that I've joined the department, I feel that I should write a review based on my experiences in the department. I'm no one to comment on the quality of department, university or professors however, I can tell you about my experience. There has not been even a single class where I did not feel an intellectual overdose. It all boils down to how much you can grasp. Department Overview: First of all, I'd like to clear the air by STATING that no matter how talented you (random person) are, in the end it will be you who will fall short of the standards and not the faculty or the department. In that sense, I'd say Rutgers is as good as any. It all depends on your talent, hard work and willingness to learn. There are all kinds of resources available. For example, if you have the ability to absorb only 50, then it doesn't matter if the faculty is 100 or 1000. Also, let me show you that the faculty in the Department of Computer Science at Rutgers is in fact very much 1000. ;) I don't know why it is but I feel that Rutgers' CS department does not boast about its achievements. As a matter of fact, some of the most awesome faculties do not have their Google Scholar account setup. But if you are curious enough then you can look up their research papers on dblp. Also, as any other department, there are both young and old faculties here as well. The young faculties are all extremely talented and have PhDs from institutes like MIT/Stanford (If you think that is the indicator of “quality”). I'll talk about old/established researchers and those who have their Google Scholar accounts setup. This means that I'll be missing out on a lot of good researchers. Here goes the list- Michael Fredman – Known for Fibonacci Heaps, Fusion Trees and arguably the fastest sorting algorithm Mario Szegedy – 2 times Godel Prize winner (Highest honor in theoretical computer science) Apostolous Gerasoulis – Creator of Teoma search engine which powers Ask.com - What's Your Question? Tomasz Imielinski – Practically started the field Association Rule Mining with his 1992 paper which is also one of the most cited paper in the history of computer science, creator of Teoma search Engine, 28K+ Google Scholar citations!! Endre Szemeredi – Able Prize winner (considered Nobel prize for mathematics), gave numerous of theorems Casimir Kulikowski – Has been teaching Computer Science (Pattern Recognition and AI) from the time when even the term “Computer Science” was not coined, 6k+ Google Scholar citations Badri Nath – Research on mobile computing, 19K+ Google Scholar citations!! Manish Parashar – Research on Cloud Computing and Big Data. Has received close to US $50 million in funding so far, 7k+ Google Scholar citations. Muthu Muthukrishnan – Research on a variety of topics, 16k+ Google Scholar citations!! Dimitris Metaxas – Research on computer vision, data science and machine learning, 16k+ Google Scholar citations!! Liviu Iftode – Research on operating systems, 6k+ Google Scholar citations Ahmed Elgammal – Research on computer vision and machine learning, 6k+ Google Scholar citations Eric Allender- Theoretical Computer Scientist, ACM Fellow Checkout some recent research grants here P.S – The professors whose classes I'm taking currently are not in this list but I think very highly of them and the same goes for other faculties in the department. 