What does prison smell like?
Depending on where you are at inside San Quentin, the smells will differ.           I'll take you on a journey to three different places: the prison yard, the kitchen and inside the cell-blocks.   San Quentin is nestled between mountains and surrounded by water. Imagine how fresh and clean the air is.   Around 8:00 am on Friday mornings, I walk down to the lower yard to breathe the cool morning air. Approximately around 9:00am the air on the yard changes. It changes because one section of the yard there's a Native Americans sweat lodge. The first scent resembles a campfire, reminding me of wood and twigs burning. Then the smell shift to sage which gives it a more native cultural feel.   Another place with a unique smell is the kitchen or "chow hall." Walking into the chow hall the smell resembles sewage. I believe it comes from beneath the tiles. Whenever the floor gets wet, water from waste of the grease and dirty mop water seeps through the tile floor and sits there to marinate and rot.  It is a foul disgusting odor. Sometimes it smells like death.   On the last journey I'm going to take you to the cell-blocks. Entering the building I could automatically smell the stale air because of poor circulation. With over 800 prisoners confined to a small building the smell is not bad but hard to describe.  It has a rustic smell and with that many people it's sometimes good and bad. There are five tiers in the cell-blocks and going up the stairs the smell changes as I pass by each cell. Some cell lingers with fragrance of body oil. Other cells smell like old unwashed, dirty laundry. On the other hand, sometimes there's good smells that reminds me of restaurants: fried chicken, beef burritos, and Chinese food.   I never really thought about what prison smells like until now. I must admit, its interesting thinking about it. All communications between inmates and external channels are facilitated by approved volunteers since inmates do not have access to the internet. This program with Quora is part of The Last Mile San Quentin. Twitter: @TLM 