What are the essential progressive rock albums?
The classics: King Crimson - In The Court Of The Crimson King King Crimson - Red King Crimson - Larks' Tongues In Aspic Yes - Close To The Edge, Fragile Emerson Lake & Palmer - Brain Salad Surgery Pink Floyd - Meddle Genesis - Selling England By The Pound Gentle Giant - Aquaring The Taste Van Der Graaf Generator - Pawn Hearts Canterbury related: Soft Machine - self titled Soft Machine - Third Caravan - In The Land Of Pink And Grey Hatfield and the North - self titled Hatfield and the North - The Rotters' Club Robert Wyatt - Rock Bottom Avant-prog/RIO (and related): Henry Cow - Unrest Henry Cow - In Praise Of Learning Art Bears - Hopes and Fears Stormy Six - Macchina Maccheronica Universe Zero - self titled Krautrock (often associated with progressive rock) Can - Tago Mago Faust - IV Faust - The Faust Tapes Neu - Neu! (1972) Kraftwerk - Autobahn You should consider albums from the 80's not strictly "progressive" but made by artists who have had relations with progressive rock (Peter Gabriel, Asia, Brian Eno, etc..) Italian progressive Yes, i'm Italian so this list could seem like a free promotion to my country :) No doubt Italian progressive rock still has a lot of fans and in the past produced some of the finest examples of progressive rock. Banco del Mutuo Soccorso - Darwin Il Balletto di Bronzo - Ys Picchio dal pozzo - self titled Stormy Six - l'apprendista (great album before the complete transformation into a RIO rock band) Osanna - Palepoli Le Orme - Felona e Sorona Area - Crac! Rovescio della Medaglia - Contaminazione Formula 3 - Dies Irae Progressive Metal: I don't like this genre that much. In my opinion the band who better understood the meaning of "progressive" music were Queensryche - at lest for a bunch of albums: - Rage For Order - Operation Mindcrime - Promised Land (I like Empire too, but it's pretty far from "progressive" intentions...) Some would say Dream Theater are the best (and most famous) example of "progressive metal". I don't believe it. They seem to me more like an heavy trained heavy metal band with some influences in progressive rock but also in AOR or Fusion. Their intention isn't progressive at all. Modern progressive (if this definition has a sense...): Porcupine Tree - In Absentia Tool - Lateralus These are the first records I can think of. Of course there are plenty I'm forgetting right now. 