Suppose for the sake of argument that gods do not exist. What would atheists expect to see in the universe as evidence of their existence?
I'm not an atheist, but I used to be one, so perhaps I may share the conclusions of my own struggles with this question. The hypothesis is that God (defined as intelligent creator of the universe) exists. But in order to look for evidence of this hypothesis, we have to flush it out a bit more. According to the hypothesis, what is the purpose of the Creation? What I mean is this: let's say we assume that the purpose of Creation is to torment us. If so, then I wouldn't expect any evidence of God's existence. If the purpose of Creation is to give us a Fantasy Island blissful existence, then I would expect life to be disease- and mosquito-free. (remember these guys?) But if we assume the purpose of Creation is for us to develop a relationship with this hypothetical God, then I would certainly expect such evidence. According to Jewish legend-tradition (Midrash), this latter assumption is exactly what the patriarch Abraham discovered/developed. Abraham looked around and saw a world of much complexity, but ultimately finite. Everything, it seems, comes from something else. Therefore, he reasoned, there must be something infinite that is the ultimate source of everything. But wait a second, he reasoned... If the ultimate source of everything is some infinite being, why did it create this world? By definition, "infinite" means "lacking nothing". What could an infinite being possibly gain by creating a universe? Abraham realized that there was one thing - and only one thing - that an infinite being could gain from having a finite universe: the ability to give to an other. In other words, the purpose of this creation is to enable this being to express what we call in our language "giving". We humans therefore have a very specific purpose, which is to enable that giving by being willing recipients of it. Now, one last step in this philosophy: what's the ultimate gift that an infinite being could possibly give? The answer is: infinity. In other words, a connection to or relationship to the infinite creator. But the concept of a relationship implies choice. If we were robots, it wouldn't be a very meaningful relationship. The greatest gift requires that we have the ability to choose - yes, I want the relationship, or no, I don't want the relationship. Therefore, any overt ("miraculous") revelation of God would jeopardize the entire program. For the universe to fulfill its purpose and for you and me to fulfill ours, God must remain somewhat "hidden". Too much revelation will lead to a loss of free will. Hope that's helpful. Updated 106w ago • View Upvotes