Why hasn't there been a single prominent or influential civilization which has come out of Africa (except Egypt (held areas of Asia Minor), Carthage (held Spain), the Berbers (held Spain))?
Genetic studies have recently revealed that our species, homo sapiens, started in Africa, and spread from there in several emigration waves to the other continents. We, in a very real way, are all Africans. Therefore, if you ask why there hasn't been a single prominent or influential civilization from Africa (except Egypt), you are not just insulting modern Africans, you are negating all of the accomplishments of homo sapiens anywhere. As for judging the accomplishments of a civilization, it really depends on when they are judged. In 1200 AD, the Islamic kingdoms of current-day Morocco were far more advanced than anything in Europe, as were China and the Islamic caliphate in Baghdad. Part of the reason African cultures didn't develop like Europe was because they were continental trading cultures which based their trade on gold. Their trade was based in the region around the Sahara and sub-Sahara, and most of their overseas trade was to the Arabian peninsula and India. This sea trade was very seasonal and was based on the monsoon trade winds in the Indian Ocean. So their trade was up until 1500 was predominantly Asia-facing. Africa's trading shifted more to Europe with the rise of the slave trade, and then later colonization. This slave trade and colonization really crippled Africa's economic development, and is responsible for a period of terrible internecine warfare based on tribes and territory. It also led to terrible corruption among African leaders who sucked up to the white man for "aid to the backward Africans". This has been Africa's curse till modern times, and has really made its relationship with the west a mess. But a few African tribes tried to resist the European aggression and imposition of the European economic model. In southern Africa, the Zulus, led by Shaka, fought impressively against other African tribes and the Europeans. When it came to the sciences and Renaissance, nothing would have happened in Europe without the Mongol invasion, which meant that many Greek science and mathematics texts which were lost to the west were translated back from Arabic into Latin. This provided the science and art texts which fueled the Renaissance starting in Italy and Spain. As for the African kingdoms, they developed what they needed. The kingdom in Mali was tremendously wealthy since it dominated all of the gold trade in Europe and Africa before the Spaniards "discovered" the New World. In many ways, your question is very Euro-centric because it judges Africans by European standards of social and economic development when Africans are not Europeans and have an entirely different history. Why should Africans follow the European, or Chinese, or American models of economic and social development? It is unfortunate that even on Quora, there are such western-centric questions in the 21st century. There is a thing called a multi-lateral world; this means that there is no longer one single center of power for culture and influence; each region is free to follow their own model of development. Somehow, we need to find a way to respect each other, instead of asking why we are not more like each other. Vive la différence! 