Why do people celebrate and glorify Halloween if it is a holiday that encourages evil?
The word "fantastic" used to mean imaginary. If you serve a friend some cake and she says, "That's fantastic," is she saying it's imaginary? Words are symbols, and symbols do not have fixed meanings. Pink used to be a symbol for masculinity, and parents would purposefully dress their sons in pink and their daughters in blue. Would you ask a parent nowadays, "Why are you dressing your daughter in pink? Do you want her to be masculine?" Regardless of Halloween's origins, most people do not celebrate it to glorify evil; they celebrate it to have fun dressing up in costumes and to eat candy. This is similar to the way that many people use trees in the home as a symbol of Christmas, even though it was once a pagan symbol. In fact, many people don't dress as goblins and monsters. Some do, but the Holiday has clearly become a tradition of wearing any sort of costume. This year, my wife dressed as a 1930s Hollywood star, even putting on gray makeup so it looked as if she had stepped off the screen of a black-and-white movie, and my friend Dan dressed as a cowboy. I was a loser. I didn't get my act together, so I just dressed as myself. No candy for me! :-( The origins of Halloween don't really matter to this question, because it asks why modern people glorify a holiday for evil (and the answer is they don't), but it never really was a holiday for evil (or the glorification of evil) in the first place. Its origins are extremely complicated, mysterious, and fascinating, and I won't go into details here, except to say that it's a fusion of pagan (mostly from Ireland) and Christian traditions, notably a Christian holiday called Allhallowtide, when "... It was traditionally believed that the souls of the departed wandered the earth until All Saints' Day, and All Hallows' Eve provided one last chance for the dead to gain vengeance on their enemies before moving to the next world. In order to avoid being recognized by any soul that might be seeking such vengeance, people would don masks or costumes to disguise their identities." [1] As for trick-or-treating, "... it was customary for criers dressed in black to parade the streets, ringing a bell of mournful sound and calling on all good Christians to remember the poor souls. ... 'Souling', the custom of baking and sharing soul cakes for all christened souls, ... has been suggested as the origin of trick-or-treating. ... The custom dates back at least as far as the 15th century ... and was found in parts of England, Belgium, Germany, Austria and Italy. ... Groups of poor people, often children, would go door-to-door during Allhallowtide, collecting soul cakes, in exchange for praying for the dead, especially the souls of the givers' friends and relatives." [2] Making demands for a bribes (treats) or threats on homeowner (turning tricks on them). Almost no one thinks of this as a bribe any more, if they ever did, and very few trick-or-treaters ever trick anyone. They are mostly small, cute children, dresses as Supermans and princesses. The phrase "trick or treat" has basically become a new word, "trickortreat," which just means, "Hi. Look at my costume! Can I have some candy?" Glorification and goreifiation in pursuit of material possessions. Halloween is one of the least materialistic holidays, especially when compared with the ways many people celebrate Christmas and birthdays. Most kids wear cheap costumes and carve pumpkins, which supermarkets almost gives away. A bag of candy costs a couple of bucks. What's fun about Halloween to me is it's almost completely about activities, about dressup, parties, and walking about with your friends and family at night. Whereas Christmas, for man, is about going broke at Toys R Us. Glorification and goreifiation in pursuit of material possessions. Huge number of people, including many who are devoutly religious, enjoy the fun of horror movies, ghosts stories, and dress up. Why? Because they're smart enough to know it's not real. Even if real demons exist, the kid with a devil mask on is not one of them. He's a six-year-old wearing a piece of plastic attached to an elastic band. [1] and [2] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hal... Updated 64w ago • View Upvotes