Suppose for the sake of argument that gods do not exist. What would atheists expect to see in the universe as evidence of their existence?
God's "fingerprints" should, in principle, be as easy to find as any other physical phenomena. Perhaps they can be visualized in the cosmic background radiation. This is my (somewhat recycled) position on whether finding evidence for God might be possible. Many say it isn't possible to prove the existence of God but... I say that it IS possible to prove God’s existence. Here's my thinking: There probably won’t be any accepted explanation for the Big Bang for some time. When this stuff does finally get figured out, maybe the trail will lead to a kind of self-aware being, In that case, the proof would be based on evidence and would truly be "scientific". Unless that Master Mechanic chose to hide his/her efforts. A conscious creator could possibly erase all information about the creation but here’s the problem. If "God" chooses to interfere with our ability to tamper with our perceptions, how do we know where that stops? Is it limited to hiding the act of creation? Is there more to this tampering? Is the sky really blue? Is my wife really a giraffe? If we accept that God toys with our perception, then it is useless to have any kind of discussion at all about the beginnings of the universe, about nature, or even about God. Maybe we are just brains suspended in bottles and everything we believe about reality is fed to us. To have a meaningful discussion, we have to assume that “the creator” hasn’t selectively hidden stuff. If that’s the case, the remnants of God's creation could still be seen just as the remnants of the Big Bang as visible in the cosmic background radiation. God is, by definition, part of nature.  He is its greatest force.  In principle it should be as easy to discover God's interventions as it is to discover “Inflation”, quarks, or multiverses. There’s no reasons that “proving the existence of God” has to be impossible. And failing to find evidence for God could be significant too, right? The saying that it is impossible to "prove" the existence of God seems to be based on a misunderstanding. Scientists don’t usually prove things in the way that logicians do. They look for evidence. Failing to find evidence for God, scientifically speaking, doesn’t prove there is no God.  But if a properly constructed experiment can be devised to test the theory that God exists, and if the experiment fails to validate its hypothesis. If, over time, other properly experiments fail to find such evidence, the hypothesis that there is a mindful creator becomes tougher to defend scientifically. This wouldn't deter believers and, frankly, I wouldn't want it to. I believe belief is a lovely thing with great value to many.http://scienceaintsobad.com/2013... But I wouldn't be quite so quick to throw the idea of proving/disproving God under the bus. MISTER ScienceAintSoBad Science Ain't So Bad Updated 108w ago • View Upvotes