What are the essential progressive rock albums?
The following five albums, according to me, define progressive rock, and can be considered to be "essential" in any prog collection. King Crimson's "In the Court of the Crimson King" In spite of King Crimson's resistance to the label, their debut album was pretty much the first real progressive rock album in music history. And certainly the most influential. It took the prevailing rock music in a new direction, by bringing in classical and jazz influences, as opposed to the usual "blues" that the late-60s rock was associated with. Songs were elaborate, structurally complicated, and new instruments, like the mellotron were extensively used. Lyrical themes also ranged from fantasy to historical, at times bordering on the absurd. Emerson, Lake and Palmer's "Brain Salad Surgery" Of all the prog bands of 70s England, ELP was probably the most high profile of them. They were arguably more technically proficient than all other bands in rock history, and they openly flaunted it with their extremely technical, virtuoso compositions in every single song they produced. Centered around Keith Emerson, who is often hailed as the greatest keyboardist of all time, ELP took upon themselves the task of making elitist music for those who could understand and appreciate it. Brain Salad Surgery pretty much epitomized their intent and technical dexterity - with songs drawing heavily from literary themes and classical music, and rounding it up with a near 30 minute magnum opus (Karn Evil 9) that took up one whole side of the vinyl. Genesis' "Foxtrot" Genesis really took the King Crimson influenced progressive rock and gave it a more "visceral" feel. Foxtrot typified the 70s prog rock era. The songs were long - with Supper's Ready - one of Genesis' masterpieces - clocking in at over 20 minutes. Lyrics were eclectically themed, and the compositions were elaborate. Tony Bank's extensive solos on the mellotron and the organ, Phil Collins' ever-changing time signatures, and Peter Gabriel's jaw-dropping on-stage theatrics took prog rock to an all new level. Genesis, in general and Foxtrot in particular was arguably the single iconic representation of the state of music prevailing in 70s England. Pink Floyd's "The Dark Side of the Moon" If other prog rock bands were later criticized for being overblown and pompous, Pink Floyd wasn't - even though, their 1973 master-piece of an album, was as prog as 70s prog rock could get. The Dark Side of the Moon tasted a level of commercial success that very few prog albums would, and it catapulted Pink Floyd into the hallowed lists of "greatest bands ever" and such. Rush's "2112" The one band in this list that isn't British, Rush have a cult following of their own, owing to their ingenious compositions and futuristic musical themes. This high profile power-trio simply oozed raw talent, which they channeled marvelously into their 1978 masterpiece - 2112. The eponymous song in this album, can lay stake to being one of the best loved prog rock opuses of all time, not just because of its extremely "hard rock" nature which was often lacking in prog songs, but also because of its sheer literary content and implications. The song portrayed all of Rush's greatness, quite brilliantly in its 20 odd minutes -  Geddy Lee's unique vocals, his dexterity with the bass and the keyboards, Neil Peart's complex time signatures and eclectic lyrics, and Alex Lifeson's swanky guitar riffs. 