What are the top five things you want to change in this world?
Renewable energy resources are the only practical way forward. We may need non renewable resources to fill in for the gaps in solar, ocean, biofuel, and wind but they should be the minority. The more we use the technology the more the technology will improve and the cheaper it will become. Renewable resources have the ability to bring low infrastructure power to locations that are too rural to justify the cost of huge traditional installations. Given all of the above there should be reliable power worldwide. Only governments have the resources to make the initial infrastructure purchases and subsidies that can accelerate this development. We cannot afford to wait for the market to drive demand. We need this to move faster. Education is a basic right of humanity. Given the internet and worldwide communication there is no excuse for everyone not sharing in the same level of educational opportunities worldwide. The best way to improve a people's lot in life is to educate them. Improve education and you improve the entire community around them. Other improvements follow from there. Given the renewables as mentioned in #1 and cheap computers such as Arduino (25$) they should have access to the internet and online courses at the minimum. Efficiency is a huge problem. We need to be more efficient in our use of resources. This is a huge issue that covers everything from top to bottom in our modern societies. I could write an entire multi page answer on this issue alone. I will try to briefly touch on the concepts. Being more efficient means implementing as many of these as possible. Governments can work out the details and legislation to make them mandatory. The amount of food thrown away is equal to what it would take to end hunger. A 0.7% tax on the 30 richest countries in the world could end extreme poverty and hunger. Seven tenths of a penny out of every dollar spent. If you make $35,000 per year you would pay $245 spread out over a year (20$ a month) to remove hunger from the face of the Earth. Isn't that a worthwhile tax? All citizens in a community with facilities for it should be recycling. Food and other organic waste should be composted in the waste facilities of the garbage disposal where it can be used to generate power through heat naturally produced during the breakdown and biogas emitted as a byproduct. It is literally a free energy source that could be harvested near any major population center. Recyclables such as plastics, aluminum and steel need to be recycled. Laws should be put in place to increase efficiency at all levels. From the maximum amount of a products mass and weight that can be taken up by packaging to LED light bulbs and the efficiency of our vehicles. If you don't make it illegal companies will do whatever is cheapest for them. Our power system needs to be modernized as a smart grid. Low power low throughput Data lines should be installed that touch every part of the grid from the electric plant to the plug. When my TV turns off it should send a signal to the house breaker box that power is not needed and throttle back the power to that part of the house. The same concept should happen in all houses and in the larger transmission lines worldwide. And get rid of those stupid lights on products. Enough power is wasted on the billions of standby LED lights worldwide to power a major city! Environmental Protection is an important issue. As I said recently in a Quora answer, the reason we need to be concerned with climate change is by the time we can prove that it is man made and affecting the survival on our planet it will already be too late. I really do not care if you believe climate change is man made or even if you believe humans are causing it or not, we can all agree that we don't like seeing huge factories belching out thick black smoke and dumping chemicals into our waters right? We can all agree that we would like to protect those beautiful natural places in the world and preserve the habitats of nature. For the sake of discussion even if humans were not involved in climate change (they are) the steps we can take to protect our environment have secondary uses in keeping our environment clean and healthy for all of humanity. We could be doing so much better here. Politics in many places in the world has grown stagnant and hyperpartisanship is becoming more common. We need some kind of system to reshuffle the deck every 10-20 years. Maybe that should be in the form of lifetime term limits for being in politics. Persons can only hold office for a total of 20 years in their lifetime. This would continually inject new ideas and remove the old guard that tends to be too set in their ways and stifling innovation and change. After their 20 year tenure they can still serve an adivosry or functional role in government but cannot hold an elected seat. This still gives them opportunities to work in the public sector infrastructure as heads of departments or divisions or to move on to private pursuits. I am not saying these are easy things to accomplish, but they are necessary. If I could I would change them but sadly there is no will nor desire for even the simplest of these ideals. If I could pick one small thing to change it would be the 0.7% tax that goes into a world huger fund. It is completely reprehensible that there are humans starving to death when enough food to feed them is thrown away each year. In return for our waste we pay a measly seventh of a penny per dollar to feed them. If we don't like the tax you can easily recover that tiny cost by reducing your waste. After that I would focus on education and renewable energy. Without improvements in energy technology, worldwide education is impractical. 