What are the top five things you want to change in this world?
1. PovertyStart by addressing Poverty (higher quality labor force through tax breaks on training expenses, building housing for poor and providing residency for families with children with higher grades, provide state funded education to government workers on condition they maintain acceptable grades [zero interest loan]). Persuading farmers to donate food instead of destroying it (the government would buy the crops half of market value). Tightening grip on people who abuse the system, such as people who get food stamps and are fully capable of buying their own food, or people abusing welfare. Increasing the amount of zero interest college loans to those who cannot afford it. 2. EducationImprove education (awareness and appreciation of the environment, focus less on standardized test results and more on real world applications, helping students discover their talents and bringing them out rather than oppressing them). Reward students who build interesting and impressive projects. Host national fair, broken into computer science, physics, biology, chemistry, engineering, and visual and performing arts to encourage research, innovation, and mastery. Massive crackdown on bullying. 3. Fixing the Environment Requiring businesses in lumber to plant at least one tree for every tree cut down (every tree planted after that is tax deductible). Researching algae technologies for fuel exhausts (vehicles and factories) so that there are reduced carbon emissions. Increased taxes on oil businesses where the proceeds will go to hydrogen fusion research. Researching innovative ways to better buildings in frequent disaster zones (tornado proof homes, mudslide proof buildings, etc...) 4. Reduce Military Presence Around the World Pulling out of "conflicts" around the world and only maintaining an appropriate navy size for secure trade and special forces and intelligence communities for national security. Focus more on the drug wars, human trafficking, and cracking down on counterfeit operations, but reduce the military size and expenditures drastically. 5. Corruption  Cracking down on corruption and reforming politics so that politicians focus more on their constituents and less on re election and lap dancing the big corporations at fundraisers. Requiring constant up-to-date audits on public funds, "misplaced" money, usually material amounts, from the Federal Reserve Bank, and third party government contractors. 