To what extent did the structure of Proto Indo-European influence Western ideas about grammar and languages?
I think the template is less PIE and more Latin. There were many innovations in Latin compared to the classical IE structures that can be seen in classical Greek and Vedic Sanskrit. (I am thinking primarily about the verbal system, which is based almost completely on aspect, with tense an afterthought, in Greek and Vedic Sanskrit, where the Latin system is much more focussed on tense.) But indeed, Latin kept rich inflection. (Much less rich than PIE / classical Greek / Sanskrit, or the modern Slavic languages, but rich enough). And this of course gave rise to centuries of strange language didactics, teaching languages like English or Japanese following Latin paradigms. One point typical in western consideration of languages is the focus on morphology. And that focus it shares with the classical Indian (Panini) view of grammar. If you look at a Sanskrit grammar of the 19th century (and these are still in common use today), syntax is a mere anecdotal afterthought. The reason that this distorted view could evolve in these two grammarians traditions, and that it even works is of course that the old IE languages are built around morphology. Notice that in the modern Indo-Aryan languages that evolved from Sanskrit, the loss of morphology can be observed as well. The classical Indian view of (Sanskrit) grammar is of course much more elegant, and, as has been mentioned often, resembles modern generative methods, while the western (Latin-centered) apparatus of grammar is distinctly old-fashioned. I cannot tell much about eastern views of Grammar theories. I can only contribute that the Japanese phonological system (Their presentation of their system of syllables "Gojūon") is built after Sanskrit (which was known via Buddhism). I have no idea if this influence went further and perhaps might have given rise to a (hypothetical) completely crazy analysis of Chinese Sanskrit-style. I doubt that it happened that way. Updated 66w ago • View Upvotes