What are the top five things you want to change in this world?
I'm having a really hard time dealing with the scope of the question. I tend not to engage in counterfactual speculation. That is, I try to deal with the realm of the practical, and I can't wish away things like poverty just with a one-liner in a Quora answer. Having been A2A I can try to put together an answer, and perhaps it will be thought-provoking, but I can't claim that it will really be meaningful. What I'm shooting for here is something that doesn't sound unreasonable, the ways that people are making life worse for themselves, and which doesn't get fixed. I want people who own more than a lifetime's worth of comfortable living (say, ten million dollars) to start thinking of something other than getting richer. What I have in mind here isn't even the obscene wealth of people who make money by taking a percentage off transferring money from point A to point B, but the various dictators who drive whole nations into poverty. The world has more than enough stuff to let everybody eat and be comfortable without having to take every last dime from the wealthy. (No, I don't want to hear about how they can't do it voluntarily because if you're not taking advantage of the poor then somebody else will. Of course this is right. That's why I wrote the disclaimer above.) I'd like for people to start thinking clearly about what risks are. In America we are terrified of a crime rate that has been falling for decades. We devote resources to curing "popular" diseases at the expense of ones that do more damage. We've spent trillions to prevent terrorist attacks whose damage would be measured in, at most, billions. I'm not saying to end any of our vigilance, just to reconsider where it belongs. I'd like to find something for everybody to do. We're reaching a unique era in human history where basic needs can be met with a tiny fraction of the population, and there is a sense in which everybody else is surplus. Some find occupation in "higher" needs and wants, from the arts to cleaning pools, but there are those who lack skills that other people want. These people don't simply vanish. I neither want to pay them to sit around, nor do I want to force them into some 21st century equivalent of workhouses. I'd love to magic some kind of meaningful work into everybody's life. I'd like for people to stop needing their tribe to win by making other tribes lose. Measure your success by your own values, not by being ahead of somebody else. I'm immensely tired of having people torture reality to make themselves feel better. I want everybody to think of being smart as worthwhile. It's not the only measure of value, nor is it a simple comparison that we can use to rank people from smartest to dumbest. But I'd like everybody to aspire to learn more than they know now and to have respect for those who know more than they do in some area, without it being a risk to their self-esteem. 