Will humans ever colonize Mars, our solar system, or the entire universe? Or will they go extinct?
Absolutely.     Humanity  will survive most of the challenges that nature will bring. Over the  next thousand years, we may have to deflect a giant asteroid or clear  the atmosphere of sulfur from a giant volcano. We will endure solar  flares and maybe even some supernova radiation. When humans finally  colonize mars - in 300 years or so - we’ll ride out year-long Martian  sandstorms. When humans colonize Jupiter’s moon Europa, we’ll endure 8.0  magnitude ice quakes. And, when humans colonize Saturn’s moon Titan,  we’ll deal with floods of liquid methane.     But someday, humanity will need to flee the solar system entirely.     One  thing we know for sure is that there is a finite amount of energy in  our solar system. Even the energy in the Sun is finite. When this energy begins to run out, everyone is going  to have to pack up and move out. Otherwise, starved of energy,  civilization will collapse, and consequently, most everyone will die.  Some people say that humanity will always find more sources of energy.  That might be true, but someday we’ll need to go outside of our solar  system to get it.    Let's assume that, for the foreseeable future, that the human  population will continue to double around every fifty years, (this is  loosely based on a high-end estimate from the UN). Let's also  assume that energy consumption will increase at approximately 5% each  year (Wikipedia). At this rate, humanity will deplete the earth’s supply  of coal, crude oil and other fossil-fuels within 500 years (a very  conservative estimate based on my own calculations). 200 years after  that, the entire world supply of uranium and other metals used in  nuclear power will also be depleted.     At three hundred years in the future with a human population in  the hundreds of billions, most of the planet is covered in cities. There  are no places on earth where you cannot see a high-rise building. This  has forced humanity out into the solar system. Thanks to some excellent  visionaries and engineers, living beyond earth is actually quite  comfortable. The habitats mankind has constructed out in the Solar  System are very nice.     Space  based solar-collectors and power-transmitters beam energy to wherever  it is needed. Humanity declares this the beginning of the “Age of  Unlimited Energy.” This energy is used to power the largest engineering  projects in human history; including the colonization of every solid  rock in the solar system.     At this point, there are three main areas where humanity consumes energy: transportation, food production, and terraforming.     With  the explosion in human population and subsequent expansion into the  solar system, transportation requires an unimaginable amount of energy.  People traverse the solar system as easily as people use air travel back  on earth. Humanity solved the problem of access to space by  constructing a giant structure that extends beyond the earth’s  atmosphere; essentially an artificial mountain. From the top of this  mountain, giant Space-Cruisers are easily launched. The Space-Cruisers  are powered by nuclear or fusion engines, no chemical propulsion is  required.     Pluto  is ten years away by 2012 standards, but now, high powered spacecraft  can make the trip in little more than a few weeks. Even with fusion  powered spacecraft, the most efficient power-source conceivable, large  quantities of elements such as hydrogen and xeon are consumed by this  process. Producing  food for hundreds of billions of people takes a substantial amount of  energy, especially if these people are not living on earth. Food is  grown in space on giant outposts located at favorable distances from the  sun. Then, the food is delivered to the people living in deep space.     Terraforming  occurs under glass bio-domes located on nearly every surface in the  solar system. When the domed habitats were first constructed they were  spaced out like water droplets. But now, they are joined together,  making the entire surface of each world fully habitable. At these vast  distances from the Sun, all of these worlds need a heat source.  Simulated sunlight is beamed down daily from artificial suns, giant  disks of light powered remotely by energy beamed from the real sun.     It  is now one thousand years into our future. Like each generation before,  most of humanity believes that there is an unlimited supply of energy.  With a population in the trillions, humanity will be comprised of a  civilization occupying all 84 large, hard surfaced bodies in the solar  system. This includes every large moon (21 of them), giant asteroid (4  of them) and dwarf planet (all 51 of them!).       Even Pluto is a city  filled with people! It’s not only planets and moons that house humanity,  trillions more live on giant space stations. On these stations,  artificial gravity is generated via rotation. The solar collectors have  grown in number so much so that they act much like a partial  Dyson-Sphere (A full Dyson-Sphere would cover the entire sun), but even  with almost 90% of the Sun’s energy being put to use, it’s still not  enough to meet humanities demand for energy. It is at this point that  humanity begins to mine the sun!      The sun has plenty of potential energy. Humanity has constructed giant  spacecraft that can fly through the sun's outermost layers, piercing it  like an arrow, retrieving billions of tons of helium and hydrogen. Some of the sun's inner layers are so highly compressed that they are practically solid. But Humanity has found away to blast through these as well with fusion charges in an attempt to extract even more elements.     Giant  factories have been constructed to process the elements of the sun,  beaming out more and more energy to the hungry human colonies. Without a  constant stream of energy, these outposts, with their trillions of  people, would starve or freeze in a matter of weeks.     For  many years the Sun-mining continues. The sun begins to warms up and  expand as the fusion reaction in it’s core reacts to the reduction in  the sun’s overall mass.     To  compensate for the expanding sun, humanity uses more energy than ever.  They use this energy to adjust the orbits of the planets away from the  expanding star. Giant fusion reactors power huge arrays of planet moving  jets, hundred of jets mounted on towers all over the planet's surface.  They call it, “Solar system engineering.”     Mercury has been moved past the orbit of Venus and Earth has been moved past the orbit of mars.      But there is a problem! A problem that scientists warned about and a  problem that engineers ignored. Like fossil fuels back on earth, there  is only a limited supply of energy in the sun. What was initially  supposed to last for 10 billion years, is now rapidly being depleted.  “The Age of Unlimited Energy” is nearing it’s end.     But still, the sun mining to continues because there is no other viable energy source!         It’s  now 1700 years into our future and the amount of usable energy in the  solar system is approaching zero. The Sun will soon grow to become a  full sized red giant, and soon, it will blow off its outer layers and  turn into a white dwarf. This white dwarf will support only a fraction  of the human population. Some think that they will survive the  transition. But this is not likely. The solar system must be evacuated!     In  preparing to leave the solar system, humanity plans for a drastic shift  in energy consumption. Habitation and transportation systems are  combined as people move from the planetary bodies onto giant spacecraft.  In  preparation for departure, much of the sun’s remaining energy is  collected and used to create antimatter, which will be stored and later  used as a fuel source for the journey between the stars.     In  the early days of “The Age of Unlimited Energy” a few millionaire  adventure seekers set off for the stars. None have come back due to time  debt, (Traveling at speeds approaching the speed of light allow for  traveling great distances and time slows for the traveler relative to  time as recorded by a stationary observer).     A few of these adventurers  have sent messages from the other solar systems with valuable  information on the habitats of the local planets. Humanity has amassed a  vast inventory of all the habitable exo-planets in this part of the  galaxy. There is even a list of planets that have “some” form of life;  forest, or ocean planets for example, populated with animals, trees and  fish.      As the giant spacecrafts carrying billions of people leave the solar  system, they head off in different directions, toward many different  planetary systems. They’ll do this for a variety of reasons, but mainly  because there is no guarantee that an individual solar system will have  enough planets or moons to support all of humanity.      Also, as humanity spends generations in between the stars, the human  population continues to grow. Even though people aren’t having as many  children, medical science has progressed to the point that humans have  become effectively immortal. Each new generation adds incrementally to  the population.      All of the intergalactic vessels constructed for the journey were  designed to form giant rings. Each of these structures holds billions of  people and each ring is essentially its own city. From the “ground”  level of one of these cities, you can look up and see the “sky,” the  projection of a summer’s day complete with sunshine and puffy clouds.      In other cases, where multiple city-rings  travel together, their  ceilings are transparent. These cities share a “sun” with other nearby  vessels. This sun is an artificially created fusion/antimatter reaction.  This reaction is provided with enough fuel to burn for the duration of  the journey.      Humanity travels in mass convoys. Some spacecraft are devoted entirely  to food production,and others are devoted to animal transportation.  Giant sphere shaped spacecraft contain what’s left of earth’s “ocean”  with all the creatures therein.      And so it would be. For a length of time greater than recorded history,  humanity will travel between the stars. But, when their journey ends,  and they arrive at their new home planets, in distant solar systems, a  new chapter in human history will have begun. Humanity will have become  an intergalactic species.     And  what if this energy apocalypse never happens? What if human population  growth slows and we never leave earth? Then I guess we’ll just have to  wait, because over the next billion years, the sun will get hotter and  hotter on it’s own, and eventually, if we don’t do anything about it,  the earth’s oceans will burn away, and the atmosphere will become thick  with the gasses of a dying world. 