What does prison smell like?
The pools of smell is huge and there is no way I could cover every odor in the prison environment. What I would try to do is to pick a wide and representative sample and then describe to you a whiffet of each of them. Unlike many other prisons, San Quentin offers an interesting variety of smells that can transport you to your long lost childhood, put you in a melancholic mood, or provoke in you the most unpleasant queasy feeling.   In San Quentin’s Garden Chapel, one’s sense of smell is welcomed by the fragrance of the freshly mowed lawn, an old-growth pine tree, and a diversity of well-pruned shrubs. There, you can indulge in the sweet perfume of an assortment of roses, an intermixture of aromatic mint plants, wild flowers and composite flowers like marigolds, lilies of the valley, yellow flag iris, and bachelor buttons just to name a few. Amidst his sunny micro paradise, the relaxing flow of water from a pair of three-dimensional sphere-like artificial springs of water, and an orchestra of birds choreograph an ambience of serenity for your spirit’s delight.   The garden’s redolent atmosphere makes me reminisce about my childhood’s good old days in grandmother’s home garden. In my grandmother’s garden, I had no worries; everything was agreeable, perfect, and fun. Especially, when she used to play hide and seek with me. Often when I walk by the chapel’s garden, I catch myself daydreaming about seeing her coming from within the roses asking me, “Were you looking for me, my child?” I just close my eyes to bask in the garden’s ethereal cool essence, ticking my nostrils, oxygenating my brain in each breath while carrying me through my deepest thoughts. As it were, my grandmother’s soft hands shining in each refreshing faint of nature’s aroma caressing me and letting me know that she is always present in my heart.   By contrast, in San Quentin’s living quarters an effluvium assaults your olfactory sense right at the entrance. This stream of foulness is the fusion of built mildew, dirt, rust, human exude, and the building’s lack of ventilation. Visualize a crumbling cellblock six stories high and nearly a hundred feet by three hundred feet long. Its corroded water pipes are covered with dust and bird dung and its two main air conditioning ducts are clogged with thick layers of lint. The ceiling and walls are spotted with mildew, dust, and streaks of all sorts of dried body fluids. Two catwalks line the building’s walls. Approximately, twenty to thirty feet respectively above ground and out inmates’ reach. These walk ways were utilized by armed correctional guards to patrol the unit safely during San Quentin’s gladiator hey-days. Today they are no longer in use and the walkways are layered with dust and trash that serve as lunch bars to pigeons which have claimed North Block as their housing unit as well.   I love birds, but these pigeons aren’t on my favorite list anymore. Their flapping wings criss-cross the building and constantly agitate the bad-smelling atmosphere and every micro particle of dust on the walkways, lamps, rails, water pipes and air ducts. Just imagine eight hundred and forty men, two a cell, in four and a half by eleven-foot long cells and breathing the asphyxiating musty rusty recycled oxygen. To top things off, the majority of these men have been under strong medications for far too long, and the chemical components gives them fetid perspiration. Some individuals try to cover the stench with incense or scented ointments, but that just makes it worse. Some of them stink as if they were dead for several weeks already. Their mephitic secretions merged with the building’s stream of foul smells are so strong that in spite of one’s attempt to clean the cellblock, the repulsive smell prevails. You can literally feel the pungent oxidation’s stale and moldy smell trickling up through your nostrils into your taste buds.   Therefore, I try to stay away from the housing quarters as much as possible. If I can’t go to the chapel’s garden, I go to the prison’s lower yard. There I can infuse my spirit with the nature’s cool breeze and listen to the sounds of happy civilians’ smiles drifting over the water of the Pacific Ocean.   All communications between inmates and external channels are facilitated by approved volunteers since inmates do not have access to the internet. This program with Quora is part of The Last Mile San Quentin. Twitter: @TLM 