How is French a fusional language?
I honestly would not say spoken French is very much of a fusional language. Most of the French verbal suffixes are not pronounced and only exist in writing. Spoken French is borderline analytical/between fusional and analytical in my opinion, but there are no formal criteria for defining how fusional or analytical something is so that is just my opinion. French does have a fairly fusional tense system, but with subject agreement on French verbs, it is largely just a written phenomenon. German is considered fusional by Wikipedia, but I would argue it has a lot of agglutinative features for a fusional language. It is still a fusional language as a whole, but is not a very typical one. Fusional languages do not stack affixes very much, unlike agglutinative languages, and instead replace one affix with another, or in another way of conceptualizing it fuse multiple affixes together. In Latin, probably the most solidly fusional out of the list on Wikipedia, you can see how affix replacement happens rather than affix stacking: comed-am "I eat" comed-i "I ate" The affix is completely replaced. Each affix contains multiple meanings at once. In German by contrast: Ich bring-e "I bring" Du bring-st "you bring" Ich brach-t-e "I brought" Du brach-t-est "you brought" One feature of fusional languages is that they tend to have irregularities (as in German verb above), which may be part of the reason roots and affixes are not so readily separable. German is highly fusional in its case system, like Latin. The gender markers for example, do not carry over from case to case but change completely: Der                  Wagon        det-nom-masc car "the car" Dem                 Wagon det-dat-masc   car die Box det-nom-fem box "the box" der                box det-dat-fem  box In Tamil, a very agglutinative language, by contrast (tree is considered to have "irrational" gender): maran-kal tree-irr-pl "the trees" maran-kal-ai tree-ir-pl-acc maran-kal-lukku tree-ir-pl-dat You see the same affix being stacked with the other case affixes, rather than being replaced by them. Affixes are readily separable from the root. 