I listen to Porcupine tree, Pink Floyd, Scale the Summit, Opeth, Tool, Dream theater. What similar bands would you suggest I should listen to?
Here are 10 bands & 10 albums which, to my ears, are more or less in the same space as the bands you mentioned: Since your tastes seem to be on the melodic side of prog metal, you should go check out Skyharbor. Their newest album, Guiding Lights, could be exactly what you're looking for. Skyharbor favors rich, densely layered guitars, vocal harmonies, gorgeous contrasts, and spacious atmosphere. If you want something that keeps the melody and complexity of Skyharbor, yet goes quite a bit heavier, try The Contortionist. Astounding musicianship, huge dynamic range, and great songs. Their last album, Language, was easily one of my favorite albums of 2014. Along those lines, you might like Intronaut, whose 2015 offering The Direction of Last Things is one of the best things I've heard since...well, since The Contortionist. TesseracT is another band playing this kind of atmospheric, polyrhythmic, melodic progressive metal, and last year's Polaris is a very good example indeed. Coma Ecliptic, the newest album from Between the Buried and Me, should scratch your itch for Pink Floyd and Opeth at the same time. I can't tell you much about other releases from that band, since that's the only album of theirs I have. But it has some very Floydian moments, and an Opeth-like mix of clean and growled vocals. Good stuff. Since you like Scale the Summit, check out the instrumental acrobatics of Animals As Leaders (especially The Joy of Motion from 2014), Sithu Aye (esp. Cassini), Exivious (esp. Liminal), and last year's instrumental album The Shape of Colour from Intervals. Finally, I'll toss in another vote for Riverside. I wasn't terribly happy with their most recent album (last year's Love, Fear and the Time Machine), but there is no doubt that most of their catalog would fit nicely in a Venn diagram of the bands you mentioned. I hope you find something in this list that you like. There's nothing better than finding a new band doing exactly the kind of things you want to hear. 