What would happen if all the water in the ocean was replaced with deuterium oxide?
It is very tough to have an answer as good as Josh Velson's so in addition there are some very subtle things that will change and can be considered to fall in the interesting range of "what will happen." I am attempting to partly explain the biological impact part of Josh's answer. The [math]D_{2}O[/math] in the oceans will be very soon a major part of all cellular matrix replacing water. With the assumption that heavy water is now everywhere where there was water earlier, the following argument can be made. All macromolecular folding leading to functional molecules now happens in the presence of [math]D_{2}O[/math] instead of water. The interactions that lead to a set of very simple chain of molecules to fold into a protein or enzyme that has in most cases functionality that is critical to the life cycle of the organism, are very very different from the chemical bonds that form those molecules. One of the more important important interactions is the Hydrogen bond which is much weaker in heavy water. In addition to this, the following interactions need to be investigated. 1. Electrostatic interactions: These are an integral part of RNA and DNA interactions as both are highly negatively charged. Water as a solvent is the medium between any two charged bodies in most situations and dielectric constant of water is not constant with temperature and one can assume that heavy water will have the same property(Page on acs.org) but the difference of extent is what would alter the magnitude of the interaction. This would happen because of different Bjerrum lengths and therefore the difference in the level of Counterion condensation. The effect is minuscule but for biological functionality is disturbing enough. 2. Stacking interactions: Macromolecular chains have stacking interactions within themselves and amongst each other. These will be impacted with heavy water replacing water. 3.Excluded volume interactions: Otherwise known as WCA interactions. Extents or excluded volumes would be effected with a new fluid of higher mass and density. (NSDL Materials Digital Library Wiki ) 4. Bond angle and bond length interactions. There are fluctuations in bond lengths and bond angles about their equilibrium values and they do play a role in evolution to a final structure. A change in these interactions would most likely be there with heavy water. For an idea of all of the above contributing collectively to a folded structure, one can refer to Page on umd.edu. In conclusion, the impact on macromolecular folding in biological systems would be more than negligible and that is catastrophic enough. No proteins would form to fit their functionality in context of present life. This paralyses enzyme kinetics and almost all feedback control processes with water as a part of the control cycle or even as a passive component of structural features such as membranes. I leave it to your imagination to approximate the cumulative effect on all life if you think life as we know it could exist in these circumstances.  Thanks for reading. 