Are technological innovations necessary to combat climate change or do we already have the tools?
Disclaimer: I am a graduate student in geology, and haven't received any money in support of any of the things I write about below, but I have published a paper on catching lightning for energy, and so that may be considered a conflict of interest, perhaps.  (Send me a note and if you want me to send you the PDF of that article.) We already have the tools. 1.  Here is one technique, which should counter the effects of the melting ice caps -- and serve to stabilize the climate.  It's not proven, but it is likely to succeed - Artificial ice shields.  The link just below this paragraph describes one method, focusing on rivers which experience cold weather.  I'm sure that there would be other techniques to build up massive amounts of ice in high latitudes. Mongolia bids to keep city cool with 'ice shield' experiment This hasn't been tried out on a larger scale because governmental bodies can't get their acts together. 2.  Planting trees could certainly reverse the trend of atmospheric CO2, and counter climate change.  The number of trees needed to be planted is pretty immense, but not beyond our abilities.  If everyone planted a tree a week, as weather permits, climate change would be a non-issue. This would take an international movement, and those are a bit hard to build, but certainly not impossible. Artificial ice shields and planting trees -- these have the benefit of not requiring any real change to current industry.  If you can get industry on board, of course it makes sense to put more resources into: 3. Renewable energy.  I'm partial to developing novel sources, including: Lightning, whereby inductors placed far enough away are still able to (safely) catch a part of a strike, and that the strikes can be targeted, as is already done in lightning experiments, with wire attached to a rocket fired into the storm cloud. Novel electrochemical processes, with new ideas.  It is too bad that cold fusion is a hoax, but there may be some new pathways that will prove fruitful. Fusion, though this now takes more energy than it gives off. Electrohydrodynamics, which is energy from the flow of plasmas. Piezoelectric, with novel materials which might make the tiny amount of electricity involved -- might make this scalable. Thermoelectric, making use of the Seebeck effect. Electrokinetic, whereby a fluid in a porous medium changes its flow in response to pressure, and this sets up an electrical current based on the interaction with the pore walls. I'd think that the position of the moon, which also creates the two high tides every day, might be a viable source of the pressure change -- such that the energy input is free. (The last three, above, involve tiny amounts of electricity, so it would take a breakthrough to make these usable.) -- And I also like being very progressive to the current crop of renewables, including: Active solar systems, like solar panels. Passive solar systems, like solar water heaters. Active geothermal, like using the terrestrial waters' heat to turn a turbine, as steam, once the pressure load is off. Passive geothermal, like using small wells for heating and cooling. Wind, as turbines. Tidal, also to turn turbines. Anaerobic digestion, to make methane, which may then be turned to syngas, or something else useful (and replaces petroleum). Ethanol, including cellulosic ethanol, if this can be done without hurting the food supply for people. Fuel cell and hydrogen technology, especially using solar energy to split water and make hydrogen. Etc. Oh I feel that this list of energy sources is so inadequate!  It really is a large field, and my tiny descriptions (and omissions) don't do any justice to how rich the possibilities are! 4.  Bio-based plastics.  I read this book nearly a decade ago!  The technology has advanced a little since then.  The main point is that society could handily switch over to bio-based plastics, and thereby use plants as the sourcing for a lot of the things which we use and throw away.  Since plants take CO2 from the atmosphere as they grow, promoting this industry could solve the climate change problem, as well.  People really could do this -- since its based on consumption and throwing away packaging! Bio-Based Polymers and Composites: Richard Wool B.Sc. Chemistry (Honors Degree) Univ. College Cork Ireland 1970<br>M.S. Materials Science & Eng. University of Utah 1972<br>Ph.D. Materials Science & Eng. University of Utah 1974, Xiuzhi Susan Sun B.S. Agr Engineering Northeast Agricultural University China 1982 <br>M.S. Agr Engineering Northeast AGricultural University China 1986 <br>Ph.D. Agr. & Bio. Engineering University of Illinois Urbana IL 1993: 0000127639527: Amazon.com: Books ------------ When I write above that we already have the tools, I'm sure that this is the case.  #1 and #2 above can even be done without disturbing industry at all. #3 could be accomplished more easily if the World Trade Organization (WTO) allowed countries to subsidize their renewable energy industries without being subject to tariffs as they sell their products on the global market.  Currently, a country which does this is accused of 'dumping' and can have tariffs placed on their products.  This is what is happening to the Chinese solar panel industry as I write this (November 2012).  The US and Europe have put up huge tariffs, and the Chinese solar industry is collapsing.  The current WTO policy is that no government subsidy is allowed for any export industry.  I think it ought to be changed to allow for subsidies of renewable energy technologies.  #4 would be possible with industry and governmental backing, and programs to promote the bio-based plastics market and cheaper production. These are all reasonable, and possible, right now.  Many are even possible without controversy.  What is lacking is a movement to make it happen.  Culture has so much to say when it comes to what takes place in human affairs. Updated 167w ago • View Upvotes