If you have unlimited power and wealth to create or do anything, what will you create? What will you do?
I had quite a few big ideas. Some relate to buying a lot of land and stating a new country for: Healthy food: Only grow and produce food locally and organically. Perhaps in several years this can become profitable. Good try anyways, if money is unlimited. Open and free Internet: Like Sealand but bigger. Politically it would be hard to balance. But lots of money plus critical mass of supporters may help. Advanced medicine: A lot of progressive efficient medical approaches are now not moving forward for legal reasons. This one can, in fact, be hugely profitable very soon, but would require quite some political work. Modern money policy: Create a new currency, where the means and quantity of emission will be declared beforehand. Perhaps a crypto-currency. Some relate to society: Education: Create and support a peer-to-peer education system where top teachers, as measured by crowd rating and end result, are rewarded in millions. Explicitly ignore any existing rules about what the diplomas should be about and eventually have the world rate this new education system's graduates higher than graduates form standard universities. High-Quality Shelters and Work Trades: Create a number of areas where anyone who is willing to commit to doing some basic work for 4 hours four days a week is guaranteed decent quality food and shelter. Make it attractive and social, so that people would not hesitate to put in their CV "had an idea to implement, lived in a shelter for half a year to try it out". Promote slow and efficient lifestyle: Instead of transatlantic flights, introduce huge cruise-like ships, where one can take two weeks to travel London to New York, while working remotely. Persuade some big or not too big companies to commit to only use this means of transportation and no flights. Watch positive changes from HR and recruiting perspectives. Invent, create and popularize a new type of sport. To be engaging, promoting being healthy and fit, helping to slow down and get free of stress. Outdoors with large green areas. Much like what golf is today, but less motoric in terms of physical exercise and more engaging for people in their twenties. No idea what would it be though :-) Some relate to technology: Big sustainable city: A town that can hold ~500K people offering them offices, schools, healthcare, parks, transportation, etc. With no cars and clean air. Space program. This is already happening well and I should not get much involved. But extra several $B will certainly help. The goal should be to start living in space, on the Moon and Mars, send habitable sustainable ships further away from Earth for space exploration and colonization. Efficient rail-based transportation network: Small capsules for one .. four people traveling on an extensive "rail-based" network (monorail, most likely), operated in Uber fashion. Artificial cities on water: There are many locations on earth that are underwater, but with a few feet depth. Wouldn't Venice of Manhattan-style skyscrapers be cool? New communication standards: Modern Wi-Fi and other means of connectivity are just too outdated and inefficient yet can't be changed for legacy reasons. On larger scale, however, it is possible. Alternative energy: There are so many technologies that can be scaled very well but are not yet. Would be strange to not invest several hundred billion out of infinity into this area. Copy-pasted from Dima Korolev's answer to If you were given unlimited money to start your dream business. What would that be? 