Where did the Sun get its energy to burn itself?
A simplified answer: The sun is not actually "burning," as fire requires oxygen.  It is, however, hot and bright due to the ongoing process of Thermonuclear Fusion of Hydrogen at its core.  Fusion is the act of combining the atomic nuclei of elements, which can be a surprisingly difficult prospect, even with the simplest, lightest element in the universe (Hydrogen) which will not fuse readily with another Hydrogen atom due to both particles possessing a +1 electrical charge generated by their respective single Protons.  This electrostatic repulsion prevents fusion from taking place, and brute force is required to overcome it.  This brute force has been achieved on Earth via Fission explosions inside atomic warheads and ultra-powerful laser beams like those found at the Laser Ignition Facility in California.  The Sun, however, in lieu of technology, applies this brute force in the form of heat.  (Hence the term THERMO-nuclear Fusion)  As you probably know, the higher the temperature of a material, the more rapidly its particles are moving and colliding with one another.  At a temperature in excess of 20 Million Degrees Fahrenheit, there is sufficient kinetic force available to slam Hydrogen atoms together hard enough to overcome their mutual electrostatic repulsion, bringing both nuclei near enough for another force of nature to take over:  The attractive Strong Nuclear Force.  Fusion now takes place, combining both Hydrogen atoms and creating a (highly unstable) Helium atom, also releasing a great deal of energy in the process.  So, the key to initiating the Fusion process in stars is enormous heat.  How this heat is generated is the answer to your question:  Pressure.  When you compress something a great deal, the atoms have less room to move around and collide more often, thus driving temperatures up.  And where did the Pressure come from?  Gravity.  And where did the Gravity come from?  Mass.  Anything that has mass experiences the attractive force to all other points of mass known as gravity, and the greater the mass, the greater the gravitational force (thank you, Newton).  Quite simply, stars are highly massive objects, which means they possess tremendous gravity, which means they are attempting to crush themselves under their own enormous weight.  This inward collapse from all directions is what gives massive objects like stars and planets their round shapes, and with enough of this gravitational force, the internal pressures soar high enough to generate the temperatures in tens or hundreds of millions of degrees required to ignite Fusion.   Jupiter or Saturn, which are enormous balls of Hydrogen like the Sun, can be thought of as failed stars; they contained all the right ingredients necessary to become stars, but never gained enough mass during their formation to create enough gravity to create enough pressure to create enough temperature to start Fusion. The reason scientists know these things with such confidence is partly thanks to a century worth of research and experimentation on Earth involving nuclear physics, and also thanks to empirical observation of the Sun's behavior which tends to support the mathematical projections of the conditions within it.  For example, Neutrino emissions from the Sun's core agree quite well with the mathematically predicted values associated with its mass/size/age/energy output/etc.  I hope this helps! 