Why hasn't there been a single prominent or influential civilization which has come out of Africa (except Egypt (held areas of Asia Minor), Carthage (held Spain), the Berbers (held Spain))?
The way history has come to be written is often based on our own history. I have studied in America, Europe as well as Africa and have come to understand that the focus on what history is taught in different places is directly linked to how it affects that place. Religion has also helped the history of certain places spread as religion has spread and been questioned. Having said that, Africa did have a number of rich and flourishing civilizations. Many of these are also not well documented as part of western history because there was hardly any interaction with the west except for a few like the Egyptian's. Documentation on portable material also was not as popular in many African civilizations as it was in other civilizations. However it did exist in structures and dwelling. This lack of portability makes it hard for information to be moved and shared. Some civilizations even heavily relied on oral history instead of written history. Of course this has inherent problems as stories would change as they were passed down but this also happened with some written history that had first been passed down by word before being recorded. Africa is also quite a big continent so it would have been very hard for 1 culture to become more prominent than others. Although different influences did spread (as they did in the rest of the world.) Some cultures that I know of are listed below. I am sure this is by no means a comprehensive list as I have not studied history further than A'level the knowledge i posses in this field is very rudimentary. There was the Mutapa kingdom, a shona kingdom based in present day Zimbabwe and parts of Mozambique. Some of their ruins still exist today. The Zulu kingdom, a bantu kingdom that still flourishes and was based in present day Southern Africa. The Merina kingdom of present day Madagscar. Its expansion was stopped by the entrance of the french on the Island. The Nok civilisation of present day Nigeria. Although the culture disappeared probably due to disease or the expansion of another culture, they did leave behind a legacy of iron smelting and architecture using terracotta that was adopted by other cultures in the region. The Kush Empire (Nubian Empire) which stretched from present day Egypt down to Eastern Africa and built many more pyramids than those built by the egyptians in present day Sudan. The Aksum kingdom of present day Eritrea, Ethiopia, Saudi Arabia and Yemen  that got part of its power by defeating the Kush. its people spread the use of iron working and ship building that allowed them to trade with the Romans as well as India. Some of their structures and architecture can still be seen in present day Ethiopia. The Buganda Kingdom of present day Uganda and parts of Tanzania which had a developed decentralized system of governance as well as an established road network that was used to trade with the Arabs who brought goods from as far as China. This kingdom grew by taking over smaller kingdoms and assimilating them and their ways into its culture and therefore growing its own culture as well as ideas. Part of my own roots lie with this culture. The Swahili Culture. While this was in itself not a kingdom but a culture that evolved from the assimilation and intermarriage of the Bantu and Arab cultures around the East African coast due to the trade they were involved in. I felt it was important to mention because its influence is still felt today. Especially along the coast of Kenya, Tanzania, parts of Mozambique, Zanzibar and even as far inland as Congo, Burundi, Rwanda and Uganda. Part of my own roots lie among these people. The Ashanti Union of present day Ghana and possibly parts of Côte d’Ivoire. This was probably one of the richest gold regions in the world (possibly still is). While it was more of a union of very many small kingdoms it can also be viewed as a Kingdom in itself. Because of their wealth these small kingdoms realized that they had to join together in order to defend their wealth from intruders. As I mentioned there are many more cultures and civilizations I may have not mentioned that maybe just as important or of even greater importance but I am not really a historian and have focused on the one I know of or have read about. No offence is intended if they are not mentioned. Updated 44w ago • View Upvotes