What are the essential progressive rock albums?
Essentials? Basically the core old British guys with mellotrons, and then some... King Crimson's first and second incarnations were spotty, but with moments of astonishing brilliance. Much harder rocking than many of their contemporaries. I highly recommend some of the Fripp/Wetton/Bruford era live albums - any of them are great. But the essentials: In the Court of the Crimson King, Starless and Bible Black, Red. Yes is the first band many think of when they say "prog". For me at least, it's super-easy to name the essentials - it's the three Bruford + Howe albums of the early days, The Yes Album, Fragile, Close to the Edge. Bill Bruford left Yes at the height of their powers for the on-the-ropes King Crimson. Why? Because he wanted to be where the real action was. No knock on Alan White, who replaced him as Yes' drummer, but Yes as a band fell too far down their own rabbit hole after Bruford left. (Tales from Topographic Oceans is an interesting extension, to see how far they actually took it) Genesis in the Peter Gabriel era was the height of prog showmanship. They tackled composition at scale without the pretense of Yes. Brilliant stuff. In order of necessity... The Lamb Lies Down on Broadway, Nursery Crime, Foxtrot, Selling England by the Pound. Pink Floyd is the most successful prog band of all time, but weren't at the heart of prog. Maybe that's why their music holds up so well. Again, in some semblance of order... Dark Side of the Moon, The Wall, Wish You Were Here, Animals. There were lots of fantastic British bands in this era. Here are a couple of standout albums... Emerson Lake & Palmer, Brain Salad Surgery Jethro Tull, Aqualung Meanwhile, across the pond.... Rush is another of the most successful bands of all time, still cranking out great records and selling out stadiums. As Sebastian Bach said, "The kind of band that makes you want to read!" Two absolute essentials of prog here... 2112, Moving Pictures. But really, everything they did in between those two is stunning as well. Kansas showed that American farm boys could play the Brits at their own game, and beat them! Although they fell apart as popular success went to their heads, they did some really astounding prog. Leftoverture, Point of Know Return, Kansas. (I included their first album here just because the track "Journey from Mariabronn" is one of the most perfect moments in the history of prog). Styx gave us more midwestern prog (and another degeneration to pop mainstream). Lots of good stuff, but the one that stands out is The Grand Illusion. On to the modern era, now. The obvious bands for many prog fans are overtly proggy... Dream Theater, Marillion, Porcupine Tree, etc. But I'd like to point to bands and records that capture the soul of prog, without sounding too much like the shuffling zombie corpses of old British guys in capes, y'know? The Flaming Lips, The Soft Bulletin Radiohead, OK Computer The Decemberists, Picaresque Neutral Milk Hotel, In the Aeroplane Over the Sea Wilco, Yankee Hotel Foxtrot I could name a hundred more albums, but I think this will get anyone started. 