What are five odd or generally-unknown facts about outer space?
1. In space metal sticks together In a vacuum like space, when two pieces of metal touch each other  they bond together. This is a process called cold welding. On the Earth  because of the oxygen in our environment this does not happen naturally  but it is used during some manufacturing processes. It is something to  take into account but it is not usually a problem as the astronaut’s  tools maintain an oxide layer even when leaving Earth. 2.A Planet of Burning Ice Gliese supports a planet made almost entirely out of ice—at 439 degrees Celsius. Gliese 436 b is, quite simply, a burning ice cube.  Imagine Hoth from Star Wars—except that it’s on fire. The only reason  this ice stays solid is because of the huge amount of water present on  the planet; the gravity pulls it all in towards the core, keeping the  water molecules so densely packed that they cannot evaporate. 3. The Diamond Planet A planet fit for Oprah, or perhaps even Bill Gates. 55 Cancri e—made entirely out of crystallized diamond—would be priced at 26.9 nonillion dollars. That’s the kind of stuff that even the Sultan of Brunei dreams about at night. The huge diamond planet was once a star in a binary system, until its  partner began to cannibalize it. However, the star was not able to pull  its carbon core away, and carbon is just a ton of heat and pressure  away from being a diamond—so at a surface temperature of 1648 degrees  Celsius, the conditions are almost perfect. One third of the mass of the planet is said to be pure diamond,  and whereas Earth is covered in water and abundant in oxygen, this  planet is made mainly of graphite, diamond, and a few other silicates. The huge gemstone is two times the size of Earth, and has eight times the mass, making it a “Super-Earth.” 4. Lunar Pathogens When Neil Armstrong and Buzz Aldrin returned victorious from their  moon landing, they were not immediately hoisted on the shoulders of  their countrymen and treated to a ticker tape parade.   In fact, the fear that they might have acquired some kind of “lunar  pathogen” during their trip to the moon led them to be quarantined in a  converted Airstream trailer for 21 days.  Only after it could be  determined that they were healthy and not bringing back some kind of  space plague, were they allowed to begin the celebration, featuring in  several parades and visiting 25 foreign countries, including a meeting  with Queen Elizabeth II.  This procedure was followed for the subsequent  3 missions, until after the Apollo 14 mission when it was finally  determined that the moon was devoid of life. 