Where did the Sun get its energy to burn itself?
Since Frank Heile already gave an excellent answer on fusion I will limit myself to the things before and after this. Stars form out of clouds of gas. For example the Orion Nebula. Since gas is not distributed evenly there will be gravitational pulls which makes some parts denser than other parts. What will happen next is that this denser part will attract even more particles. Gravity. source: Spacetime is a Pringle Each particle (atom or cluster of atoms) that is sufficiently close to the larger one will be pulled. And with this the range will get larger and larger and more particles will be pulled in. This will eventually result in a Protostar In this process the pressure inside the protostar will build up. When this happens it will heat up. Pressure leading to heat can be observed by just using a hand pump. When you pumped up your tires it will feel warmer. (Bicycle pump) Up to this point we see a 'collapse', the star gets denser and denser. And with that energy (heat) will build up more and more. This results in the fusion of hydrogen atoms in helium as Frank Heile pointed out. Due to fusion/heat particles are pushed away from the core, due to gravity the particles are pulled back in. The moment fusion is the main provider of energy for the star we speak of (a) Main sequence (star). This star will sustain as long as there is fusion of 'light' materials into heavier material (hydrogen into helium, helium into carbon). Now we have to wait a loooooooong time. The star (sun) will just be a giant fusion reactor. And over time heaver elements will be created and lighter elements will be exhausted. This will cause a slowdown in the nuclear reaction and the core will contract. When this happens fustion will take place in a shell around the core and the star will start to grow larger and larger due to higher temperatures. The star will develop into a Red giant When the star completely burns out what will remain is a new nebula like the Cat's Eye Nebula It starts with a nebula and it ends with a nebula. 