What are the necessary and sufficient conditions for the theory of evolution (in all of its aspects) to be true?
Necessary and sufficient condition: 1) Living organisms must exist. Notes, Definitions and Facts: A) The theories of evolution do not encapsulate the theories of abiogenesis. B) One of the characteristics of living organisms is that they reproduce. Another is that they are made of cells. From this, viruses (virii for those who don't think English language declinations suffice), while important parts of the ecosystem of living beings are not themselves alive. C) Reproduction leads to exponential or near exponential population growth. D) Unchecked, populations will tend towards infinity. E)  All living organisms require resources. i.e. food (energy), space and metabolic reaction sustaining material resources (water, copper, iron, magnesium, potassium, ...) F) All environments (in the limit, the entire earth) are finite. Finite room. Finite energy. Finite metabolites. An obvious ad-hoc formulations: i) Exponential Growth + Finite Resources ==> Competition Facts continued: G) Mutations happen. Radiation and other sources of imperfect DNA replication guarantee this. This fact can be independently confirmed by common reports of a thing called cancer in the literature. H) Most of an organism's traits are encoded in it's nuclear DNA. (For the sake of simplicity, let's ignore symbiotics and Lynn Margulis' one-track mind with respect to non-nuclear organisms) H1) Fun note: spontaneous natural mutation caused all of the variety found in this family:     http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bra... Ad-hoc formulation: ii) DNA + Universe ==> Variation Summary ad-hoc formulation of (i) and (ii): iii) Variation + Competition ==> Natural Selection iv) Natural Section + Time == > Evolution So, what do we have? The simple observations around us of the conclusion that: Reproducing Organisms in a Finite Environment that Store Information in DNA will Over Time ... Evolve. I guess if I were to rework this comment, I'd find two necessary and sufficient conditions: Living Organisms with error-prone replication. As the replication becomes more and more perfect, it would take more and more time and or energy (or both) ... so in this universe, error-prone can almost be assumed. But, it's necessary for evolution. Apologies about the flow and notation. I tried to pull it together in a couple of different ways, but none seemed satisfactory. Source: Notes that I scribbled down from a link I found pointed to in the comments of a Matlab simulation years ago. A DaisyWorld thing? I don't recall. I'll try to find it and update this. 