Why should atheists be given leave on religious holidays?
First of all, Merry Christmas! I'm comfortable with the concept of God. I don't happen to believe in Him, but that doesn't mean He makes me uncomfortable. And I happily accept all sorts of things that are named after concepts I don't believe in or that aren't relevant to my life. For instance, I am excited by NASA's Mars missions, even though the planet is named after the Roman god of war, which is another deity on my "doesn't exist" list. (Which I make and check twice.) I look forward to Saturday, even though I don't believe in the Roman god it was named after and never celebrate the festival of Saturnalia. I sometimes use the phrases "good Karma" and "bad Karma" as metaphors, even though I don't accept the Hindu/Buddhist concepts behind them; I say God bless you when someone sneezes; I enjoy decorating Christmas trees (originally a pagan tradition); I dress up on Halloween, which is a fusion of pagan and Christian traditions. And though some of my Wiccan friends might not like it, I enjoy movies like "The Wizard of Oz," which feature witches wearing black pointy hats, riding broomsticks. I use "awful" to mean "terrible," even though it originally meant "full of awe," "clue" to mean a hint rather than yarn, which is what it originally meant, and if I tell a child he's "naughty," I don't mean he's nothing, even though that was what the word meant to the people that coined it. (When Santa checks to see if a kid is naughty or nice, he is, if we accept the words' original meanings, concerned with whether or not they're zero-ish or silly.) To be honest, I rarely think about Columbus on Columbus Day, labor on Labor Day, or Presidents on Presidents Day. But I do sometimes talk like a pirate on Talk Like a Pirate Day. A man has to have some traditions! Yarrr! If I was an employer, I would give all my employees leave on Christmas. (What other religious holidays are you talking about? That's the only one most companies acknowledge in the US, unless you count Thanksgiving, which has been secular for a long time, though it has origins in Protestant and pagan harvest festivals.) Why? Because I'd have to give them some time off. Well, I guess I wouldn't have to, but I'd want to, to make them happy. Besides, if I didn't, they'd quit and work for someone else. Christmas vacation is a tradition in America and some other countries. I could give atheist employees some other day off, but that would be inconvenient for them, their friends, and their families, since most social groups with atheists in them aren't 100% atheist. I'm an atheist, and I have a mixture of religious and non-religious loved ones. We like to have days off together. Also, having Christmas off gives me the ability to go to religious services on that day. I sometimes like to do that, even though I'm not a believer. A well-done, sincere ritual can be beautiful and moving. In any case, if I was an employer who didn't want to give atheists Christmas off, I'd have to poll all my employees to find out who was religious and who wasn't. And I'd probably want to deny time off to bad Christians as well--ones that went through the motions but who weren't truly pious. Jews, Hindus, and Buddhists shouldn't get the day off, either. It's not their holiday! All of this polling would be a huge invasion of privacy, so even if giving non-Christians a vacation upset me, I wouldn't do anything about it, because invasions-of-privacy would bother me more. If I was a believer, I might hope that if atheists saw all the decorations and Christmas cheer, they'd convert--or at least feel warmly towards Christians. And, as a member of a religion based on love and fellowship, surely I would want to share my holiday with everyone, whether they believed or not. Updated 45w ago • View Upvotes