Why hasn't there been a single prominent or influential civilization which has come out of Africa (except Egypt (held areas of Asia Minor), Carthage (held Spain), the Berbers (held Spain))?
There were great African civilizations, they just don't enjoy the same levels of cultural awareness as other civilizations do. Apart from the Egyptians, we have: 1) The Kingdom of Kush/Ethiopia/Meroe: The details can read on Wikipedia, but in brief, this was a distinct culture that thrived, co-existed and was technologically on par with the Egyptian civilization. They even conquered the Egyptians and ruled as pharaohs for a while from the 8th to 6th century BCE. The one thing I would like to highlight here is there tradition of the Kandake, or "warrior-queen". Another little known fact about the Meroitës is that they had an unusually high number of queens who ruled without male intervention. One queen, Queen Amanirenus led her army against a Roman invasion in 24 BCE. She won two battles and after that, the Romans had had enough and agreed to a truce and went back to Rome. Rome never did conquer Meroë, and this kingdom continued to thrive for another 200 years. Actually, “queendom” would be more accurate, since the leader of Meroë was usually a warrior queen, called a “kandake” which means “queen mother” or more simply “gore” meaning ruler” Source: User:Kathenry This may be a bit of an aside, but do you the name 'Andromeda'? The galaxy is named after a character who, according to Greek myth, was an Ethiopian princess. Herodotus had this to say about that land: "Where the south declines towards the setting sun lies the country called Aethiopia, the last inhabited land in that direction. There gold is obtained in great plenty, huge elephants abound, with wild trees of all sorts, and ebony; and the men are taller, handsomer, and longer lived than anywhere else." Source: Aethiopia (Classical Greek term) 2) The Kingdom of Ghana: Another great kingdom that amassed a lot of wealth due to trade routes involving gold and salt. This is an 11th century account of Ghana's ruler (who was also called Ghana (Duh!)): He sits in audience or to hear grievances against officials in a domed pavilion around which stand ten horses covered with gold-embroidered materials. Behind the king stand ten pages holding shields and swords decorated with gold, and on his right are the sons of the kings of his country wearing splendid garments and their hair plaited with gold. The governor of the city sits on the ground before the king and around him are ministers seated likewise. At the door of the pavilion are dogs of excellent pedigree that hardly ever leave the place where the king is, guarding him. Around their necks they wear collars of gold and silver studded with a number of balls of the same metals.  Source: Ghana Empire 3) The Swahili culture of East Africa: The eastern coast of Africa changed profoundly around the close of the first millennium CE. During this time, Bantu-speaking Africans from the interior migrated and settled along the coast from Kenya to South Africa.  Marriage between the Bantu women and men of the Middle East created and cemented a rich Swahili culture, fusing religion, agricultural architecture, textiles, food, as well as purchasing power. These city-states were very cosmopolitan for their time and they were all politically independent of one another. In fact, they were more like competitive companies or corporations, each vying for the lion’s share of African trade. The chief export was ivory, sandalwood, ebony, and gold. Textiles from India and porcelain from China were also brought by Arab traders This is not to say that it was merely Arabs bringing "culture" to the barbarian natives. "In its plans and styles for both religious and domestic buildings, in its masonry techniques…in its dressed stone moldings and decorative motifs, the architect of the Swahili coast maintained over the centuries its own traditions distinguishing it from that of Arabia, Persia and any other Muslim land." In all fields, be it writing, art, architecture or law, the Swahili culture was a unique fusion of Islamic and native African elements. By no means, did Islam makeover the culture - rather it fused with the existing one to create an entirely original hybrid. Source: 1) General History of Africa Volume 4: Africa from the 12th to the 16th Century 2) User:Kathenry Regarding contributions in science, technology, philosophy and so on: Three philosophical schools in Mali existed during her golden age (12th–16th centuries) University of Sankore, Sidi Yahya University, and Djinguereber University. By the end of Mansa Musa's reign, the Sankoré University had been converted into a fully staffed University with the largest collections of books in Africa since the Library of Alexandria . The Sankoré University was capable of housing 25,000 students and had one of the largest libraries in the world with roughly 1000,000 manuscripts. Timbuktu was a major center of book copying, religious groups, the sciences, and arts. Scholars and students came throughout world to study in its university. The Lebombo Bone: One of the oldest mathematical artifacts known, a small piece of the fibula of a baboon, found near Border Cave in the Lebombo Mountains between South Africa and Swaziland. Discovered in the 1970s during excavations of Border Cave and dated about 35,000 B.C., the Lebombo bone is marked with 29 clearly defined notches. This suggests it may have been used as a lunar phase counter, in which case African women may have been the first mathematicians, because keeping track of menstrual cycles requires a lunar calendar. Certainly, the Lebombo bone resembles calendar sticks still used by Bushmen in Namibia. See also: Ishango bone One of the major achievements found in Africa was the advance knowledge of fractal geometry and mathematics. The knowledge of fractal geometry can be found in a wide aspect of African life from art, social design structures, architecture, to games, trade, and divination systems. Anthropologist Peter Schmidt discovered through the communication of oral tradition that the Haya have been forging steel for nearly 2000 years. This discovery was made accidentally while Schmidt was learning about the history of the Haya via their oral tradition. He was led to a tree which was said to rest on the spot of an ancestral furnace used to forge steel. When later tasked with the challenge of recreating the forges, a group of elders who at this time were the only ones to remember the practice, due to the disuse of the practice due in part to the abundance of steel flowing into the country from foreign sources. In spite of their lack of practice, the elders were able to create a furnace using mud and grass which when burnt provided the carbon needed to transform the iron into steel. Later investigation of the area yielded 13 other furnaces similar in design to the recreation set up by the elders. These furnaces were carbon dated and were found to be as old as 2000 years, whereas steel of this caliber did not appear in Europe until several centuries later. Ethiopians, particularly the Oromo people, were the first to have discovered and recognized the energizing effect of the coffee bean plant. Sudan, site of ancient Nubia, has more pyramids than anywhere in the world, even more than Egypt, a total of 223 pyramids exist. The Walls of Benin: a combination of ramparts and moats, called Iya in the local language, used as a defense of the historical Benin City, formerly of the now defunct Kingdom of Benin. Quoting The New Scientist: "They extend for some 16,000 kilometres in all, in a mosaic of more than 500 interconnected settlement boundaries. They cover 6,500 square kilometres and were all dug by the Edopeople. In all, they are four times longer than the Great Wall of China, and consumed a hundred times more material than the Great Pyramid of Cheops. They took an estimated 150 million hours of digging to construct, and are perhaps the largest single archaeological phenomenon on the planet." See also: Sungbo's Eredo, also one of the largest pre-colonial monuments in Africa and whose construction required more earth to be moved than the Great Pyramid of Giza Bamana Sand Divination is an ancient method of pseudo-random number generation. Generating sequences of numbers that closely approximate a "random distribution" is an important problem that has numerous applications in computer science, engineering and statistics. African Geomancy and Divination rituals also provide one of the earliest examples of the use of a binary number system. The drum language of the Kele people of Congo: The use of talking drums as a form of communication was noticed by Europeans in the first half of the eighteenth century. Detailed messages could be sent from one village to the next faster than could be carried by a person riding a horse. In the nineteenth century Roger T. Clarke, a missionary, realised that "the signals represent the tones of the syllables of conventional phrases of a traditional and highly poetic character." The really cool part is these drum "sentences" were typically very long and repetitive. This wasn't just the senders waxing poetic for no reason. Since a lot of the "information" gets lost when the sound traverses long distances, you need crucial words to get repeated multiple times so that enough of the total meaning gets completely transferred. Adding redundancy decreases the chance of a misunderstanding. This is the basic concept behind "error-correcting codes" - an essential element for every form of modern digital communication. Most of African philosophical literature was transmitted orally, which might explain why so little of survives in recorded form. Nevertheless you have later age philosopers like Zera Yacob, an Ethiopian whose 1667 treatise "Hatata" has been compared to the work of Descartes. Sources: 1) Eglash, R. 'African Influences in Cybernetics.' 2) http://csdt.rpi.edu/african/arch... 3) The Information: A History, A Theory, A Flood - James Gleick 3) History of science and technology in Africa So this answers the part about Africa having prominent civilizations and contributing to the sum of human knowledge. Why doesn't the average Joe on the street know about this? That is an entirely different question with roots in imperialism, racism, technological and geographical handicaps and and so on. I know I've just tossed a bunch of buzzwords at the question, but it's not a question that has any easy sort of answer. Guns, Germs, and Steel and the work of countless academics have tried but there's really no clear explanation. EDIT: After reading a few of the other answers and comments, I feel I should add that when writing my answer I placed special emphasis on non-Islamic and non-Arab civilizations and achievements. The question seems to want to ask what (to put it crudely) the black-skinned peoples of Africa have achieved, and I did not wish to taint my evidence by leaving room for arguments that my examples are just cultural/technological imports from the Mediterranean bordering Islamic/Arab kingdoms. 