Since there is no "self", what's the motivation for us to prolong our lives or take care of our health?
First, the Buddha never meant for anyone to become so paralized by confusion and out of control that there is no care about anything or anyone. This has happened because little misunderstandings and misinterpretations have crept in and compounded down through the centuries to tragically turn completely upside down the proper understanding of the Buddha's beautiful original teaching. This has wrought such a state of utter bewilderment and despair in so many true aspirants seeking the highest path in life. In reality, there is no small self. There is no point you can locate here or there that is your true SELF (distinguished here with all caps to denote a different meaning). Your individual self IS real to perception and conception, but is not the ultimate reality. SELF is the reality, and SELF is omnipresent. SELF is all that there is. The small self is an aspect, an individual projection, a single wave upon the limitless ocean of the big SELF, but SELF is not any small self just like the ocean is not the single wave. I use the term SELF but you could equally call it BEING. Every religion has a name for it. You are not some speck of dust in the infinite cosmos, not just some small wave crashing about on the surface of the ocean, you are, in reality the cosmic ocean of BEING, whether you cognize it yet or not.  Now this is really important: all this talk about SELF and "no self" is the cognition of the enlightened. It's obviously NOT the experience of the aspirant. The value in knowing it now is ONLY for understanding the destination.  Do not mistake the destination to be the path! Do not get caught up in thinking about having no self or thinking so much about it all that you don't act. Your task now is to act, start from where you are, get your bearings, get going, get into the experience and live every step of the path. The goal is accomplished by stepping towards it, not thinking about it. So it's good you asked the question instead of just accepting and enduring such a foggy teaching. No teaching is worth following unless it rings true and proves true through the resulting experience. But then what did Buddha really mean by "no self" and indeed the three Dharma Seals? The meaning of Buddha's three Dharma Seals: Impermanence refers to time/space where at that level there is nothing but change. Change is experienced in the waking state through the senses, and dream state through the mental activity during sleep. These states are where mistakes in understanding can occur because they are not by themselves the state where direct cognition of reality occurs. Thus, understanding also can change and get distorted in these unreliable states. No self refers to the attention having transcended the states of waking and dreaming, having gone beyond these impermanent states of mental activity and experiencing the sense of nothingness where the "fluctuations" of individual activity (thoughts) have subsided. The mind in this rested state is without sense of it's boundaries of small self—just infinite unboundedness. It's not a denial of existence but instead an experience beyond the impermanent state of the small self—the ego—beyond any attachment of the attention to any object of attention. Nirvana is the state of complete absorption in that state of "nothingness" of no objects of attention—thoughts—where the object of attention is the subject—one's own silent eternal totally abstract SELF. One must transcend waking and dreaming states and first experience Nirvana before one can rightly know the impermanent waking and dreaming states for what they are: shadows of reality. The shadows are very "real" in the sense that we experience them vividly, but they are not Reality. In the state of Nirvana the small self has expanded to be so enormously cosmically huge that it reaches to infinity, and therefore is as if there is no self left, i.e., no small self. The sense of individuality—specificity—has expanded to become the sense of living universality—totality. Now if you don't experience this yet it only means you have some cleansing and culturing to do. Through proper and regular meditation practice one literally allows nature to cleanses the whole body. It also cultures the nervous system to maintain Nirvana, and literally rewires the brain's neuro-net to eventually allow a permanent state of Nirvana while simultaneously experiencing waking and dreaming and sleep states. This cleansing and culturing is easy to do but takes time, yet it is absolutely the only truly worthwhile endeavor in life. Everything we do in life should be to support the pursuit of enlightenment. Having some inspiration of the awesomeness of gaining enlightenment is the spur to get to work and stay on track, but it is a mistake to make it our dominant focus. We should not waste time in too much thinking about what the meaning of this or that is, but rather get right to the experience when the zeal to achieve the goal is driving us. In order to succeed quickly in this journey, you need to first start experiencing Nirvana, and through that regular experience beyond time/space (eternal sameness), beyond duality (no small self, only SELF) you will culture it's permanence. Now you may see a lot of hoots and howls at my statement that you need to FIRST start experiencing Nirvana, something like "it takes a long time to get to Nirvana!" To that I say, "Learn the Transcendental Mediation (TM) technique as taught by Maharishi Mahesh Yogi and you'll see how quickly you get a taste of Nirvana right from the first meditation." There are THOUSANDS of Buddhist monks in SE Asia who have learned TM. They've learned because their head master recommended it. Thousands of Buddhist Monks in Asia Learn Transcendental Meditation If you want to read about what TM is to get a solid clear understanding first, read Maharishi Mahesh Yogi's Science of Being and Art of Living. Many booksellers have it or can get it. But reading is not the same as direct experience and can never substitute for a qualified teacher. Just be sure you get a certified TM teacher so you learn TM correctly. Find a teacher here: www.tm.org 