What contemporary music band do you like the most and why?
Most of the music I listen to is from the 60's or 70's, particularly (and mostly) British bands. However, when you have 150+ discographies, there are a few contemporary, still active artists that you would like. I would refrain myself from naming Radiohead and Muse since they have been hailed in a few answers. The Tea Party This Canadian Rock band ranks extremely high in my list due to: rich and diverse Indian Classical Raga & Arabic influence; and great baritone vocals by Jeff MartinThis band, luckily, came back from hiatus in 2011 and have been touring since then. However, their best works are from the late 90's. Grand Bazaar (acoustic version): Alhambra (EP) [1996] Other great songs are: Innana, Bazaar, Coming Home, etc. Tame Impala A band hailed world wide for reviving the neo-psychedelia, Tame Impala are an Australian band whom I like primarily because of: awesome, trippy stop-motion music videos, and Kevin Parker sounds so much like John Lennon!Feels Like We Only Go Backwards: Lonerism [2012] Other notably good songs are Half Full Glass of Wine, Be Above It, Elephant (given below), etc. Elephant: Lonerism [2012] For best results, increase the bass to full! Kula Shaker I am dodging the bullet by mentioning Kula Shaker who have been intact as a band but largely inactive presently. However, this band deserves mentioning being one of my favourite neo-psychedelic bands and they derive heavy influence from Hindu (Krishna related) themes, Indian Ragas and Sanskrit lyrics. Sound of Drums: Peasant, Pigs & Astronauts [1999] Other notable songs are Ophelia, Tattva, Govinda, Drop in the Sea, etc (the list really goes on!). The Machine One of the best things that I discovered on youtube, The Machine are a stoner/jam rock band from Rotterdam, Netherlands that formed in 2007 and quickly gained success on the internet. I wish I could share all their songs, however I would cite only a couple of them: Sunbow: Drie [2010] Moons of Neptune: Solar Corona [2009] Other awesome (seriously awesome) songs are: Pyro, Jam no. Phi, Tsiolkovsky's Budget, 5&4, etc. The Flower Kings Probably one of the best progressive rock bands of the day, and maybe the best symphonic progressive rock band at present, Flower Kings were formed as a touring group to help Roin Stolt in supporting his solo album of the same name, The Flower Kings. Stolt is a prog-rock giant, who is said to have "David Gilmour's debonair mid-tempo, Steve Howe's sharp edges, and Frank Zappa's virtuosity" and has released many albums with the Flower Kings. For Those About to Drown: Banks of Eden [2012] Other notable songs are Numbers, Illuminati, etc. Damien Rice This Irish singer was born to write and sing the most perfect heartbroken songs ever! Extremely famous for his songs such as Rootless Tree, 9 crimes (from the movie Shrek), his cover version of Radiohead's Creep, Damien Rice has been in an on-off relationship with band mate and fellow vocalist, Lisa Hanningan, who has recently left him to pursue a solo career. Cannonball: O [2002] Professor & La Fille Danse Other notable sogs include Blower's Daughter, Amie, Cheers Darling, etc. Rodrigo and Gabriela Amicably called "RodGab", this Mexican Flamenco duo has some of the best rhythmic compositions and have collaborated with giants such as Hans Zimmer (for Pirates of the Carribean soundtrack). Rodgab has a cult following and over 1.2 million albums sold. Hanuman: 11:11 [2009] (dedicated to Carlos Santana) Other notable songs include Atman, Savitri, a cover of Stairway to Heaven and others. Andy McKee An American fingerstyle guitarist who gained fame from his youtube video, Drifting, getting over 40 million views, Andy McKee is probably the biggest fingerstyle guitarist today and describes himself as "just this guy from Topeka, Kansas who kind of blew up on the Internet about a week before Christmas". Drifting: Art of Motion [2005] Into the Ocean: Dreamcatcher [2004] His other great songs include She, Ebon Coast, For my Father, Heather's Song, Africa (by Toto), Art of Motion, etc. (actually, each of his song is a masterpiece). Thanks for the A2A, anon!EDIT: Sorry for taking the liberty to mention artists other than musical groups/(rock) bands! I'll try to include others when I'd be able to recall their songs :D Updated 32w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Anonymous