If the SRY genes translocated to one of the other chromosomes, would that necessarily result in infertility, or could it result in sterile diploid "men" but otherwise functionally human persons?
SRY translocation is fairly rare but does produce viable offspring. People with this condition are called XX males because, while lacking a Y chromosome, they appear more or less phenotypically male. Some mild phenotypes such as hypogonadism can occur but XX males can often go undetected. XX males are viable in part because  the Y chromosome is coding-gene-poor and, as evidenced by the existence  of females, doesn't contain any genes necessary for life. The human Y  chromosome is small and coding-gene-poor relative to the X and the  autosomes and the few genes present, are mostly involved specifically in sperm production.  So far as I know, XX males with simple SRY translocations are infertilie . However, if there were fertile individuals they would probably be  among the least likely to be detected, as infertility is likely the most  noticeable phenotype. The small size of the Y might allow in very rare cases for a minimal set of fertility-related genes to be incorporated into another chromosome allowing limited fertility. This would be a very rare and unique situation if it were to be found, as it is a general rule of thumb that the larger the genomic rearrangement, the more deleterious it is. However, there is at least indirect evolutionary evidence that this might occur. Comparing eutherian and marsupial Y chromosomes (with insights from the monotremes which have positively wacky sex chromosomes) has suggested that much of our (eutherian) Y chromosome is derived from ancestral therian autosomes, indicating some dramatic past fusion even(s). My inclination is that as we begin collecting population genomic data from many generations of humans (and animals) for medical (and research) purposes, we will begin to realize that even within speces there is much greater tolerance for variation in genomic structure than we have realized. Tree photo citation Paul D. Waters, Mary C. Wallis, Jennifer A. Marshall Graves, Mammalian sex—Origin and evolution of the Y chromosome and SRY, Seminars in Cell & Developmental Biology, Volume 18, Issue 3, June 2007, Pages 389-400, ISSN 1084-9521, Mammalian sex-Origin and evolution of the Y chromosome and SRY. (Mammalian sex-Origin and evolution of the Y chromosome and SRY) 