What are some of the most mind-blowing facts about Kolkata?
Kolkata is the only city in India with Hand pulled Rickshaws. Kolkata is the only city in South Asia and India with Trams. There was no "Kolkata" Railway station till the year 2006, the current Kolkata station was previously called Chitpur Station and was only used as a Rail Yard and a goods terminal. Kolkata was the first Indian city to have mass rapid transit system/metro train. Salt-lake stadium in Kolkata is the Football stadium with second Highest seating capacity in world. The Eden Gardens Cricket Ground is the stadium is the third largest cricket stadium in the world by seating capacity. The Calcutta football league is the oldest football league in Asia and the second oldest football league in the world, it was started in the year 1898. The Calcutta Cricket and Football Club is the second oldest cricket club in the world, second only to the MCC, the rule makers of cricket. The Royal Calcutta Golf club, was the first Golf club outside the United Kingdom. The Calcutta Polo club is the oldest extant polo club in the world College street in Kolkata is the  largest second hand book market in the world and the largest book market in India, there is saying in Kolkata that if you can't find a book in college street, it probably doesn't exist! Worlds Largest tree in terms of area covered: The great Banyan Tree, Botanical Garden,Kolkata Second Largest Planetarium in the world, and the largest planetarium in Asia: Birla Planetarium, Kolkata. Kolkata is the eighth largest agglomeration of the world. Kolkata is considered the birthplace of a fusion cuisine, now popular as 'Indian-Chinese'. It was basically brought in by the Chinese from the Haka region and modified to suit the Indian palate. The Tangra neighborhood in East Kolkata is known as 'Chinatown'. The U.S Consulate in Calcutta is the U.S. Department of State's second oldest Consulate and dates back to November 19, 1792 Howrah Station is the busiest railway station India, in terms of unique trains it handles daily. After Delhi, it is the second largest city in India in terms of area covered. The second passenger train in  India was from Howrah to Hooghly on 15th August, 1854. Kolkata,  then Known as Calcutta, was once the British capital of India, and was considered the second most important city in the British Empire after London. Kolkata is home to three Nobel Laureates and an Oscar Winning Director. Other names for Kolkata are, "City of Joy" , "City of Processions", "City of Palaces" and, "The Cultural Capital of India". Till the year 1970, Kolkata was the most populous city in India.  The National Library of India,Kolkata is the largest library in India.UPDATES As suggested by Mohit Mundhra Largest museum in India -- Indian Museum, Kolkata Oldest zoo in India -- Alipore Zoo, Kolkata Largest Botanical Gardens -- B-Garden,Kolkata 5th largest Cantilever Bridge -- Howrah Bridge (and probably the only cantilever bridge in India) Will be updating this with more facts. Sources: Kolkata KOLKATA - Teri Meri Kahani My 22 years of  kolkattan life. Some basic googling Updated 122w ago • View Upvotes