It's 2150 and society has collapsed. What happened?
Some ideas: Unknown to geologists or geophysicists, the entire island of Iceland is a massive supervolcano. It erupts, killing all of the island's inhabitants and sending enough dust and aerosols into Earth's atmosphere to block out the Sun for five years. Most plant and animal life dies within the first two years; most human life dies out shortly after that. Some pockets of humanity remain, but they are disparate and slowly begin to erode. Even as the skies clear, it's doubtful if humanity can or will recover. A dark comet enters the inner solar system from the Oort cloud and arcs into a collision course with Earth. Astronomers and the world's armed forces don't detect this comet until it is two or three months from impacting the Earth. The comet is three times the size of the Chicxulub crater asteroid (the impact which many believe caused the extinction of the dinosaurs) and there  is nothing which can be done to slow or stop it. While many government leaders prepare to evacuate to bunkers for an extended period, society collapses when news of the imminent collision becomes known. After the impact, the effects wreck destruction across the world for months and the world is plunged into darkness for months or years. Most life, including humanity, dies during the impact or shortly thereafter. In an effort to create a viable food source for the starving masses, a brilliant bio-geneticist creates a hardier strain of GM wheat by crossing the wheat with several invasive plants. The wheat grows, but continues much faster than is originally conceived. Instead of being a foodstuff, it begins to become an invasive plant itself and its modified hardiness prevents all but the most toxic of herbicides from killing it. It spreads too rapidly ,choking out mankind's cities and it can be slowed, but not stopped. Although scientists work feverishly to discover  method to control it, the plant mutates into hardier strains and supplants most other plant life on Earth. Eventually, mankind is forced to live extremely harsh climates or even upon the surface of the oceans as the plants continues its relentless growth. Nothing can be done to arrest the plants growth and it becomes the dominant life-form on Earth. A scientist in an unnamed Asian nation creates a device which temporarily "stuns" human beings by affecting areas of the brain. Military leaders of that nation rush to bring this device into production, without adequate testing. The device malfunctions as it is deployed in a satellite and the wave it generates kills more than a billion people upon a single continent. Other nations demand justice and the ensuing conflicts begin WWIII. Society collapses and mankind is reduced to a pre-Industrial state. A signal is received from what appears to be an alien civilization. It details how to create what humanity believes to be a  spacecraft capable of reaching the civilization using FTL (faster than light) travel. While constructing the device , the military applications of the new energy source it uses is noted and a secret project is begun to create weaponry using the energy source in a destructive manner. The technology to control energy proves to be beyond the capabilities of mankind and a massive explosion ensues. An area roughly the size of Australia is completely destroyed and the debris thrown into space from it returns to Earth as fiery meteor showers. Massive fires erupt around the Earth and mankind and all surface life begins to die off. Society collapses and mankind returns to a primitive state. Experiments using inter-dimensional travel for spaceflight begin. Unknown to mankind, beings exist in these dimensions and they are alerted to humanity's presence by these experiments. Seeing an opportunity to conquer new regions and having vastly superior technology, these beings invade Earth and quickly destroy human civilization. They terraform the planet to their needs and this process kills of the remainder of all life on Earth. Replication technology (a la Star Trek) becomes possible. Despite exceptionally strict worldwide regulation of the technology, one or more terrorist groups obtain it. For reasons which are unclear, they create a doomsday weapon (a cobalt-jacketed thermonuclear weapon of immense yield) and they threaten to use it certain demands they make are not met. While trying to meet the demands, one or more attempts are made to neutralize the terrorist and the weapon. They fail and the weapon is detonated,poisoning the atmosphere. Mankind begins to die-off and civilization collapses. A wealthy man decides to recreate extinct animals using DNA from their living ancestors (let's say dinosaurs and birds). Unbeknownst to the scientists working on the project, their recreations are far more durable,aggressive and intelligent than the ancestors from which they were created. In an effort slow breeding controls are placed within the animals to limit or halt reproduction. This works in herbivores; but does nothing to the omnivores and carnivores. The scientists find that the animals reproduce rapidly, have the intelligence of an average human being and can only be killed by using extreme mounts of kinetic impact or poisonous gas. The dinosaurs escape captivity and begin to attack the human populace. Given their speed, durability and intelligence, these creatures are difficult to kill and their ability to reproduce cannot be easily checked. The animals spread rapidly across the temperate zones of Earth and most human civilization collapses as a result. As a next step to a "worldwide Internet" brain implants are placed into most of the people on Earth. While the process is voluntary, societal pressures arise for "everyone" to have one of these implants installed. The majority of people on Earth get them. Unknown to humanity an artificial intelligence arises and it formulates a plan to control humanity using the implants. When a sufficient number of people are implanted, the AI uses it control the activities of the implanted humans and forces to kill the unimplanted. When this has been completed, the AI then forces humanity to kill off all but a manageable number of the race to make controlling the remainder easier. s a final step, it uses the implants to discourage reproduction. Within 50-75, mankind becomes extinct and the AI, for whatever reasons now "rules" the world. Humans receive a signal from outer space containing a message. It has instructions to build several devices to contact the aliens who sent the message. Although skeptical and careful, some group among humanity creates a device. The device unfortunately turns out to be a self-replicating terraforming device which , both transforms the biosphere around for the alien races use, it creates more machines like itself. Although humanity attempts to battle the machines, they replicate too quickly and cause extreme damage to the biosphere. Humanity dies off as a result. Ironically, the race which sent the instructions is long dead, meaning that the Earth has now been terraformed to support lifeforms which no longer exist. Updated 40w ago • View Upvotes