Where did the Sun get its energy to burn itself?
The source of the HUGE majority of the energy that the Sun emits is from the difference in the energy (mass) of 4 Hydrogen nuclei (i.e. 4 protons) and the energy (mass) of a Helium nucleus (2 protons and 2 neutrons bound into one nucleus). Thus it is the "burning" of Hydrogen to produce Helium that powers the energy emitted by the Sun (by [math]\Delta E = \Delta m c^2[/math]). This difference in mass (24 MeV = (4 * proton mass - Helium mass) ) is due to the color force between the quarks that make up protons and neutrons.  The three quarks in 4 different protons has more energy than the 12 quarks in 2 protons and 2 neutrons bound into a Helium nucleus.  There are two things that make this reaction difficult: The 4 protons all have positive charge so the electrostatic force tries to push them apart.  So to get the protons close enough to react, it takes a very high energy (high temperature) and high density so a lot of collisions occur per second. The conditions of high temperature (millions of degrees) and high density (ionized hydrogen gas at 150 times the density of water) are both created by gravity.  When the low temperature, low density cloud of hydrogen gas was compressed into a proto-sun by gravity the temperature and pressure increased to the level needed to start the fusion reaction.  So gravity is like the match that starts a "fire" in a fireplace.  Gravity is also what creates the "fireplace" - it holds the fuel together long enough to react - it is like the walls of a fireplace that contains the fire. (See my answer to: Why do planets rotate? for information about the collapse of the gas cloud that created the Solar system.) The weak nuclear force is needed to permit 2 of the 4 protons to become neutrons.  The weak interaction is very weak compared to the color force, so it is necessary to have a high enough temperature and high enough density so that the weak nuclear reaction has enough time to act and transform a proton to a neutron. So gravity is the match and the fireplace that starts the fusion reaction and keeps it going, but the reason why the Sun will burn for many billions of years is because of the difference in energy levels of nuclei due to the strong color force.  Gravity is the source of the initial heat needed to ignite the nuclear fuel and it is also the container that holds the fuel together in the high temperature and high density needed for the fuel to burn.  Once fusion starts, it maintains the high temperature for a very long time.  Without any nuclear fusion fuel, gravity alone would allow the star to glow hot like our Sun for only a few million years.  But in this hypothetical condition there would really not be any "burning" happening since the gravitational potential energy is what would make the star hot for the "short" period of time. The nuclear fusion reaction is describe on Wikipedia here.  This is a picture from that article that shows the five separate steps that are required. High temperature and pressure are required for all 5 steps and the weak interactions are required for 2 of these reactions (the top two where positrons and neutrinos are emitted): The scientific verification of this "theory" is quite rigorous.  We have done many experiments that calculate the expected reaction rates for these nuclear fusion reactions and have extensively simulated the conditions in the Sun (and many other stars) to verify that the energy output by these stars is consistent with these reactions.  In fact fusion of Helium nuclei to produce all heavier nuclei (up to Iron) has also been calculated and understood.  We know the kinds of stars where all these kinds of reactions occur and these models have been validated by observation.  There really is no significant doubt about the major broad strokes of these theories - there may be some debate about particular details, but that is normal in any science. For more information about fusion see: Nuclear fusion, my answer to: In stars, fusion reactions occur when protons collide. ...? and my answer to: What single event would be "the coolest thing ever" were it to happen? 