What physics do I need to understand and exploit research blending statistical mechanics and social network analysis?
TL;DR: The main non-network theory related book that I recommend below is Nigel Goldenfeld's Lectures On Phase Transitions And The Renormalization Group. Read the full answer below for the rationale behind this choice and for the specific topics that the book covers that I think are useful for social network analysis... I'll begin with a disclaimer that social network analysis is a highly interdisciplinary field that draws on a number of more traditional disciplines. Consequently, statistical mechanics is not the only field that's valuable if you're interested in network theory. It's also worth asking questions like: What ideas from economics does someone with a statistical mechanics background need to learn to fully appreciate research in social network analysis? That said, I am myself a statistical mechanic who now spends a lot of time thinking about network theory, and I do think that there are intimate ties between the two fields. I also think that network theory presents a lot of problems that are naturally interesting to people with a background in statistical mechanics. To my mind, some of the strongest connections between statistical mechanics and social network analysis, or network theory more generally, arise because network theoretic models can exhibit a variety of phase transitions. Therefore, a lot of the ideas and machinery that have been developed to study phase transitions in statistical mechanics are useful for approaching modern network theoretic research. Here are some specific examples: General theory of phase transitions and critical phenomena: It's worth knowing the classification of phase transitions into first-order and second-order (or continuous) transitions. It's also a good idea to be familiar with how physical quantities and correlation functions scale in the vicinity of a continuous phase transition. These phenomena have parallels on the network theoretic models and can help you build intuition about what's going on in those systems. Numerical analysis of phase transitions: Modern statistical mechanics research often relies on numerical simulations to probe phase transitions. Many of these simulation methods (e.g., Monte Carlo methods) can also be useful in network theory. Furthermore, once you obtain data from a simulation, you need to know how to use that data to extract information about the phase transition. Since, strictly speaking, phase transitions only occur in infinitely large systems, a powerful method called finite-size scaling has been developed within statistical mechanics to make inferences about the infinite limit from data for finite-size systems. Percolation: A specific class of phase transitions that I'd like to highlight are percolation transitions. Percolation transitions occur frequently in statistical physics, but they are also ubiquitous in network models, including models of relevance to social network analysis. One example is the emergence of a giant component in the Erdős–Rényi random network model. This transition is an example of percolation of the underlying lattice: it separates a phase where a finite fraction of nodes belong to a single component as the network gets larger from a phase where components are finite sized (and therefore represent a vanishing fraction of sites as the network gets larger). Even after the underlying lattice has percolated, you can have further percolation transitions for phenomena occurring on the network. For instance, consider the percolation of infection through a network in epidemic models on lattices. Physics of disordered systems: This area is dear to my heart, because it's the area that I worked on for my Ph.D. In the statistical mechanics of solid-state systems, it's often important to consider the role of structural and chemical imperfections, because no real-world material is actually a perfect crystal. It shouldn't be surprising that this is relevant to network models, since there's no notion of crystalline periodicity in most of the systems of interest (e.g., social networks, airline networks, etc.) and since many of the most important models (e.g., Erdős–Rényi model, Watts-Strogatz model) explicitly include randomness. One notable effect of randomness is that, in a phase transition between hypothetical phases A and B, randomness can introduce large rare regions of phase B on the phase A side of the transition and vice versa. These are called Griffiths phases, and their impact upon networks has been explored, for example, in reference [1]. Renormalization group / physics at different scales: I've found the perspective of renormalization group theory, in particular the way it leads you to think about physics at different length scales, to be highly useful in guiding my thinking about models in network theory. One example of this is the argument that I give for the small-world effect in the Watts-Strogatz model in my answer to What's the significance of the cliché "six degrees of separation"?.To get a solid primer on most of the above from a statistical mechanics perspective, I recommend Lectures On Phase Transitions And The Renormalization Group by Nigel Goldenfeld [2]. As the name implies, this is more like a series of lectures than a textbook, but it's very "readable." Another area of overlap between network theory and physics that I haven't covered above are spectral methods. In quantum statistical mechanics, a special eigenvalue of the Hamiltonian (namely, the lowest energy one, corresponding to the ground state) is highly relevant to zero-temperature quantum phase transitions. At more exotic quantum phase transitions like the many-body localization transition, the entire structure of the Hamiltonian's spectrum might be important. Similarly, on the network theory side, spectral properties of matrices that encode network structure (e.g., the adjacency matrix, the graph Laplacian, and more exotic objects like the the Hashimoto non-backtracking matrix) reveal important information about network properties. For example, eigenvalues of the graph Laplacian can reveal connectivity properties of a network [3]. I have sometimes found my background in quantum statistical mechanics useful for building intuition here. However, it's not clear to me that this intuition needs to be built from the physics side to attack problems in social network analysis. My guess is that you can do just as well by reading the relevant portions of Mark Newman's Networks: An Introduction, reading through some relevant research literature (e.g., references [4] and [5]), and then diving into your own research problem. References [1] M. Muñoz et al. Griffiths phases on complex networks. Phys. Rev. Lett. 105, 128701 (2010). [2] N. Goldenfeld. Lectures On Phase Transitions And The Renormalization Group. [3] M.E.J. Newman. Networks: An Introduction. [4] F. Krzakala et al. Spectral Redemption: Clustering Sparse Networks. PNAS 110, 52 (2013). [5] B. Karrer, M. E. J. Newman, and L. Zdebrova. Percolation on Sparse Networks. Phys. Rev. Lett. 113, 208702 (2014). 