
★★★☆☆I completed 8/9 courses in Johns Hopkins Data Science Specialization and took them for free in their first offering. I actually took the 9th and final course more details below. I did not complete the capstone project since you need to earn a verified certificate in all 9 courses. Final note for context, I took three classes at a time, which I don't recommend for those new to Data Science, Statistics, Machine Learning, and R. I agree with what's been said here, especially in Nishant Gupta's answer to Is it worth it to pay 9 * $49 for a data science specialization on Coursera?. My background: Math and Chem majors in college. Self-taught programmer. I took a number of online Statistics classes and Andrew Ng's Machine Learning class prior to completing the Specialization. Full disclosure: I currently work at Udacity. OVERVIEW The courses teach how to use R and address some high level aspects of doing data science. I don't think these courses are "beginner friendly." From Nishant Gupta's post... "If you are new to the field of data science or analytics, this may not be the first resource you should go for. A decent understanding of statistics, ML techniques would be helpful in deriving the most out of these courses." The courses are NOT great for learning the details of Machine Learning algorithms or gaining a deep understanding of Statistics. The first three courses in the series are particularly easy, and then the difficulty starts to increase quickly. If you have little to no programming experience, you will likely get stuck on small steps in the programming tasks (which aren't always covered or explained in the course materials). I searched through the forums and asked questions to get unstuck. If you are looking to learn R for data analysis, then I think the first four courses in the Specialization can get you up and running. BEST PARTS I found Exploratory Data Analysis and Practical Machine Learning to be useful classes. I walked away with skills and could share the final project as a demonstration of those skills. I really enjoyed the course on Reproducible Research as well. Great to think about how you can collaborate with others and share results. Exploratory Data Analysis teaches how to explore data through visualizations. The course teaches how to use the base graphics package and lattice package in R. I prefer the ggplot2 package for making graphs since I find it easier to use. Practical Machine Learning teaches how to run Machine Learning algorithms in R and how to evaluate them. Lots to learn on your own in the course. The final project was interesting. WORST PARTS Two classes, Statistical Inference and Regression Models, lacked quality instruction and assessments. The professor mostly read from slides with a few worked examples. Regression Models was slightly better. I was also hoping for more opportunities to practice with the mathematical concepts. There were maybe 5 questions a week in the Statistical Inference course. For the Statistical Inference class, too much content was covered within four weeks. As one student aptly noted, the course should be called "A Review of Statistical Inference". It would be incredibly difficult to learn the material in that class without having taken other Probability and Statistics courses. I found myself relying on two of my college level statistics courses to fill in the gaps. Finally, the Shiny app example in the Developing Data Products was not inspiring. I didn't do the final project because I didn't have any strong ideas for an app. I think this was also due my own lack of motivation so I don't mean to criticize the instruction. BEFORE TAKING THE SPECIALIZATION 1. Get exposure to R. I recommend these options to get some experience with R. All are free. Try R swirl: Learn R, in R. Exploratory Data Analysis Using R (I created this class with Facebook's Data Science team) 2. Build up your statistics background. Patrick Conway's Statisics One [Princeton] (teaches how to do statistical tests and calculations in R) Mine Çetinkaya-Rundel's Data Analysis and Statistical Inference (or DASI) [Duke] The two courses mentioned above are rigorous and have high quality instruction and assessment. Udacity also offers two courses in statistics. If you have never taken Statistics or need a refresher, the two courses below are great places to start. Intro to Descriptive Statistics: Mathematics for Understanding Data Inferential Statistics: Learn Statistical Analysis 3. Take a Linear Algebra course. Watch Gilbert Strang's lectures on MIT OCW and solve related problems on the OCW site. Linear Algebra helps you understand the Regression Models course. 4. (Optional) Take Andrew Ng's Machine Learning course. Knowledge of linear algebra and calculus will help you understand the mathematics behind the algorithms and how adjusting parameters affects the algorithms at run-time and their results. Updated 29w ago • View Upvotes