Who is the most diverse mathematician of all time?
I would like to add one more name to the list, John Von Neumann. He contributed to so many fields with his mathematics prowess, that there is hardly any field left which can be influenced by mathematics and he hasn't touched it. Between 1926 and 1930, he taught as a Privatdozent at the University of Berlin, the youngest in its history. By the end of 1927, von Neumann had published twelve major papers in mathematics, and by the end of 1929, thirty-two papers, at a rate of nearly one major paper per month. Von Neumann's powers of speedy, massive memorization and recall allowed him to recite volumes of information, and even entire directories, with ease. Below is the list of his work in different fields. Geometry:  founded the field of continuous geometry. It followed his path-breaking work on rings of operators. Erdogic Theory: made foundational contributions to ergodic theory, in a series of articles published in 1932, which have attained legendary status in mathematics. Lattice Theory:  Garrett Birkhoff writes: "John von Neumann's brilliant mind blazed over lattice theory like a meteor". Quantum Mechanics: the first to rigorously establish a mathematical framework for quantum mechanics with his work Mathematische Grundlagen der Quantenmechanik. Quantum Logic: In a famous paper of 1936, the first work ever to introduce quantum logics,he first proved that quantum mechanics requires a  propositional calculus substantially different from all classical logics  and rigorously isolated a new algebraic structure for quantum logics. Game Theory: Founded the field of game theory as mathematical discipline. Economics: again raised the intellectual and mathematical level of economics in several stunning publications. Linear Programming: invented the theory of duality in linear programming. Nuclear weapons: developed an expertise in explosions—phenomena  which are difficult to model mathematically. During this period von  Neumann was the leading authority of the mathematics of shaped charges. This led him to a large number of military consultancies, primarily for the Navy, which in turn led to his involvement in the Manhattan Project. Computer Science: Performed the hydrodynamics simulations of hydrogen bomb. During this time he contributed the the development of Monte Carlo method. Then he later introduced stochastic computing in 1953.Designed a self replicating program which is considered the world's first computer virus. Biology: created the field of cellular automata without the aid of computers, constructing the first self-replicating automata with pencil and graph paper. And,  rigorous mathematical analysis of the structure of self-replication, preceded the discovery of the structure of DNA. Fluid Mechanics: made fundamental contributions in exploration of problems in numerical hydrodynamics. For example, with R. D. Richtmyer he developed an algorithm defining artificial viscosity that improved the understanding of shock waves. It is possible that we would not understand much of astrophysics, and might not have highly developed jet and rocket engines without his work. This is just the highlight of his major contribution to the field of mathematics. He has contribution in the field of set theory, measure theory, weather theory and god knows what else. Obviously this is just a small part of contribution von Neumann has made in the field of applied mathematics. I would suggest to browse through John von Neumann. 