For those who have done a PhD, can you explain to us, in common parlance, what your dissertation is on, and what your conclusions are?
I did a PhD in maths on the subject of the mathematical study of hysteresis. Hysteresis itself is a phenomenon that occurs frequently in nature, e.g., in electromagnetism or in plasticity. But a very simple picture what it is all about is the following: Think about a thermostat that heats when the room temperature is below say 18 degrees and that stops heating when it is above 21 degrees (all in the Celsius scale ;)). So what will essentially happen is that if you start for example in a room that is at 25 degrees the heating will turn off and then the room will cool down when it hits 18 degrees the heating will go on and the room will warm up and then when you hit 21 again the room will cool down. Now if you only know it is 20 degrees you cannot say whether the heating is on or off, what you need to know is the history, is the room in the cooling down or the warming up period. That being said there are a couple of systems where actually that type of behavior occurs and there are a few prototypical operators. In the first part of my PhD I worked on a specific type of operator called "play operator" (mathematicians are logical people: identify minus the play operator is the stop operator). Anyhow a way to imagine what the play operator does is the following. You put a raisin or a small stone on a table. Then you put a cake form (or glass) upside down on top of it. And basically what the play operator does is determining the movement of the raisin from the movement of the cake form (under very idealized conditions - but it serves as a good picture). Basically when the raisin is not touching the boundaries you can move the cake form in any way and nothing happens. And when the raisin touches the boundary at least some kind of movement happens. And that system actually has (in an abstract sense) similar properties as the thermostat. So now the picture gets a little bit more complicated - mathematicians like to generalize stuff and there are two ways I considered: First the cake form (so to speak) can change its shape. Think for example of the fancy new silicon based cake forms. If its not a raisin but a heavy stone, the cake form will change its shape when the  stone meets the boundary. For the other generalization the analogy ends, because that was about non-continuous movements of the "cake form", i.e. it basically instantly jumps from one position to a different one. (Whereas for the cake form that sounds stupid, it has some relevance in other applications.) Anyways what I showed was that there is actually a notion of solution to this generalized problem - as long as the jumps are not too big (+ some other technical assumptions). Link The second part is actually a bit harder to explain. It is again concerned with jumps - basically the reason therefore is, that systems with hysteresis tend to "jump" and then things get screwed up because differential equations need smooth (i.e. differentiable functions) as solutions. What I did in that part together with two co-authors, was considering the question: if you put an "smoothing" term into the equation to make it have a differentiable solution and then let that term become arbitrarily small, what will happen? The reason behind it is the following:  if the term becomes small, the speed with which the solution traverses a certain area increases - that you can actually show - and in the limit you hence assume that it goes to "infinity" and therefore the equation has a jump. And what we proved was a result of a more theoretical nature, which said that any limit point (and actually the limit point is a function as we do the limit process in a function space) has to satisfy some distinct properties. (Also along the way we proved some other convergence results that fall under the general theme of stability, which are also interesting, but where not part of why we studied the question).arxiv You may ask, why is the second part of any interest. The reason is that what mathematicians actually do not know is what exact type of equation they are looking for in the jump case. The question kind of is: What should the equation be? And in that sense we contributed by saying, if you assume that the jumps come from this "infinite speed" approach then we have a few basic rules that the equation has to satisfy. What in my opinion was especially cool about what we did, were the methods we used. We combined rather elaborate methods from different other approaches and put some of our own thoughts to it and got to a solution. And what I believe is that this methodology will also be applicable to other problems and hence that in itself may have generated scientific value. 