Robotics: Who are the foremost roboticists in the world and what are some of the projects that they are working on right now?
In addition to the mentioned list I will add several others organised by continent. EUROPE BRUNO SICILIANO: Co-editor of Springer Handbook of Robotics | Bruno Siciliano | Springer. and Head of PRISMA Lab at Napoli, Italy His Current Project is RoDyMan, the pizza-maker robot RoDyMan, the pizza-maker robot - H+ Magazine Roland Siegwart: Head of the Autonomous Systems lab at ETH, Zurich. Cofounder of half a dozen spin-off companies an leader of multiple European Projects. Mains research interest is Mobile Robot design and navigation - Localization and mapping; planning in dynamic environments; human robot interaction; waking quadrupeds robots; unmanned aerial vehicles (helicopters, fixed wing, blimps); wheeled rough terrain locomotion;, mobile micro-robots, space rovers, autonomous cars and unmanned boats. They usually make a funny video every Christmas highlighting their latest robots Raja Chatilla: President of the IEEE Robotics and Automation Society (2014-2015)  Director of Research at the French National Center of Scientific Research (http://www.cnrs.fr), and Director of the Institute of Intelligent Systems and Robotics (ISIR Institut des Systèmes Intelligents et de Robotique) Current projects: Roboergosum RoboErgoSum Project on robot self-awareness and Spencer http://www.spencer.eu/ on human-robot interaction in populated environments. Nikos G. Tsagarakis: senior scientist at IIT, Italy known for designing COmpliant HuMANoid Platform (COMAN)COmpliant HuMANoid Platform (COMAN) Now working on Centauro Project ASIA-JAPAN Shigeo HIROSE: professor at Tokyo institute of technology & Suzumori Endo Lab / Reserch have been developing various kinds of robotic systems, such as snake-like arms and locomotors based on the biomechanical study of the real snake, quadruped walking robots, and crawler vehicles. For more than 30 years. AMERICA: Oussama Khatib Professor at Stanford with Syrian origin and can be considered as one of the fathers of the field. Current Projects: THE RED SEA ROBOTIC EXPLORATORIUM SUPRAPEDS: CONTACT-SUPPORTED LOCOMOTION Russ Tedrake: is the X Consortium Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science,Aeronautics and Astronautics, and Mechanical Engineering at MIT, the Director of the Center for Robotics at the Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Lab, and the leader of Team MIT's entry in the DARPA Robotics Challenge Known for his work on nonlinear Optimisation based control of the ATLAS robot and the MIT entry for DARPA Challenge MIT team places sixth at international DARPA Robotics Challenge More to follow... 