For those who have done a PhD, can you explain to us, in common parlance, what your dissertation is on, and what your conclusions are?
My PhD, in Linguistics from UC Berkeley, is titled Input-Driven Opacity. You can download and read it here, Research Page.* * - I wouldn't necessarily recommend it :) The one-liner: My dissertation showed that abstract mental representations are necessary for the learning and representation of a certain type of sound pattern in language by using a combination of psychological experimentation, theoretical modelling and a survey of languages of the world. Summary My dissertation had 3 parts to it, all centered around an interesting pattern in language called Phonological opacity (which apparently is of enough general interest to warrant a wikipedia entry -- news to me!).  Phonological opacity is when you have some rule regarding the way sounds pattern together in language that seems to be consistently violated in some way. I'd love to give some examples in English, but there aren't many -- it's more typical of tone language, for example -- but here's one that sort of works: In English, vowels change a bit before voiced consonants. So, compare the vowels in write versus ride. They're slightly different (though not categorically so). Crucially, this is a piece of knowledge that English speakers internalize both in production and comprehension and that is specific to English itself (What are some English language rules that native speakers don't know, but still follow?). So, now, what happens when you add -er to these words? You get writer and rider with another rule - t/d-flapping interacting with the vowel change. The vowel difference is still there, but the rule that you learned above now seems to be violated. You have both longish and shortish vowel before a sound that sounds like a voiced consonants (the flap). This seems like it should be rare and marked (Have any studies been done to determine whether there exists a physiological "cost" to different languages?) and non-optimal because it's hard to learn and hard to unviel. Part I: Typology Chapter 1: The Logic of Opacity: The first part of my dissertation looked at how (in)frequent this type of pattern really is in language of the world. What I found is that it is sort of rare, but not that rare, particularly with tone languages and vowel harmony. Indeed, it seems to be the case that with tone and vowel harmony, this is the preferred pattern, the preferred way that two rules interact. That the input to the rules is what really drives the output. This is a big problem for modern phonological theory, Optimality Theory, which is output, or results-driven. Part II: Formalization Chapter 2: Diagonal Correspondence Theory This takes us to the second part of my dissertation which sought to model this generalization and observation formally. This is a key element of much linguistics research where the goal is to establish a formalism that can accurately model the phenomena of language. Think about it this way: math and Newton's formula, is an accurate way of modeling gravity and the movement of planets. Linguists want to do the same for language. So, I proposed what I thought was a clever way of modeling this phenomenon in the current broad formalism of Optimality Theory. It's called Diagonal Correspondence Theory. But I haven't published on it directly and I haven't really made the case why it's necessary. I did do a case study and model opacity in Shimakonde, one of my favorite languages to think about. Chapter 3 Part III: Experimental Evidence Chapter 4/5: The Psychological reality of Opacity Ultimately, what I found to be most interesting and fruitful wasexploring how people actually learned this stuff. Can people actually learn it, or do they fake it? How is it learned? Does this process of learning affect how the pattern actually surfaces in language? And finally, how abstract is the stuff we're learning about these sound patterns and language in general? In the writer/rider case above, for example, what exactly is in your mental representation of writer? To explore these questions, I did a language learning experiment where I taught people a modified version of Shimakonde and examined what they learned. I found that people did, indeed, learn these patterns, and seemed to have abstract mental representations of the words they learned. Subsequently, I did explore how this learning ability related to other cognitive functions and that has ended up being a much more useful research track (Variability in the learning of complex morphophonology). Big Picture Why does any of this matter? The dissertation is about trying to capture what we know about a little corner of the wide array of things that happen in language. I focused on something current formalisms suggest shouldn't really exist and should be hard to learn. But it exists and is learnable. Therefore, it suggests that our mental representation of the sound patterns of language are, on some level, more abstract than people currently allow for. Practically, understanding how language is represented mentally can help understand how brain injury affects language, as in my current research and how language acquisition progresses in children and in adults attempting to learn a second language. 