Do good mathematicians visualize everything (even algebra)?
I've only an undergraduate degree, but it is my impression that intuitive understanding is more important than the ability to manipulate symbols. Symbols are for the times where intuition is not enough. This occurs very frequently, so symbolic manipulation is a common skill among mathematicians. But intuition and insight are more important. Ramanujan's wikipedia page relates what intuition can do (https://en.m.wikipedia.org/wiki/...): When asked about the methods employed by Ramanujan to arrive at his solutions, Hardy said that they were "arrived at by a process of mingled argument, intuition, and induction, of which he was entirely unable to give any coherent account." He also stated that he had "never met his equal, and can compare him only with Euler or Jacobi." And: [Ramanujan] was sharing a room with P. C. Mahalanobis who had a problem, "Imagine that you are on a street with houses marked 1 through n. There is a house in between (x) such that the sum of the house numbers to the left of it equals the sum of the house numbers to its right. If n is between 50 and 500, what are n and x?" This is a bivariate problem with multiple solutions. Ramanujan thought about it and gave the answer with a twist: He gave a continued fraction. The unusual part was that it was the solution to the whole class of problems. Mahalanobis was astounded and asked how he did it. "It is simple. The minute I heard the problem, I knew that the answer was a continued fraction. Which continued fraction, I asked myself. Then the answer came to my mind", Ramanujan replied. Did Ramanujan visualize the above, and thus arrive at an answer? I don't know. But he had an extremely well-developed intuition. This is likely a common trait among professional mathematicians, whether or not they are at Ramanujan's level - they have many intuitions, developed over years of study.  Similarly, you have finally discovered a way of intuiting mathematics through visualization. That's dope, and I bet things have become more fun and perhaps a bit less difficult. Perhaps later you will discover non-visual ways of intuiting things, but finding visual intuition and breaking the mental chains of "math is just rules" is great. 