For those who have done a PhD, can you explain to us, in common parlance, what your dissertation is on, and what your conclusions are?
Too long, lets just watch a video: 2014 Pappalardo Fellowships in Physics Dr. Inna Vishik (this is a general audience presentation on a portion of my PhD research) Short summary: I studied the doping dependence of low-energy excitations in cuprate high temperature superconductors using angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES). Motivation: The cuprate high temperature superconductors are superconducting (Zero resistance) at liquid nitrogen temperatures, which is basically room temperature from the standpoint of people who work with more serious cryogenics.  They remain an active area of research because the mechanism of high temperature superconductivity is still debated (see: Inna Vishik's answer to Superconductivity: What are the latest theories in high temperature superconductivity? with the caveat that I am not a theorist).  One reason a comprehensive solution eludes physicists is because these materials are complicated.  There is a lot going on besides superconductivity. The phase diagram above shows a few of the things that happen as the properties of cuprates are tuned by 'doping' (changing the number of charge carriers.  Some of the names given to the phase regions, such as 'strange metal' and 'pseudogap' emphasize how much we still have to learn. Experiments Angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy (ARPES) measures a material's electronic structure in momentum-space (see: Inna Vishik's answer to What kind of qualitative and quantitative information can be obtained from ARPES?).  It is an experimental technique which is very well suited for studying the cuprate high temperature superconductors because cuprates are quasi-two-dimensional and they have important momentum-space anisotropy in their electronic structure.  In my PhD research, I took advantage of a recent improvement in the experimental technology: the use of narrow-bandwidth ultraviolet lasers as a lightsource for ARPES experiments.  This allowed me to take data quicker and with higher precision--a simultaneous improvement in data quality and quantity.  And this is how science often works.  New technology drives new discoveries. The nonlinear crystal (glowing rectangle between prisms) where UV light is produced.  Image from ARPES | Shen Laboratory Finding #1: The Fermi velocity, or equivalently, the effective mass has a doping dependence, whereas it was previously thought to be independent of doping.  Even though the doping dependence of the effective mass is actually quite pronounced, this was not observed before because of the poorer resolution of earlier experiments.   The effective mass has implications for interpreting thermodynamic and transport data, so this is an important result, and also the one I am most proud of/confident about. Finding#2: The cuprates are a relatively mature field, so the era of blind men studying different parts of the elephant is largely over.  Thus, I performed one of the most comprehensive ARPES studies to date, spanning much of the phase diagram.  Many ordered phases, such as superconductivity and charge density wave order, have an associate gap in the electron density of states.  The magnitude and phenomenology (temperature dependence, doping dependence, momentum dependence) of this gap gives information about the gap-causing electronic phase.  A major complication in the cuprates, which we became acutely aware of in the past few years, is that other electronic phases coexist with superconductivity, as illustrated in the phase diagram.  Thus, when one observes a spectral gap in the superconducting state, they cannot be sure how much of it is due to superconductivity and how much is due to something else.  In my research, I teased out contributions from different electronic phases based on their distinct phenomenology.  Additionally, I observed evidence for potentially two Quantum critical points in the phase diagram, which may point to a common origin of superconductivity in cuprates and other types of unconventional superconductors. 