What is the highest math class that you found application?
I am writing this answer because am an outlier relative to those who have provided answers so far and, thus, want to add a different perspective - one that shows how math can be helpful even to those of us who are not mathematicians or scientists. In my youth (high school and college) I was math and science oriented - several semesters each of calculus, physics, chemistry and computers. After three years of writing software, I attended law school and became a lawyer. During the past decade-plus, I have had my own law practice. Generally, my (now largely forgotten) knowledge of higher math is not important (calculus is not required) - though it occasionally helps me understand a point that a scientifically-oriented client is trying to make. On the other hand, elementary algebra is useful. A common example is to determine how many corporate shares should be issued to a newly-added shareholder to create a specified percentage ownership interest. A more interesting example pertains to cumulative voting in corporations. Although I did not develop the formula in the text quoted below, I was able to validate it and gain an intuitive understanding of how and why it works. Quoting the blog post Cumulative Voting: Board Representation for Minority Shareholders: Cumulative voting for corporate directors is a process by which each shareholder’s voting power is multiplied by the number of directors to be elected. The objective: By allocating all of their votes to one or a small number of directors,  minority shareholders can ensure that their interests are represented  on the board. (I.e., a majority shareholder will not automatically control all board seats.) California Corporations Code Section 708 provides, subject to certain exceptions, that shareholders are entitled  to cumulate their votes. However, that right is not granted  automatically. At the shareholder meeting, at least one shareholder must  give notice of the intention to cumulate votes before voting for  directors begins. Once notice is given, all shareholders may cumulate  their votes, but only for candidates whose names were placed in  nomination before voting began. Here is a formula that tells how many board positions can be controlled via cumulative voting. D = (X – 1) x (N + 1) / S where D = the number of directors that can be elected (any fractional portion is ignored, rounding down to the next integer). X = the number of shares controlled. N = the total number of directors being elected. S = the total number of shares voting. Example: Assume that a shareholder owns 300 of the 1,000 shares that will be voting for 3 directors. D = 299 x 4 / 1,000 = 1.196, i.e., the shareholder can control 1 of the 3 board seats. Implications for minority shareholders: You should know about cumulative voting. Implications for majority shareholders: You may not be able to control all seats on the corporation’s board of directors. I realize that for everyone else answering this question, this is pretty elementary stuff. But it gives me pleasure, every once in a while, to be able to use a bit of the math that I learned to help people who never had that much math education. 