What are adjacency matrices used for in physics?
It's obvious that when there's mention of adjacency matrices, there is a corresponding graph. So a simple answer might just be, "anything that you can think of as a graph." Here are some ideas: Vertices are particles, and vertex labelings are chosen from a discrete set of possible degrees of freedom, and [undirected] edges represent inter-particle correlations. Examples of this include crystals, magnets, molecules, and galaxies. There are some canonical models that can be modified to represent these problems that are already well understood, e.g., Ising, Potts, Bose-Hubbard, and O(2) rotor models. Represent the configuration of a stochastic system in the vertices, then use [directed] edges to represent the probability of transitions between states. The adjacency matrix is then called a transition or stochastic matrix, and may be asymmetric. An easy way to visualize this is to imagine being a particle subject to thermal fluctuations. If you are at the edge of a hill, you will probably fall into the valley, but once you're in the valley you should have a hard time getting out if the energy of the hill [math]E_{hill} > k_B T[/math]. Discretize a system that evolves according to some differential equation. The finite differencing creates a computational graph whose vertices are interpreted as cells representing density, perhaps, or the vertices could correspond to particles (the difference between the two interpretations is the difference between employing a mesh or mesh-free model). You can construct a numerical solving scheme by starting with a "stencil" diagram, which shows which grid points will be used to calculate the state of one given grid point--usually nearest-neighbor is a useful bet. For a square lattice these problems are simple, but in many applications it is better for numerical stability to come up with weird grids made up of complex tilings of simple shapes (e.g. the Voronoi tessellation). Taking the example of the diffusion equation, the Laplacian operator becomes the Laplacian of a graph, then propagating the graph in time tells you how information diffuses through a network (that may represent anything from a physical system to a social network). There are other examples too, like representing a network of resistors in a circuit. I've seen it written elsewhere that the path integral formulation in quantum field theory lends itself to nice graph-theoretic interpretations, but I don't know enough to talk about that. 