For those who have done a PhD, can you explain to us, in common parlance, what your dissertation is on, and what your conclusions are?
A living cell makes critical decisions about replication (reproduction, of which making DNA or "DNA synthesis" is a key event) based on its ability to get food and get fed. Similarly, cancer cells take advantage and otherwise hijack their host cells' decision mechanisms to get food and get fed. Therefore, we can look for ways to fight cancer by targeting cancer cells' mechanisms relating to getting food, getting fed, and/or processes preceding/relating to/directly involving DNA synthesis. [We can also look for ways to get good cells to kill bad cells and for bad cells to kill themselves via apoptosis but I didn't study that.] Surely you can deduce all this from the title of my biochemistry PhD thesis: "Comparative Biochemical Studies of Rapamycin and Wortmannin on Transforming Growth Factor-beta1 (TGF-β1)-Mediated G1-S Cell Cycle Progression in C3H-10T½ Embryonic Fibroblasts." circa year 2000. Specifically, I looked at one of the ways cells start the decision-making process when they get the "good to grow" signal via growth factors. In my case I studied a growth factor called TGF-beta-1. This in itself is a bit unusual because most of my peers studying this same growth factor is using it as a growth inhibitory factor, but I was using it as a growth stimulatory factor. Whether the same factor starts or stops growth depends on the kind of cells you are using (context dependence)! Cancer cells are extremely adept to tricking normal cells into thinking all growth's a "go" and "let's all proliferate like there's no tomorrow!" You add the growth signal and cells start bringing in amino acids (of which 1 of the amino acid is radiolabeled for me to track) in preparation for the big replication party. But if you added an inhibition signal (promising cancer drug candidate) to counter the growth signal, then the big party doesn't happen and if the cancer cells don't go away you hope they are made to disappear by the body's immune response cells. I looked at how one of the amino acid transporters responsible for bringing in amino acids needed by cells will respond to growth signals and inhibition (drugs that stop growth) signals. I found that one of the cell cycle-dependent amino acid transporters (System A transporter) was very sensitive to the growth signals and one of the inhibition signals I studied. Once I identified the "grow/no grow" signals for the cells I was studying, I began to hypothesis (take semi-wild guesses) at how this is made to happen at the cell signal level. I had a cool hypothesis going on (for those of you cell biologists I was interested in looking at eIF2 when everyone and their scientist grandmas were latched onto Eukaryotic initiation factor and I was looking at how TGF-b1 and rapamycin probably countered each other in the net accumulation of the 2alpha initiation factor) but I decided 7 years was enough for me to be a starving PhD student and I needed to graduate and get a job and pay off my student loan debt. 