For those who have done a PhD, can you explain to us, in common parlance, what your dissertation is on, and what your conclusions are?
My dissertation (from 2010) studied two aspects of machine learning with a primary application focus in information retrieval and recommender systems.  You can also read this popular science article I wrote about research in my area. First, my dissertation studied machine learning algorithms for structured prediction, which is the problem of making multiple joint predictions simultaneously.  For example, suppose a search engine or a recommender system needs to recommend 10 results to you. A NON-STRUCTURED version of this prediction problem would be to simply return the 10 results that individually have the highest predicted interestingness/relevance to you.  However, it might make sense to recommend 10 results that are not only relevant/interesting, but also diverse or non-redundant with each other. For example, the top two most interesting results could be very redundant with each other, which could be a very bad thing depending what your application is.  Your system may want to not recommend the second individually most relevant result given the first. Modeling the redundancy relationship between recommendations is a structured prediction problem.  My dissertation proposed learning algorithms that are designed for these types of prediction problems. Second, my dissertation studied interactive machine learning approaches to modeling search engines and recommender systems.  Modern information systems are continuously interacting with users, and those users are implicitly providing a lot of feedback to the system through these interactions.  For example, clicking on a recommendation can be seen as an endorsement that this was a good recommendation.  One of the challenges in learning from this type of feedback is how to balance the exploration vs exploitation trade-off.  On one hand, the system won't learn (via user feedback) which recommendations are interesting unless it actually recommends them and see how users react -- this is EXPLORATION.  On the other hand, the ultimate goal of the system is to make the most relevant or interesting recommendations possible.  So if the system has some (imperfect) idea of what the user wants, maybe it's best to just make recommendations based on that -- this is EXPLOITATION.  My dissertation proposed learning algorithms that automatically balances this trade-off on-the-fly as users arrive to the system. Of course, these two areas have also been studied by many other researchers.  My dissertation studied a few specific (and hopefully important) problems within these two areas. Updated 123w ago • View Upvotes