What is the predicted appearance of metallic hydrogen? Is it in any way opaque to light?
tl;dr: metals reflect visible light unless they are very thin, but metallic hydrogen is an exotic and elusive metal. Metallic hydrogen--produced at pressures comparable to or larger than the pressure in the center of the earth--is one of the most fascinating systems in science.  It is simultaneously mundane (75% of the universe; one type of atom) and mindblowingly exciting (you have to smush it how much?).  One of the most astonishing predictions is room temperature superconductivity in metallic atomic hydrogen [1]. There are some subtleties in discussing the details of the optical properties of metallic hydrogen.  For example, do you mean molecular (H2) or atomic (H) hydrogen?  The latter is more elusive than the former.  What crystal structure does it assume?  This is needed to calculate details of a material's optical properties (is it silvery like aluminum or colored like copper?), but it is still an unsettled issue [2]. Different crystal structures of solid H2.  It is expected to become metallic between ~350 and 450 GPa, which is beyond the scope of this graph.   From Ref. [2]. Generally, metals are transparent to light with frequency above the metal's plasma frequency (which falls in the UV range for most metals) and highly reflective at visible and infrared wavelengths (see Inna Vishik's answer to Is it theoretically possible to have transparent metals?).  However, hydrogen is not a typical metal.  With such light atoms and strong electron-phonon (lattice vibration) coupling [3], electrons should be scattered much more readily which will adversely affect the material's reflectivity.  This was recently observed in deuterium (D2; hydrogen with an extra neutron) which was metallized by a shock wave: the reflectivity to visible and near-IR light was only ~50%.  This indicates that the minimum thickness required for transparency is much thicker than in other metals. Reflectance vs shock velocity in D2.  Shock velocity is a measure of density.  The onset of reflection at low shock velocity indicates the onset of metallization at a critical density, but the reflectivity is still quite low for a metal so its transparency is higher.  From ref. [4]. [1] N. W. Ashcroft.  Phys. Rev. Lett. 21, 1748 (1968) [2] Jeffrey M. McMahon et al.  Rev. Mod. Phys. 84 1607 (2012) [3] M. Dvorak et al. Phys. Rev. B 90, 035103 (2014) [4] P. M. Celliers et al. Phys. Rev. Lett. 84, 5564 (2000) Updated 21w ago • View Upvotes