Robotics: Who are the foremost roboticists in the world and what are some of the projects that they are working on right now?
Sebastian Thrun (Stanford/Google) - Helped write the book on Probabilistic Robotics (http://www.probabilistic-robotic...), along with Deiter Fox and Wolfram Burgard. Now works with Google on their autonomous vehicles, streetview, and other projects. Andrew Davison (Imperial College London, UK) - Does a lot of interesting work in computer vision, including dense 3D scene reconstruction from a single camera. Hugh Durrant-Whyte (was at ACFR, Australia, now head of National ICT Australia) - Developed the ACFR from a tiny team to the biggest robotics group in the southern hemisphere. Helped invent the Simultaneous Localisation and Mapping (SLAM) algorithm, led the development of the Patricks Technology autonomous container port handling facility (see Tom Allen's answer to What is the most advanced piece of robotics technology today?), and initiated the Rio Tinto Centre for Mine Automation (see Tom Allen's answer to What is the most significant robotics project in the world?). Never wears a tie for less than $1M. Red Whittaker (CMU, USA) - Led the team which won the 2007 DARPA Urban Challenge. Now leading CMU's entry for the Google Lunar X PRIZE. Anthony Stentz (CMU, USA) - Invented the D* planning algorithm (a version of A* which efficiently accounts for dynamic information near the starting node of the graph). Now working on autonomous agricultural robots like this one: Steven LaValle (Illinois, USA) - Invented the Rapidly-Exploring Random Tree (RRT) planning algorithm: Lydia Kavraki (Rice University, USA) - Invented the Probabilistic RoadMap (PRM) planning algorithm. Now works across robotics and bioinformatics on topics such as planning for steerable needles and protein folding. Matt Mason (CMU, USA) - Lots of work in autonomous systems and planning, mainly for ground vehicles. Alonzo Kelly (CMU, USA) - Invented the state lattice planning, which provides non-holonomic trajectory control and reduces the branching factor of a search graph. Simon Lacroix (LAAS, France) - Lots of work in autonomous field robotics, especially multi-robot co-operation and vision-based localisation. Rodney Brooks (MIT, USA) - Invented (or at least, first wrote about!) the subsumption architecture, in which a hierarchy of controllers add levels of increasing complexity to a system. This is the predecessor of almost all autonomous robotics control systems today. There's a distinct bias in this list towards people who've worked in the planning and controls area of robotics (my specialties), but these people would certainly all be in a top 100. (And in hindsight, I clearly have a bias for the USA, and CMU in particular. I'll have to think of some more European and Asian roboticists too.) 