What are the subjects in the second year in CSE? Is it going to be difficult for me if I know only C++? If yes, what should I learn during vacations?
MAT 209 ENGINEERING MATHEMATICS III This is the kind of Mathematics that you would not have seen anywhere else. It is all theory. No numbers at all. It is interesting none the less, but you need to develop the interest in the start. Otherwise, it will get too hard for you to catch up. Even though, it is plain and boring - try keeping up with what is being done in class. Topics include Boolean Algebra, Lattice Theory, Graph Theory, Group theory, etc. No need to anything in this regard in the summer. CSE 201 COMPUTER ORGANIZATION AND DESIGN This subject deals with the internal structure of the Computers. A interesting subject, but it depends a lot on the teacher you get. A good teacher can help you float away with the subject.Topics include Bus structures, ALU design, Design methods, Memory Management. This is basically a theory subject with a few concepts that you need to grasp. This also should not be dealt with in the summer. Don't worry about it. CSE 203 SWITCHING THEORY & LOGIC DESIGN This topic deals with Logic Design, you need to study Gates, K-Maps, Minimization of Logical gates, etc. The second part of the course deals with structures such as Adders, Multiplexers, Encoders and Decoders, Flip Flops, etc. You will also face a STLD Lab, where you need to code in VHDL. The language is easy to grasp, but as the course moves on, some structures will be hard to think about. There are a hoard of circuits and codes to mug up, and that is what makes this subject a bit tiresome. Try reading up something on the VHDL syntax and do a advance read on K-Maps and minimization techniques. That should help you cover up til first sessional. CSE 205 DATA STRUCTURES USING C The interesting bit for the semester, both the subject and the lab are fun to deal with. If you are interested in coding, this should be a refreshing lecture as compared to the others. You will need to study about the common data structures, and you need to do them in C, that is you need to hard code them, and that is, I believe, the best way to go on about it. You will start with recursion, then move on to the Structures which include Stacks, Queues, Linked Lists, Binary and AVL Trees, Graphs and Hashing. If you are new to Data Structures then do a read up til Linked Lists. That is Stacks, Queues and Linked Lists. Make sure you do this in C language only. Basically you need to learn how to implement this using Pointers and Structures. Hop over to GeeksforGeeks - A computer science portal for geeks after you have done the initial read. CSE 207 OBJECT ORIENTED PROGRAMMING USING C++ This is the easiest of the lot, but that implies that the questions are very tricky. It is possible that you will know everything about that certain topic and still mess it up in the exams. You need to give this subject more time than you think you should. Topics include Inheritance in great details, Virtual Functions, Abstract Classes, Stream Handling, Operator Overloading, Templates, etc. If you are done with you initial reads on Data Structures, then just go through the syllabus once for this subject. Read about the things you don't know. You only have five subjects and it is very important that you see this semester as one in which you can improve your CGPA. That being said, a lot of us (including me) take the subjects lightly in the start and end up realizing this very late. Enjoy the subjects and you won't have problems scoring in the subjects. Focus entirely on DS for the summer. That is important for the future as well. Good Luck. 