What are some must-know topics in discrete math and probability for competitive programming?
Mathematical Induction This principle is simple. Look at falling dominoes herehttp://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mathematical_induction. The inductive step is important. If some statement holds true for number N implies that it holds true for N+1, it follows that the statement holds true for every number. Proof by induction Looks simple ? Ready for some advanced exercises ?Page on math.uoc.gr Pigeon Hole Principle What is the relationship between  Hashtables, Pigeonholes, and Birthdays Hashtables, Pigeonholes, and Birthdays Pigeon hole principle looks very simple- If you try to put 6 pigeons in 5 holes, one will inevitably be left out. But its applications are varied. For example, this birthday problem and also in finding collisions in hashtables In a typical classroom of 30 students, what are the odds that two of the students will have the same birthday? Graph Theory  Graph Theory | Mathigon Page on alaska.edu Originated by Euler’s method to determine whether crossing 7 bridges exactly once possible. Has wonderful applications. Look here for list of applications of graph theory Graph Theory   See Page on eprints.nuim.ie for such beautiful proofs including ones by Gauss  Mathematics for Computer Science  Prof.Leighton at MIT (founder of Akamai ) explains the basics of mathematics – Induction, Number theory, Modular arithmetic Page on princeton.edu The examples are engaging. For e.g, one is from a movie – Bruce is given a 3-gallon jug and a 6-gallon jug and must measure out exactly 4 gallons.  They also explain how number theory principles are used for securing your data – namely the foundations of RSA cryptography. They give nice and practical examples where graphs are used to model Data Structures Each vertex represents a data object. There is a directed edge from one object to another if the first contains a pointer or reference to the second. Attraction Each vertex represents a person, and each edge represents a romantic attraction. The graph could be directed to model the unfortunate asymmetries. Airline Connections Each vertex represents an airport. If there is a direct flight between two airports, then there is an edge between the corresponding vertices. These graphs often appear in airline magazines. TheWeb Each vertex represents a web page. Directed edges between vertices represent hyperlinks.   Permutations and Combination   Easy Permutations and Combinations   Example: Ways to arrange colors   Mathematics for Algorithm analysis Analysis of algorithms is explained by Peteris MIT's Introduction to Algorithms, Lectures 1 and 2: Analysis of Algorithms It points to lecture by Erik Demaine. The second half of the lecture is devoted to solving recurrence equations. Three methods are presented: Substitution method, Recursion-tree method, and The Master method. Mathematics for Programmers  How much mathematics should a programmer know.  What is the right way to learn math.  Steve Yegge writes here Math For Programmers Knowing even a little of the right kinds of math can enable you do write some pretty interesting programs that would otherwise be too hard. Nobody knows all of math, not even the best mathematicians. Linear Algebra Page on uoregon.edu Page on psu.edu video lectures Download Video Lectures of Discrete Mathematics Khan’s Academy videos on Probability / Linear Algebra Probability explained Page on khanacademy.org More info on Hyperbook - information organizer 