What is the difference between homomorphism and homeomorphism?
I don't think I completely agree with James' answer, so let me provide another perspective and hope it helps. Many fields of mathematics talk about certain objects and maps between them, and indeed those maps typically preserve whatever structure the objects carry. The term "homomorphism" applies to structure-preserving maps in some domains of mathematics but not others. It is almost exclusively used in algebra and discrete math, so we have homomorphisms between groups, rings, graphs and lattices. (A notable exception is algebraic geometry, a decidedly algebraic domain in which the term homomorphism is never to be used [EDIT: as Jack points out, this is too sweeping a generalization; what I mean is that maps between affine or projective varieties are not called "homomorphisms"]). On the other hand, "homomorphism" is quite distinctly not used throughout topology and analysis. Structure-preserving maps between topological spaces are not called homomorphisms; they're called open maps, and are far less useful (and far less discussed) than their brethren continuous maps, which aren't strictly "structure preserving" (a continuous map may take an open set to a non-open one; what it does to is ensure that the inverse image of an open set is also open). Neither type of map is called a homomorphism. Similarly, the term homomorphism isn't used for maps between differentiable manifolds or Banach spaces. You wrote "both talk about Isomorphism", which really isn't true. A homomorphism may happen to be an isomorphism, but it often isn't. For example, the map taking an entire non-trivial group G to the unit element of some other group H is a perfectly legitimate homomorphism, but it's very far from being an isomorphism. In algebra, isomorphisms are usually called just that - isomorphisms, and they refer to homomorphisms which happen to be invertible and whose inverse is itself a homomorphism. It is true that homeomorphisms are isomorphisms (in this sense) between topological or metric spaces. But again, the term homeomorphism is reserved exclusively for the domain of topology. The analogous term for differentiable manifolds, for instance, is diffeomorphism. Neither "homeomorphism" nor "diffeomorphism" would ever be used for algebraic objects. In that sense, I think the statement that homeomorphisms are a special type of homomorphisms is misleading. Homeomorphisms are a special type of continuous maps, and continuous maps aren't called homomorphisms. 