Is there any case where students during the process of writing their thesis or dissertations have discovered or invented something that has made them famous?
To the question (Ignoring the details).  Yes. Examples: Johannes Diderik van der Waals: Nobel prize for his gas equation discovered during his PhD. Brian Josephson: Nobel prize for his discovery of the Josephson effect. Those examples are noteworthy because they resulted in a Nobel prize, but there's plenty of relevant science that does not win the authors a Nobel prize and yet is extremely important to the field. But the devil is in the details. Let's take a look at them: Can you actually invent or take a subject never done before Relevant or not, you better do something never done before. Otherwise it's plagiarism. come up with findings that will shock science I very rarely see scientists "shocked", they usually get excited about new results. make you famous over night? Good things rarely happen overnight. In addition, fame in science is not necessarily correlated to the magnitude of the discovery (this may be the case for, say Einstein, but it's not general). Instead, fame typically corelates with having an iconic, media-attracting persona, and tends to favor people who become public educators rather than those who make discoveries . You then, will be asked to publish that thesis or dissertation My department at ETH Zurich has a requirement of 3 first author publications in order to get a PhD (For publication based thesis, it's different for industrial research projects). So you are generally asked to publish things, even if they don't win a Nobel prize. and get money from it. You rarely get money for research results. Things published are in the public domain and you cannot charge for them. There are only two ways that I know of in which you can make money for your research: Patents: IP is owned by the institution who funds your research, but they generally share a fraction of the proceeds with the authors (in the rare event there are any proceeds to share). This is usually in the range of 20-40% and is generally split evenly between co-authors. Prizes: These are hard to win and generally small (with notorious exceptions Fundamental Physics Prize). So while the question is legitimate and the answer is yes, the details suggest to me that the OP seems to have a mythified version of science, with people being "shocked" and throwing money at the work of a "genius". This does not happen in practice. Updated 19w ago • View Upvotes