How significant is bird and bat mortality due to wind turbines?
Let's take these one at a time. EAGLES From the US National Eagle Center's website: "While there have been cases of eagles being killed by wind turbines, the overall impact of wind turbine collisions on eagle populations is small compared to other threats that eagles face in the wild. Proper siting and reduction in blade speed over the years of wind farm development have lessened the impact of wind farms on many bird species. A major cause of eagle collisions with turbines seems to be that eagles are in pursuit of prey and can be struck by a blade. Ensuring that the area near turbines do not provide a regular food source for eagles is one way to deter collisions. Many birds and bats that are active at night have more difficulty than eagles in navigating near wind turbines. Regulatory agencies and the wind energy industry work hard to put in place mitigation efforts to reduce avian and bat mortality. Lighting and reduced blade speed can play a part in reducing these collisions." Of course, no one thinks that a single eagle death is acceptable, but the focus of eagle conservation experts is on much greater threats.  Eagle experts are in wide agreement that wind turbines and solar farms, while presenting a minor threat, do provide a much greater benefit by reducing pollution and poisons in the eagles' environment. BIRDS As for birds, none of the regulatory agencies are concerned about bird deaths from wind turbines.  Tens of millions of birds are killed every year by cars, cats and building windows.  Compared to tens of thousands of birds killed every year by wind turbines, there just isn't a concern. BATS The biggest threat to bat populations in the US is a fungus known as White Nose Syndrome.  This fungus has nearly obliterated bat populations throughout New England and into the northern middle states.  The syndrome is easily spread in various ways and so the fungus is migrating across the US.  All bat populations are at high risk due to this fungus. As for wind turbines, current research seems to suggest that bats regard wind turbines the way they regard a large tree.  They appear to be attracted to the nacelle area rather than to the higher-speed blade tips.  The bats' ability to use ultrasonic sound to echo locate prevents them from colliding with the fixed structure of the turbine (tower and nacelle) but they still are being clobbered by the rotor blades. The Department of Energy is taking wind turbine fatalities very seriously.  They have provided funding to five research projects to develop deterrent devices for bats in the vicinity of wind turbines.  These projects will take a couple more years to produce real products that will deter bats, but there is a lot of work going on in this area. In the meantime, the Fish and Wildlife Service and the bat conservation communities are working with the DOE and universities, with wind farm owners and with OEMs to find a solution to this problem.  Wind farms are curtailing their turbines in low-wind periods while they wait for the wind speed to reach at least 5.5 meters per second.  Bats are less active during periods of high wind. As with eagles, these important agencies recognize that the biggest threat to bat populations outside of White Nose Syndrome is pollution, and wind turbines are viewed as a solution to bat fatalities rather than the problem. 