Do good mathematicians visualize everything (even algebra)?
I don't know that a definitive answer can be given here, but I would guess that people who do well in mathematics developed a facility to both visualize things and to manipulate them symbolically. I don't even think there's a clear dividing line between visual imagination and mental manipulation of expressions. Both require holding images in memory and transforming them. Some things get clearer when you visualize them, others get more confusing. If you never acquired the ability to visualize stuff you'll be missing out on much of the beauty and you'll be at a disadvantage when visualization is called for to solve a problem, but it's not an either/or choice. You need both. Some examples: 1) It's useful to visualize an arithmetic division operation such as 6/3, to build intuition and understanding of what "division" means. However, trying to visualize  [math] \frac{4 \frac{2}{3}}{1\frac{5}{8}[/math] is very hard, and easily confusing. It's much easier to formally manipulate the fractions to simplify them, without trying to imagine how pieces of some pizza get sliced and recombined. 2) There are geometry problems that seem very obvious in low dimensions, so our intuition leads us to think that they are obviously true in higher dimensions. A famous example is the "bubble inside the cube" problem. The blue bubble is expanded until it touches the spheres. The challenge is to determine how the radius of that bubble behaves in higher dimensions. Most people guess all kinds of limits towards 1, but the truth is that the radius of the blue bubble tends to infinity; in particular, it pretty soon becomes larger than the red cube. Visualizing that is both hard and misleading. Doing the arithmetic calculation is actually not that hard, and yields the result very quickly. 3) Similarly, a famous historical argument between Newton and Gregory revolved around the question: how may spheres can simultaneously touch another sphere of the same size? Newton believed the answer was 12, and he was right, but Gregory thought it was 13. He was a powerful mathematician, but his visual imagination led him astray. Kissing number problem 4) Is there a real polynomial in two variables that is positive everywhere but has no minimum? If you have some visual intuition around polynomials, it's very easy to see that the answer is No. But amazingly, the answer is Yes. It's not hard to construct such a polynomial formally. (EDIT:  added examples, as suggested in the comments) Updated 11w ago • View Upvotes