What is a lattice in discrete mathematics?
An answer here by Amin Sakzad talks about subsets of Cartesian powers of the integers with certain properties. Those are a restricted kind of lattice, called an integer lattice, and they are sublattices of products of chains, so they're distributive. Not every lattice is distributive though. Justin Rising describes a lattice as a partially ordered set with some more properties. That definition to which he linked is rather common, but it can be important to distinguish between the order-theoretic notion of a lattice and the algebraic notion of a lattice. The algebraic notion is this:  a lattice is an ordered tuple (L, m, j), where L is a set, m is a binary operation on L, j is a binary operation on L, and the following hold:  1. The operations m and j are idempotent, meaning that m(x,x)=x and j(x,x)=x hold for each element x in L, commutative, i.e. for x and y in L, both m(x,y)=m(y,x) and j(x,y)=j(y,x) hold. 2. The absorption laws hold for m and j; that is, if x and y are in L, then m(x,j(x,y))=x and j(x,m(x,y))=x. 3.  The operations m and j are associative, meaning that for all x, y, and z in L, m(x,m(y,z))=m(m(x,y),z) and j(x,j(y,z))=j(j(x,y),z). Here, the operation m is called the meet operation of (L, m, j) and j is called the join operation of (L, m, j). From this structure, one can define a reflexive, transitive, and anti-symmetric binary relation, R, on L so that the pair (L,R) is a partially ordered set with the properties spelled out in Justin Rising's post. But (L, m, j) and (L, R) are not the same kind of structure, because a logic system called equational logic can be designed to discuss the properties of lattices of the algebraic kind, but to discuss properties of partially ordered sets (L, R) with the properties described by Justin, one cannot rely on equations only. By the way, the term "discrete mathematics" is a misnomer for the topics covered by many (actually most) people who use the term. Regarding ordered sets and lattices, this is illustrated by consideration of the example of the unit interval, I=[0,1], with the usual ordering or with the meet operation defined by the formula m(x,y)=min(x,y) and the join operation defined by the formula j(x,y)=max(x,y). In this case, (I, m, j) is a lattice, but it's not a discrete structure, because between any two real numbers is another; that is it is dense in itself. 