What should all first time entrepreneurs know before starting their very first business?
Failure is your friend. Now, that may sound negative and a little dark, but you’ll bear with me, you’ll see that it’s critically important to an Entrepreneur- especially a first-time entrepreneur. It’s also critical that you understand customer problems, the urgency of the problem to the customer- and solutions. Finally, one good contact or lead can change everything.   A start-up story   I started my business online in 2008 with a @AccountingED. At the time, I noticed that videos on accounting instruction weren’t very good. Most people were using white boards or other visuals that we not clear and concise for the viewer. I used powerpoint and excel, and started getting some traffic.   Next, I tried to leverage my success on You Tube and start on online tutoring business in accounting and finance. Ultimately it didn’t work. The logistics of connecting with students and scheduling them was very difficult. Since the typical student doesn’t have a lot of income, I couldn’t make it work profitably.   Lesson #1: Work first idea may not work- and that’s OK.   In April of 2012, I was downsizing my online tutoring business. A literary agent found my You Tube channel online. That led to writing the first of 4 Dummies books on accounting. My agent has also found video projects for me online.   Lesson #2: What you build may work- but for reasons that are very different than what you envision. My You Tube channel helped me start a career as a business author- which had nothing to do with the reason I started my channel! Instead of: “If you build it, they will come”, maybe the phrase should be: “If you build something, it may benefit you in ways that you don’t understand”.   Just start marketing- and adjust along the way. I had to fail at idea #1 (tutoring) to get to idea #2 (author, blogger, explainer). The sooner you fail on one idea, the faster you can get to something that works.   What’s your problem, dude?   No one- and I mean NO ONE- is going to buy a product or service unless it solves a problem for them. Period. End of story. So, your initial job (if you decide to accept it) is to identify a customer problem.   Say, for example, that you are in the outdoor sports market. You manufacture hiking and biking gear. Based on surveys, you find that many of your serious biking customers have trouble getting a spare tire tube inflated when they have a flat. (I’ve been in this situation- and had to call my wife or kids to pick me up…couldn’t get the tire changed).   To solve this problem, you come up with a bike tire that inflates at the push of a button. No pump or air canister needed to inflate the tire tube.   You’ve solved a problem.   Is the problem big enough- do customers care about it?   Sure, you’ve solved a problem- but how important is it to your customer. Specifically, how much would they be willing to pay for that bike tube? Say that based on your research a bike rider would be willing to pay $5 for a tire tube.   OK- how many people are willing to pay $5 for the tire tube? Say that the market indicates that 1,000,000 serious bike riders would buy an average of 3 tire tubes a year. The size of your potential market is ($5 X 3 tire tubes X 1,000,000 riders), or $15,000,000.   Your job is to determine what percentage of that total market you can acquire.   Action Step: Walk through these steps in your own business venture. Determine if your business idea solves a problem that is important to your customers. (In other words- don’t do what I did years ago….)   For more content on personal finance and accounting, check out Page on accountingacccidentally.com 