What will be the next big trend on the Internet after "search" of Google and "social" of Facebook?
Input: We currently have mouses, keyboards, and touchscreens. Sensors have been alluded to. But the implications are much larger than has been explained. The reason is because sensor is a big word. Creating the architecture that allows any object to act as an input device to a computer program is a daunting task, but will certainly merit "trend" status. Brain-Computer Interface (BCI) is currently only in research labs and unprofitable startups. But the concept is proven. With some fine tuning, you can actually use neurological output to input commands to a computer. Basically, that means mind control, which is cool. Computer Vision could be considered a subset of "sensors" but it deserves a mention in itself. In China, facial recognition has been ubiquitously deployed such that anyone in a public place can be identified. This is scary. But TechCrunch-enthusiasts can think of it as a system that automatically updates your foursqaure. Skin makes a unique frequency (inaudible sound) depending on where you touch it. Researchers at Carnegie Mellon University have developed a way to use the human body as input device. They call it Skinput. Google it. Output: We currently have desktops, smart phones, and tablets. The Holodeck is a room that combines virtual reality with Haptics technology and uses all types of crazy sensors to give you the illusion that you're "in" the internet. Death to the web-page. <!--Courtesy of Maiya Lee Huff--> IRL HUD's will be the norm in the future, a notion endorsed by famous men like Dr. Michio Kaku.  It will begin with Google's glasses, but over the next two decades, it will progress into contact lenses that contain all the parts of a computer and a high-resolution display of quantum dots, and it will be controllable entirely by thought.  You will also be permanently connected to the internet, and you will be able to send all your thoughts to it instantly, as well as receive those of others.  Memory won't be a problem anymore because you'll be able to automatically save your thoughts to the cloud.  In the near future, the glasses + tablet combo will decrease sales of smartphones as they become obsolete.  Computation: We currently have Independent, GPS-enabled, CPUs Human-Computation is the art of conjuring free labor and the science of putting it to good use. For example, it would take a man a million hours to read Wikipedia in its entirety. With a million people, Duolingo could translate it in its entirety in 80 hours. Another example would be how the machines harvest human brains in The Matrix (1999 movie). Context-Aware Computing  has to do with (1) where you are; (2) who you are with; and (3) what resources are nearby. Although location is a primary capability, location-aware does not necessarily capture things of interest that are mobile or changing. Context-aware in contrast is used more generally to include nearby people, devices, lighting, noise level, network availability, and even the social situation, e.g., whether you are with your family or a friend from school. Grid Computing is a term for distributing complex calculations throughout millions of idle computers. An example is the SETI@home project that uses millions of computers on sleep mode to search for extraterrestrial life. We need more big ideas like this. Education: We currently have colleges, trade schools, youtube, and wiki. Personalization matters in education because algorithms are more suitable (scalable) to provide personal attention to the individual student than one teacher per twenty students or home-schooling. Accreditation is important because currently, the only way to prove you're qualified to work on something is to get a piece of paper from an institution that bleeds you dry with debt in exchange for information that freely available online. How do you prove that you know something? Identity: We currently have facebook accounts and credit cards Virtual Identity opens up so many possibilities in terms of what the internet can be. Right now, we're close. But there's still no way to validate that the person behind the curtain is actually the person claiming to be behind the curtain. The thumb! The thumb! Government: We currently have a corporate republic. Virtual Democracy is a system, unlike our own, where everyone can vote on every issue (like Quora, kinda). Virtual Identity is a pre-requisite. Why it's a good thing is because currently in order to pass or stop any legislation, you need to buy off ~5 people. With a virtual democracy, you'd need to buy off 50 million people, which is a mathematical impossibility that limits the negative effect of big money on politics. Legal Gambling: We currently have casinos and shoddy off-shore online bookies. The insider that gets a license to provide online gambling legally in the US will make beaucoup bucks. Updated 13 Feb 2013 • View Upvotes