Is Facebook Graph Search a danger to Google, LinkedIn, Yelp or Foursquare?See: Facebook new search - discovery engine a threat to Google, Foursquare, Linkedin Basically I agree totally with it but what are your opinions on the matter, would Facebook become a LinkedIn and foursquare killer would it increase Bing reach as stated in the videos ?
Google or other search engines have traditionally looked at "webpages" as the basic unit of information that they point a searcher to. The searcher then culls the webpage info, or browses the destination website, and follows this process across the webpages suggested by the search engine until.  Basically, organizing the world's information by aggregating and sorting the fast growing webpages repository (augmented through structured data/digitizing books etc). Facebook graph search links it's unit/source of information to a person. The persons interest/wallpost/likes (eventually) tags a person, and the graph search feature allows you to use these "tags" to get to a person who can help you more on that data. Based on the degree of your connection, you can then take this interaction forward with the person to know more about the topic (akin to how one would browse the destination website in case of a web search engine). As Facebook creates mechanisms to help users create more and more quality content (tags), and improves it's ability to understand/cull/sort this info..it will create new intents that perhaps could be better met by reaching a person than a website. I think Facebook graph search may have the following impact: 1. Quality of Content on Facebook would improve: The fact that now people can discover others based on the information that they create would create inbuilt motivation to - a. Regulate creation of low quality/bad content b. Incent people to create "good" content. How many of us would like to be discovered for  - people who can help  with Java programming Vs. people who like a porn actress :) 2. More "closed" content that would not be accessible to Google/Others: Not only content created on FB but content suggested on FB (webpage links in a post) would not be easily accessible outside of FB...Thus, the percentage of onlie info. accessible to Google Vs. total online info. created would be skewed against Google as more content gets created.   3. Facebook opening up Graph Search API: This can potentially have a big impact on businesses that rely on people as a source of information..Think Quora / Review sites / Recruitment (Linkedin..)/People listing/directory..Facebook might want to do this simply to discover various ways in which people search can be used/packaged and then figure out the ones that are of interest to them. 4. Facebook ads would become more powerful:  As more (and better quality) content gets created..there would be more information on the Facebook audience which would allow Facebook to create newer ways to target their ads and engage with the audience. 5. Facebook integrating this on Mobile: The mobile device provides spatial data which could allow Facebook to provide location as a parameter to search for people...opening up newer possibilities. 6. Facebook privacy concerns will become more pronounced: When Facebook users created the content that they did they didn't know that this could be accessible to a large base of users by means of search...this could lead to a stronger urge to control what  is "private" and what is not. There is no doubt that Facebook graph search will substitute for some of our needs currently met by Google, Yelp, Linkedin etc. The extent of this substitution will decide the extent of threat to these players...Graph search is a significant step to several significant possibilities..more long term than immediate. 