How did Glassdoor's Facebook App increase by one million DAU in one day?
I wrote a post about this issue for my company's blog: In February, Glassdoor launched Inside Connections, a Facebook app that  enables users to integrate their Glassdoor and Facebook accounts. The  app shows users which of their Facebook friends are on Glassdoor, and  tells them where their friends (and friends’ friends) work, giving them  potential “inside connections” to companies they may want to work at.  Unlike BranchOut and BeKnown, Inside Connections is not meant to be a  mini LinkedIn on your Facebook page. Rather, it is meant to enhance the  Glassdoor website by adding a social layer to it. Many users  downloaded the Inside Connections app. By mid-June, it had some 300,000  daily active users. But then something changed, as you can see in the  AppData graph below: On June 26, the number of daily active users  rose sharply from 300,000 to over 1 million, finally peaking around 1.4  million users by the end of June. How did Glassdoor’s app suddenly  become so popular? Glassdoor added Open Graph capabilities to the app,  which means they started their spammy notification barrage — the one  we’re all too familiar with. I’m not against Open Graph capabilities,  which can often benefit users. However, I am against using Open Graph  capabilities to exploit users and violate their privacy. And apparently  I’m not the only who feels this way. The Public’s Reaction When  Glassdoor started posting on Facebook, there was a lot of curiosity and  buzz — and a whole bunch of memes started rolling out. At first, the reaction was quite positive, But very quickly things got ugly. Not  only was the app’s spamming campaign being criticized, but so was the  app itself. Kashmir Hill, a Forbes writer, claimed that Glassdoor’s  integration with Facebook made its salary database much less anonymous.  Indeed, with the pool of people who have connected their Facebook  accounts to Glassdoor still relatively small, it can be very easy to  figure out who makes what. http://blog.conduit.com/2012/08/... 