What should all first time entrepreneurs know before starting their very first business?
A great question! I'll try keep this brief and to the point. 1) Don’t expect to know any outcome. Instead take what you can, when you can. Realise that as a (first-time) startup founder, you're entering the unknown. It's probable that your current vision will change. 2) Hire slowly and fire fast and when hiring, hire great people. Make absolutely sure great people surround you, whether employees, co-founders, investors, or friends. That's number 1. Good people will make your company and mediocre people will kill it.   3) Passion. If you haven't got a real passion for what you're doing stop now before you waste investors' money, your time, clients' time, employees' time.   4) Ideas are worth nothing unless executed. Even a so-so idea that is executed will be worth more than a brilliant idea that just stays in your head. Photo by Crew.co 5) Get used to making decisions. This means that you need to work at improving and developing your decision-making. This will help you successfully wade through the ever-increasing mountain of information flowing your way.   6) Work on your skills. Do you have "duct tape skills"? You're going to need some. Stuff will break, things will go wrong and it'll be up to you to fix it. When we decide to fund a company it's not necessarily the idea that  grabs us. Highly skilled founders or management is what we look for  first. 7) "Know thyself." I'd say that a lot of money and time could be saved if entrepreneurs were intensely honest with themselves and know themselves. Realise you're going to learn and learning changes you. Your ability to adapt, learn and yet know yourself are really important.   8) Get a business partner. Every entrepreneur needs to brainstorm ideas. No matter how smart, they need help with the multiple aspects that starting and running a business takes. It's almost impossible to do it all yourself. I hope those are some helpful thoughts. Good luck! 