What should all first time entrepreneurs know before starting their very first business?
Boring but Important Business Stuff The time to set forth the legal documents like articles of incorporation and buy/sell agreements and detailing percentage of ownership is very early in the company and while everybody is on friendly terms.  You should work with an experienced business lawyer to set these things up and actually read them and understand them.  It's extremely boring and not nearing as fun as building your business.  But the reality is it is extremely important to understand the fundamentals of starting a business and behave in a manner that will protect your investment, protect your personal belongings, and give you the best chance of success.   You don't want to be in a situation many years from now where you have a valuable company and a dispute with a business partner and these things aren't in place or not well understood by everyone involved.  You also don't want to be in a position many years from now where your 50/50 partner needs to leave the area because a spouse got a new job, and you've got to negotiate what happens now.  If someone is going to leave the business the rules for how that happens should be well known to everyone on day 1. Percentage Ownership If its your idea and you are going to be doing 90%+ of the work and taking on 90% of the risk, you should own 100% of the company.  As you bring on business partners, in the earliest of days, you can provide them with stock options that accrue over years of service.  Don't assume that your good friend that you've known your whole life is going to be a true 50% partner and is going to give them same level of effort and take the same risks you are.  If you believe you are going to have a 50/50 partnership on your idea..   you could still own 100% of the company, give yourself to the ability to fire the other person, and let them vest in stock options for 50% of the company after 5 years of service.  So if they actually behave as a true partner like you think they will, they end up as a true 50/50 partner.  If not, you are in control. Just because you've enjoyed a few drinks with someone and their company for a number a years, doesn't mean you understand their work ethic.  Don't assume it's like yours because it probably isn't.  Nothing will poison a partnership more than a 50/50 partnership where 1 person is doing 60% of the work and the other 40%.  And it's probably the most common 2-party situation. Mitigate Your Risk If you have a spouse, let them keep their normal day job and resist temptation to both quit and work together.  Your family will take on a lot less risk that way, and your relationship won't have the risk of undue stress from working together and failing together.  Most small businesses fail within a few years, and most have good ideas.  Banks Aren't Going to Give You Any Money Plenty will waste your time with wanting to see your business plans, etc.  But in 2012 they aren't lending anyone any money.   If they are, its because you are probably putting all your personal assets at risk.  So, make sure your business model has something you can be doing to generate revenue in the early days so you can bootstrap. Angel Investors Might Give You Some Money But they are going to take a huge chunk of your equity, so avoid it unless your capital needs are extreme. Try Not to Borrow Money From Your Friends/Family This is a personal preference.  You'll find plenty of people that will encourage you do to so.  The risk of failure is real and high, regardless of what type of business you are starting.  I wouldn't want to borrow money from friends and family because I don't feel comfortable having them share that risk and risk poisoning our future relationships. If you need to do this you need to ensure they understand their investment and everything needs to be in writing. Don't Start a Restaurant The failure rate on non-franchise restaurants is absolutely massive. The start-up costs are huge.  Staffing is extremely difficult because turnover is horrendous.  Margins can be very low, chain competition is well-capitalized and have branding, advertising, location, executive, purchasing, management advantages over you.   Just because you like to cook doesn't mean you will like running a restaurant, where if you are actually running a restaurant you probably aren't doing much cooking. It Better Be Fun You are going to be working longer hours and harder during those hours than if you just held a normal day job.  You are probably going to make less money than that day job for a good number of years.  You are going to take on a lot financial risk and have a much higher stress level than a normal job.   Your family needs to be on board because it's going to impact them.  All because some-day some politician will call you rich and tax your business an aggressive rate and only allow you to write off $10,000 of the $200,000 worth of equipment you just bought (or some such nonsense, my point is even success will have environmental drawbacks way out of your control).   There's significantly more than a 50% chance that the business will fail within five years.  Should you do this?  If the day to day activities will invigorate you and you'll enjoy your life more, yes.  If You Fail Remember everybody fails to some extent or another.  People who run successful businesses have made lots of mistakes and may have even run a few businesses into the ground in the past. They learned from those mistakes and didn't make them twice.  Keep a weekly journal of your thought processes and assumptions.  Document your mistakes, as painful as it can be.  Good Luck There's no such thing. 