Which technical innovations have the potential to transform the education sector in the next 5 to 10 years?
Talking in terms of how technology can change the education sector we have these trends capable enough of changing things in education sector. Mainly in countries like USA but catching up in other countries (India) as well. Technical Innovations: The  six technologies featured in the NMC Horizon Report: 2013 Higher  Education Edition are placed along three adoption horizons that indicate  likely time frames for their entrance into mainstream use for teaching,  learning, and creative inquiry. The near-term horizon assumes the  likelihood of entry into the mainstream for higher education  institutions within the next 12 months; the mid-term horizon, within two  to three years; and the far-term, within four to five years. Near-Term: Within  the next 12 months massively open online courses  (MOOCs)and tablet computing will see widespread  adoption in higher education. Massively  open online courses have received their fair share of hype in 2012, and  are expected to grow in number and influence within the next year. Big  name providers including Coursera, edX, and Udacity count hundreds of  thousands of enrolled students, totals that when added together  illustrate their popularity. One of the most appealing promises of MOOCs  is that they offer the possibility for continued, advanced learning at  zero cost, allowing students, life-long learners, and professionals to  acquire new skills and improve their knowledge and employability. Tablet  computing has carved its own niche in education as a portable and  always-connected family of devices that can be used in almost any  setting. Equipped with WiFi and cellular network connectivity,  high-resolution screens, and with a wealth of mobile apps available,  tablets are proving to be powerful tools for learning inside and outside  of the classroom. Mid-Term: The second  adoption horizon, two to three years out, is where we expect to  see widespread adoptions of two technologies that are experiencing  growing interest within higher education: games and gamification, and  the further refinement of learning analytics. Games  and gamification are two sides of the same approach. Educational games  immerse the student in the game, where content and curricula are  delivered or juxtaposed. Gamification aims to incorporate elements  of games, such as levels and badges (but also via quests and other  strategies) into non-game activities. Learning  analytics is the field associated with deciphering trends and patterns  from educational big data, or huge sets of student-related data, to  further the advancement of a personalized, supportive system  of higher education. Preliminary uses of student data were directed  toward targeting at-risk learners in order to improve student retention. Far-Term: On the far-term horizon, set at four to five years away from widespread adoption, are 3D printing and wearable technology. 3D  printing has become much more affordable and accessible in recent years  in large part due to the efforts of MakerBot Industries. Founded in  2009, this company has promoted the idea of openness by offering  products that can be built by anyone with minimal technical expertise.  With MakerBot Replicators selling in the range of $1,500 to $3,000, it  now only requires a small financial investment to own a 3D printer. Wearable  technology will increase in impact as enabling technologies,  such as augmented reality and thin film displays, gain traction in the  consumer market. Bendable OLED displays can wrap around furniture and  other curved surfaces, which makes it easy to imagine computing devices  and accessories that meld with the human body. Perhaps the most  anticipated wearable technology is Google’s “Project Glass,” augmented  reality enabled glasses that operate via voice command, presenting the  wearer with an information-laden view of their surroundings. Source: NMC Horizon Report 2013 Higher Education- Summary and Full Report EdTech Trends and Predictions 2013 EdTech Trends 2013 