Is Facebook Graph Search a danger to Google, LinkedIn, Yelp or Foursquare?See: Facebook new search - discovery engine a threat to Google, Foursquare, Linkedin Basically I agree totally with it but what are your opinions on the matter, would Facebook become a LinkedIn and foursquare killer would it increase Bing reach as stated in the videos ?
I have a hard time believing that Facebook search will ever be remotely useful.  There are many reasons: 1)  Have you ever tried to search for  someone using the existing search?  The quality is laughable.  I get  people whose name is some distant variation of what I searched for,  people who live nowhere near me who have no mutual friends, and businesses that have a name something like what I searched for.  Results are duplicated and unsortable.  Here is  what just came up when I searched for "Julie" - it's almost unbelievable how  useless this is - how could I possibly, in any stretch of the imagination, be looking for the book "Romeo and Juliet"? And this is when the search space is Facebook's own, structured data.  How bad will it be as a general-purpose search engine? 2)  "Likes" are next to worthless.  Like many people, I have friends with diverse tastes.  I have friends who frequent bars I would *never* go to.  I have friends who like music that makes my ears bleed.  Half my friends live in other cities or countries - the chances that they will like a place that I'd want to go to are slim.  Anecdotally, I find that the friends that "like" a lot of things on Facebook are the ones that have poor taste.  And finally, companies "buy" their likes by offering coupons, freebies, etc. - what value is there in that for me? Essentially, I would guess that there's a negative correlation between a lot of my friends "liking" something and me liking it, and this is true for most people over the age of 16. 3)  I don't use Foursquare, but Yelp works because of its focus - places, and little more.  It has a pretty decent map-based interface which I use extensively, which lends itself very well to (surprise) searching for places.  With the relative ease to setting up a website, we're in an age of specialization now.  There are sites that specialize is such narrow categories of products as hammocks, absinthe, and speakers that look like rocks.  We don't need a place to search for everything any more than we need a local store that claims to fix *everything*.  I want expertise and focus - depth, not breadth.  I would never think of going to Google to search for a bar, and I'd never go to Yelp to search for a review of the bike I want to buy.  What would I do on Facebook?  Search for people - that's their business.  Unfortunately, as I showed above, they can't even get the "people search" right!  Why should we expect that they can get anything else right? So in short, no, it is not a danger.  Much like how advertisers are pulling their campaigns because they are realizing that Facebook ads don't work, users will see that Facebook search won't work. 