If all integral points (x,y) of a infinite area graph (where x,y are integers) are either of red or blue or green or yellow color, and we know the graph sheet has all four colors and each colors have more than 100 dots?Then what would be the probability of drawing an integral  vertex quadrilateral whose all vertex have similar colors?(consider vertex as unordered pair)
The problem seems to be like the following : I have a large grid and each intersection point of the grid is a point whose coordinates are integers. Now, each point can be one of the four colors described in the question.  What is the probability that I can pick out a quadrilateral whose all four vertices are of the same color. This question has following two very important aspects as indeed pointed out by Ivan Li . How is the probability distribution defined on the grid ? (Are colors distributed uniformly ? Or do they follow some other 2-D PDF ?) How are the vertices picked for the quadrilateral ? (Are the vertices adjacent ?  Or can edges skip over other intersections of the grid ? In my opinion if we simply assume that PDF is uniform for all colors and edges can skip over other intersections of the grid, we can see that the probability (in my opinion !!!) will be equal to 1 : Since the probability is uniform, so P(color := red)  = P(color := green) = P(color := blue) = P(color := yellow) = 1/4 Hence, in any row or in any column, about 1/4th of the samples are of a particular color. Since the grid is infinite, so, this simply means there are indeed a very very large number of points of the same color in any row or in any column of the grid. Now select any particular color and choose a point of that color on the grid. From the previous argument, you can always choose remaining points in different rows and columns such that no three of the four points are collinear. Hence, you are always gonna be able to construct such a quadrilateral. However, if you say that the vertices of the quadrilateral should be adjacent, then the situation now changes. In that case i think the answer should be 4 x (1/4) x (1/4) x (1/4) x (1/4) = 1/64. In case colors have a spatially varying PDF the problem would get interesting and depend upon the location which currently is immaterial as long as we assume a uniform distribution. NOTE : I do not know why they have specified the assumption about more than 100 colors and all colors being present, because the assumption of uniform distribution concludes that.  Any comments about that would be helpful 