What should all first time entrepreneurs know before starting their very first business?
Most important thing that you need to know about - You will try your best not to make any mistakes, and yet you will make a lot of them. Don't worry, it's alright! However, there will be few things that I WILL ASK YOU "NOT" TO DO: (After listing them down while I was writing the book (and while I was writing this answer as well), I noticed that they were 7 in number. So, let us call them "THE SEVEN DEADLY SINS for an entrepreneur") Focus on one thing Now, this will be a very unpopular advice - most people would tell you to be very focused in your approach. I say - Don't! Do ten different things, experiment as much as you want, and then figure out what is working for your business and what not. Instead of doing one particular thing for 2 years, and then pivoting in an altogether different direction, I would rather waste first few months figuring out what is working for my business Hiring specialized resources (employees) and/or getting a legal advisor, an accountant, a office space etc. - Don't hire specialized resources unless you are working at a scale where you (or anyone else) moonlighting in that function is simply not cutting it any more. Full time resources are cost, and cost causes stress. Keep your stress levels zero - Any legal questions you need answered or accounting work you need to get done can be easily handled on your own after a few hours of research on Google. Don't start hiring them unless you can no longer handle it on your own, or unless it becomes too complex for you to handle on your own. Be sure of the product you are building (or develop a product) Don't build the product you think the users need, build the system the users need off of you. While the first scenario is you operating on your perception of the users' needs, the second scenario is where you understand user behavior and then know what is it that the user actually wants from you - even if the user himself doesn't know that. Have the need to be present on all social media channels Instead of making accounts on all social media channels and a user having the sense of walking in a ghost-town once he visits one of them, focus on just one/two that you can engage your audience on, but leverage that channel well. That would help you more. You can always add the other channels at a later stage. Spend hundreds of dollars and thousands of hours into the right software You don't need the right inventory management software, or the sales tracking tool, or the automation system on day 1. You are operating at a nonexistent scale; so first scale up and then worry about all these productivity enhancing tools. Plan to start marketing after you launch Actually there is not much that is wrong with this approach; but my point is why delay it when you can pretty much start even when you have nothing. You still know what it is that you are building, right? So just talk about it, promote it on different forums and see what bites and what doesn't. Use it as a means to get early validation from your target user base. Go all out on the marketing channel you are bullish on (aka, this is THE marketing channel for my business/me) Oooh! Probably the deadliest sin of them all. This is the mistake that is most common; entrepreneurs don't invest in the right amount of effort, energy and resource bandwidth to test out different marketing channels to figure out what is working from them and what isn't. There are practically hundreds of different marketing channels available out there, and depending on which stage of the business lifecycle you are at currently, the marketing channels that may help take your business to the next level could be completely different. Run a bunch of quick experiments involving different marketing channels and then figure out the right channels for you at any stage.Hope that helps. A PS: These points are from a mini-book I released a few weeks back titled How do I start my next startup? & the “7 mistakes” that come associated with it! Drop me an email - mail@abyshake.com if you would like to get the book to read up on the points in detail. Edit/Update: Thanks for pomoting the answer Rafal Bikowski. Glad you found it useful. 