What will be the next big trend on the Internet after "search" of Google and "social" of Facebook?
Let's look at this question as a little differently. The web is like an organism , it's in the constant process of evolution. The Culmination of the web and all these talked about technologies would lead to a more ubiquitous presence of the internet. What we already have. Take social insights and multimedia - Facebook (likes , preferences , interests), Spotify/Pandora, Netflix Awareness - GeoBase, OSm , Google Maps, Augmented reality and Image reconciliation platforms (Google Goggles et al) Answers to all questions - Quora, Wikipedia, Google Technology - Big Data, Cloud Computing, 4G LTE , Machine Learning, AI Curate all this data all this collective knowledge of the human race put in digital form , to put it to work only seems logical. We observe is that we have enough data and now even the means (both computing power and algorhythms) to make sense of it and act. This sets the stage for the natural course of evolution to kick in. It points to only one thing, we are moving to the Internet of Things and The One Machine ( Every screen on the planet is a portal to look into our digital world Notebooks, Tabs, watches you name it, they are all aware and connected ) Imagine the milk can knows when it's empty , so does the beer tab or vegetable tray in the fridge , they make a shopping list on the fridge and order a shopping list of Amazon or some shopping utility. Your shoes and watch talk and tell the fridge how to balance your diet or order your meds and update your health records so the Doc can get in touch with you. Cloud Robotics will enable robotic cars drive you around , do the dishes and set breakfast. It will be present in everything all around us . The signposts, our fridge , power grids, shopping , personalized billboards , automated aircraft and trains . Updates to everything. You can already see basic forms in Google Now Siri, ROS and RoboEarth . It is coming and is quite inevitable. Where does that leave us ? We are free from the bound of location and timezones. More time to do what we truly like and spend time on the people we care. There are numerous talks on the same by Tim Burners Lee, IBM smarter-planet  Google Research (Google X) (IO 2011). They make for some fun and highly interesting and educating videos. 