What are the 17 greatest mathematical 'break throughs' ever?
I'll just list some more that others have neglected. (It seems silly to stick to 17.) I'll go in chronological order. I am not a topologist, but you will note a strongly topological theme to my examples, reflecting a sense in which a major theme of 20th century mathematics has been the ubiquity of application of ideas and results from topology to widely disparate mathematical research areas. I have selected examples which fit together to tell part of a single story, which you can look up yourself -- google "Deligne's proof of the Weil conjectures". I've simply listed some of the most important breakthroughs that occurred as this story developed. 0. Euler's definition of Euler characteristic, for graphs and polyhedra, as V - E + F, where V, E, F denote, respectively, the numbers of vertices edges and faces. This was probably sometime in the late 18th century. 1. The definition of continuity, sometime in the early-to-mid 19th century. This helped resolve foundational problems in real analysis, but perhaps more importantly it ultimately led to good foundations for topology. 2, 3, 4. Henri Poincare introduced three breakthroughs in his paper Analysis situs (1895) -- although it's possible these ideas were "in the air" and known to other experts at the time. Namely, we have the definitions of the fundamental group, which is one measure for how "holey" a topological space is, of the simplicial homology groups, which are some other subtly different measures of the same sort of thing, and the proof of Poincare duality. Poincare duality  is the first example of a cohomological duality theorem, and it basically comes from generalizing the simple observation that if you take a polyhedron and put a dot in the middle of every face, you can connect these dots with edges and you get a new polyhedron; it has the same number of edges as the original, but the numbers of faces and vertices are interchanged. The result itself is actually expressed as a symmetry in the Betti numbers (dimension of the homology groups) of a compact oriented manifold. A theorem along the lines of Poincare duality is now regarded as an essential property of a "good" cohomology theory... 5. Foundations for abstract algebra. Abstract definitions of group, ring, field, etc., replacing earlier "concrete" versions. (For example, groups were previously thought of as either permutation groups or matrix groups, but the work of Frobenius and others is clarified by the observation that a single abstract group can have many interesting permutation and linear representations. Similarly, number fields were originally studied [e.g., by Gauss, Eisenstein, ...] as subfields of the complex numbers, but fundamental results in algebraic number theory [Dirichlet's unit theorem, the finiteness of the ideal class group] stem from consideration of the collection of all complex embeddings of a given abstract number field.) 6. The developments in number 5 permitted the axiomatization of homological algebra. Poincare and others had studied simplicial homology, which is defined in terms of cutting up a shape into triangles and higher dimensional generalizations thereof. But, as far as I understand, these early pioneers did not actually know about the homology groups, but rather only their ranks, the Betti numbers. This is because they had no language to speak about the groups, which arise as subquotients of the terms in the simplicial chain complex, a certain sequence of abelian groups G i   together with boundary maps ∂:G i →G i−1   satisfying the fundamental equation ∂ 2 =0  . ("...utinam intelligere possim rationacinationes pulcherrimas quae e propositione concisa DE QUADRATUM NIHILO EXAEQUARI fluunt." [If only I could understand the beautiful consequences which flow from the concise proposition 'THE SQUARE [of d] EQUALS ZERO'.]"-- Henri Cartan.) Using abstract algebra foundations, a general definition of the (co)homology groups of a (co)chain complex was given, and it was soon recognized that chain complexes are everywhere. Suddenly there were brand new settings in which the homological ideas from topology could be applied. 7. The Lefschetz trace formula (1920s). It says that one can count the fixed points of a transformation of a suitably nice topological space, by considering only (the traces of) linear operators on the homology of the space. In other words, homology allows one to transform a difficult counting problem in topology into straightforward linear algebra. 8. The introduction of cohomological methods for arithmetic. This is an interesting story, and it comes in two threads. The first thread is purely number theoretic: gradually it was realized that many of the complicated contortions in class field theory can be expressed in terms of the cohomology of groups, an outgrowth of #6 above. The second thread was Weil's bold idea that the arithmetic properties of (solutions to) equations with integer coefficients (or coefficients considered modulo a prime p) could be studied using a suitable cohomology theory (as in 6) and Lefschetz trace formula (as in 7), even though arithmetic appears entirely outside the domain of topology. 9, 10, 11. The definition of sheaves and their cohomology (Leray), together with the application of these ideas to algebraic geometry (Serre) and the far-reaching generalization of them by Grothendieck. 