Is Facebook Graph Search a danger to Google, LinkedIn, Yelp or Foursquare?See: Facebook new search - discovery engine a threat to Google, Foursquare, Linkedin Basically I agree totally with it but what are your opinions on the matter, would Facebook become a LinkedIn and foursquare killer would it increase Bing reach as stated in the videos ?
Is Mark's Graph Search a Giant Killer? No, No, No and Definitely Not. Today. The secret is expertise. All of the four kinds of search you can do today: Photos, People, Places and Interests, bear commercial implication. But the most immediate remain People and Places, which as bloggers speculate may pose a threat to Yelp, Foursquare, Google (Places) and LinkedIn (People). So, let's take simple examples and compare Facebook Search with the other four searches, much like Robert Scoble did, though I come up with a different result and hypothesis. 1. Facebook vs. Yelp I started with a simple search for "bars," something I presume will be a common search on any local product. Here's what I got with Facebook. For starters, along with actual bars it also pulled up law and bar associations or offices which was a bit odd. Now try the same with Yelp and you see how right away, they try to segment that query into the different types of bars you're potentially searching for. Once you get a set of results, Yelp then allows you (and this is the most useful feature on yelp currently) to convenience sort by "rating," "proximity," "price," "open now," or even better by neighborhoods. I've gotta tell you; if you live in a city and go out often to bars and restaurants, this is magical. But again, the filter is by utilitarian ratings not by friends around you. More on that in just a second. But before we leave Yelp, the third most useful feature on Yelp is their surfacing key elements of the review. So you're at a restaurant and you're wondering what's the best thing on the menu. In days past, you'd have had to ask the person serving you but now you can rely on "the wisdom of an expert crowd that's commented on Yelp" what's the best food at the place. And yet again. Works like magic. 2. Facebook vs. Foursquare Back to the topic of friends which is Facebook's biggest competitive advantage. If you do wanna take into account which restaurants your friends are frequenting (ignoring the fact that expertise is the key), then try Foursquare. The first thing you'll notice is the structured data (categories like Bar, Sports Bar, Salon) right up front (similar to Yelp) that Foursquare now provides you; though not as in depth as Yelp. Digging deeper through the results, you're gonna find them sorted by Foursquare's own proprietary 10 point "Zagat number" that they conjure based on multiple data points. Foursquare comes up with its score by looking at tips left by users, likes, dislikes, popularity, check-ins and it also weights signals more heavily for local experts. They also show you a self-selecting group of folks who you know. Chances are most of these folks are more prone to bar hop than your other friends. And so I trust their judgment on places I wanna be at. But where Yelp really nails it is their community (which they have nurtured for many many years) who continue to contribute awesome reviews that makes a world of difference in local search. 3. Facebook vs. Google Local While on the topic of a Zagat number, Google recently bought restaurant ratings site Zagat which now powers their Google Local ratings.  Zagat which originally started off compiling restaurant ratings of the Zagat's friends, does something very similar to Yelp and the model here is yet again - expertise. 4. Facebook vs. LinkedIn Shifting gears to people search, Facebook's people search launches three years after LinkedIn launched its faceted people search. I know because I helped launch it at TechCrunch Disrupt where product manager Esteban Kozak demoed it before CEO Jeff Weiner took the stage. (Disclosure: I no longer work at LinkedIn and I don't own any public stock either) My mind was blown when I first saw what we could do with faceted search on LinkedIn both from a user experience perspective and I'm sure recruiters have found even more value from it. Take a look at this demo video we shot in 2009 that shows you the plethora of signals a site like LinkedIn uses to hone in on the right professionals in a search. Easier said than done, and much like with Yelp, these signals have been gathered over many many years and such a search isn't something you can turn on willy-nilly. In all four instances as you can see, the quality of Facebook's search is insipid today compared to the robust community based expertise that the four sites have either built organically or bought (as in Google under the direction of Marissa Mayer buying Zagat). Now granted there are many things Facebook could do to build or buy their way into each of these verticals but the key point I try to make is that strength in local search across People and Places is not "friend" related, but rather "expertise" dependent and it takes years to build that. Republished from my blog - Mario Sundar 