Which is the best network monitoring tool: Nagios or Zabbix?
Depends on what you need to monitor and how, Both are self-hosted, work within your internal network or though internet, and have big communities behind. Nagios is the oldest of the 2, mature in its own style. You have to deal with text configuration files (is both a pro and a con), is great for binary/ternary state monitoring (ok/warning/problem), have a massive amount of plugins and utilities built around, but is not very scalable, not good following trends/graphing (using pnp4nagios that is nice, but can't be compared with what Zabbix provides). If you need just to know if relatively few services are up, down or some metric is at dangerous levels, it goes right to the core of the problem. Zabbix had its own evolution, i didn't used the 2.x versions, but its ability to group graphs following the evolution of different metrics, and the possibility to monitor web scenarios were killer features for me when i used it. Coupled with that wasn't hard to add to it monitoring business logic metrics, and being able to give access to that screens to management/sales/etc was a great experience. Also some companies i.e. Percona provides also a lot of templates for monitoring MySQL and databases, if you need to do monitoring for more than just on/off services it could be better. The world don't ends there. There are plenty of third party services that do monitoring for you, both for on/off alerts or for more comprehensive stats and trends. Recently saw the kind of trending information gives VividCortex and Sysdig Cloud, and that is not something that you can achieve with none of those tools, but again, you need fine/very detailed trend information and for specific scenarios to make them worthy enough. And there are other open source, self hosted solutions apart of those two. I have heard a lot of great comments about Sensu and Grafana, and there are plenty more. And before installing them in your production server to see if you like them, for most/all of them there are ready made boxes for Vagrant, containers for Docker and available images for hosting companies with them already installed and ready to configure and test if you like and fit in your work scenario. 