What should all first time entrepreneurs know before starting their very first business?
I'm 17, and I own a web development business. I taught myself to code when I was 8, purely because I thought it was fun (I had no idea computer science was an actual field, obviously). I started the business intending to make enough money to pay for every-day necessities. I had no idea that it would turn into such a big deal. Here's my advice: Get used to failing. Unless your business idea is something that will change the world drastically, chances are someone out there has already tried to implement the idea and they failed as well (if I got over it, you can too). See Angela Lee Duckworth's Ted Talk The key to success? Grit (I think this was aimed at education but it applies to this as well). This is going to sound really cliche, but make sure you learn from your mistakes. Whether I'm on an entrepreneurial venture or just getting coffee with a friend, I carry a little notebook in my bag. Whenever I make a mistake (say something I regret, make a bad business move, etc.), I write it down. It's my way of telling myself never to do it again. It really helps with leadership skills and figuring out where I went wrong. Attend events such as your local entrepreneurship week (I don't know where you're from, but all major cities participate). I've gotten the best contacts by attending these events and networking in person. Just like you give elevator pitches as an entrepreneur, meeting employers in person at social events is your moment to pitch yourself.What can you tell them about yourself in 15 seconds that will make them give you their card? Learn how to elevator pitch. I was 14 when I gave my first elevator pitch. It was at New Orleans Entrepreneurship Week in front of Drew Brees and 4,000 other intimidating adults. But I won the entire contest, including $10,000 in seed money to start my first business (not the web design business, something else). My point: Elevator pitches are really important. Learning to communicate effectively will get you really far. Feed off of constructive criticism. This one took me a while. I used to be really insecure about acknowledging that my work could have been a little better. I'm so used to constructive criticism now, that questions like "PLEASE try to pick my work apart as much as possible. What could be better?" come out of my mouth naturally. Because I genuinely want to improve everywhere I can. Don't be a fraud. Just don't. Be honest with the people you're working with, acknowledge your mistakes, and be nice. But not too nice. You still need people to take you seriously (maybe that's just me. I'm 17. I can't afford to be a goofball ALL the time. Only sometimes ;) ). You can't trust everyone. Learn how to catch lies. Seriously! Train yourself to detect insincerity! It's a great asset, something you'll especially need once your business starts to grow. Powerpoints and visual models are your best friend. If you're doing an executive summary or pitching to an investor, they don't want to see you stand there rambling technical jargon that will make them fall asleep before the meeting ends. They like figures. They like pretty charts that show them how much money they're going to make from investing in you. Have fun! Starting a web design business is one of the most rewarding things I've ever done (it's how I got recruited by Microsoft!). I get to combine my love for socializing/networking with my love for coding. Try to do something that gives you the best of both worlds. Updated 11 Nov • View Upvotes