What are the 17 greatest mathematical 'break throughs' ever?
I would define as breakthrough an approach to a problem, a result or a counterexample that has changed the way mathematicians think about problems, to the point of opening new fields. Most of these breakthrough are now taken for granted, further evidence of their importance. I won't stand by the number 17, although it's a nice prime, and by the greatest (according to what ordering). Instead in chronological order, and up to the 19th century: The positional notation (India, 5-6th c. BC). Impact: essential to numerical analysis; The discovery of irrational numbers (Pythagoras, 5th c. BC). Impact: a 2,000-year quest to put such numbers on a solid foundation; "The Elements" (Euclid, 4th c.BC). Provided the first deductive treatment of an area of Mathematics, serving as a model for future generations. Also, the derivability 5th postulate stimulated intense research in the 17th and 18th century, eventually spurring the birth of non-euclidean geometry; The concept of perspective (Brunelleschi, Piero Della Francesca, 15th c.). This of course changed the way people (not only mathematicians) see and represent things (including maps); and in turn gave birth to a very active area of research (projective geometry); The method of coordinates (Fermat, really, even if Decartes is often credited) in geometry. This is so important, no one gives it much thought; The discovery of modern probability (Fermat and Pascal correspondence, 17th c.) Pascal and Fermat thought (implicitly) of probabilities as of an algebra. The axiomatization of probability will have to wait until Kolmogorov; The invention of infinitesimal calculus (Leibnitz and Newton, 17th c.). Even if built on shaky grounds, it provided a suitable language for Physics and Engineering; The discovery on non-euclidean geometry by Riemann and Lobachevsky (18th c.), which extended the concept of geometry and was essential to the development of General Relativity and Differential Geometry; The unsolvability of quintic equations by means of radicals (Galois, 19th c.). Solving this long-standing problem opened the way to group theory and to... the Erlangen Program (Klein, 19th c.) which established the equivalence of different geometries under different groups of transformations; Functions as element of a space (Banach, 19th c.) and the development of Functional Analysis. I'll put Harmonic Analysis under this item, even though Fourier predates and inspires Functional Analysis; Naive Set theory (Cantor, 19th c.). This is important on many accounts: a common language (sets), a new concept of infinity (aleph-one) and a new proof (diagonal argument), used many times afterwards by Helly, Goedel, etc. I am stopping here because it's too early to determine what are the breakthroughs of the past century. In retrospect, most breakthroughs of years past are new approaches, not theorems establishing long-lived conjectures. We know that Wiles' proof of Fermat's last theorem, or Perelman's proof of Poincare's conjecture are incredible pieces of mathematical bravura. But are they truly seminal, in that they will generate more interesting mathematics? Maybe less so that fractals, who were popularized (not invented) by a second-rate mathematician (at least, when compared to problem-solvers and theory-builders) like Mandelbrot. What about the Langlands' program? And who knows enough of the astonishing mathematical output of the past 100 years to attempt a synthesis? We need another few years to see this through... 