Which technical innovations have the potential to transform the education sector in the next 5 to 10 years?
A lot could be said here but I'll kick this off with a few possibilities: Adaptive Learning Engines - It's quite possible that within 10 years the idea of using textbooks will be completely antiquated.  The notion that you should proceed in a linear fashion through a paper textbook already must seem depressingly old-fashioned to many of our youth.  The learning engine of the 21st century will be adaptive and it will also be social.  I do think that done well this will have a transformative effect on education and be highly disruptive to the multi-billion dollar educational publishing industry. Video - The technology, for the most part, already exists but you'll see different and much better uses of video in education in coming years.  Khan Academy, The Teaching Company, Lynda.com, etc. are examples of "scaling" great instruction using video and I think we're only in the 1st inning here.  The fact that we still have teachers regurgitating information repeatedly makes little sense.  And the notion of using class time to passively consume lecture content also is highly inefficient (as Khan says "Watch lectures as homework and do your homework when you're in class.")  Mobile - Right now an extremely small percentage of all learning is done on the mobile devices.  I expect this to change in a big way.  Mobile is perfect for bite-sized learning and will allow people with busy schedules (e.g., adult learners) to fit learning into various cracks throughout their day.  Mobile also is how the many of people in the developing world will utilize technology to learn given how much more ubiquitous mobile is there.  Social Graph Integration - Online learning right now is, for the most part, not very social.  Yet learning is inherently a very social activity.  The next generation of learning products and services will have social baked in from the ground up.  Online universities will integrate social graph through things like Facebook Connect and utilize pre-existing relationships to offer more engaging learning experiences.  