Is Facebook Graph Search a danger to Google, LinkedIn, Yelp or Foursquare?See: Facebook new search - discovery engine a threat to Google, Foursquare, Linkedin Basically I agree totally with it but what are your opinions on the matter, would Facebook become a LinkedIn and foursquare killer would it increase Bing reach as stated in the videos ?
The following quote stands out for me: "When we search for answers, we’re primed for persuasion by ads" as per: Investors Are Salivating Over Zuckerberg’s Plans For Search. Here’s Why | TechCrunch (from back in Sept 2012). And, there's already talk about Graph Search Optimization as per this post: 5 Tips for Facebook Graph Search Optimization - SHIFT Communications PR Agency | Boston | New York | San Francisco. There is absolutely business value in Graph Search and we can't forget that this is just its earliest iteration. Facebook has/is a huge database that Google doesn't have (both with Profiles Pages and with Business Pages) and this differentiates FB from Google. But, for now this seems to be less of an either/or Search choice between FB and Google, and more of a both/and world. Yet, with what Facebook has built surrounding privacy controls, Facebook appears to be much better positioned to include Google/Bing in its search results than vice versa. For now though, this doesn't look like it needs to be a zero sum game between Facebook and Google, though between Google and Bing it probably still is, meaning a gain for one is likely to be loss to the other. Regarding "people authentication", Facebook again, with its stricter controls, has an advantage of Yelp and FourSquare and could more easily absorb either or both of them in the future than vice versa.  While this seems less likely for LinkedIn, I don't know how many different timelines we really will need in the future. One thing Graph Search may indirectly affect me to reconsider though is to expand my extended Facebook network, e.g., have more Friends of Friends, have more Subscribes than Direct Friends, etc..  With that, these connection relationships on Facebook would be getting much more similar to LinkedIn's 2nd and 3rd level connection linkages. So Graph Search could lead to behavior changes that make Facebook and LinkedIn (and the other social sites) more similar than different in the future, if set up properly. In general, I feel it would be a mistake for anyone not to take Facebook's Graph Search seriously, even at this early stage in the game. 