What is the best task/project management software for a small digital agency?Needs time tracking. Would also be nice if it has resource management capabilities... oh, and doesn't cost a ton. Basecamp isn't cutting it anymore and some of the more robust solutions at bigger agencies are too expensive. There has to be something in between, right?!
When it comes to resource scheduling (a vital element of project management for any digital agency), not all of the solutions used by the bigger agencies are expensive! Saatchi & Saatchi, Grey, Ogilvy and Publicis are just a few of the many well known larger agencies who are using Resource Guru to handle resource scheduling, and with plans starting from just $19 p/m it's well within the budget of smaller agencies as well. Drag and Drop Bookings With Resource Guru digital agencies of all sizes can be confident that they have the resources available to complete projects on time. A shared bookings calendar gives great high-level visibility of everyones availability, projects, clients, and meetings The calendar offers a user-friendly drag and drop interface that makes it easy to create, edit, and move bookings. Our customer feedback shows us that this allows for much faster scheduling, and reduces the amount of time it takes for team-members to feel comfortable using the app to almost zero. Dashboard You can invite members of your team into Resource Guru and they will have access to a personal dashboard. The dashboard shows their upcoming bookings, and as it's always up-to-date it's a great time saver as you no longer need to email updated copies of schedules to your team every time you make a change. Reports Resource Guru's reports give digital agencies a simple, fast way to find quick answers to important questions like "What projects are consuming the most time?",  and "are any of our resources under utilised?". Planning your agencies utilzation and future capacity couldn't be easier! If you're interested in seeing a full list of features or starting a free 30 day trial then check out: http://resourceguruapp.com 