Is Facebook Graph Search a danger to Google, LinkedIn, Yelp or Foursquare?See: Facebook new search - discovery engine a threat to Google, Foursquare, Linkedin Basically I agree totally with it but what are your opinions on the matter, would Facebook become a LinkedIn and foursquare killer would it increase Bing reach as stated in the videos ?
In January Lars Rasmussen explains Facebook rolled out a novel breed of search powered by natural-language queries and social data at a scale not available to, or indexable by, any competitor. The History Behind Facebook’s Graph Search | TechCrunch | interest graph marketing Could Facebook lead the charge to bring us the next web?  The personalized web.The interest graph is an online representation of individuals’ interests. Combined with your context, it allows Facebook to float relevant content in front of a user’s attention. Isn’t  this the new ground between search, advertising and the social graph?   “The next Web is not a separate Web, but an extension of the current one, in which information is given well-defined meaning and context” • Personalized Web my view of the web shaped for me focused on the individual • Contextual Discovery information organisation •“me-onomy” the context is me! • Autonomous Search machine surfing Web personalization puts the user in the centre. It converges the broadcast centric social graph with the interest graph and both explicit and implicit behavior to give the user highly personalized discovery, curation, transaction, communication and socializing functions with both information and people of common and similar interests. What are the properties of a personalized Web; • Mobile • Influence • Connecting business to clients dynamically • Personalization • Bridging online and offline interactions • Social Discovery • Connecting people through the Interest Graph   As Eric Schmidt quoted “The power of individual targeting — the technology will be so good it will be very hard for people to watch or consume something that has not in some sense been tailored for them."   The  personalized web is not without its challenges. Can Facebook do it?. 1. Web-scale interest ranking engines 2. Artificial intelligence 3. Machine learning 4. Content categorization 5. Linking it all together   The Facebook graph provides a new way to discover content & people with similar tastes to yours. It is the new way to get from both within, and beyond, your social graph, the content that will interest you personally. It can  form a network of people who share interests with you, but who you don’t necessarily know a connection within the social graph. It enables the notion of autonomous search – to tell me things I didn’t know but am probably interested in. – it's the next great stage of search”. The  graph brings promise to deliver marketers messages to those that are, or should be interested. It will no longer be a one-way push by brands but by connected customers voting in the invitation for brands to connect with them. Is this Facebook answer to supersede  Google Pagerank? Lars Rasmussen explained to Reddit that Facebook graph technique extracts concepts through natural language processing and machine learning. This is basically Social & Web Big Data mining’.  Are Facebook indexing all the content on Facebook? And why not also the web? Indexed around "meaning" concepts  relevant to each users context  and therefore creating a personalized index of all the web and giving us the next web! It would take enormous amounts of processing and storage power but overtime would perhaps place Facebook in the strongest position for discovery of search of tacit knowledge as well as explicit search which today Google does so well. It would  be a powerful draw for native advertising into the Facebook eco system. The question is can Facebook get there quicker than a Google response and shift the balance of  the  advertising eco system to Facebook? Certainly they have the social graph with far more tacit knowledge available  through our personal interaction, and the ability to learn our context though the Facebook U.I. Would this turn the web inside out accessible through a silo  of oligarchs ? And what of others such as Apple, Amazon, LinkedIn and Twitter and their position in a new personalized web?   The graph signals don’t stop at social and interests . Imagine all the tacit knowledge and information flowing through the graph that could tell us so much about our world and predict our styles, wants and behavior. When  the web becomes personal, it’s a web that understands you and continually adapts to you.   The future of social media   ozmota inc personalized web - final pu... @matthew_kapp 