What are some of the most interesting conclusions that can be obtained from the Rank-Nullity theorem?
You can use it to draw conclusions about the connectivity of directed graphs given their incidence matrices. For instance, the definition of incidence  matrix used here will represent the graph by equating the row number with the node number and creating an column for each edge. If an edge is directed towards a node, it will have a 1 in the corresponding row number. Similarly, if it is directed away from a node, it will have a -1. Otherwise, it will have 0. The incidence matrix for this graph is ⎡ ⎣ ⎢ ⎢ ⎢ 10−10 0−101 ⎤ ⎦ ⎥ ⎥ ⎥   . Column 1 has 1 in row 1 and -1 in row 3, meaning there's an edge directed from node 3 to node 1. Etc. A graph is connected if any two nodes are linked by a sequence of edges - i.e., you can travel from one node to any other by following a path along the edges. Not even though I am using a directed graph here, this definition of connectivity has nothing to do with direction. For instance, this graph is not connected, since there is no path from node 1 to node 2 along the edges. Since the columns of the incidence matrices represent edges, they each have one and only one entry which is 1, one and only entry which is -1, and zero for all the rest. That means for any incidence matrix, multiplication by a vector of all ones will equal the zero vector. For example, [1 1 1 1 ]⎡ ⎣ ⎢ ⎢ ⎢ 10−10 0−101 ⎤ ⎦ ⎥ ⎥ ⎥ =[0 0 ]  . Since this is true for any incidence matrix A  , it must be true that rank(A)≤n−1  where n  is the number of nodes. What's interesting is that you can use some additional arguments (also involving the rank-nullity theorem) to show that rank(A)=n−1  if and only if the corresponding graph is connected. This applies even to undirected graphs, simply by assigning an arbitrary direction to them. So by representing graphs this way and computing the rank, you can determine if the graph is connected. For instance, the rank of the graph above is 2, which is less than the number of nodes minus 1 (i.e., less than 4 nodes minus 1 = 3) so it is unconnected. Another example has the incidence matrix   ⎡ ⎣ ⎢ ⎢ ⎢ −1100 0−101 001−1 10−10 ⎤ ⎦ ⎥ ⎥ ⎥   This has rank 3 which meets the criterion for connectivity. In these examples, it's easy to tell the connectivity by looking at the graph, but for a graph with a large number of nodes, having a computational criterion such as this is useful. I doubt this is the most interesting thing that the theorem could be used for, but I think it's pretty neat. 