What is the process for a normal student to start from very basic coding to high level coding so I that I can solve problems from CodeChef TopCoder etc?
If there's one tip I can give you after four years of experience (and failures!) is that you must practice, pratice and practice even more! Focus  on being a great programmer rather than  just on codechef. This will  help you not only achieve success in  codechef, but alsoo open a wide  variety of options to choose your field  in the future since with time  your preferences might change. Luckily  enough though, learning  is become easier day by day through  MOOCs (Massive Open Online  Courses). You can learn a hell lot more than  an average programmer if  you pursue online courses besides your college  syllabus. I found two really awesome websites for this purpose edX Coursera I personally did a course named CS50 from Harvardx via edX. Not only did i learn a lot about programming, from the basics, i also learnt how much there is more to programming than just writing code that does XYZ task. Trust me, its easy at first, and picks up speed so fast, you'll be amazed you could learn so much, so fast. Plus an advantage considering I'm in India, the course really adds weight to my resume, which is often valued by a lot of Indian companies in placements. A  lot of courses on such sites are free too. With certifications from top universities  of the world. And if you pursue an online course you'll always have a  challenge to complete. Leading universities have found that mind is like a muscle, so the more the exercise it, the stronger/smarter it becomes. And it's also a common phenomena that you tend to retain more  information if you learn through audio-visual content - hence the stress  on awesomeness of MOOCs. And other than these, google and github  are your best friends when it comes to learning online. Other than  that, here's a few things that could come in handy if you wanna learn  anything and everything! If you think I didn't exactly answer a lot of your questions, that's because there's no good absolute answer to such a question. Just keep calm, keep learning and keep exploring and I'm sure you'll discover what's best for you since blindly following a single book or a language can only get you so far. Hope this is helpful :) 