How do the astrological Houses work?
The Sun is the most important of the planetary energies since it represents the essential self. The houses give the area in which the energies of the Sun, and the other planets, express themselves. (It is towards the 'light of the Sun' that we head in Carl Jung's process of 'self integration'.) If you had your Sun in the 11th house then you would prefer to express yourself and your 'hopes and wishes' for a better future through the medium of group gatherings such as clubs, teams, study groups, committees, politics, etc. The style of your expression within the group would depend on your Sun sign: an Aries Sun would do it with forthright assertiveness, Taurus slowly with a friendly manner while always sticking to the point, Gemini with intelligent dialogue that brushed over many fields, Cancer in a way that put the familial context first, etc. Now if your Sun sign was Aquarius your understanding and expression would carry insights into life that recognise more than the mundane matters of economic growth and daily living! You will be very independent in your ideas, and it would be difficult for anyone to dissuade you of something unless you had come to that conclusion yourself. You need to have others to receive your ideas so you will have an association with groups of people. You will also have a penchant for the unusual in friends, surroundings, dress and manner - although you could always explain these leanings without thinking that you were anything different. The area in which you express your Aquarian attributes would be determined by the house placement of your Sun. In the 1st you would shoot from the hip such that your independence would be doubled and your views would explode into life with the energy of a new discovery - this placement can create anxiety if the target isn't hit, or the  audience unreceptive - you could be regarded as a loose cannon. In the 2nd house an Aquarian Sun would tend towards material,  earthy or sensual matters of ownership and acquisition in which you might 'invent a new plough and create an interest its societal uses for your plough, whilst making heaps of money in the process'. In the 3rd house you could be a great speaker, teacher, or lecturer on topics of advanced thought such as scientific discovery or writing skills or oratory styles, etc. In the 4th house you would find your Sun being expressed by the way you live and relate to family and extended family; perhaps living in an unusual dwelling and bringing your kids up in a Montessori school. (I've limited my examples to the first four signs since these cover the four elements of fire/earth/air/ and water which then repeat themselves with peculiar differences over the remaining signs.) Now if you had your Aquarian Sun in the 11th house you would definitely have an interest - almost an obsession - with group consensus and you would use the group to express your own wacky ideas such that you could become a leader of sorts - a politician, a sage, a prophet, a revolutionary. Regardless of the level of your group involvement, you would use your clever and ingenious intellect to push group thought towards a higher understanding.   Louis XV of France, John D. Rockefeller, Cristiano Ronaldo, Samuel Richard Parchment, Octave Mirbeau, Sheryl Crow, Darren Lehmann   One of the world's 'problems' is that we have too many 'normal people' who have become convinced by the sellers of stuff that owning a lot of stuff is the normal pathway to a happy life. If Aquarius is your Sun's ruler or Ascendant ruler or is emphasised in your birth chart then you will probably have an interest in astrology since this is a knowledgeable and different way of looking at things. As your interest in astrology grows you may then come to the conclusion that I arrived at - astrology must be 'A language of God'.    Astrology a Language of God Jung said that we must 'strive to be who we are', and in this context astrology is an invaluable guide. Ultimately the process of self-integration is then a process of enlightenment that eventually leads to a lasting happiness. The Illusion of Reality 