What are the applications of hash tables?
Hash tables allow you to store a bunch of objects in such a way that you can later find them again very quickly. As such, you can use them to implement the notion of a set, where testing for set membership and adding new elements to the set is exceptionally fast (set unions and intersections are not particularly fast though). Sets are useful for all kinds of things, such as eliminating duplicates. For example you can figure out what words are used in a text file very effectively using a hash set. By associating a pointer or reference to another object with each key that is being stored in the hash table, you can also use them to make associative arrays or maps. For example, I can map words to their frequency. I process a text file and look up every word in the map. If the word wasn't there, I add it with frequency 1. If it did exist, I increment its frequency. Now we've built a histogram of words. Many uses of the hashtable can also be achieved using binary search trees, but hashtables are often faster and they do not require objects to be in an ordering relation. Some random applications that make me think of hash tables: Game of Life. The hash is a set of the coordinates of every live cell. A primitive kind of Google could map all existing words to a set of URLs where those words occur. This would involve hashtables twice: once to map the words to the URL sets, and then another one to store each such set of URLs. When implementing multiway trees, hashtables are sometimes used to allow quick access to any child of an internal node. When writing a chess program, it is sensible to keep track of what positions have been evaluated earlier, so you can backtrack whenever you run into the same position again. This is done using a hashtable. Namespaces! Any programming language needs to be able to map a variable name to its address in memory. In fact, in many scripting languages such as Javascript and perl, fields can be added to objects dynamically. This means that objects can themselves be used as hash maps. ... this list can go on indefinitely... 2.1k Views · 7 Upvotes