★What is the best 3rd party FAQ/ Knowledge Base platform out there?
I'm a little biased, as I'm the founder of Helpjuice and all we do is FAQs/knowledge bases. Sorta like DISQUS for comments, only we focus on knowledge bases. However, if you do know exactly what you need and what you don’t need, I’d recommend taking a look at the feature list I have below for you. Is Helpjuice a fit for my company? Here’s a couple reasons why people have chosen HelpJuice: Provide a powerful knowledge base for your company, to deliver instantanswers to customers. Deliver your knowledge base to customers in dozens of different languages. For example, one of our customers, Indeed, is able to deliver support to hundreds of thousands of their users that are globally distributed in multiple languages (English US, English UK, Italian, Spanish, Mandarin, French, Arabic, any many more). Analytics that will tell you what people are searching for, what people are finding HelpJuice, what articles you need to write, and much more. Dead-simple user interface. Many companies say they have a dead simple Interface. But, we really, really, really push it to the limit to make it as EASY as possible to manage your knowledge base. Here’s a screenshot of how DEAD-SIMPLE our user interface really is: One line of code to get up-and-running. Helpjuice integrates right into your website, just like Disqus or facebook comments. You paste in one line of code, and it loads right in there. For example see: http://helpjuice.com/help and http://upstart.com/helpcenter/ Reasons why you SHOULDN’T chose HelpJuice: We don’t do ticketing. We’re so focused on providing the best knowledge base platform that we don’t want to enter ticketing just yet. We’re not an all-in-one-solution, and don’t believe in that model. We subscribe to the model of Do one thing really, really well. We’re not a Forum, or community-powered support solution. We also don’t have any plans to enter the “community-powered support” market. We’re just a knowledge base. A knowledge base that works extremely and has helped deliver instant answers to OVER 1,500,000 people.    Embed Quote