★Which is the best and most flexible knowledge base vendor/software?Are there any vendors who give access to source code or have comprehensive APIs for external development of functionality? The front-end presentation of content is important for me and I will need to build several custom templates. I will need to be able to hook the kb directly into an online erp solution. Any kb solutions that accomododate for these needs?
Disclaimer: I work on ScreenSteps Live. The "best and most flexible" could mean a lot of things so I am going to address the issues you bring up in the details below the question. As far as developing external functionality that really depends on what you need. Do you need to use an API to create content in the knowledge base, or Do you need to use an API to pull content out of the knowledge base Tools like MindTouch and Confluence will let you do both things. The knowledge base solution my company crates (http://screenstepslive.com) has an extensive API for pulling content out, but not one for creating content. We provide our customers with our own desktop editor for doing that. Custom Templates Not sure what you mean here. Are you talking about templates to wrap around the kb content? If so, most of the APIs, including ours, will let you pull out the raw content as HTML and format it however you like. On ScreenSteps Live you can also write custom wrappers to display your content inside of the knowledge base, but that doesn't require the API so I am not sure if that is what you mean. Hooking the KB into your ERP I am assuming that you mean to add contextual help? I know that both ScreenSteps Live and MindTouch can do that. WIth ScreenSteps Live we allow you to add contextual help by tagging articles with a page or feature area in your ERP. You can then pull in articles for that page from ScreenSteps Live. You can see an example of how we do with with Salesforce here: http://bluemangolearning.com/sal... You can see our full API docs here: http://help.bluemangolearning.co...    Embed Quote