★Are there credible alternatives to Zendesk or Desk.com for a public/private knowledge base?Both products look and amazing and robust, but are overkill. I'm looking for just the knowledge-base searchable FAQ (where you can mark certain items as public and others just for a select group of users) and 'wiki' capabilities.
I suggest to try out Casengo (of course). Why Casengo you might ask? - Free knowledgebase - Straightforward and user-friendly - Easy to set up - Designed for startups and SMEs - 'Free' plan included Casengo is an all-in-one customer service application that allows you to handle emails and live chats (and soon Whatsapp messages) all within a single application. It doesn't require any knowledge of CRM (like Salesforce does), and integrates with WordPress, Magento and Drupal (The Twitter integration is coming soon) Do check out our other features: - Hybrid Chat. In the Casengo application, any static email message can easily be turned into a dynamic live chat conversation (and vice versa). Both the company and the (potential) customer can make this magic happen. Hybrid chat allows you to flexibly manage your online customer service whenever you like. - Customization. Casengo is one of the few applications that allows you to change each text that your online visitors see, like the live chat button and the chat form. - Knowledge base. Self-service is increasingly important, which is why we provide each Casengo user with a comprehensive knowledge base. Enter the frequently asked questions - and answers - and connect the knowledge base to your website. And of course you can consult your knowledge base from within the application. - Macros (canned responses). You can create your own canned responses within the Casengo application. Use them to boost your productivity and reduce response times. - Team Collaboration. Customer cases can easily be shared between colleagues (and even people outside your company!) to come up with the best answer possible. For more information about our software, check out: Casengo Customer support Software for Email, Live Chat and Twitter    Embed Quote