★How does Quora answer rating system affect the accuracy and/or usefulness of its knowledge base?A follow up to: How is Quora my best source of knowledge if intelligence is almost officially not considered important by writers and upvoters?
If Quora is going to attempt to build a useful knowledge base (and if we define "useful" as factual) given its current system, It will happen slowly and organically. At the "local" level, in individual threads, there will be inaccuracies. But since threads never close, accuracy can build over time. That's not guaranteed. Inaccuracy and prejudice can build over time, too. But anyone with access to the facts can post. He can post today or in a year, when he may wind up drowning an answer that's been at the top for months. Or he may be drowned out by less-accurate posters who are better writers or more popular members, but, still, over time, there's at least a good chance that someone who is a good writer and an expert will write answers which float to the top. I'm a Top Writer, and I'm fairly good with words, so if I posted a bullshit answer about the Middle Ages, it might get a bunch of upvotes. But, hopefully, someone else would come along and say, "I'm a historian, and Marcus is wrong. Here's the evidence, and here are some sources you can check out..." And, hopefully, his writing will be just as good as (or better than) mine, so his answer will "win." Naturally, this isn't guaranteed to happen, but welcome to the club called publishing. Outside of some specialized environments, usually found in academia (which has its own sets of problems), almost all knowledge sharing is judged by "votes." They may not be votes via an upvote/downvote button, but they're still votes—often financial ones. For instance, there's nothing to stop me from publishing a book claiming that UFOs are circling the Earth, regularly abducting people. You can write a factual book, debunking my nonsense, but if I'm a better (e.g. more entertaining) writer than you, my book will get more upvotes (e.g. sell better) and more people will believe it. This is the norm. It's simply more obvious on Quora, because here we can see the mechanism clearly. In the publishing world, we regularly see brilliant snake-oil salesmen like Malcolm Gladwell winning the upvote war. Luckily, history goes on, so there's time for someone just as talented at entertaining—but more factual—to come along. But the "upvote" problem will always be with us. If you want to get rid of it, you basically have to create wikipedia or some system that only allows accredited experts to write—or one that has a team of editors who review every post. I'm extremely glad we do have publications and sites like that (which are themselves far from perfect, but they at least have methods in place to control the spread of misinformation), but I'm also glad there are alternatives. I don't want every website to be an academic journal. If you're goal is to find an accurate source about String Theory, where you're hearing from peer-reviewed experts, then you're foolish to turn to Quora. But that's okay, because there are other sites you can turn to. On the other hand, if you are interested in a platform where all points-of-view, right or wrong, can duke it out for supremacy (or often simply coexist), Quora works well. Meanwhile, no one is forcing you to be a passive reader. You don't have to just read the most upvoted posts. If I'm deeply interested in a subject, I'll usually scroll through its entire thread, reading at least parts of all the answers. That tends to acquaint me with multiple claims and points-of-view. Sometimes I get a  sense of which one is right (or most plausible) from the evidence it author has presented. Other times, Quora is just the beginning of my journey. I continue on to specialized sites and/or books. Many times, I don't care all that much. I'm just casually interested, and I'm looking for a cross between info and entertainment. In which case, even if I wind up misinformed, it's not the end of the world. When people complain about the voting system, they usually claim to be concerned about education, but I'm skeptical. Again, the web (and the publishing world) is full of sites. Some are more factual than others. That's simply the state of the world, and we all know it. If you're upset about bad information rising to the top, you might want to stay offline in general. More often, the complaints come from people who are pissed off because they're not more popular, here. Sometimes, they have good reason to be upset. An expert on medicine might write a factual answer and see it wind up below a bunch of quackery. That would piss me off, too. But we all know what we're getting into. It's not enough to just be factual. You need to write well, too. You need to entertain. I'm sorry if you hate that. So do many news organizations, but they accept it as a reality, because it is. Right isn't enough; you must also write. It's really too bad that modern schools don't teach rhetoric. If you care deeply about spreading knowledge and winning over bullshit, learn how to write in a way that engages people. No you shouldn't have to do that, but you do. So get over it, and learn. I'm curious as to what people would suggest for Quora besides a voting system? Please suggest something that will (a) work to make truth rise to the top, (b) not simply turn Quora into wikipedia (because wikipedia already exists), and (c) is scalable. That last point is vital. Yes, it would be awesome for Quora to hire a leading expert for each topic and have him or her vet all posts, but that's simply not financially viable. Quora is an experiment in crowd-sourcing, and it's going to live or die by that. So what's your scalable solution that will work in that context? I'm not being a smart-alec. If you have such a solution—and maybe you do—you should definitely share it. Or start your own site, because if you can crowd-source accuracy (without just recreating wikipedia), you've solve a major problem, and I want stock in your company! Meanwhile, as a reader, I suggest going to an expert source for an expert information and realizing that Quora has other things to offer. It's not where I go to learn how to best invest my savings or to learn astrophysics (though I may start at Quora for both this things), but I may learn what it's like to be in prison from someone who has actually been there. And I may learn about a totally different prison experience form someone else who has also been there. I may learn what life is like In India or Australia. I may learn what it's like to be homeless or to fly a plane. And I can watch how votes work, see which answers tend to float to the top, and practice writing until I'm able to write truthful answers that are also popular.    Embed Quote