★What Helpdesk software has a knowledge base, ticket system, and supports multiple languages?Mandarin, Spanish, German, English, French, etc. This is a follow-up question to What ecommerce software/ platform would you recommend for a small startup?.
I’m the founder of HelpJuice. We’re doing the best we can to provide our customers with a simple, yet powerful knowledge base. That being said, there are a ton of solutions out there. So, a company like HelpJuice might not be the right fit. Maybe it’s one of the other's mentioned (Happyfox, Issuetrax, Zendesk, Freshdesk, etc.). However, if you do know exactly what you need and what you don’t need, I’d recommend taking a look at the feature list I have below for you. Is Helpjuice a fit for my company? Here’s a couple reasons why people have chosen HelpJuice: Provide a powerful knowledge base for your company, to deliver instant answers to customers. Deliver your knowledge base to customers in dozens of different languages. For example, one of our customers, Indeed, is able to deliver support to hundreds of thousands of their users that are globally distributed in multiple languages (English US, English UK, Italian, Spanish, Mandarin, French, Arabic, any many more). Analytics that will tell you what people are searching for, what people are finding HelpJuice, what articles you need to write, and much more. Dead-simple user interface. Many companies say they have a dead simple Interface. But, we really, really, really push it to the limit to make it as EASY as possible to manage your knowledge base. Here’s a screenshot of how DEAD-SIMPLE our user interface really is: Customization that no one offers. Okay, maybe that’s a little too vague. We’re able to allow you to have a knowledge base customized exactly how you’d like it, using our simple liquid templates feature. The same templating system used by Shopify (a partner of HelpJuice) uses. We’re also able to guarantee this; If you aren’t up-and-running with a knowledge base that’s designed EXACTLY like your company’s brand, within 24-hours, HelpJuice is free, forever. We really, really care about our customers. Reasons why you SHOULDN’T chose HelpJuice: We don’t do ticketing. We’re so focused on providing the best knowledge base platform that we don’t want to enter ticketing just yet. We’re not an all-in-one-solution, and don’t believe in that model. We subscribe to the model of Do one thing really, really well. We’re not a Forum, or community-powered support solution. We also don’t have any plans to enter the “community-powered support” market. We’re just a knowledge base. A knowledge base that works extremely and has helped deliver instant answers to OVER 1,000,000 people. If you want to learn more about support (we have a regularly-updated informational blog at http://www.helpjuice.com/blog/), or talk to me personally about how to improve and scale your customer support, my number is 904-419-3645.    Embed Quote