★In today's world, which is better, to be the jack of all trades (interdisciplinary and broader knowledge base) or to be the master of one (expertise/the best at one)? Why?
“A person who is a mile wide and an inch deep is not an educated person. But a person who is a mile deep and an inch wide is not an educated person either.”                          - Mike Edmiston Another way of saying it is “Jack of all trades and master of one or two”     bbbbbbbbbdbdbdbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbdbdbbbbbbb     bbbbbbbbbdbdbdbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbbdbdbbbbbbb              ddddd                    ddd              ddddd                    ddd              ddddd                    ddd              ddddd                    ddd              ddddd                    ddd              ddddd                    ddd              ddddd                    ddd              ddddd                    ddd where breadth is indicated by "b" and depth is indicated by "d". The table-top represents breadth, covering many topics, while the legs represent depth in a few selected topics. It is horribly common nowadays for people to get a pseudo-education that is broad without without being deep anywhere (“chopping the legs off the table”). This is a problem.   Having depth without breadth is a problem, too, but it is less common and usually less serious.   A Person who has breadth but not depth has rather little chance of spontaneously developing depth anywhere.   It is really, really important for a person to go through all the stages of a deep investigation at least a couple of times, so they can see what the stages are. This process develops many important skills. A person who has depth in one area, plus some natural inquisitiveness, can probably acquire depth in other areas over time. Of course not all people have the same amount of natural inquisitiveness, so it is necessary to cover a certain amount of breadth throughout one’s career to know the macroscopic implications. This is helpful for the less-inquisitive ones, and harmless for the rest. Go through the following link to know more. Breadth and Depth of Learning    Embed Quote