★How would you explain knowledge based programming to your mom?
Imagine there is an information booth you can visit for solutions to problems. Inside the information booth, is a team of experts who know exactly the right questions and information to gather from you in order to provide a solution.  Once they have all the information, they break it down into smaller problems if necessary and organize the problem into logical pieces and write everything down on a customer-query-form before getting started on the solution. Behind the scenes in the information booth, there is a set of stairs.  Information booth workers take the customer-query-form down the stairs to the basement where there are two huge offices. Office#1 is staffed with a team of logic experts who take all the known facts about the problem and try to assert new facts based on the given information to see if they can arrive at the goal.  They may also attempt to work backwards by starting with the goal and trying to see what facts they might need to prove to work their way back to a set of known facts we know we can prove. These expert problem solvers know exactly the questions to ask and the facts to obtain in order to arrive at the best solution to any problem.  Workers from this office consult with experts in their neighboring Office#2 in order to obtain additional facts or knowledge needed to solve a problem. Office#2 is an office full of knowledge experts who have access to every fact known to man. The walls are made of bookshelves containing encyclopedias, reference books and basically every book imaginable.There are calculators and computers available as well.  The experts are so skilled, they can retrieve infomation quickly if they don't already know the answers. Now I would tell my mom to forget about all the teams of experts described above and just understand that a person can use Knowledge-based programming to write a computer program based on customer information rather than a customer-query-form filled out at an information booth. The computer program can be written to access "Office#1" and "Office#2".  The only difference is that Office#1 and Office#2 are not teams of experts, rather they are also computer programs.    Embed Quote