★What is the best tool to centralize and aggregate all of the information pieces; articles, pdfs, knowledge-resources, that would create your personal knowledge-base for fast/efficient access later?
I , like you, have struggled and am struggling with the "ideal" solution. But in the interim, I use the following processes - tho at times it is not as robust and clear cut as I would like it ( but perhaps that could be a failing on my part for not following collection rules etc) 1. Am a big user of Google Reader & mark with a star those posts that I want to be able to access again - however, I am not very sure about the search process in the reader to trawl through starred items to find a particular subject/person/ topic / tag or whether I can have multiple tags to the same post 2. I also am ( was) a user of Delicious because it allowed me the flexibility of tagging & multi tagging articles /posts etc and keep them in subject clusters of different tags. 3. I also used Google Notebooks when it existed was a a huge fan - it allowed me to create base data collection around a subject that I wanted to read more about or I needed for a specific project- or parse just sections of a post /paper I was reading which would be useful for me later. It also allowed for multiple users so was great for collaboration Since its demise, I am currently using Evernote & I have to say although it offers a lot of functionality, I have still not warmed to it and I am not sure of the reason for this but I have an intuition it could be around the general 'look &feel' or clunkiness of the whole UI - though I do think it will ultimately replace my first love, the GNotebook. 4. What is missing from all of this ? I also store attachments which could be ppt's, pdf's or doc files and are resident on my local drive.  I need to explore  of tagging and cataloging these as well ( dropio could be one but I am looking for cost effective i.e free  options first ! ) 5. Finally all my music thats on the net is on playlists in You Tube and otherwise resident on my Itunes So - there are overlaps , gaps and inconsistencies here - which need to be addressed and/ or ironed out . Someday Maybe !    Embed Quote