★Will "knowledge-based programming" languages like Wolfram Alpha be superior to more traditional languages like Java?Or will it make everyone can program and professional programmers lose their jobs?
More likely "knowledge-based programming" will form a certain kind of niche. Wolfram Language will certainly help to expand that niche and the number of people analysing certain data-sets with certain methods. And that could make the world a much better place. It won't replace a lot of the programming that's needed for the underlying plumbing of the system. And probably won't replace the experimental programming that's needed to invent new kinds of applications either. The "English-like" nature of writing queries should probably be quietly ignored. Such "natural language" programming languages don't have a good history (see Phil Jones' answer to What are some of the most common misconceptions/myths about programming? for more details). And I expect the natural language abilities of WL to fail for the same reason : once you start wanting to phrase complex questions in the form of very specific transformations of data, English turns out to be extremely verbose and imprecise. That's why we invented mathematical notations in the first place : to be able express complex and abstract ideas in an precise and unambiguous way. Even when talking to each other. So WL will certainly have to have a less verbose / more "traditional" syntax, basically Mathematica. If you're worried that writing in Maths notation is somehow going to make *everyone* a programmer in a way which Python doesn't, then calm yourself. Your job is safe. Ultimately the success or failure of WL (or the "knowledge programming" paradigm) depends on how much knowledge the creators / maintainers of the language put into it. Is there enough? Is it up-to-date? Is it sufficiently queriable / navigable? Wolfram is trying to do the same thing that the Semantic Web people did - which, personally, I think is, at best, VERY HARD, and at worst, IMPOSSIBLE - namely predict the kinds of data-structures people wil need BEFORE those people actually decide what applications they want to write. But Wolfram is very smart. And he is rich enough to try. And maybe he'll discover a sweet-spot where he has enough valuable data in the right format to appeal to a sufficiently large customer-base to make this viable. It's a heavy commitment though (to keep those databases up-to-date). I'm half expecting Google to (at least try to) buy him out. In the long run a project like this needs the scale of data capture / management that Google have.    Embed Quote