★How does Quora answer rating system affect the accuracy and/or usefulness of its knowledge base?A follow up to: How is Quora my best source of knowledge if intelligence is almost officially not considered important by writers and upvoters?
It doesn't. The Quora answer ranking system primarily impacts the visibility of certain answers, or their popularity. Popularity of an answer is no more indicative of the value or accuracy of an answer's content than wealth is indicative of intelligence or beauty. I don't know the specific assumptions or factors that go into the Quora answer ranking algorithm. However, I would expect that it incorporates experience on the site, both in terms of quantity of answers and contributions and community reception (via accumulated upvotes; perhaps per topic, but maybe not); I'd also guess that anonymous answers are given lesser weight than answers of identifiable users. To some extent, topic experience is also incorporated. An expert can come on Quora and be the leading expert in their field; but the field could be either numerology or applied math; I don't think Quora's  answer-ranking system makes those value judgements. What it does do is reward those who have demonstrated a consistent record of delivering readable or provocative contributions the Quora community. It rewards effective communication of ideas to a general audience; it does not judge whether experience is true or facts, hypotheses and analysis are rigorous and comprehensive. And why should it? Even eye witness testimony is notoriously suspect in courts of law (unlike on TV); juries get instructions from judges before entering their deliberations to provide structure and focus the jury on the specific issues under the law that a court is authorized to address. On Quora, as in the real world, we have no limitations or boundaries placed on our perceptions and preferences, no requirements for credentials to demonstrate our knowledge, our creativity, or the expression of our opinions and experience (except for the BNBR community value). Like spaghetti, we throw our answers up on a virtual wall to see what sticks. The answer-ranking system shows you what answers are a little stickier than others; not whether they taste better.    Embed Quote