★Is HTML5 the future of mobile gaming?Will it eliminate fragmentation and allow developers to create one game for multiple platforms and operating systems?
It will surely play a big role in the future of mobile gaming, and could potentially be one of its major growth drivers. I do not, however, think that HTML5 will completely replace native apps, at least for the foreseeable future. There are two obstacles to a widespread adoption of HTML5 as a mass platform for gaming: one is the ecosystem, and the other is the technology itself Both issues are highlighted by the fact that, right now, only pretty simple HTML5 applications (which we can define as applications that provide content and features that you might find on a website) can run well on any browser and platform that supports the standard. However, a browser that supports additional HTML5 libraries and extensions is often required to run more complex applications, such as games, as well as hardware powerful enough to run the app itself. In practice, this means that right now most tech-intensive games can only run on a recent version of Chrome and on a sufficiently powerful PC This is related to the availability of mobile hardware powerful enough to run hardware-intensive HTML5 applications, and to the release of new versions of the most popular browsers that fully support the standard, and that's surely part of the equation. Even more important, however, is the presence of a fully functioning ecosystem that's as easy to use as native apps, which in my opinion is a key requisite to drive mass adoption of HTML5. In practice, this means that customers will have to be able to discover, play and purchase games in a way that’s comparable to what the App Store provides, and for this a few elements are necessary: a store easily accessible and pre-installed (even if just with an icon, as we’re talking of web-based technologies) on every handset, a 1-click billing solution that supports a wide range of payment methods and a game experience that’s fully adapted to the specific handset the customer is using. Based on today’s market, this means that Apple, Google, Facebook and (possibly) Microsoft will need to throw their full weight behind the standard.   All of those players have pledged support to HTML5. Facebook’s commitment to the standard is clear and easily understandable, as weaning users off native apps and being able to provide them with identity and m-commerce solution is a primary concern for the company, which is seeing mobile traffic rise at the point to surpass web traffic. Google is also committed to an open web, as it greatly benefits them in their core search business, but it’s also hedging its bet with the native Android app ecosystem. The real question is Apple, who has the strongest native app ecosystem and a vested interest in controlling the user experience and therefore keeping its platform closed to a certain extent. My personal view is that they will gradually embrace web-based apps while trying to control their adoption and ensuring that the native app ecosystem thrives. Whether they will be successful in maintaining their position while the overall market shifts is still to be seen, but it has to be said that they have a strong advantage, as their ecosystem is so strong and the user experience so universally appreciated that HTML5 will need to replicate it and become as pervasive and easy to use to drive the average user to embrace it.   Finally, while HTML5 will indeed lower the barrier to entry for cross-platform gaming, it should not be forgotten that adapting a game to a platform with a different input interface and screen size isn’t pain-free, as a new control method must be devised and implemented, and new art assets need to be created. The mirage of “build once, play on every device on Earth” is probably meant to remain just that, a mirage.   In short, my view is that native apps will be still the dominant ecosystem for games at least through the end of 2012, but that HTML5 will start gaining adoption pretty soon, and probably become a viable market around the same timeframe. After that, my hunch is that native apps and web-based technologies will coexist and offer different kind of experiences, but a case might be made for web-based gaining adoption and growing to a point where it becomes the primary platform.