★Is HTML5 better than Flash?
HTML5 is not better than Flash at everything, at least not yet. Flash has a very advanced and optimized 2D drawing api. HTML5 canvas is a good start, but the primitives a very low and it is cumbersome to use to build something fast and nice. SVG is kind of foreign to HTML and not fully supported in all mobile devices (e.g. Android 2.x). Video (on PC Web) is also a big issue in HTML5, since nobody really agree on the format. The good news about Video is that on the mobile/tablet side all browsers do support H.264 with HTML5, and on the PC Web you can safely fall back on Flash without even having to code Flash. That being said, Flash comes with a big risk, and that is the one of being single-vendor technology and not part of the Web movement. Consequently, Apple has decided to not include Flash in their mobile and tablet devices, which makes Flash penetration on Mobile/Tablets not very appealing. Adobe is trying to circumvent this Apple's limitation with their packager, which kind of solve the "local" application side, but not the Web/Online use-case. Even on Android, Flash is somewhat supported, and its penetration number is extremely low (probably single digit market share). On the other hand, HTML5 is very well supported in all Android and iOS platforms for Web applications/sites as well as local one (with PhoneGap for example). And given all the innovation in the HTML arena from Mozilla, Google, Apple, and even Microsoft, HTML has its brighter days ahead (and the ones behind were already very bright to start with). So, if your goal is to build fully cross-platform (PC, Web, Mobile, Tablet) and being able to distribute via Web (Mobile or PC) and also packaged application, HTML5 is the only way to accomplish that. Even Adobe is slowly but surely realizing that HTML5 is where the growth is, hence all their current initiatives around HTML5. In fact, most of the people I knew from Adobe that were hardcore Flash advocate/coders... are now doing a lot of HTML/HTML5, which is very telling.... so, who would want to be the customer that turn off the light?  So, Flash was a great technology and allowed us to have great service such as YouTube. It will definitely not die overnight, but given the market dynamic, the growth will be on the HTML5 front, no question about it. In short, Flash is a Betamax that had its days!