★Does Facebook regret its HTML5 mobile strategy?Seem like it's moving more toward native apps these days.
Zuckerberg has made it very clear that Facebook's future is in mobile. For that reason alone, HTML5 will be a big part of their future. Also, their very recent release of their Facebook app market is for the purpose of providing discovery (and Facebook monetization options) solely for HTML5 applications. So it's clear to me that Facebook does indeed have some sort of consistent HTML5 strategy. However, what Zuckerberg wants for Facebook on mobile and how Facebook is being received on mobile is an entirely different story. In my eyes, Facebook is failing repeatedly in the mobile space. As mobile traffic increases on their site and app, they struggle to make up for the ad revenue losses (sidebar ads don't exist on mobile). Further, their mobile site (HTML5) is terrible. Half of the time [on my 4s] the sidebar gets stuck open; there are numerous z-indexing issues; photos is a nightmare. There is really a lot of shitty JavaScript and CSS going on in their mobile front-end -- that's what it comes down to, really. It's bulky, unpleasant, and well it just sucks to use (to compare, look at Twitter's mobile site. Legit as balls). Additionally, Facebook's native apps aren't much better. While they're infinitely more functional than their HTML5 counterparts, they lack innovation and excitement. The Facebook Messenger app feels like a small feature of a bigger app (oh, 'cause it is). Also, it's just a rather pointless app. Their application itself also isn't that great because the Facebook experience on mobile is a much different experience than on a larger screen. People use it differently and for different reasons. I think the shift in use cases on mobile is the reason why apps like Instagram are so successful, despite the fact that their purposes aren't necessarily new ideas (it's a photo sharing application like Flickr, but with an impeccable user experience and design aesthetic -- Facebook lacks that level of innovation and regard for user experience). Finally, just yesterday Facebook released the not-so-wonderful Facebook Camera app. It's essentially an Instagram clone with no personality and a couple of bugs. Why the company decided to release a crappy clone of a product they just paid $1 billion for is a little beyond me. The whole application feels a little Google Video'ish to me -- if you catch my drift. On the upside, it's validation that Instagram is ultimately accomplishing what Facebook literally doesn't have the capability to accomplish, and that's got to feel good owning the company (see: How Google feels about owning YouTube). Ultimately, I believe that Facebook does not have what it takes to succeed in the mobile web as easily as it has succeeded in the era prior. They've proven that with poor engineering and with their acquisitions (we all know they bought Instagram because Facebook Camera was going to suck; and it's also the reason they're buying other social networking apps, and e-commerce apps, etc. left and right). I see Facebook becoming a Yahoo! in a few more years; and to tie all this into an answer for your question: If they're smart, if Facebook has any regrets about its strategies, it should be in regards to their mobile push as a whole -- not just their HTML5 front. While their HTML5 front is exponentially more disastrous than their native app front, I think the most important thing to note is that their entire mobile presence is not much short of a failure.