If a number whose only factors are 1 and itself is a prime, then what is the name of a number which has no integer roots?What patterns emerge when we mark off, from the list of natural numbers, all powers of 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, etc. (skipping numbers which were marked off)? Do these numbers have any names? What research has been done? What patterns are there?To me, the best way to define prime numbers is by generator for the semi-group of the positive integers. That is, the set of all positive integers form a semi-group, which means we have the multiplication in this semi-group and the product of any two positive integers is still a positive integer. The set of the generators is a set that every positive integer may be written as the product of those integers in the set of the generators by the fundamental theorem of arithmetic. In this way, 2,3,5,7, 2,3,5,7, etc. are prime numbers, 6 6 is not as 6=23 6=23 ! 1=203050 1=203050 , as more generators as you want by the fundamental theorem of arithmetic. Then, I do not understand what you are saying after this point. You seem talking about Sieve method by "marking off". You start from 2 2 , not 1 1 , 1 1 is not a prime by whatever definition, nowadays for whatever reason you must figure out. Okay, you know 2 2 is a prime, and mark off all the multiples of 2 2 , in the whole set of positive integers, if you are talking about the Sieve method. For example, 4,6,8,10 4,6,8,10 , ..., and so on are all marked off. Next step, you start from the number after 2, and claim that the first one, which is 3 3 , must be a prime by the process we just used, as 3 3 is left, and 3 3 is not a multiple of 2 2 and if 3 3 is not a prime, at least one of its prime factor would be less than 3 3 . Then, you repeat the process by marking off all the multiple of 3 this time. And so on. That it the basic Sieve method, based on which, one can have an algorithm to find out all primes under any fixed range. By computer, you can have a procedure to find out all the prime numbers by this algorithm if only the range is reasonable to the computer's capability. Now, "a number which does not have integer roots"? What does that mean? I do not understand, and I can not answer any of your question after this point, as I do not know what you are asking about. I could have passed your question, as it is stated sloppy, or without a clear sense, but I tried to answer you. You can not make up a concept meaningless like this, and then try to find out or ask about whatever. Thanks for try, but NO, I CAN NOT ANSWER. 485 Views  View Upvotes  Answer requested by Jacob Dreiling