For an n n -digit binary number, what is the probability that the digits contain consecutive 1's?For example, for a 3 digit binary number, it has 8 possibilities, and 110,011,111 are the 3 scenarios when there is consecutive 1s.It's not trivial to answer this. Typically, if a student hasn't been shown how to answer a question like this, they aren't able to figure it out. The easiest way to do this is by using a recurrence relation. If you're not familiar with them, you probably won't understand this answer. Let F(n) = the number of n-digit binary strings that do not contain consecutive 1's. To get a formula for F(n), consider a valid n-digit binary string. ('Valid' meaning that it meets the conditions you specified). Let's break them up into two cases. Case 1: The last digit is 0. If so the first n-1 digits can be any valid binary string. This is because you can take any valid string of length n-1 and put a 0 at the end and you'll get a valid string of length n. So the number of such strings is F(n-1). Case 2: The last digit is 1. If so, note that the second to the last digit must be a 0, otherwise you'd have two 1's in a row. But then the first n-2 digits can be any valid string. This is because you can take any valid string of length n-2 and put a 01 at the end and you'll get a valid string of length n. So the number of such strings is F(n-2). This leaves us with the recurrence relation: F(n) = F(n-1) + F(n-2) for n >= 3. If n = 1 both binary strings are valid so F(1) = 2. And if n = 2, all of the four binary strings are valid except for 11. So F(2) = 3. This recurrence relation generates the most famous sequence of all: the Fibonacci sequence. Since the recurrence relation tells us that the next value in the sequence is the sum of the previous two values, we get the sequence, 2, 3, 5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, etc. So, for example, the number of valid binary strings of length 7 is 55. ----- Since you wanted the probability of picking a valid n-digit binary string, you need to know that the total number of n-digit binary strings. This is just 2n 2n , because each digit has two possible values. So the probability is F(n)2n F(n)2n . Don't ask why, but for n >= 5 or so, this probability is about: (1.17)(0.809n) (1.17)(0.809n) . ----- EDIT: I realized that I didn't finish my answer. I computed the probability that an n-digit binary string does not have two or more 1's in a row. To get the probability that an n-digit binary string does have two or more 1's in a row, just subtract the answer I gave from 1. 2.6k Views  View Upvotes