What is Norman Wildberger's problem with real numbers?Thanks for asking. I hadn’t come across Norman Wildberger, and I find he’s man after my own heart. Mathematics is a vast edifice based, like other social constructions, on cultural assumptions and consensus. We’d really like it to have a firm basis, but I’d say it doesn’t - it just doesn’t - we just like to think it does. Occasionally, a rare professor worries about the foundations of his subject and does not sleep well. Certainly since the idea of Plato’s cave it’s been thought that theoretical constructs exist in a separate detached realm from where we actually live - but since in practice it ’works’ when we assume the constructs work well in parallel and produce good predictions much of the time, we feel that’s good enough. As the legendary old lady on the bus said, “be philosophical, don’t think about it”. But we shouldn’t forget that the foundations of mathematics were literally built on sand. (!) pythagoras was a strange dude - themathlab com Wilderberger has re-developed a clear-minded “naïve” (in the good sense - straightforward) approach to what we can actually hope to know. He questions the vast edifice with which we are nowadays familiar through everyday education and conventional indoctrination, as a house of cards. He takes a rational approach (in several senses of the word). Good for him. I’ll take the liberty of interpreting his ideas based on a truly superficial skimming at some of his online talks. Is seems his idea on number starts very humanly with a one-to-one correspondence to fingers on a hand, or marks on a surface. (I myself have difficulty defining “one” with any clarity. Perhaps you could try.) Everything builds from there, in terms of what is directly attainable and not what is in practice unreachable, about which we can only theorise. In contrast, current mathematicians go off on flights of unreachable fantasy, and mostly do not like having this brought to their attention. (Well, some do, but others very trustingly have difficulty when convention is challenged.) But remember, they stand on the shoulders of giants. All the way down to the sand. So, where is there a problem with so-called “real” numbers? Simply (simply?) that they are not reachable with any precision - they aren’t ‘real’, they are just in a realm of guesswork; they are idealised thoughts somewhere near to something we can indicate, but we can’t put a finger precisely, unless they are expressible as a ratio of fingers. Unless they are rational. You cannot write a simple numerical representation of any irrational ‘number’ in full, even though you can propose a construction for it - which hopefully is finite because if it’s any bigger you can’t even write that down. Pythagoras knew, and found it puzzling and offensive that reality - tangible actuality - didn’t live up to the perfection he felt he could expect. There follows the question, if one re-builds this game, this theoretical construct with rational, reachable mathematical tools, does it in turn accurately describe what we grasp as (English word rather than technical word) reality? Wildberger seems to reach the conclusion: I don’t see why not, and it’s more sound that what we do now, which is dealing in dubious illusion. But I’ve only taken a cursory look, I may have misinterpreted his ethos. I found this prior quorestion Is N. J. Wildberger a joke or a genius when he claims that mathematics, in its current form, is a hoax? which contains this video. To cut to the chase, he starts to explain about 11 minutes in to his talk. 174 Views · View Upvotes