Why can't all real numbers between 1 and 0 be counted?Are all real numbers uncountable because, essentially, you can never get from 0 to 1 because all the decimal number combinations in between 0 and 1 are infinite? Trying to understand the Cantor Diagonalization Argument.It's not quite accurate to say that real numbers are uncountable "because you can never get from 0 to 1 because all the decimal number combinations in between 0 and 1 are infinite". You correctly stated that the set or rationals is countably infinite. If you take the subset of rationals between 0 and 1 that don't have terminating decimal representations (such as 1/3) this is a countably infinite set, even though every such number has an infinite decimal representation. So it isn't that some of the reals have infinite decimal representations that is the problem. Let's first look at the set of positive even numbers, which you know is countably infinite. Why? To be informal, you can 'list' them so the every even number is in the list. Of course, you can't really list them because there are an infinite number of them. But consider this 'list': 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, .... It should be clear that this list includes every positive even number. Any infinite set that can be listed like this, so that every element in the set is in the list, is countably infinite. If a set cannot be listed like this, it is uncountably infinite. And Cantor showed that the set of reals between 0 and 1 cannot be listed. Here's a brief outline of Cantor's proof (well, a proof similar to Cantor's). Cantor said, you give me any list of reals between 0 and 1 and I'll show you a real number that is not in the list. How the heck could he do that? Suppose anyone came up with some list that they thought contained all the reals between 0 and 1. Say the list starts like this: R1 = .4956... R2 = .0303... R3 = .9876... R4 = .4444... etc. These could be any digits. So Cantor's brilliant idea - one of the most brilliant and amazing proofs in mathematics - is this. He said create the real number, X, that in this example, would start like this: X = .5485.... How did Cantor get this? He said to get the 1st digit of X, add 1 to the 1st digit of R1. Since the 1st digit of R1 is 4, the 1st digit of X is 5. Since X differs from R1 in the 1st digit, X cannot be R1. To get the 2nd digit of X, add 1 to the 2nd digit of R2. Since the 2nd digit of R2 is 3, the 2nd digit of X is 4. Since X differs from R2 in the 2nd digit, X cannot be R2. To get the 3rd digit of X, add 1 to the 3rd digit of R3. Since the 3rd digit of R3 is 7, the 3rd digit of X is 8. Since X differs from R3 in the 3rd digit, X cannot be R3. And so on. The bottom line is that Cantor created this number X so that it differed from every number in this infinite list. That is because X differs from the Nth real number in the Nth decimal place. Therefore no list of reals can contain all of the reals. So the set of reals is uncountably infinite. 166 Views  View Upvotes  Answer requested by Chris Purrone