Why Computer Programmers generally focus on Discrete Maths rather than Continuous Maths?Thanks for the ata! Apologies if this is less rigorous than I might hope, wrote on my phone as I walked. Will try to improve via edits in the future. I can think of a few answers which are I think ultimately the same but looking at it from different light sources: What are computer programs? Ultimately they are compiled down into sequences of 1's and 0's. One might ask "how many possible computer programs can be written using n bytes?" Since there are 8 bits in a byte, the total such possible number of programs is less than 2^{8n} which is the number of distinct binary sequences of length 8n. This is a trivial combinatorial calculation. So already we see combinatorics which is a sub field of discrete mathematics playing a fundamental role. Many times the critical engine of a program is an algorithm. It's usually possible to write many different algorithms with different performance trade offs to solve a given problem. Take sorting as an example. There are n^2 algorithms that seem quite natural and there are nlogn algorithms that might at first seem less intuitive. A programmer implementing an algorithm would like to make sure that it's performance falls within reasonable expectations. Many times this involves finding a solution to a recurrence such as T(n) = 2T(n/2) + n. The branch of mathematics which provides the toolset to solve these is discrete mathematics. Knuth's groundbreaking books "the Art of computer programming" have been hailed as the gold standard of the topic. The toolset he uses to analyse is largely discrete math. In fact there was so much required that his book "Concrete Mathematics" was developed to give students the required background. Arguably programming *is* applied discrete mathematics. Discrete mathematics is fundamental to computer science. Many people who are interested in the fundamentals of computer science end up earning a living through programming. 114 Views  View Upvotes  Answer requested by 1 person