What is Norman Wildberger's problem with real numbers?I suppose I should answer as I’m an enthusiast of Dr. Wildberger’s work, especially in Rational Trigonometry. Professor Wildberger is concerned with shoring up the fundamentals of mathematics. He wants to put it all on a firm logical foundation. He has strong beliefs about where the current supposed foundation fails. He rejects as non-fundamental any mathematics that involves infinite sets or infinite processes. He also rejects mathematical conjuring, where a mathematician says “let” to axiomatically assume a system that they cannot explicitly construct. He abhors calculator approximations yet fully embraces computer algebra. If we start with 1 and the successor function, we can quickly get working definitions of natural numbers and addition. When considering equations involving addition, one faces the issues of subtraction, the inverse of addition. We note natural numbers don’t have additive inverse, and then we straightforwardly create a system of integers based on the natural numbers, where there’s an additive identity and each integer has an additive inverse. Once multiplication is defined, the question of inverses again arises and we’re led to create a new number system, the rational numbers, out of the integers. Again, it’s easy to define the operations of addition, subtraction, multiplication and division of rational numbers in terms of the already defined operations on integers. The rationals (with addition and multplication) are the first field encountered this way. There’s an additive identity, 0, and a multiplicative identity, 1. Every element has an additive inverse. Every element but zero has a multiplicative inverse, aka a reciprocal. The operations are closed — adding, subtracting, multiplying and dividing rational numbers gives rational numbers, as always excepting division by zero. No infinite operations or sets are needed. Dr. Wildberger succeeds in putting the rational numbers on a firm footing. But he finds wanting each method of extending the rationals to the reals. He explores four constructions of the reals: Infinite decimals, continued fractions, Cauchy Sequences and Dedekind Cuts, and finds the logic of each shaky. I go through it a little in the last link. But you can imagine how if you don’t allow infinite sets or infinite processes (or related things, like infinite equivalence classes), none of the constructions are going to work. So, in short, Norman Wildberger’s problem with real numbers is they’re not real. It’s just marketing. We have constructions that don’t work, and we just falls back on an axiomatization which we hope magically imbues the reals with the properties we think they should have, rather than finitely construct them out of other numbers as we have so far, to put them on a firm footing. Here are a few of my answers where I talk about Dr. Wildberger’s work: Dean Rubine's answer to Which should you learn first: Trigonometry or Calculus? Dean Rubine's answer to Which are some possible solutions to the problems of axioms? Dean Rubine's answer to What is an irrational number? What makes it irrational? 205 Views · View Upvotes