Is discrete math (Combinatorics, Graph theory, number theory, etc.) more beautiful than continuous maths (Analysis)?First, let me define discrete math versus continuous math. Discrete math is primarily concerned with proving theorems where the mathematical objects are either finite sets, countable sets. Of course, sometimes discrete math also includes infinite sets of large cardinalities (in this case the point is that we are not considering a topology on these sets - or more accurately, it is only the discrete topology). Continuous math involves topological spaces, usually with various other conditions. Both areas are both beautiful and useful! Asking which is more beautiful is like asking whether you prefer apples or oranges: the answer is entirely subjective. Also, both areas overlap with each other, and with algebra, so it is worthwhile to get experience with both. I also will respond with some misconceptions, based on other answers: analysis is the more applied subject. This is false: analysis and topology can be studied from a pure math perspective, focusing on building beautiful theorems and proofs. Certainly parts of analysis are applied, but the theoretical part of analysis is not concerned with applications. Discrete math is the more applied subject. This is also false: discrete math is certainly a very problem-oriented subject, but the more applied approach would focus on constructive algorithms for solving a problem explicitly, and the pure mathematician has no difficulty proving combinatorial results non-constructively, or using algorithms that would run terribly slow - we are focused on the truth of a theorem, and not on the practicality of our methods. Number theory and algebra are part of discrete math. This is also false: technically, number theory is the study of number fields. While certainly numbers are discrete, parts of number theory use analysis, and parts of number theory use combinatorial arguments. Other parts use algebra. So I would consider number theory to be its own subject. Likewise, sometimes we make finiteness assumptions in algebra: but I would not view finite dimensional vector spaces over R to be a discrete object! Also, algebra includes the study of Lie groups, which mixes algebra and geometry. We should keep in mind that we should view number theory, algebra, analysis, topology, and discrete math as parts of a venn diagram: there is often a common intersection between these areas (at the very least, logic and set theory is the foundation of all), just like there is intersection between statistics, applied math, and pure math. These are all modern distinctions, but even the parts of math I do not like, nor understand, are beautiful, at least for the following reason: it is amazing that we are able to understand or comprehend any of it at all in the first place. It is amazing that we are able to engage in logical deductions, and prove theorems that are universally true. 386 Views  View Upvotes