What are some of the interesting (possibly counterintuitive) results from combinatorics and/or discrete mathematics?One of my favorite recurring themes in combinatorics is that multisets behave like sets with negative cardinality, whatever that means. Pondering this phenomenon quickly leads one into deep mathematical waters. One starting point is the curious formula: ((nk))=(−1) k (−nk)  ((nk))=(−1)k(−nk) The left side of the equation is the number of ways to choose k  k -element sub-multisets from a set of n  n elements, and the right hand side is, up to a sign, the number of ways to choose k  k -element subsets from a set of −n  −n elements. What in the world is going on here? How should we interpret this equation combinatorially? Richard Stanley proved a far-reaching generalization of the above formula in terms of graph colorings and acyclic orientations. Any proper coloring of a graph induces an acyclic orientation of the edges (just make each edge into an arrow pointing from the larger to the smaller color). On the other hand, given an acyclic orientation, one can consider more general colorings where the endpoints of an arrow are allowed to be the same color, but the head color cannot be strictly larger than the tail color. These less restrictive colorings are the multiset analogue of proper colorings. Stanley proved that the chromatic polynomial for the multiset colorings with n  n colors on a graph with k  k vertices is equal to (−1) k   (−1)k times the ordinary chromatic polynomial for −n  −n colors. In particular, the number of ways to properly color a graph with −1  −1 colors is equal (up to a sign) to the number of acyclic orientations of the graph! Also, our original mysterious equation follows from Stanley's theorem applied to the complete graph on k  k vertices. This is a reference (French) for acyclic orientations and the chromatic polynomial: http://math.univ-lyon1.fr/~lass/... That's all very interesting, but what light does it shed on our original quest? The ordinary chromatic polynomial obeys a deletion-contraction formula with a minus sign in it, which is essentially a form of the inclusion-exclusion principle. Stanley's modified chromatic polynomial obeys the same recurrence, but with a plus sign instead of a minus sign! So it seems that graphs can represent aspects of both sets and multisets. Continuing down the rabbit hole, one can generalize and wrap up these formulas and more in terms of the Euler characteristic. John Baez gave a wonderful lecture on this subject in 2005: The Mysteries of Counting From this point of view, the open interval can be thought of as having cardinality −1  −1 , so the disjoint union of n  n open intervals has cardinality −n  −n . Similarly, one can deduce that the cardinality of the k  k -th symmetric power of the disjoint union of n  n open intervals is equal to (−1) k (−nk)  (−1)k(−nk) . On the other hand, choosing k  k points from n  n intervals yields a k  k -element sub-multiset of n  n elements! Eventually, this line of thinking leads to Koszul duality, supersymmetry, categorification, complex-valued cardinalities, and more! It's amazing where a simple formula can lead you if you ask the right questions. 276 Views · View Upvotes