How many distinct areas must a Venn Diagram on on N sets contain?Two. Take any number of sets. As long as those sets ALL refer to THE SAME collection of objects, every circle of your diagram will demarcate the exact same area. For example, consider the sets: Numbers that are 2 Numbers that equal 3-1 Numbers that equal sqrt(4) Your Venn Diagram will have two distinct regions: A circle enclosing all the twos, and everything outside the circle (which includes all the non-two entities, such as three, cow, love, and haberdashery). Of course, a Venn Diagram MIGHT need more distinct areas. In fact, it probably will, since we often use Venn Diagrams when we have non-identical sets. You asked how many they MUST have, though, so I thought I would answer that question first. Now let's see what happens when you have N non-identical sets, each of which overlaps the others in every possible combination. Any given location on the diagram must either be: Part of none of the sets Part of one and only one set (N possibilities) Part of exactly two of the sets ... Part of all but two sets Part of all but one set (N possibilities) Pat of all of the sets Now, we could look up how to do combinations, then add up the results, but there's an easier way to solve this. Say that: (0,0,0,0,0) means the region that is part of NONE of five sets. (1,0,0,0,0) means the region is part of set 1, but none of the others. (0,1,0,0,0) means the region is part of set 2, but none of the others And so on; (a,b,c,d,e) such that a indicates set 1, b indicates set 2, etc. A 1 means the region is part of that set; a 0 means it isn't. So, the region that's the union of ALL five sets would be (1,1,1,1,1). This is looking suspiciously like binary because it is binary. In binary, the number of possibilities = 2^N. So there's your maximum possible answer: 2^N distinct Venn Diagram regions. Of course, not all diagrams will have the full 2^N distinct regions because it is possible for regions to be entirely contained within (or excluded from) combinations of other regions. 222 Views  View Upvotes