Is Boolean logic based only on binary transistor circuits or can it be applied to more complex physical systems?Where can I read about this stuff in more detail? (but oriented towards beginners)You have it kind of back to front. Digital logic is based on boolean logic as developed by George Boole. George Boole There are a lot of ways you can go from there. Propositional Logic is the tip of an iceberg that leads you to predicate logic, and there are routes from there into artificial intelligence theory. Here is a lightning tour of a vast landscape…. You can embed Boolean logic into an statistical framework, so instead of accepting 0 and 1, it is a natural progression to define a continuum between 0 and 1. This is the basis of “fuzzy logic”. Fuzzy logic also introduces the idea of “interpretation”. Mathematically you can decide that the semantic interpretation you impose will be something such as “membership”. So we can map fuzzy logic onto set theory. If zero means no membership, and one means membership of a set, then a fractional number will mean partial membership of a set, and then we can allow things to partially belong to multiple sets. This is how the Japanese came to control the underground trains so smoothly. Quantum logic is very much a modern logic study, and has close connections with information theory. You can find a lot of good physics if you study that subject. Interpretations are an interesting way to go. All kinds of related logics can be derived by interpreting the polarity states in different ways. They can mean degrees of belief for example. Or evidence. A robot can have two separate models, one model can represent the knowledge the robot has about the state of its world. What room am I in? What rooms are available that connect to this room. And it can have a set of beliefs as well. It can believe that it is heading in the direction of the lounge, and that the lounge needs a good clean. It can revise its beliefs based on other beliefs changing. And it can revise its knowledge too, based on what its sensors tell it. But the beliefs arising from the sensors directly are more certain than the deductions it is making about its belief system. You can develop logics called “Modal” logic, the logic of possibility vs necessity. Or “deontic” logics based on things like obligations and commitments. That is one of my fav areas, but modal logic kind of gets lost in “many worlds” theory, which is not so much fun. If you like you can embed the Boolean logic into not just real numbered statistics, like fuzzy logic, but you can develop it as a full algebra. Irving Stern did that when he published books on “Matrix Logic”. Imaginary numbers start to make an appearance, and some of the rules and inconsistencies of Boolean can be mended. The most interesting thing about Stern’s work is that he points out that mathematics is a linear sequential process, in the way that it is written. He begins to write sentences of algebraic formula that are truly circular, he invents two dimensional mathematical notation! Bayesian logic is “hot” these days, it is a conditional approach to logic. X given Y. Classical logic suffers from a problem that you cannot divide by zero for example, but algebra gives a better interpretation. The mathematics of logic is a bit like the physics of colour. You can form other colours from primaries, and there is more than one possible “basis” for that. Cyan Magenta are just as much primary colours as Red and Blue for example. In logic the basis is typically taken as OR, AND and NOT. But you can start with other operations, in digital computing we can use NAND (not and) gates to build all the rest. Or you could start with “IMPLIES” perhaps (not implies). AND and OR are symmetric, but if you combine them with NOT you get the IMPLIES operation which is not symmetric. And computing, like thinking, needs asymmetry. So if you were to build circuits entirely out of “implies” circuits, then you would be able to also build electronics. Now it so happens that the memristor can be used to build an “IMPLIES” gate. So it would be possible to design and build intelligent logical circuits using memristor technology. This suggests that memristors could be used to construct a robot brain that was efficient at deduction and learning. I pulled two random monograms of my dusty old shelf, one is “Digital Electronics for Engineers” by Peter Parsonage. I like that because it explains how you get from simple “gates” up to RS flip flops, counters, multipliers, and so on. I was interested to find out how a computer does an “IF” statement when I first started using computers, it is nice to know how a computer really works. Actually circuits are not always pure boolean either, tri-state devices mix in control logic with computing, a kind of meta-state that allows a device to be enabled. Digital circuits are also “clocked” by a pulse train. Actually I wondered whether you could take paradox and contradiction as the base for a logic circuit. I once worked out a system of algebra for paradox and contradiction as logical states. I was able to combine these states which had me scratching my head. Paradox AND contradiction = Paradox I think. Paradox is the weaker member, just like disjunction is weaker than conjunction. It is a bit mind blowing to think that paradox and contradiction might not just be a human interpretation, but may represent the real physical state of the universe. LOL. At any rate I wondered how to represent these states as physical circuits, this was long before quantum computing hit the scene. Paradox is easy actually. It is a flip flop circuit. If it is true it goes false, and if it is false it goes true. We can consider that the clock speed approaches infinity so it is a limit of that, there are mathematical functions that behave that way anyway. Contradiction is a harder thing to model. It must be both true and false at the same time, but now it seems that quantum computing is made to order. All good fun. Another old tome I found is “The languages of Logic” by Samuel Guttenplan. These books are probably so old they are out of print, but I am sure you could find some intro books like that. 882 Views · View Upvotes