Is there a natural bijection between derangements of length n and permutations σ  σ of {0,1,⋯,n}  {0,1,⋯,n} with the properties written in the details?σ(0)=0  σ(0)=0 For all k  k from 0  0 to n−1  n−1 , σ(k+1)≠σ(k)+1mod(n+1)  σ(k+1)≠σ(k)+1mod(n+1) . Both of these sets have exactly !n  !n elements, which seems too good to be a coincidence.Here is my final attempt. I have deleted the other incorrect attempts (which yielded the helpful comments - thank you by the way) as I do not want the answer to take up more space than necessary, it’s already long enough! Attempting to answers this question has forced me to look at not just how we may construct such a permutation but how we construct any permutation. I eventually came back to looking at replacing position conditions with right adjacency conditions, however I had to do this in such a way as to be able to easily compare the two approaches. In the end I opted to use the tool used in counting permutations with restricted positions: rook polynomials. Or more precisely: the “chessboards” that are used as a visual tool to describe the restrictions. As an example consider the following placement of non-attacking rooks on the 4×4  4×4 chessboard representing the shown permutation. As you can see rook must be non-attacking to give a permutation. In this visualisation of permutations the derangements are represented by restricting the placements of the rooks so that they are not on the main diagonal, this is done by shading in the forbidden squares. From this we can see that 2314 is not a derangement as the rook in row 4 occupies a forbidden square on the chessboard. I wanted to represent the σ  σ permutations by restricting right adjacency of the numbers. I did this by replacing the position numbers along the top with numbers from the permutation. The chessboard would then tell me which numbers were right adjacent by reading off the rook positions one row at a time starting at row 1. e.g. take the same rook placement above but with our new interpretation Notice that rook placements in the squares on the main diagonal don’t appear to make any sense because we are telling a number to be right adjacent to itself, this can have only one possible meaning as we read down row by row and that is that any rook in a square on the main diagonal is interpreted as the row number being placed on the far right, except for any other numbers that have already been placed on the far right. To illustrate this here is the interpretation of the above rook placement Notice that as we go down row by row numbers pick up other numbers. A nice visual for this is to imagine the numbers as numbered train carriages being connected to each other. In our example carriage 1 is connected to carriage 3, this connection then becomes fixed so that we must now treat every occurrence of 3 on the chessboard as 1–3 and every occurrence of 1 as 1–3. So then when carriage 2 connects to carriage 3, it is actually connecting with 1–3 to make 2–1–3. Then every occurrence of 1,2 and 3 on the board is now 2–1–3. Using the train carriage visualisation we may even interpret 0 as the “train engine” in it’s fixed position at the front of the train on the far left. As you can see, it is important that we read the permutation in the specified order: row by row and starting with row 1. Now using our second interpretation of rook placements on the chessboard we may darken squares so as to create the conditions for the σ  σ permutations as follows The darkened square in row 4 can be explained as follows: As we go through the rows picking up numbers it is evident that by row 4 there will be one column remaining unused, that column will always be the number that is placed leftmost out of those on the board (i.e. the number right-adjacent to 0). Hence in order to prevent 1 from being in position 1 we must darken square 1 in row 4. Now we may perform a simple cycling of rows to give the same chessboard as for derangements Note that we must still begin by reading across from row number 1 (second row down), then row 2 etc. When we get to row number 3 the the last rook placement in row number 4 (top row) will be fixed. So take for example the rook placement Starting with row 1 we have 1–1 so 1 gets placed as the... (more)