In what ways does Palantir utilize graph theory?"The rise in interest in big data, awareness of the value of graphs in being able to link and derive insights from all of it seems to be rapidly rising. The notion of what constitutes a graph is also more often expanding beyond the typical small scale social network and diagrammatic applications that traditional desktop tools like Analyst Notebook and Palantir were designed for, often involving a great deal of manual maintenance, to very large computationally derived graphs that take advantage of distributed analytics platforms like GraphX. On the research side I am also seeing increasing interest in the time element of graph data, in pursuit of better approaches to understanding dynamics and behaviours in graph data which have often been ignored." Palantir Archives - Understand the connections in your data US Army spent $2.7 billion on a battlefield computer that doesn’t work | ExtremeTech The Swiss mathematician Leonhard Euler (1707 – 1783) lived in the Prussian town of Königsberg at the Baltic sea, he was thinking about the following problem: Königsberg is divided into four parts by the river Pregel, and connected by seven bridges. Is it possible to tour Königsberg along a path that crosses every bridge once, and at most once? You can start and finish wherever you want, not necessarily in the same place. Trying various paths very quickly suggests that it is impossible: you always end up with a bridge you haven’t crossed, but with no way to get there without crossing another bridge twice. But it would take a very long time to try every possible path… Have a look at these cities and try to find the same kind of paths – crossing every bridge exactly once. If you can find one path, try to find a second one in the same city. Not all cities are possible. Before we can solve the Königsberg Bridges problem, we have to think about an area of mathematics called graph theory. Graph Theory A graph is a collection of vertices (points) that are connected by edges(lines). Some graphs can be directed, which means the lines have an arrow and only go in one direction. Some (rather boring) graphs can have no edges at all, in others the edges could overlap, and there can be many edges coming out of the same vertex. Here is a very simple question we could ask about graphs: Which graphs can be drawn without lifting the pencil off the paper and without drawing any line twice? Leonard Euler observed that some graphs can be drawn in such a way, some even have many possibilities, while others can’t. Whether a graph can be drawn or not depends on the number of vertices with an odd number of edges. Above you may have observed that graphs which have more than two “odd” vertices can’t be drawn in the way we want. For the explanation we have to look at one individual vertex and see what happens to it as we connect the vertices of the graph. Initially there are no edges going through our vertex. At some point we will connect our vertex to the remainder of the graph, and unless it is the final vertex of the path we draw, we will draw another edge going away from our vertex. So in total we have added two edges. Maybe we will return to our vertex a second time. But again we have to move away again, so we add two more edges. You see that edges are always added in pairs so we know that if vertices in our graph have an odd number of edges, the graph can’t possibly be drawn. The only exceptions are the vertices where we start and where we finish our path. If we start and end at two different vertices, only these two will have an odd number of edges. If we start and finish at the same vertex, then all vertices are even. Graph Theory | World of Mathematics 345 Views · View Upvotes