In what ways does Palantir utilize graph theory?I have never worked at Palantir but I have devoted quite a bit of time working on graph algorithms. So taking a stab here at answering this question. Pagerank algorithm used in google search is essentially a Graph Algorithm. A variant of eigenvalue centrality. So we know that the modern internet as we know depends on graph algorithms. Google Maps also uses graph algorithms to find out shortest paths etc. What other problems can be solved with graphs? 1. Fraud Risk Modelling: Visiting the Palantir Website I saw that they do fraud risk modelling too. Banks and Financial organizations normally haven't used Customer PII data for creating Fraud Models till now. But that is changing now. Banks are interested in creating more and more features around their customers by looking at their PII Info, their social networks and a lot of other sources. For example: People may be connected by a common SSN or a common DL. This lets you get a more complete view on a customer level which you cant get on an account level. You can see an example from a company called Detica here: A web of fraudulent details - FT.com Once you create graphs like that you could see all the accounts of a customer. You could get variables like: If he has committed fraud before. On how many accounts has he committed fraud. etc. Which you weren't able to before. 2. To Win Elections: I got this idea admittedly from House of Cards. In Season 4 they have got a data scientist who is crunching the NSA call data to find out which voters are most perceptible to change their opinions and should be targeted by the campaigners. They never told what algorithm they are using. Now what this guy has is a graph of every connected guy in US by telephone calls. Now If he could find the nodes with highest Pagerank or Eigenvalue centrality he could find most influential people in a network. And here is how you get your campaigners. You can also identify well knit communities using community detection algorithms and try to target your campaigns around those communities. But I cannot say if that is legal - Running presidents using NSA data to fuel their campaigns. 3. Law Enforcement: This sort of things could also be used by Law enforcement agencies to find out the immediate network of a known criminal. Think getting all the culprits in Ocean's Eleven even if you capture one of them using community detection around time of robbery. Also think if a lot of calls are happening around a bank location in a community. This sort of thing could trigger some sort of security mechanism for the bank. Something Palantir has been using. From their website: SLCPD officers also use Palantir Law Enforcement’s analysis tools to perform investigations. They use the Graph application to build link charts and “human maps” describing suspected criminal networks, and the Map application to perform location-based searches and generate heat maps that distinguish areas with higher crime risks. They use Palantir Law Enforcement’s collaboration tools to share intelligence with other analysts, teams, and agencies related to specific investigations. By introducing technologies developed for federal intelligence agencies into the local law enforcement space, SLCPD dramatically improved the efficiency and effectiveness of police investigations 4. National threat prediction and ISPs: Getting the centrality of ISPs terrorists can break the internet where one country might be disconnected from other or a whole country might be isolated from the web. Getting to know such nodes where this could happen beforehand might prevent such scenarios. 5. Social Network Analysis: With the data of a company like FB, we could find large cliques in Network and target products to them. Also we can find the most influential nodes and charge more for advertising to them. Possibilities are endless. This is just some plain speculation. Many Other use cases Palantir might be working on. Will try updating this answer with more use cases as I think of them. 984 Views · View Upvotes