★Why don't the Internet networks change from IPv4 to IPv6 if the IPv4 is almost exhausted?The IPv4 numers are almost exhausted and the adoption of IPv6 is under 1%. The RIPE(Europe) has only 16 million IPv4 available (RIPE NCC IPv4 Available Pool - Graph) So the question is: What are we waiting for? Why don't change immediately? And how will be done the swap?
Changing from IPv4 to IPv6 is an enormous task, and it will require heavy investment heavy investment not only in equipment but also in human resources. Don't forget that people have to be trained, people have to be trained, and that takes a lot of time (and costs money). And finally, there's an entire layer above the Internet that would need to change but it's not willing to do so: every application that inspects or logs IP addresses needs to be fixed or rewritten.every application that inspects or logs IP addresses needs to be fixed or rewritten. As you may already have noted, it's clearly impossible to change immediately. You can't just unplug the entire Internet and plug it back again and hope it works. The best course of action, if we have infinite financial resources, infinite financial resources, would be something like this: Assign IPv6 addresses for all entities that are connected to the Internet. Everyone must receive this information to prepare for mass migration. Train everyone that works with IP networking for IPv6. That's literally millions of people, in telecom operators, ISPs large and small, and corporations of all sizes. After everyone is trained, replace all backbone routers with newer models that can work with IPv6 and offer the same level of performance while doing so (hint: look at the specs of some major vendors and you'll that limits on routes and performance are lower with IPv6 than with IPv4, due to the larger address field). At this point, just replace the routers, don't change anything yet. One by one, configure all peering and transit links to work with dual stack configuration (simultaneous IPv4 and IPv6 usage). While ISPs are at step #4, datacenters will be busy deploying DNS for IPv6 for all existing services. Of course, that requires involving all customers in the migration. Firewalls, security appliances and log servers will require lots of attention in this phase. Applications (which means, all websites) will need to be fixed to account for handling and logging of the larger IPv6 fields. If you don't have the source for some old application, it needs to be rewritten or moved to a zone behind a Carrier Grade NAT appliance (doing 'reverse' NAT in this case). After the entire infrastructure has moved to dual stack (which will more than probably eat at least three times more memory, due to the need to store all the IPv4 and IPv6 tables), then you can start to move customers. It's about the same that was done on step #3, but now it requires changing all the CPEs. If you are really lucky, have a lot of money lucky, have a lot of money and count on the help of everyone involved, after some long amount of timeafter a huge amount of time, it's time for congratulations. You have migrated the Internet from IPv4 to IPv6.