★IPv6 vs IPv4 architecture, do smaller subnets still matter?
The "better performance" argument is rooted from the bad old days when all subnets were layer 2 hub-based Ethernet CSMA/CD broadcast domains where more talkative hosts on a subnet could crowd each other out.  Earlier switch hardware segmented the traffic into smaller domains but the limited size MAC address tables formed an upper bound of the number of hosts you would want in a single layer 2 domain.  In all cases, broadcast traffic both consumed bandwidth and network interface cycles for every node on the subnet, so that also drove the desire for smaller subnets.  In summary, the performance issues related to "subnet size" were really just limitations in the capabilities of the layer 2 hardware. If you have modern switch hardware, you have thousands of MAC address entries, and a high performance switch fabric that allows you to build much larger layer 2 domains.  You still have to beware of broadcast traffic.  That still floods everywhere and unless you have switches that can conduct sensible multicast and broadcast control, that can still form an upper bound on your subnet size.  IPv6 has an advantage here, since it uses solicited note multicast in place of broadcast for MAC address discovery.  This means that if you use a switch that supports MLD snooping, you can further improve performance (that is, increase subnet size). In summary, since the rollout of IPv6 has coincided with the availability of significantly more powerful layer 2 hardware, the topic of network performance as related to subnet size has not really been an issue.  This is just leftover folklore from older network design handbooks that only present rules of thumb without explaining the underlying rationale for those rules. This is a bigger underlying controversy about IPv6 subnetting strategies trading off concerns about  address consumption, routing table size management, and ease of administration.  However, since your question was about "performance" I'll wait for a new Quora question on that topic.