★How do IP addressing an subnetting work for IPv4 and IPv6?I'm in a networking class. I didn't get it when the teacher was going over it. I need easy explanations. Pictures and videos are always nice and help me learn more easily. So if you include those, or they're in a link you mention, that would be a lot more helpful.
An IP address is that devices unique address for the network it is on.  Not two devices may have the same address on the same network,.  If they do, it causes a network problem. A subnet defines which part of the network address space is local - that is; on the same physical network as the device, and which is global - on a different network. This works the same for both IPv4 and IPv6. I will use some examples of IPv4, since the numbers are a bit easier to follow. Lets say you have a computer with an IP address of 10.0.0.6 and a subnet mask of 255.255.255.0, what does this tell you? First off, the computer address - 10.0.0.6, has to be unique to that computer on the local network.  If you want to know why, look up ARP and MAC address.  But for this answer, just accept that it is the case. The netmask of 255.255.255.0 tells the computer that it's local network is ONLY the '0' part of the netmask.  That mean the computer ignores the first three octets (255.255.255) and only needs to know about other devices for the '0' part of the address - which gives a range of 1 - 254 possible devices on this network. There is one more piece of information your computer needs however, and that is how to reach other devices that are not on the local network.  For this, and IP address called the 'default gateway' is used.  Your computer only knows how to reach other devices on the same network, but if has to communicate with an IP address that is not on the local network, then it sends the data to the default gateway address. The default gateway is always a router, and the router holds the address of other networks, including also, a default network address (0.0.0.0 netmask 0.0.0.0) of where to send non-local data packets.