★If I have an IPv6 address can I still visit web server that have a IPv4 address?Does using IPv6 and IPv4 create two internets? Meaning that if you have an IPv6 address you can only access servers using IPv6 and same for IPv4. Or do they work with each other? It can't imagine getting an IPv6 address and only being limited to communicate with other using IPv6.
Short & simplistic answer: If you have just an IPv6 address, you can access only IPv6 servers. If you have an IPv4 address, you can access only IPv4 servers. So in this sense, yes, you have two Internets that happen to be overlapped, in many cases sharing links and routers. A slightly more complicated (and practical) answer: To natively access both kinds of servers, you need to have both IPv4 and IPv6 active in your machine. That's relatively simple, and it's called "dual stack". It's (probably) implemented by all modern operating systems, including mobile (I'm taking a bet here). But most people never type IP addresses; people use DNS. So when the resolver in your system tries to find some domain, it searches both v6 and v4 address spaces. Your computer will access the v6 or the v4 server depending on the answer returned by the resolver. A much more complicated answer (or how things are really done): Configuring dual stack in your computer or internal network is simple, and (probably) automatic for any modern implementation. But to have a really working dual stack means that you need also Internet connectivity using both protocols. Few people are lucky to get that from their Internet provider (unless you are the Internet provider, which is my fortunate case). In most cases, you either have IPv4 access (the most common case today) or you have IPv6 acccess (the growing case as the IP address pool is depleted). If you have a standard Internet connection with an IPv4 address, you're probably fine as all content still is, and will probably, accessible by IPv4 in the foreseeable future. Things will change, but IPv4 is not going to die this fast. If you're stuck behind a provider that gives you *only* IPv6, then a hack is need to allow you to access the largely IPv4 Internet that exists today. Fortunately for you it's something that the provider needs to do, and that is (hopefully) fully transparent to you as a user. There are big boxes called "carrier grade NAT" appliances. These boxes do all the hard work to connect IPv6 users to an Internet that is still largely compose of IPv4 servers and services. Carrier grade NAT is in some sense pretty similar to standard NAT used in home or entreprise gateways, but MUCH bigger. The main difference is in logging (needed for legal reasons), and also all the hard integration with the DNS system itself, to verify whether the resource that the user wants is available in IPv6 or IPv4.