★Internet Infrastructure: Who uses IPv6 in production and how did they manage transition from IPv4?I'm interested in pointers to case studies, etc., of people/organizations that have made the switch from IPv4 to IPv6 and don't run IPv4 any more for at least some purposes. The point is to learn what works and what doesn't. Short of that, I'm looking for case studies etc of people/organizations who run both simultaneously and bridge in between, and what their experiences have been.
I have implemented IPv6 for client: Their network was already dual stack meaning that each of the devices on the network could accept IPv6 in native mode. No transition but implementation: First of all, i should say there is no "transition" to Ipv4 because you need IPv4 in native mode on your network to communicate to services in IPv4. For instance, as long as there are IPv4 websites, people will need IPv4 on their computers to access those websites in native mode. No tunneling for IPv4 It looks strange to have 2 protocols at the same time on the same network but it is better than decommissioning IPv4 and create tunnels to carry IPv4 packets in IPv6 !!! Dual Stack to the rescue: In the linux servers, it has been easy to add the IPv6 IPs. It was just a configuration file issue. Router configuration: It was related to 2 subnets. We had to map IPv6 subnets to IPv4 subnets to map the company network infrastructure. It was papercraft and bit calculations but i have found how do it. Then, i have setup the IPv6 subnets in the Cisco router. Don't forget Ipv6 firewall: Then, i mapped the IPv4 rules and recreated it in the IPv6 firewall. Conclusion: We have an additional firewall for IPv6 & a bit more things to consider in configuration files. Except that, on the network, the two protocol have no problem using the same pipes. Also, there is no security problems. Great thing about IPv6: IPv4 is limited. If you have created a subnet for a department. For instance, let's imagine a company where everyone has 2 smartphones, Ipad & computer. You quickly reach 253 hosts and you have to create a new subnet if at the beginning the first network admin. never expected that your company would grow in the future. With IPv6, there is enough space and it makes the network infrastructure simpler because you can add many IPs and it is great also for the future as number of IP devices is booming per users. Same with servers. You can split up your servers in many different servers to be more scalable because you have so many IPs for your servers that you don't care allocating ten of them.