★What is the best layman's analogy for explaining the IPv4 to IPv6 transition and its impact?How would you explain, to a non technical audience, why we need IPv6 and what the impact of implementing this will be? One example is the phone number analogy (http://www.circleid.com/posts/ip...).
Imagine that as the population grows, we run out of phone numbers. As a matter of fact, this has happened before a few times during the history of the telephone system, and everytime it happened, a simple solution was implemented: either we increased the phone number by one more digit - which is hard to do but feasible, or we create new area codes (or split an existing one). In any case, the base phone number is kept the same; we may add one more digit to the left side, which makes the transition relatively simple, or we may keep the same number and move to a different area code. It's a lot of work but it's still (in technical terms) relatively simple. Now imagine that instead of doing one of the simple tricks mentioned above, we run out of phone numbers again. But due to the very large demand of mobile, and maybe because we need a phone number for every gadget in the world, we decide that doing simple tricks will not be enough. Imagine that all telcos in the world decide to develop a new phone numbering system. Numbers will now be four times as long (something like 28 or 32 digits instead of 7 or 8 that we have now). Your new number is completely arbitrary, and will have nothing to do with the old one. Also, country codes and area codes will be changed too. This will require new software for you phone, and also new software for the phone company, and you'll need either to buy a new phone set that can handle the new phone number (and keep the two phone sets at home), or find a phone set that can work with both phone numbers at the same time. In this new world, your new phone can call any phone with the new "long phone number". Also, old phones keep working, to call each other with the previous short number. But for your old phone to call another in the new numbering scheme, you'll have to do some extra work. It may be done automatically, but you call will have to be translated by a specialized service that converts numbers between both systems. The main difference is that for phone calls, you just need to do this when calling; for IP networks, you have to do it for every packet. That's what IPv4 to IPv6 transition means. For it to work seamlessly, your computer has to work with both addresses. The default scheme is to use IPv6 addresses to talk to IPv6 servers, and IPv4 addresses to talk to IPv4 servers. There are tools to make IPv4 hosts talk to IPv6 hosts, but it requires some kind of translation or tunneling. I hope this explanation is simple enough!