★IPv6 vs IPv4 architecture, do smaller subnets still matter?
The only correlation I'm able to make between subnetting and performance is that made by Phillip Remaker below - in that prior to the days of fully switched networks you wanted to limit the number of hosts on a single broadcast domain (ethernet segment).  I don't really think there is a performance consideration behind the size of the 'address space' of your specific subnet.   Think of it this way, in IPv4 if you imagine homes/buildings each having their own address and a full city block as being a 'subnet' - in IPv6 you still have the same city block and buildings just that each building has the OPTION grow upwards into skyscrapers with thousands of units/suites.  The number of hosts on your network is still limited by your switching and routing equipment, (think of that as the size of the physical building in the example above) its just that no matter how large the network is created there will always be enough IP addresses in that network. There are a couple other points to make: In IPv6 is that we take every device's MAC address and convert it into Modified EUI-64 address, so while it seems like its a waste to have 64-bits of the 128-bit address devoted to just the interface specific address, its necessary to allow the MAC-to-ModEUI64 addressing.  Because of this 'convert your MAC address into the IP address' feature of IPv6 we no longer need to depend on DHCP (to a degree) to communicate on a new IPv6 network, as our interface specific address is not going to be used by anyone else since its based on MAC address. Keep in mind that the /64 is essentially the 'smallest' allocation you will find in IPv6.  It still remains to be seen how many ISPs will provide /56 or /64 to the end users, with a /64 it is not really possible to do any further internal subnetting, while a /56 will still allow you to have 8 bits to create your own subnetting.  The RFC recommendation is to give end users /56 so they can subnet if they want to, but Comcast was giving out /64 during testing (again, its hard to grasp that there is no shortage of IPv6 addressing space!) There has also been some rumors that some ISPs will give you /60 on request but I have yet to see it - I expect most ISPs to give /56s to home users and /48s to business.  IPv4 was all about using the least amount of addresses necessary to build the network.  With IPv6 its about how many 'networks' do you need.  You look at your network heirarchy and work your way up from the smallest divisions (departments) to the largest (buildings) and that will help you determine how much address space you need from your ISP in order to accomplish your internal subnetting. The change in address space is alot for everyone to wrap their heads around and because of that we think our networking equipment will experience some type of performance problem but its just not true.  The /64 is simply the smallest network size we will find in IPv6.