★Will IPv4 address exhaustion affect end users?
Basically, yes. Already in the Asia-Pacific region, IPv4 addresses have run out at the regional registry: http://www.potaroo.net/tools/ipv... . That means that new networks cannot apply for IPv4 space, and existing networks cannot apply for additional IPv4 space. What does this mean for the end user? Well, for the time being it may be that ISPs have land-grabbed enough IPv4 space that they can extend the lifetime of what they have by aggressively reallocating addresses across active users. Normally, your ISP offers you a "dynamic" IP address, and usually that address doesn't change. But when resources are constrained, ISPs will start to provide shorter DHCP leases on IP addresses to create a more fluid free-pool of addresses and, for those who never disconnect their modem, the ISP might start to use techniques to detect users that are definitely no longer actively using their connection. This gets brittle quickly; TCP connections can stay open for long periods of time without exchanging any packets. So there's a serious danger of interrupting a user's Internet presence. Given that this only goes so far, I see two primary possibilities: ISPs give out IPv6 addresses only, and provide customers with equipment that handles IPv6, but also the IPv6-IPv4 transition: Modern operating systems are mostly IPv6 enabled, but some less obvious technologies, (such as set-top boxes) are more likely to be IPv4-only, and so some transition technology is required in the equipment the ISP gives you to connect to the Internet. This solution is not unworkable, but it's likely to be fraught with many (necessary) glitches and issues. For some idea of the complexity, perhaps look at DNS64 and NAT64: http://www.slideshare.net/IOSHin... ISPs could put customers behind another layer of NAT. This tends to be known as Large Scale NAT (LSN) or Carrier Grade Nat (CGN), the former being preferable. If the ISP puts all of its customers within a 10/8 private address space, then they don't necessarily have to do much else. The NAT that sits in the customer's premises will still translate to whichever private subnet it's designed to. Thus, customers end up behind two layers of NAT. This alleviates stress on the ISPs address space, but introduces problems for the customer: NAT traversal for peer to peer connections (for VoIP, for example) is already brittle behind one NAT, let alone two. You run the risk of lowest-common denominator with two levels of NAT: you have to pay attention to the one with the poorest binding characteristics, and you have to pay attention to the one with the poorest buffering characteristics. In particular, forcing traffic through an additional bottleneck may alter traffic arrival times which in turn may affect actual throughput for TCP streams, or affect call quality for VoIP, etc.Another possibility for the ISP is known as "a+p", involves using bits from the port number to extend the address space. This requires a more complex negotiation between the customer equipment and the ISP, would likely require an extension to DHCP, and would require the use of customer premises equipment that I'm sure nobody has built. This is a nightmare scenario if ISPs decide that users only need a handful of public ports, and seriously restricts how actively the end user can use their connection. In reality, we must push toward IPv6. We want to get to the point where we're asking the question "Will turning off IPv4 affect end-users?" Unfortunately, until domestic networks are more heavily IPv6-enabled, we are stuck trying to support legacy IPv4 infrastructure. The complete exhaustion of the IPv4 space from the top-down is basically imminent: http://www.potaroo.net/tools/ipv... Beyond this point, we'll be trading smaller and smaller blocks of IPv4 just to maintain connectivity, but hopefully we'll simultaneously have a growing base of IPv6 devices.