★How do proxy servers work? And, why most college campuses provide internet through proxy servers?Please explain the technical aspects of the Networking that goes in operation of proxy servers.
Weell, what sort of proxy are you talking about?  There are two types of proxies - forward and reverse proxies.  Forward proxies (usually just referred to as proxies, and probably what you are talking about) operate on behalf of the client.  Reverse proxies operate on behalf of the server (or set of servers).  Both types of proxy server communicate with both the client and webserver (not quite technically accurate as proxy chains may be built, but we'll ignore that for now :p). In a forward proxy - the proxy retrieves data from another web server on behalf of the requesting client.  Typically the originating client knows it is talking to a forward proxy (because it was explicitly configured to do so).  A forward proxy acts like your local post office.  You know all messages flow through the post office, which are then sent to the requisite remote destinations. A reverse proxy will act as a liaison between a client and one (or typically more) webservers without explicitly making its presence known to the client.  Since HTTP is a stateless protocol this lets a reverse proxy do things like load balance a set of requests across multiple back end servers (very important for high traffic sites).  A reverse proxy acts like a large companies shipping and receiving department.  Everyone in the world just sees one address, but the people behind that address route messages to many individual departments within the company. Assuming a general [forward] proxy is in use by all clients, this server will see each and every request a client makes.  This allows the proxy to do things like cache requests so that subsequent request may be dispatched immediately without requiring bandwidth (or routing latency).  Using a proxy is one way to monitor/restrict web access/usage.  Depending on what is being done at the network level, this may be trivial or very difficult to subvert.  The use of a proxy at a university is very likely filling a local caching role. A large diverse and highly distributed set of load balancers, content caches, memory caches, discreet webservers, application servers, and database servers can be what sits behind a simple "web address". Hope that helps :p :wq    Embed Quote