★What is the best way to organise my personal unstructured data?I have lots of music, photos, documents, videos etc. They are filed by type, not topic in 5 - 6 different programs according to the type of data that they are. Tagging and organising them is hugely time consuming and there is little immediate ROI for doing so. Is it possible to have a more systematic approach?
Hi, Not sure if this will help.  I don't think there is a one application that fits all the data types and presents them in a rich and structured way. From what I see its all about using powerful search tools to filter your unstructured data to provide you with "virtual" or "dynamic" structures to your unstructured data based on your search criteria. Desktop search apps have powerful search and index abilities so you don't have to re-tag or re-order things.  You leave everything as is and then you can create "virtual" or "dynamic" folders of content based on your search criteria and reuse those search criteria.  Essentially you now have structure to your data but taken from all over the place. I use 2 apps to try and cover searching of my own data. If your data types are local to you (say only on your computer) you could try something like X1 http://www.x1.com/ This will simply index everything on your computer (or what you tell it to index) and then you can search for your data of different types. You can also hook into things like gmail, outlook, email, facebook and tweeter etc... I like it but its not perfect and you do have to pay for it. Also media (pictures, music and film) found with desktop search may not return the richness of meta data (artist, cover, rating... ) that you may have invested time into.  If you have filed by type as in MP3, DIVx, WMA etc... then something like X1 will filter that out for you and order it say alphabetically by file name (if your file names are say song titles and meaningful).  It might be enough for you. Another paid for search app is http://www.copernic.com/en/produ... Similar to X1. Google had a desktop search which has now been canned, but you might be able to get an old version to use somewhere http://googledesktop.blogspot.sg/ Microsoft had a desktop search too, but I think they have now developed that into their newer OSes (Windows 7 and Windows 8) if you have this type of OS then learning about the native search function might help.  They also have a "library" folder concept in the file system now where you pull multiple folders in from multiple disparate places to look like contiguous folder space.  I don''t think it is as powerful as a desktop search but its free with your OS and might be enough for what you want. If you want to keep things in the cloud, try things like Evernote http://evernote.com/  This stores more or less anything but you do have have to do some work to create a system of notebooks and tags to apply.  Which may be okay for new data but not for your existing.  Good search tools, its always on line and multiple mobile devices support it.  BUT you have to pay subs to get the more powerful features and take your notes offline on mobile devices as well as upload limits. For nuance data , small data notes it works great, especially if you are a very mobile person and have a smart phone etc...  Large data like video and music probably will not work so well with evernote as its not really quite designed for that. all the best.    Embed Quote