★For an enterprise (say Coca-Cola or J. P. Morgan), is the unstructured data a big deal? Should a CIO really have a big data strategy?
ATA I think the question talks about unstructured data, but is really about social data. Unstructured data is a uselessly vague term. All data has some structure; it just may not be the structure you need, which is conventionally "tabular". When this comes up in the context of "Big Data", to me, it really refers to the idea of keeping raw data and later parsing/structuring it as needed for a particular problem, rather than doing so upfront and throwing away the original data. This is also known as "schema on read" vs "schema on write". The cost is of course storing raw data rather than a processed form, which usually means much more storage. And it means parsing and re-parsing it at run-time rather thanonce. But, disk and CPU are cheap now, the software (Hadoop and friends) is free and open, so who cares? In return this buys flexibility to later mine the raw data in new and different ways. If your data warehouse schema didn't include, say, source IP in its table of clicks, you can't go get it back retrospectively, and changing the schema can be painful. This also potentially decouples downstream users: the DW schema doesn't have to meet the needs of many different group and use cases. They can all make their own structure out of the raw data. Back to social: yes there are many companies specializing in exactly this, either helping you mine  your own social data, or packaging up user data based on social networks for marketing purposes. I don't think there is a special "Big Data" angle to this from the customer perspective. Why would you do it yourself instead? it's the general competitive advantage argument. You won't differentiate by using the same data the next guy can access. Most companies believe they can gain a competitive advantage, and/or not reveal data they view to be a proprietary advantage to third parties, by doing this or other analysis in-house. Some are even right about that. That is, social data one of the few types of data where the analysis can be outsourced, since it's mostly public. For anything else, probably concerning private internal data, you'd want to or have to keep the analysis in-house, either for competitive reasons, or even regulatory reasons.    Embed Quote