★What are the key differences and similarities between IBM's Watson unstructured data analysis product and Palantir's various products?IBM's Watson Is Learning Its Way To Saving Lives
I think that the major difference is that Watson is a completely computerized solution, while Palantir's products are always designed with a human in mind. The fundamental approaches are different. The key insight for Palantir is that while computers are better than humans at a great deal of things (and that number keeps going up), there are somethings that humans are great at that computers have a ton of trouble with. Instead of trying to cut the human out of the picture entirely, what if they could work together for an even greater effect? Take chess as an example: although the best chess computer is better than the best human player, they approach the game very differently. Also, it's been shown that taking a computer and a human and teaming them up potentially yields far great results than any computer. In the real world, there might be some piece of unstructured data with 2 people named John. To distinguish between the two would be very difficult for a computer to do and there would be a fair amount of error. But for a human, it's a fairly okay task. I'm not sure where I read this (probably somewhere else on Quora), but there was a question that asked when we would have the technology to implant chips in our brains in order to control our computer cursor.  The most popular answer was that it would not happen for a very long time. The reason was that we already have a very high throughput way to control the cursor on the screen; just use the mouse with your hand. Millions of years of evolution have allowed you to control your hand with your brain at a very high level of effectiveness, and I think most people agree the current "mouse" is a tolerable interface as well. To implant a chip in your brain in order to achieve the same results would mean trying to cut your Brain->Hand interaction out of the picture. Why would you do that? Why would you put forth so much effort into engineering the technology, and then have everyone undergo surgery and months of training in order to do something you can already do with your hand very very well? Instead, it makes more sense to replace the segment that begins with your hand; in other words, can we make a mouse that's easier to use, or could we improve our graphical user interfaces? Palantir takes a similar approach to the problem of analyzing unstructured data. Why try and replace the human when we could instead augment his capabilities? The latter is easier to do, is better today, and will continue to be better for a very long time (similar to the chip in the brain). Another key advantage to this approach is that it works better in adversarial use cases. I read the article in the question details. Fighting cancer is a very very hard problem, but it's not adversarial. The disease is not conscious and it's not actively, intelligently, trying to sabotage Watson's efforts. Consider Palantir's use cases. Many of them are adversarial, whether it be fraud, counter-terrorism, or law enforcement. In each picture, there is a living, breathing human on the other side actively working against us. Those people are very serious about what they do; they spend tons of time thinking about it, and they are skilled and experienced at their work. We want to create technology which will keep the good guys one step ahead, and a completely automatic solution just isn't viable now and won't be far into the future. This is because in the adversarial class of games, there are 2 ways to play: you can play the game and you can play the player. Going back to the chess example, you can simply try to play "optimal" and win, or you can perhaps try non-optimal moves to try and get in your opponent's head and find a psychological advantage, force a mistake out of him. Human's are much better at the second approach. Remember, though, our goal is not to go one way or the other, but to combine the two in a meaningful way in order to win. Okay, I'm gonna stop my answer here because I feel like its a tad on the long side, and I could go on forever. Just to give a sneak peak, there's tons of stuff like Ethics involved (take a law enforcement context) which are obviously very difficult to do for a computer.    Embed Quote