History of Mathematics: Was calculus already developed before Newton and Leibniz?
Much of calculus was. The fundamental theorem was developed by Oresme 300 years earlier.  Cavalieri's method was used to find some areas and volumes. Fermat integrated and differentiated polynomials and power functions.  Logs were described in terms of the area under y=1/x. Addendum Oresme’s Fundamental Theorem of Calculus Nicole Oresme (ca. 1323–1382) was at the University of Paris and expanded the analytic study of changing quantities. He had a graphical interpretation very similar to the modern graph  y=f(x)    of a function in the  (x,y)  -plane, although analytic geometry and coordinates were yet to be developed by Fermat and Descartes in the 1600s. He represented time as a line, much as Aristotle had done long before, so that instants in a time interval were represented by points on a horizontal line segment AB, which he called the longitude. Given a moving object, at each instant in time E that moving object has a velocity, and he represented that velocity by a vertical line segment EF proportional to the velocity; each vertical line segment he called a latitude. These latitudes together formed a plane region ABDC, which he called a form, bounded on the bottom by the original longitude AB, on the left by the initial latitude AC representing the initial velocity, on the right by the final latitude BD representing the final velocity, and on the top by the curve CFD which he called the summit curve. He then argued that the area of that form ABDC is proportional to the distance traveled. Oresme made the various lengths proportional to distances or times since he thought (as the ancient Greeks did) that they’re different kinds of things, but we would probably use the language of equality: we would make length of the longitude equal the elapsed time, and the length of a latitude equal the velocity at that instant. We now write his result using Leibniz’ notation as ∫ b a f(x)dx.  In the 1300s there was no symbolic algebra at all—no equal sign, no minus sign, and no variables. Fermat's algorithms Fermat (1601–1665) studied polynomials  f(x)    and determined how to find their maxima and minima in the 1630s. His method was called adequality and was intended to find where maxima and minima should occur. I'll leave out his explanation why it should work. To illustrate his algorithm, consider the function  f(x)=x 3 −x.    Fermat "adequated"  f(x+e)    with  f(x)    by setting them equal, simplifying the resulting equation, dividing by  e,  setting  e    to 0, and solving the resulting equation.  (We generally use  h    now in preference to  e    since the letter  e    has been appropriated for a different purpose.)      f(x+e)=(x+e) 3 −(x+e)                          =x 3 +3x 2 e+3xe 2 +e 3 −x−e               f(x)=x 3 −x  Set them equal and simplify.                          3x 2 e+3xe 2 +e 3 −e=0  Divide by  e.                           3x 2 +3xe+e 2 −1=0  And set  e    to 0.                                 3x 2 −1=0  Therefore  x=±1/3 − − −  √ .    And, indeed, that's where the extrema of  f(x)    occur. He also used this method of adequality to find the tangent to the graph  y=f(x)    of a polynomial at a particular value of  x.  It's very similar to our modern method, but now we use limits to get around the problem of dividing by  e    which is later set to 0. Fermat's integration Fermat has a rigorous proof that the area under the curve  y=x n     between  x=0    and  x=a    was  a n+1 n+1 .    He divided the interval in a geometric progression and sums the areas of approximating rectangles, which he could do since he could compute the sums of infinite geometric series.  He proved it not just for integral exponents, but also for rational exponents. Updated 27 Apr 2014 • View Upvotes