What are some brain hacks that a neuroscientist or a psychologist knows that most people don't?
Transcranial direct-current stimulation (tDCS) From this article - http://www.extremetech.com/extre... It seems, with the help of a 9-volt battery, wire, crocodile clips, and wet sponges, you can increase your brain’s performance and, more importantly, return your brain to its younger, more malleable and learning-receptive state. The technique, which is lumbered with the fantastic and slightly terrifying name of transcranial direct-current stimulation (tDCS), is similar to deep brain  stimulation (DBS), but it doesn’t involve complex neurosurgery. TCDS runs a very small current — just 2 milliamps — into brain tissue just beneath your scalp; it’s non-invasive, and seemingly quite safe. And this article - http://www.nature.com/news/2011/... - It might sound like some wacky garage experiment, but Vincent Clark, a neuroscientist at the University of New Mexico, says that the technique, called transcranial direct-current stimulation (tDCS), could improve learning. The US Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency funded the research in the hope that it could be used to sharpen soldiers' minds on the battlefield. Yet for all its simplicity, it seems to work. Volunteers receiving 2 milliamps to the scalp (about one-five-hundredth the amount drawn by a 100-watt light bulb) showed twice as much improvement in the game after a short amount of training as those receiving one-twentieth the amount of current1. "They learn more quickly but they don't have a good intuitive or introspective sense about why," says Clark. The image illustrates how it works: Source: http://www.nature.com/news/2011/... Personally, I will probably never try it, as my brain is one of my most prized possessions. I include it just because its interesting, and who knows, maybe it'll be widely used in the future (although, I probably still wouldn't do it). Neuroscience and Creativity: How to be creative - What did Albert Einstein, James Clerk Maxwell, Isaac Newton, Van Gogh, Richard Feynman and Leonardo Da Vinci, all have in common? First, they were all creative and second, they had no idea where their creativity came from. James Clerk Maxwell, the Scottish mathematician who came up with the equations that unified electricity and magnetism, had a strange confession on his deathbed.  He insisted that “something within him” discovered the famous equations, not he. He admitted that he had no idea how ideas actually came to him - they simply did. Sometimes, creative people invent causes to their creativity and how they happened to have gotten their ideas, but its a lot like a post-hoc explanation. The explanations are often not very convincing, and are most likely wrong. While we do not explicitly know about how the brain gives rise to creativity, we do know about the outside influences that causes the brain to be creative. According to the video below (which is my source), the chief component of creativity is obsession. You have to be obsessive in your domain to get creative results. You have to keep working at it, day after day, month after month and sometimes for years depending on the complexity of the problem, before you get your creative idea. Einstein didn't come up with relativity in a month. If your problem is great don't expect be to done in a short time. The component stages of Creativity: All creative processes seem to follow this common pattern: Preparation - This is the part where you work hard. If your area of creativity involves information, you have to get all the relevant information into your head. If you are going to paint, you will have to make sure that every brush stroke is perfect. Michelangelo supposedly drew 4000 paintings as practice before painting the Sistine Chapel (I can't find the source at the moment). You have to do the preparatory work of laying out the foundation of your creativity. Incubation - This is the part where you relax and let the brain do its thing. The one who is creative is not you, its your brain. You have give it freedom to work away at the problem and not be bogged down by thinking about the immediate environment and everyday life. Creative people are often very absentminded. Programmers will often say that when they come upon a problem that they cannot solve, they solve it by taking a break. Most programmers will tell you that they solved their programming problems when they were nowhere near their computers. The break allows their brain to disengage from the world and work on the problem. When I say brain, I mean the unconscious brain. When you are taking a break don't try to force your thoughts, space-out and let your thoughts go where ever they might. In this stage your brain is working on the problem incognito and making new connections, new connections you have never made before. If the problem is great and consequential, you will be making connections no one has ever made before. Illumination - This is the ''Eureka!'' moment. This is where you go ''Aha, why didn't I see that before?''. Verification - This is where you check your creative idea against the cold, hard truth of reality. Creativity has nothing to do with IQ: You do not have to be highly intelligent to be creative. There is no relationship between IQ and creativity. There is a much greater relationship between obsession and creativity. A lot of geniuses, such as Albert Einstein, were not young superstars. You do not have to have a high IQ to be creative. Dare to be simple: Simplicity is key. The solutions to great problems are often very simple and elegant. We have a bias to think that great problems require great solutions but that isn't necessarily always the case. From Albert Einstein - ''Any intelligent fool can make things bigger, more complex, and more violent. It takes a touch of genius -- and a lot of courage -- to move in the opposite direction''. Occam's razor - ''simpler explanations are, other things being equal, generally better than more complex ones''. Being a little crazy makes you more creative: Emphasis on little. Being a little crazy means you are thinking in ways no one else is thinking in and you can see things in ways other people cannot. Eccentric people have different brain connections and are able to connect things in different ways. Keep an open mind: Thanks to James H. Kelly for suggesting this. It helps in creativity if you tryout lots of different things, no matter how bat-shit crazy they sound. Very often what you take for granted, may be the exact thing you need to scrutinize to figure out the solution to your problem. It is important to rock the boat, so to speak, question everything; most often scientists who become famous are the ones who successfully rock the boat. You don't know its crazy until you try. From James's comment - ''It's very easy to open yourself up and come up with something brilliant,  but then, when you think about it rationally, shut it down with a, "maw, that's just too crazy." One of the skills of the creative person is the ability not to reject ideas based on fear or even rationality. Just go with it. If it really doesn't work, you'll run out steam. If not, you probably have something.'' Be courageous: Creativity requires that you be courageous and try things that you wouldn't normally do. When you try new approaches, things can go horribly wrong, but don't be discouraged, be persistent. You will be wrong more often than you will be right. Even if your are wrong, it means you have figured out one more thing that won't work and have taken one more step towards the solution. Thomas Edison once said ''I have not failed. I've just found 10,000 ways that won't work.'' Be wrong: Similar to the last one, being wrong is not a bad thing. You won't be right unless you are wrong. And finally... Relax: I'll say it again, you are not creative, your brain is. You must relax and thus allow your brain to work on creative problems. Take holidays, sip on mai tais, have a lie down, take a walk, whatever it takes to disengage your brain from everyday life and zone out. Creative ideas come when you aren't thinking about how to be creative. So relax, put in the hard work and get everything in your brain, and let it worry about how to connect it all together, that's what it is good at. For more information see this video: Vincent Walsh - Neuroscience and Creativity: This might also be interesting: Steven Johnson - Where good ideas come from: From this article - http://www.wired.com/geekdad/201... Everything You Thought You Knew About Learning Is Wrong Taking notes during class? Topic-focused study? A consistent learning environment? All are exactly opposite of the best strategies for learning. I recently had the good fortune to interview Robert Bjork, the director of the UCLA Learning and Forgetting Lab, a distinguished professor of psychology, and a massively renowned expert on packing things in your brain in a way that keeps them from leaking out. It turns out that everything I thought I knew about learning is wrong. First, he told me, think about how you attack a pile of study material. “People tend to try to learn in blocks,” Bjork said. “Mastering one thing before moving on to the next.” Instead of doing that Bjork recommends interleaving. The strategy suggest that instead of spending an hour working on your tennis serve, you mix in a range of skills like backhands, volleys, overhead smashes, and footwork. “This creates a sense of difficulty,” Bjork said. “And people tend not to notice the immediate effects of learning.” Instead of making an appreciable leap forward with your serving ability after a session of focused practice, interleaving forces you to make nearly imperceptible steps forward with many skills. But over time, the sum of these small steps is much greater than the sum of the leaps you would have taken if you’d spent the same amount of time mastering each skill in its turn. Bjork explains that successful interleaving allows you to “seat” each  skill among the others. “If information is studied so that it can be interpreted in relation to other things in memory, learning is much more powerful,” he said. There’s one caveat: Make sure the mini skills you interleave are related in some higher-order way. If you’re trying to learn tennis, you’d want to interleave serves, backhands, volleys, smashes, and footwork — not serves, synchronized swimming, European capitals, and programming in Java. Similarly, studying in only one location is great as long as you’ll only be required to recall the information in the same location. If you want information to be accessible outside your dorm room, or office, or nook on the second floor of the library, Bjork recommends varying your study location. Interleaving and varying your study location will help whether you’re  mastering math skills, learning French, or trying to become a better ballroom dancer. A somewhat related phenomenon — the spacing effect, which was first described by Hermann Ebbinghaus in 1885 — will also help. “If you study and then you wait, tests show that the longer you wait, the more you will have forgotten,” Bjork said. But here’s the cool part: If you study, wait, and then study again, the longer the wait, the more you’ll have learned after this second study session. Bjork explains it this way: “When we access things from our memory, we do more than reveal it’s there. It’s not like a playback. What we retrieve becomes more retrievable in the future. Provided the retrieval succeeds, the more difficult and involved the retrieval, the more beneficial it is.” Note that there’s a trick implied by “provided the retrieval succeeds.” You should space your study sessions so that the information you learned in the first session remains just barely retrievable. Then, the more you have to work to pull it from the soup of your mind, the more this second study session will reinforce your learning. If you study again too soon, it’s too easy. Along these lines, Bjork also recommends taking notes just after class, rather than during — forcing yourself to recall a lecture’s information is more effective than simply copying it from a blackboard. You have to work for it. The more you work, the more you learn, and the more you learn, the more awesome you can become. “Forget about forgetting,” said Bjork. “People tend to think that learning is building up something in your memory and that forgetting is losing the things you built. But in some respects the opposite is true.” See, once you learn something, you never actually forget it. Do you remember your childhood  best friend’s phone number? No? Well, Bjork showed that if you were reminded, you would retain it much more quickly and strongly than if you were asked to memorize a fresh seven-digit number. So this old phone number is not forgotten — it lives somewhere in you — but recall can be a bit tricky. And while we count forgetting as the sworn enemy of learning, in some ways that’s wrong, too. The two live in a kind of symbiosis in which forgetting actually aids recall. “Because humans have unlimited storage capacity, having total recall would be a mess,” said Bjork. “Imagine you remembered all the phone numbers of all the houses you had ever lived in. When someone asks you your current phone number, you would have to sort it from this long list.” Instead, we forget the old phone numbers, or at least bury them far beneath the ease of recall we gift to our current number. What you thought were sworn enemies are more like distant collaborators. Updated 25 Feb 2012 • View Upvotes