What can you not fathom, understand, or reconcile no matter how hard you try?
I fail to understand how Tejas was ignored in school for more than three years and told that he wasn't worth a dime. I am a Teach For India 2014 Fellow and I operate in a first year intervention class-room as a grade 2 teacher to a bunch of 25 zealous kids.  As a part of our beginning of the year assessments, I ask my kids to write a note about anything they wanted to. My kids look confused. "What to do you mean by write whatever you want to? I can copy from the black-board. How about that?", reflects the look on their faces. "You can do it. Try. Think!", I reinforce. I make my way around the classroom through the narrow space, saving the tiny, colourful bags. "Hmm, nice. On task. As long as they are writing something, it's all good." Then, I reach Tejas. Fiddling with his pencil, making a strange face. "What's up, Tejas?" "Didi, kya likhna hai?" (What to write?) "Poor soul, doesn't know his alphabet. What do I tell him?", I ask myself. "It's okay, Tejas. Didi knows. We'll work on it together." I console him and move to the next desk. "Hmm, this looks good. I see some words on this paper.", I think. "You know, kid, you can take help from the Word Wall." This is when Tejas turns around and looks at me with glittering eyes and calls out, "The Word Wall?" His eyes say to me, beaming with joy , "The Word Wall? Did you just say' the Word Wall'? The frigging Word Wall?" He picks up his pencil and starts dashing off every word from the Word Wall on his sheet of paper. He doesn't know what he is scribbling but he doesn't stop till he has copied all. I watch him from a distance. I watch him get up from his seat again and again trying to imitate each alphabetical notation on his little white sheet to utmost perfection. His passion leaves me appalled. Such zeal to fill a sheet of paper and no teacher to teach? No teacher took up his case in the last three years. One boy lagged behind the class and they chose to do nothing about it? Overtime, they told him he can never do it. Why? Because you couldn't do your job well? 3 years of ignorant schooling. 660 days of teaching and Tejas was never told that he can? 3300 hours with the kid and never was the child asked if he needs help? Never? "How did they miss him?", I ask myself but in vain. Tejas here with his favourite wall in the class-room. All smiles. Updated 4 Dec 2014 • View Upvotes • Not for Reproduction