What are some brain hacks that a neuroscientist or a psychologist knows that most people don't?
The field of embodied or grounded cognition is fertile for easy and effective brain hacks. One of the basic ideas of embodied cognition is that we use our experiences with the physical world as subconscious scaffolding to make sense of abstract ideas. You can see it actively in the metaphors we use, but in the last ten years a whole slew of experiments have demonstrated that these connections between experiences and ideas can have a pronounced impact on our behavior. So, for example, one common metaphor for affection is physical warmth. This shows up in phrases like "She greeted me warmly." In one awesome study, people were brought in to do a product evaluation. They were given either a heating pad or a cold pad to hold for 60 seconds. After they gave their opinions of the products, they were given two options as a reward: either something for themselves or a reward to "treat a friend." People who held the hot pad picked the reward for a friend twice as often as people who held the cold one. There's lots more studies like this one, but to get to the brain hacks: actions can have a pronounced impact on thought. People who stand in a big open position for just 60 seconds not only feel more powerful, but also showed a spike in their testosterone levels. Try that next time you go in for an interview or a negotiation. People who sat up straight felt more proud. People who moved their arms in a "fluid" motion were more creative. People who smiled were happier and thought things were funnier. In one awesome study they compared emotional pleasure in women who had Botox and women who had Juviderm. Both are injectibles for your face, but Botox paralyzes the muscles you use to make small smiles. Sure enough, those women experienced a marked drop in the ability to experience mild emotional pleasure. No action = no idea. Your experiences with certain people can also become fodder for ideas. In one experiment, people who reported that they wanted to make their mom proud did better on a test when they thought about their mom ahead of time. 