What are some brain hacks that a neuroscientist or a psychologist knows that most people don't?
Lucid dreaming.    I might consider one of the ultimate hacks to be consciously exploring, and even programming, the inner self through the dream state.  When one experiences the lucid dreaming state, it comes with a heightened sense of awareness and often an expanded sense of consciousness.  The experience comes with all of the physical, mental, and emotional components we're used to in the waking state, but with more sensory attunement.   Modern science has been exploring the lucid dream state for at least 50 years, with huge strides made by Stephen LaBerge at the Stanford Sleep Center.  Of course, Buddhists and other peoples have been exploring the lucid dream state for many thousands of years.   You will often hear adept lucid dreamers today describe their lives as either being in the dream state, or the waking state, because while the "real world" exists in the waking state, the dream state also contains a "real world".  What that dreaming world is may be a product of an individual's mental functions or subconscious mind, or may be something much greater.   Scientists from the Max Planck Institute study lucid dreaming, and recently performed MRI testing to visualize brain activity in the lucid state versus the non-lucid dream state.   “The general basic activity of the brain is similar in a normal dream and in a lucid dream,” says Michael Czisch, head of a research group at the Max Planck Institute of Psychiatry. “In a lucid state, however, the activity in certain areas of the cerebral cortex increases markedly within seconds. The involved areas of the cerebral cortex are the right dorsolateral prefrontal cortex, to which commonly the function of self-assessment is attributed, and the frontopolar regions, which are responsible for evaluating our own thoughts and feelings. The precuneus is also especially active, a part of the brain that has long been linked with self-perception.” [1] As far as hacking the brain, adept lucid dreamers describe capabilities to problem-solve in their dreams, create art and music, practice physical athletic tasks, as well as perform other experiments - all during this altered state of consciousness.  [1] The seat of meta-consciousness in the brain 