How can I get a job at Facebook or Google in 6 months?How should I be going? I need a concise work-plan to build a good enough skill set. Should I join some other start-up? Should I build my own projects or start-up? Should I just focus on practicing up on Data Structures and Algorithms ?
Originally Answered: What is the best way to get a job at Google?Kevin made a good point about how to get into <generally regarded as hard to get into company>. Some additional points that I've noticed since I've been here (which may very well apply to other companies as well): Show some entrepreneurship, or self-motivation in side projects. There will be times here where you'll be expected to drive your own projects. Befriend a Googler, and get them to refer you. It won't make the interview easier, but it'll get the recruiter to notice you moreso than the millions who apply via the jobs site. Broaden your (technical) scope. This applies mostly to engineering, but since we like to hire generalists it makes sense to not specialize in one or two areas (even if it's really cool and totally the current and next hottest thing). If you think about it, not everybody who's interviewing you will share your expertise or appreciate the depth, so fundamentals are more important. In contrast, don't just tap the surface for the sake of appearing to be general. I'm a front-end engineer, and I'm almost always saddened by candidates who wrote maybe 10 lines of jQuery, call themselves "knowledgeable in Javascript, jQuery", and then get stuck with simple questions. Again, fundamentals matter.I can't think of any way to really circumvent the intricacies of the interview process; if you can make it through the interview, you can certainly find yourself a job or make enough of a splash (e.g., in open source projects) for Google to find you. All that stuff about having to graduate from a top school or building something to be bought by Google is merely a reflection of your skill as opposed to a shortcut to husslin' yourself into the company. 