What can you not fathom, understand, or reconcile no matter how hard you try?
Oh this is fun... Ok here goes:   Righteousness and hypocrasy in general.  Religious types in particular, but really anyone who thinks they're better than anyone else and needs to prove this by going around pointing fingers at others.  The ones with the signs.  The "God hates..." people.  The folks who are so adamantly against granting equal rights to same-sex couples or allowing a rape victim to abort her unborn fetus (but you won't see them bat an eyelash when their tax money is spent on murdering 20,000+ actual, living people-- children and adults...).  And there is this ongoing situation in the Congo where kids are getting their limbs chopped off, where hundreds of thousands of young women have been raped in front of their families, and like, no one cares....   In some countries (Afghanistan, Iran, Mali, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Somalia..), a woman can be publicly stoned to death for cheating (or allegedly cheating) on her husband.  Last I checked it was 2012... Priests and Scout leaders with not one but several child molestation instances, who were not put in jail or fired but rather moved to a new church/group and were allowed to contunue practicing/molesting for so many years.  And why anyone would continue to attend a church or group involved in these kinds of things or have any remaining respect for the Vatican when they are mostly ambivilant about the issue.....   That we are so advanced as a civilization we have computers the size of a palm now, air travel, plastic surgury, and music moguls going to outerspace for a vacation, but as far as our foreign policy is concerned, we're still complete barbarians.  Only more dangerous and high-tech.  There are people in the world who are living in jail right now-- many of them suffering daily torture on top of this-- simply for speaking out for what they thought was right, for believing something that isn't in style where they live, for loving someone of the same sex, or simply for being in the wrong place at the wrong time. The fact that I-- as an pseudo Atheist (don't ask me to define what I believe exactly; I don't really know)-- am paying for a separate Catholic school system with my taxes so Catholic parents can force religion down their kids' throats not only on Sundays but Monday to Friday as well, even though I personally would be (and was) denied access to such a school due to my beliefs and my mother's marital status.  I had to attend an overcrowded public school which actually received less funding per capita than the Catholic system, and was less safe.  And say I wanted to put my children in a better and/or religious program of any other kind, I would have to pay for it out of my own pocket.  But my taxes would still be going to the Catholic and public system, regardless.  Why am I paying for someone else's church?  Do you think the Catholics would like to pitch in so I can buy a Kuran?  Or some books about Budhism?   Hahahaha!!!   Not! There was a woman from Toronto here who tried to challege this on her own actually. Sadly, her case was dismissed (for reasons which only confuse me further) http://www.winnipegfreepress.com... Bullies. Evil in general.  Violent people who just can't talk it through....   Catty women (and men!!). This behavior does not make you appear more attractive, productive, intelligent, or friendly. EVER.   And yet... Long division and other math.  And sadly, most science-y stuff.  Somewhat ironcly I work with a bunch of eggheads at my job and amazingly get paid to be there, though most of what we (they) do completely baffles me. (I type things!) And yeah, outer space and our whole existance... 