What are some brain hacks that a neuroscientist or a psychologist knows that most people don't?
A very small sub group of stroke patients who have lost voluntary movement of either right/left limbs; when they yawn they stretch out both arms (YES, the paralyzed arm too, it seems like witch craft) This is due to a neural circuit close to respiratory center (reflex) Human brain (even some birds like crow and few more) has circuits inbuilt for number processing; one of them is left angular gyrus (one of those bumps in brain). Lesions (damage) in this area lead to damaged number processing. Subjects can't subtract 7 from 100. They understand what are numbers, they can tell a number is big or small, that infinity is the largest number out there. BUT no number processing. Some patients will have finger agnosia where they can't do simple addition or subtraction using fingers of hand !! Pinocchio illusion Arrange two chairs one right behind the other and have one of your friends sit in front of you and you sit behind and blindfold your both eyes. Keep your dominant hand's pointing finger to your friend's nose and your other hand's finger to your nose. Now tap your both fingers alternatively in a synchronised manner. After a minute you will feel your nose is 3 feet long! (50% of people can experience this illusion) Charles Bonnet syndrome, these patients will have some defects in visual system rendering partial loss of vision, Strangely brain fills this dark area with very vivid visual hallucinations. This happens to millions of people who have compromised vision due to glaucoma/cataract or diabetic retinopathy. They tend to ignore this for the fear that others will label them as crazy! Pseudocyseis : False pregnancy, but their abdomens enlarge to large proportions, sway back posture, mysterious deposition of abdominal fat, pigmented nipples, stoppage of menstruation, they lactate, have morning sickness. All are normal EXCEPT for the fact that, they are not pregnant. The fact that one can read the below passage implies visual processing is highly sophisticated and robust. Rahul Venugopal's answer to Are synaesthetic experiences misperceptions, like hallucinations and illusions? The amazing 'real' phenomenon of Synaesthesia. Rahul Venugopal's answer to Does our brain have a data storage limit?REFERENCES : V S Ramachandran's books, lectures, BBC transcript on savants, UCSD Neuroscience archives. 