What are some brain hacks that a neuroscientist or a psychologist knows that most people don't?
Thus far, all of the answers are awesome, and most of the suggestions have been proven effective.  To add to the mix, here are a few findings that I have learnt to apply to my life and that have yielded some interesting implications... It has been suggested that high blood-glucose concentrations can improve cognitive functioning.  Under periods of neuronal activity, acetylcholine (a neurotransmitter) synthesis via glucose digestion/metabolism can enhance memory.  The study also suggests that eating breakfast can improve declarative memory (knowledge that is called upon verbally; typically explains what, rather than how). (http://ajcn.nutrition.org/conten...) Glucose is one of the top brain fuels, and is depleted rather quickly.  Eat your fruits and grains! (Food for thought: Glucose is good for learning and memory) Neuroplasticity (synaptic plasticity, synaptogenesis*, neurogenesis, neuronal migration, functional rearrangements, etc.) is a beautiful thing... with enough action, reinforcement, and care, you can rewire your brain in a multitude of ways.  One trick to optimize your physical (and "mental") health is to embrace an optimistic philosophy... one that pushes you to find the "silver lining", one that converts negative experiences to simple learning experiences, one that allows you to recognize that not everything in life will happen in your favor, one that fills you with a desire to become better. (http://www.investigatinghealthym...) (bigthink.comNeuroplasticity: You Can Teach An Old Brain New Tricks | Think Tank | Big Think) An example of neuroplasticity, the power of positive thinking may be able to improve your health and/or minimize the risk of detriment.  The meta-analysis below found that optimism is a significant predictor of physical health.  However, this area of research is hotly debated and more studies are needed to substantiate such suggestions.  (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/...) A study published after the aforementioned meta-analysis also supports these suggestions, though covariates and confounding variables are still an issue. (Lung cancer research explores the effects of patient attitudes on patient outcomes) Mirror neurons: any time you watch someone (or animals in general) do something, a corresponding mirror neuron may be firing... this may serve as a way for us to empathize with others, or could facilitate observational learning.  Consider these mirror neurons micro video-cameras that record perceived actions that are later stored away for retrieval (they most likely linger in the subconscious).  (Mirror neurons - Scholarpedia) (UCLA researchers make first direct recording of mirror neurons in human brain) Epigenetic theory is gaining popularity as more people are recognizing the powerful influence of environments on perception, cognition, and genotypes. That said, I figure I should finish by mentioning the results of recent studies that have assessed the relationship between executive skills (e.g., working memory, attention, impulse regulation, verbal reasoning), mood, and colors. Red (versus blue) can activate an avoidance approach and can enhance performance on detail-oriented (versus creative) cognitive tasks.  This is postulated to be the case due to the association of dangers and mistakes with red.  Whereasin blue can induce a more creative and imaginative mind state, which is associated with an activation of an approach motivation (e.g., courageous approach). (http://www.uvm.edu/~pdodds/files...) Participants in a low-demand task perceived the task as lower in a blue workspace than in a red.  Conversely, participants in a high-demand task perceived the task as higher in a blue workspace than in a red. Additionally, individuals whom performed in the blue workspaces perceived the temperature to be cooler than those in the red, and were also less distracted.  Furthermore, this study found that low-demand tasks (and blue) correlate to feelings of privacy and depression (more calming) while high-demand tasks (and red) correlate to hostility and anxiety (more stimulatory). It should be noted that higher levels of perceived task demand were associated with higher levels of hostility, anxiety, and depression, and lower levels of satisfaction.  (http://info.umuc.edu/mde/Portfol...) The perception of red prior to an achievement task impairs performance relative to the perception of green or an achromatic color (black, gray, or white).  It also evokes avoidance motivation (as indicated by participants' choice of easy relative to difficult tasks)*.  The study used four variants of red and green hues and both language-based and number-based achievement tasks.  In addition, a brief glimpse of red on the cover of an IQ test appeared to impair performance on the test.  A study by Hill & Barton (2005) found that Olympic athletes who wore red in face-to-face competitions (e.g., wrestling matches) performed better than those who wore blue, and from this finding it was concluded that wearing red enhances performance. However, wearing color and viewing color were completely confounded in this study, and it may have been that viewing red impaired performance, not that wearing red enhanced performance.  Furthermore, the directionality of the finding could not be determined given the absence of an achromatic control condition and, it is important to note, the colors examined were neither rated on typicality nor equated on saturation and brightness. (http://courseware.eduwest.com/sh...) Green is linked to a mastery-oriented approach.  Mastery-oriented motivation  has been shown to facilitate deep processing, intrinsic interest, and creative performance, but has no clear relation to analytical performance (Elliot, McGregor, & Gable, 1999; Hirst et al., 2009; Hulleman, Schrager, Bodmann, & Harackiewicz, 2010; Janssen & Van Yperen, 2004; Shally, Gilson, & Blum, 2009).  Regarding red*, they view this color as a general aversive cue signaling danger and potential negative outcomes in performance contexts (Elliot & Maier, 2007; Moller et al., 2009). (http://psp.sagepub.com/content/3...4) The effect of red on nonconscious avoidance motivation.  Using an EEG to assess prefrontal cortical activity (right (relative to left) prefrontal cortical activity indicates avoidance motivation has been activated in the brain), the researchers found that participants shown red evidenced more right prefrontal cortical activity than those shown green or gray. (http://www.psych.rochester.edu/r...) Updated 27 Dec 2012 • View Upvotes