How can I get a job at Facebook or Google in 6 months?How should I be going? I need a concise work-plan to build a good enough skill set. Should I join some other start-up? Should I build my own projects or start-up? Should I just focus on practicing up on Data Structures and Algorithms ?
This answer is my journey from the person who was scared of programming interviews, to my present state as having cracked the Google Interview and as a programming interview coach. A slow and steady practice for several months will help you a lot more than a intense practice for a few weeks. 6 months is an awful lot of time. With tens of thousands of programming questions, hundreds of websites, and dozens of books, preparing for programming interviews may be intimidating.   So I've created a checklist of the topics needed to prep for programming interviews. Topics to prepare for Programming Interview •Knowledge based questions oJava language questions oCore computer science concept questions •Data Structures oArrays oLinked Lists oHash Tables oTrees, Tries and Graphs oHeaps oStacks & Queues •Algorithms oRecursion oDynamic programming oTree traversal techniques oSearching and Sorting techniques •Behavioral questions (least important) •Code complexity •Design Questions oSystem design questions oObject Oriented design questions •Popular interview questions The details about this checklist is here: Hacking the Programming Interview - 1 by Ash Moorthy on Random Rants Once you have familiarized yourself with the basic concepts, it is time for practice. Some popular websites to practice interview questions are: Programming Interview Questions | CareerCup LeetCode Online Judge GeeksforGeeks | A computer science portal for geeks Coding Interview preparation made easy Practice without your IDE (use online text editor - collabedit or something similar) to solve the problems and then try to run your code .  With practice, see yourself getting better and better -- your code will become almost ready to compile and bug free! But of course, the long hours of problem solving can be frustrating. Network with others and solve problems in a group setting, and this won't feel so frustrating anymore. And in the last month or so: Lastly, ask a friend or better yet, hire a professional to help you with mock interviews.  Identify  areas of improvement and work on them. If you are in the San Francisco Bay Area, don't miss  the Programming Interview Prep Meetup. The group meets every other Friday, and each meeting focuses on a specific topic.  Participants form groups based on their skill level, and solve questions as a group.  By participating in this meetup, you get to solve problems in a group setting (which is more effective and fun than lonely practice), and more importantly learn from other others. Updated 2 Oct • View Upvotes