What are some brain hacks that a neuroscientist or a psychologist knows that most people don't?
Memory consolidation and productivity can both be improved by taking breaks. Memory consolidation: Tambini et al. recently showed that resting your brain after learning is very important in memory consolidation.  During rest the hippocampus is able to transfer information to the cortex to be stored.  The brain cannot do this very effectively if you do not take breaks. [1,2] Productivity It is suggested that you work in 60-90 minute intervals and then take a break.  Ericsson et al. conducted a very interesting study looking at elite and average violin players and how much they practiced.  They found that the elite players practiced for about the same amount of time as the good players per day.  However, the elite players would practice very hard for no more than 90 minutes and then take breaks and even naps in between while the average players would practice throughout the day but with less focus. The average players, [researchers] discovered, spread their work throughout the day. A graph included in the paper, which shows the average time spent working versus the waking hours of the day, is essentially flat. The elite players, by contrast, consolidated their work into two well-defined periods. When you plot the average time spent working versus the hours of the day for these players, there are two prominent peaks: one in the morning and one in the afternoon. In fact, the more elite the player, the more pronounced the peaks. For the best of the best - the subset of the elites who the professors thought would go on to play in one of Germany's two best professional orchestras - there was essentially no deviation from a rigid two-sessions a day schedule. This isolation of work from leisure had pronounced effects in other areas of the players' lives. [3] Joshua Bell Although the brain is incredibly advanced and "intelligent" it is remarkably easy to trick it.  Here is one example of tricking the brain in order to treat a disorder. Phantom Limb: This is a phenomenon in which the brain can actually believe that an amputated limb is still attached to your body.   Approximately 60 to 80% of individuals with an amputation experience phantom sensations in their amputated limb, and the majority of the sensations are painful. [4]  This can be a very painful syndrome because the phantom limb will often get stuck in an extremely painful cramped position and the amputee will have no way to stretch the limb and stop the pain.  The phantom limb was essentially untreatable until one neuroscientist, Dr. Ramachandran came up with a remarkably simple treatment.  All he did was make a box with a mirror in it and had the amputee put his intact limb in one side and the amputated limb behind the mirror on the other.  The amputee then moved the intact limb and saw in the mirror his phantom limb moving which tricked his brain into relieving the pain in the phantom limb.  [1] http://www.cell.com/neuron/abstr... [2] http://www.futurity.org/science-... [3] http://psycnet.apa.org/journals/... [4]  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pha... Updated 24 Jul 2014 • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Abid Ullah