Why are there only 12 pitch notes (C, C#, ..., B) in the world?I learned that pitch is determined by frequency of the sound waves. I know that each note has specific frequency Hz. For example, C3 is 130.8Hz and C#3 is 138.6. So what the heck is between those two pitch notes? If there are so many pitches between these half-step notes, how come it feels like almost all pitches in the world can be identified as one of the 12 pitch notes?
I'm interpreting the question this way: why the heck should there be exactly *twelve* pitches (in most Western music and on many Western instruments (e.g. piano)), when the spectrum of frequencies is continuous? There is a genuinely non-arbitrary reason for twelve pitches, though it takes some explaining (and, as we'll see, a worldwide conspiracy spanning hundreds of years(!) and the collaboration of none other than J.S. Bach!). Starting point: human perception of harmony between two tones is surprisingly arithmetic, meaning that the closer two tones come to having a simple ratio of frequencies, the more "harmonious" (or consonant) the two tones sound. So let's build a scale by starting with one tone and adding more and more tones that are "harmonious" with the ones already in the scale. The simplest first addition is the octave - for example. play middle-C on the piano along with the C one octave above that. In this case the higher note has a frequency exactly twice the lower note. Two tones that are separated by an octave sound so harmonious that many people would describe them as "the same note" even though one is higher than the other. If octaves have a 2:1 ratio of frequency, the next simplest ratio to try is 3:2 (a perfect fifth), and the next one (greater than one) after that  is 4:3 (a perfect fourth). If we start with middle C on the piano, then the perfect fifth corresponds (roughly) to G above middle C and the fourth corresponds to F above middle C. Note that fourths and fifths are kind of inverses of each other: take the 4:3 ratio of the fourth, divide the frequency by 2, and you get 2:3.  Multiply that by 3:2 and we are back to our starting point. In other words: go up by a fourth, then go down by an octave, then go up by a fifth and you are back to the start. (This is already most of the way toward explaining why I-IV-V chords are so pervasive in popular music.) Also notice the frequency difference between the fourth and fifth in terms of the start note: 3/2 - 4/3 = (9-8)/6 = 1/6, which is twice 1/12. Hmm. So imagine that we have a scale comprised only of start tone, fourth, fifth and octave. How should we expand the scale to include more notes? Let's suppose that we work outwards from the three notes we already have in our scale, and successively add notes that are "harmonious" with the notes we already have (i.e. have a perfect-fourth or perfect-fifth relationship with them), and taking octave relationships as equivalent. Now, there is no point in taking a note that we reached by a fifth from a previous note in the set and then adding the fourth of that second note, because we will have just added the octave of that very first note. Instead, let's see how far we can get by adding fifths and dividing by 2 when we feel like it (since that just drops us down an octave). It turns out that if we take a note and raise its frequency by a ratio of 3:2 twelve times in a row, then this happens: (3/2)^12 = 129.746 ~= 1.013 x 2^7 In other words, it takes 12 steps around what is called the "Circle of Fifths" until you reach an approximate power of two of the original tone (meaning some number of octaves above it).  If you're looking for the simplest explanation for why piano scales have the magic number of 12 steps between octaves, this would be it. On the piano, the Circle of Fifths looks like this:  C, G, D, A, E, B, F#, C#, G#, D#, A#, F, C (treating all black keys as sharps). And there we have all the twelve tones on the piano. Now all this doesn't *quite* add up, because the power of two is only approximate.  So to make it all add up let's, um, slightly detune the piano so that perfect fifths are *just* a little bit less than a 3:2 ratio, so that when we go up by fifths twelve times, instead of 1.013 x 2^7, we get 1.000 x 2^7 so that after 12 steps we end up right back at our starting tone (dropping down octaves when appropriate). To make this all work, let's not only detune the piano and other instruments (to pretend that 1.013 == 1.000), let's have a *worldwide* *conspiracy* to detune all instruments *everywhere*. And let's keep it going over hundreds of years, and enlist none other than Johann Sebastian Bach to make musical arguments on our behalf (see: The Well-Tempered Clavier ).....  I am not kidding. To recap, the simplest explanation why there are twelve tones you hear all the time is:  3/2 to the 12th power is approximately 2 to the 7th power. ===== Update: my answer above applies to equal-tempering (where every step up on the piano corresponds to the same multiple of frequency of the step below it). This is not quite what Bach was pushing for (he wanted well-tempering), and my answer makes it sound like 'well' and 'equal' are the same thing. See Well v.s. equal temperament Updated 2 Mar • View Upvotes