What is the intuition behind distributions without means?Where mean doesn't converge such as Cauchy distribution. What kind of implication does this have on physics? Certain quantities such as temperature are defined as mean in physics.
Some distributions have means  μ  and some don't.  The best known distribution without a mean is the Cauchy distribution. The Cauchy distribution is interesting.  It was originally constructed as a counterexample to the central limit theorem.  It's a very strange distribution because of that.  For most distributions, if you take a random sample  X 1 ,X 2 ,…,X n     of independent variables all having that distribution, then the sample mean  X ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯  =1n (X 1 +X 2 +⋯+X n )  will have a distribution that bunches up near the mean μ  .  The Cauchy distribution doesn't have a mean, and it doesn't bunch up.  In fact  X ¯ ¯ ¯ ¯    has the same distribution, namely, the Cauchy distribution. The density function for a Cauchy random variable is                        f(x)=1π(1+x 2 )   Its graph looks a lot like that of the standard normal distribution, but it's  more spread out. The cumulative distribution function is                        F(x)=12 +1π arctanx  The reason that the Cauchy distribution has no mean is that the integral that defines the mean, namely,                        ∫ ∞ −∞ xπ(1+x 2 ) dx  diverges.  The integral over the interval  [0,∞)  diverges to +∞  , while the integal over the interval  (−∞,0]    diverges to −∞  .  The Cauchy distribution has a physical interpretation: Stand a few feet away from an infinite straight wall. Spin around and shoot in a random direction.  Ignoring misses that shoot in the wrong direction, the distance down the wall has a Cauchy distribution.  It's not a big deal.  Just take the arctangent of the distance and you end up with a uniform distribution on the interval  (−π2 ,π2 )  . So, what does it mean for physics?  Just that the mean of the  Cauchy distribution is not a useful concept, so it wouldn't be used. Updated 15 Jun • View Upvotes