What can you not fathom, understand, or reconcile no matter how hard you try?
The weirdness of subatomic particles in quantum mechanics. It's just the mathematics which works out perfectly, like in our day to day experience, which tells us the way these particles are. 1. A particle, in a quantum world, can exist at different coordinates at the same given time. 2. A photon can actually never be seen in flight. It is always the consequence of of its demise. So how does a photon actually look like? 3. We can change something in past by changing present. Wheeler's delayed choice experiment. This experiment proposed by Jhon Wheeler in 1978 and carried out in 2007, states that observing a particle now can change another particle in the past. That is saying that we change something in the past by doing something here, without ever seeing any consequences- or we just don't realize the consequences. We can never be sure. 4. The slowest light has been recorded travelling is 17 m/s or 38 miles/hr or 61 km/ hr. We easily see vehicles in our day to day life with that speed. It happens in Bose-Einstien Condensate from rubidium cooled to almost Zero absolute temperature. 5. There can be a whole different world which exists, where everything has a velocity higher than the speed of light. Their limit would be not going below 'c'. The physics would be totally different in their case and the world too. 5. Black holes aren’t black. They are very dark, sure, but still they are not perfectly black as we might think. They emit some radiation called the Hawkings Radiation (After the famous physicist Stephen Hawkings). I can't think of anything but black thinking about blackhole. 6. According to the special theory of relativity, there is no past, present and future. It is all different time frames which we all are having. For someone in an other galaxy, it would be a totally different thing going up over here, which could be our past, present or future. The people around us have the very similar frames, so we can't really make out this. 7. When you move you become heavier, not much, but a tiny amount. Too little for us to comprehend. It is temporary and goes when you stop. This difference will only be evident when we are moving with speed closer to light. As even the particle who have been accelerated to greater and greater speed show increase in mass. Theoretically it would never reach the speed of light and the mass will keep on increasing as we move to become infinite at the speed of light. There are many more weird results in the quantum world, which we just believe because the maths just work out perfectly. 