How can I get a job at Facebook or Google in 6 months?How should I be going? I need a concise work-plan to build a good enough skill set. Should I join some other start-up? Should I build my own projects or start-up? Should I just focus on practicing up on Data Structures and Algorithms ?
I can't help to share my experience with you because I prepared my interviews within 2 months! Since you have more time, definitely you can do a better job. If you are already quite familiar with data structure and algorithm, you can skip this point. Otherwise, do spend enough time on this. I can't emphasize more about this point since it is the most fundamental thing for a software engineer interview. If you fail to get a good grasp of those basic data structures you learnt at school, you just failed the whole interview. I'm not exaggerating, once you've been thru several technical interviews, you'll realize how important it is. Books about data structure and algorithm are everywhere, do make sure you are very clear about basic stuffs like binary tree, queue, stack, linked list and so on. After the 1st point, I expect you to have at least 4 months left. Please dive into real interview questions as much as you can. There are tons of resources online like http://www.glassdoor.com where you can access countless real interview questions from companies. Since you are targeting Facebook/Google, spend most of your time on real interview questions from these two companies. Don't expect to have the same interview question you prepared (though it's possible), but practicing with real interview questions will help you be aware of the difficulty, style of each company and what they really care about. Practice writing code on whiteboard. This is what most people ignore. It looks quite simple at first glance, right? But it isn't once you try it. You'll miss so much about those fancy shortcuts on your favorite text editors and IDEs and what's more, it's so inconvenient to modify the code like inserting another piece of codes in between. But you have to get over it as most of the real interviews will ask you to write SOLID code on whiteboard. It doesn't need to be compiled, but it should be almost there. No pseudo code! This is even true for Google/Facebook interview as during the onside interview you're gonna be "locked" in a meeting room and keep writing code on whiteboard. Practice with mock interviews. It's a great experience for you to practice in a way where you can't fail. You can do this with your friends and interview them back. I also got my mock interview from http://www.gainlo.co whose interviewers are working at Google, Facebook etc. and gave me tons of feedbacks.Personally mock interview is the most effective approach I've ever had because you will have totally different feeling when thinking and solving problems in front of a person. You'll be nervous, and you may fail even at the simplest question. Also interviewers from real interview won't give you any authentic feedback, they can only tell you those official response, which is no other than bullshit. However a mock interviewer will help you improve in every way especially he/she is experienced. In short, 6 months is way enough for you to prepare job interviews for Google/Facebook. Do spend enough time on data structure and algorithm, which is really foundation of every SWE interview. Updated 18 Aug • View Upvotes