Trigonometry (mathematics): How does one graph and transform a secant function?
If you have to change the amplitude, period, and position of a secant or cosecant graph, your best bet is to graph their reciprocal functions and transform them first. The reciprocal functions, sine and cosine, are easier to graph because they don't have as many complex parts (no asymptotes, basically). If you can graph the reciprocals first, you can deal with the more complicated pieces of the secant/cosecant graphs last. For example, take a look at the graph Graph the transformed reciprocal function y = 1/4 cos x – 1. Look at the reciprocal function for secant, which is cosine. Pretend just for a bit that you're graphing Follow all the rules for the cosine graph in order to end up with a graph that looks like the one in the figure. Sketch the asymptotes of the transformed reciprocal function. Wherever the transformed graph involving cosine crosses its sinusoidal axis, you have an asymptote in the graph involving secant. You see that the cosine graph crosses the sinusoidal axis when x = pi/2 and 3pi/2. Find out what the graph looks like between each asymptote. Now that you've identified the asymptotes, you simply figure out what happens on the intervals between them. The finished graph, ends up looking like the one in the figure. State the domain and range of the transformed function. Because the new transformed function may have different asymptotes than the parent function for secant and it may be shifted up or down, you may be required to state the new domain and range. This example, Therefore, the domain is restricted to not include these values and is written where x is an integer. In addition, the range of this function changes because the transformed function is shorter than the parent function and has been shifted down 2. The range has two separate intervals, You can graph a transformation of the cosecant graph by using the same steps you use when graphing the secant function, only this time you use the sine function to guide you. 