How could we better imagine infinity?
Why do you want to? Infinity is not some mystical concept, and understanding it isn't going to give you any kind of insight into the secrets of the universe. Infinity is a tool, and like all tools, the way to better understand it is to use it. (I don't mean the word "tool" in a derogatory sense: many tools are quite beautiful and satisfying to use. But you'll never learn anything about how to wield a sword if you spend all your time thinking about how great swords are instead of learning how to swing a sword around.) Actually, that's not quite right either: "infinity" is not a well-defined mathematical concept at all. It's an intuition that has given rise to a whole host of related but distinct mathematical concepts, including but not limited to Infinite sets Infinite Ordinal numbers The Point at infinity in Projective geometry Limits to infinity in calculus (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lim...) Infinitely large numbers in Non-standard analysis and the list goes on. One generally underappreciated point about the use of infinities in mathematics is that we often use infinities to approximate the finite, rather than the other way around. Finite mathematics, as it turns out, is often quite hard. Sometimes the best way to grasp a difficult problem in finite mathematics is to take various limits to infinity. This has the effect of making asymptotic behavior more prominent and often allows you to understand the "most important part" of the finite problem in some vague sense. A simple example is that computing sums of the form ∑ n k=1 k p   is actually quite difficult; the general answer is given by Faulhaber's formula. However, there is an "infinite analogue" of this problem, which is computing integrals of the form ∫ x 0 t p dt  and this is much easier: it's just 1p+1 x p+1   . The finite and infinite versions of this problem are related by the machinery of Riemann sums, and you can use this to show that the leading term of ∑ n k=1 k p   is actually 1p+1 n p+1   . 