What is the intuition behind distributions without means?Where mean doesn't converge such as Cauchy distribution. What kind of implication does this have on physics? Certain quantities such as temperature are defined as mean in physics.
(What follows is some extreme hand-waving, but it may help give an intuitive picture of what's going on.) If X  is a random variable with density f X   then the mean is, as you probably know, defined to be the integral ∫ ∞ −∞ tf X (t)dt  , whenever this integral converges. When the integral does not converge to some finite number, then the X  does not have a mean. When can this happen? Simply speaking, it happens when the number xf X (x)  doesn't go to zero fast enough as x  goes to infinity. It stays too big for too many large values of x  . The number xf X (x)  is something like* the probability that X  takes on the value x  , multiplied by the value x  itself. So for very large x  , the number xf X (x)  is big when f X (x)  isn't too small, or in other words, when the event X=x  isn't too unlikely. This is saying that random variables without means are essentially the random variables such that extreme events aren't too unlikely. It of course has to be true that lim x→∞ f X (x)  has to go to zero—otherwise it wouldn't be a probability density function—but if it doesn't get to zero fast enough then very very extreme events still happen with too great of a probability to allow the mean to converge. As a simple analogy, get 100 of your closest friends and put them in a room. Now figure out the mean income in that room. I don't know your friends, so I don't know what it would be, but let's say it ends up being about on par with the US mean household income of 60,000. Now, I think probably the wealthiest person I know makes about $350,000 a year. Suppose he walks into the room. The new mean income in the room is about 63,500. He's a wealthy fellow, and he brings the mean in the room up by quite an impressive amount. Nonetheless, he doesn't bring it up by that much, and if we got more people it would probably go back down towards that 60,000 figure or less. This is the sort of behaviour you expect for distributions with well-defined means: every once in awhile some pretty extreme event happens, but not that extreme. But now, suppose that Bill Gates walks into the room with his 3 billion dollar annual income. Suddenly the mean income in the room is about 30 million. Adding this single observation brings the mean up by orders upon orders of magnitude. This is characteristic of highly skewed distributions, such as the one that governs income distribution. Very extreme events occur very rarely, but not rarely enough to make the mean well behaved, and in general these distributions may not have well defined means. Estimates of income distribution actually do typically find that the income distribution has a finite mean (though not a finite variance), but this is still the basic idea. Very extreme events aren't unlikely enough to make the mean converge. * It isn't actually, since for a continuous random variable with density f X   , P(X=x)=0≠f X (x)  in general. The density can be better interpreted as P(x−ϵ≤X≤x+ϵ)  for some very small epsilon. 