What are some brain hacks that a neuroscientist or a psychologist knows that most people don't?
Refreshing the brain without neurofeedback. ;) Unfortunately, my serious game company never found a medical partner to do the human testing for our software, but you can come to a demo of what we did get developed in Second Life on an ad-hoc basis -- just contact Tuna Oddfellow in SL, and check for details (if I update them at some point) on http://oddfellowstudios.com. But this is what we found... In the hippocampus, there are cells called "place cells" that allow you to build spatial maps of your environment.  They take visual data and create a database, essentially, of spatial relationships in a temporary store, just like a little graphics card in your brain (note -- I am a cogsci geek and a game designer, not a medical professional). fair use: http://krieger.jhu.edu/mbi/knier... While they do this, they generate a bit of theta wave in your hippocampus, something that your hippocampus does very happily during other activities, notably while you are dreaming.  My personal opinion (and there's some divide in the field on this) is that you generate a lot of theta in dream sleep because of your place cells.  After all, very few of us are good at architecture, yet in my dreams I build perfect, elaborate multi-story office buildings and walk through them.  I create outdoor landscapes in perfect 3D.  I climb mountains, and occasionally even fly off of them.  My hippocampal place cells must be thrumming along at an *incredible* rate, considering that studies suggest the time compression in your dreams is pretty dense. Estimating distances and creating accurate spatial models is pretty important to an organism.  You need to find food.  You need to not turn into food to a predator.  You need to not fall off a cliff.  You need to jump to the next branch.  You need to find a mate.  You need to avoid inappropriate suitors.  You need to gather a nice soft bed to lie in.  You need to avoid stepping in that suspicious looking mess over there.  All sorts of things. Baby mammals love playing with space.  I can't give you a precise percentage, but I'd wager than more than half of the play that baby mammals engage in is involved in playing with space.  They run, they jump, they pounce.  They hide.  They wrestle.  They spin in circles until they get dizzy and fall down.  This is apparently incredibly rewarding.  They are mastering space, for all the very vital reasons I listed above. Nature -- evolution -- has built in a reward system for baby mammals, I think.  I remember that spin-around-go-boom! feeling from being a small child.  It was a sense of open wonder infused in the dizzy.  Dreamy.  Was it a theta-euphoria?  Heavy theta is induced by a number of drugs humans seek out too -- notably cannabis.  Hmmmm.... At some point, the euphoric reward of playing-with-space faded, and I learned as I matured to steward my resources and energy.  As we mature and need to put our energy into breeding and providing food to the young, perhaps, evolution/nature changes our reward mechanisms, figuring if we haven't mastered space by then, we're klutzes for life? ;) So is there a way for us to trick the place cells, perhaps less active in generating theta in adults (my hypothesis)?  We think we found a very simple way, so simple it's all around us (although, we can create it as a concentrated computer environmental experience). Let me go back to a day in 2008.  My then-fiance and business partner, performance artist Matthew "Fish" Fishman, was working on his psychedelic graphic arts show for Second Life.  I was working on a spreadsheet on my main screen and had SL on my smaller screen as he played with animations. What he put on the screen made me nearly sick.  Motion sick.  Technically, it's called vection sickness -- the kind of sick you can get from watching an iMax movie, or from vertigo. Any sane person would have told him to stop it!  But that isn't me.  I wanted to know how it was that an image on a computer screen out of the corner of my eye was making me woozy.  It didn't seem possible. Long story short, I spent scores of hours at the MIT libraries figuring out what Fish had created by accident, and we refined the effect from nausea to carnival ride to euphoric in a few months.  What we found, I named the Cathedral Effect, because I recognized that we were exploiting a basic piece of perceptual psych that is triggered in any vaulted space larger that about 20m.  Past that, I theorize, the place cells can't calculate and escape route, a leap -- so they go into a sort of loopy overdrive trying to build a model they really aren't good at.  The theta goes through the roof!  Voila!  Euphoria. But then the hippocampus realizes that the problem is incalculable and gives up.  The thrumming theta stops, and within a few seconds, the euphoria passes. Being humans, meaning-seeking creatures, we assign significance to the jolts of euphoria we experience as adults from this effect.  We enter the cathedral, we feel hushed and holy.  We enter the bank lobby and we feel the power of the corporation.  We enter the rotunda at the Smithsonian, and we gasp and think, "Wow!  Look at that mammoth!"  We gaze across the valley from the mountain top and think, "Look at God's creation laid before us."  You get the idea.   You probably know every one of those little euphorias.  The come from your brain. As a science-minded person, (why else are you reading this topic?) this shouldn't surprise you.  But you probably never stopped to consider, "Why is my brain rewarding me for looking up at a high ceiling?  It's not survival oriented, is it?  It's not like eating, or having sex, after all."  Well, just maybe, now you know.  And if I ever find some department at some U with active electrode EEGs and a grad student with a burning need for a thesis topic and access to human study protocols, I'll know for sure...;) Regardless, *empirically* we know it works.  Because what we know is that if we confuse the input -- if we make the visual field ambiguous so that the vaulted space seems to constantly shift (with safeguards against people getting really really sick -- that took some serious work...) we can keep the theta thrumming along essentially interminably. And we know that the computer delivers the same stimulation to the place cells as visual input from the "real" 3D world.  It's all just visual field data.  But there is study data, anyway. (video from study showing mouse running virtual maze, which stimulated same output as a mouse running a physical maze -- for you gamers, yes, that's Quake) What we believe we have is a computer environment -- essentially a virtual world dancing game -- that can use any music (although we suspect adding binaurals would accentuate the effect) that may deliver the equivalent of alpha/theta neurofeedback, with no feedback hardware, no training, and no monitoring required at all. It's rather fun, and it looks like this (fan video): You won't get the effect from a 2D video.  You have to have camera control and 3D view.  But you can get an idea of the environment and the art.  We've found the root of a lot of psychedelia in our science.  That's certainly an entertaining fillip. As alpha/theta neurofeedback is the most effective therapy for PTSD and may also be prophylactic against PTSD, we believe this could be a promising addition to the treatment protocol.  But we can't find a medical partner to do our pilot study.  We are a tiny indy game company (really, two people with an idea in our spare time) with no funding and no patents, and our work is not patentable (intentionally).  We are open source kinds of people, and we are not interested in this being proprietary.  You would think the VAH system would be interested but we haven't been able to get their attention.  Perhaps we don't speak enough bureaucratese? Regardless, here's the trick: go to a vaulted space, ideally one that's relatively quiet with less foot traffic.  Enjoy walking into it with your eyes raised to the apex.  Walk to the point about halfway from the edge to the center.   Now close your eyes.  Breathe deeply and lower your closed eyes.  Breathing in, open your eyes and look back up at the apex.  You may find that raising your arms with the breath in helps too, but you may just find it makes you feel silly. ;) This exercise (which I think of as my flying exercise) makes the place cells think you are about to gather to jump, I think.  It can actually make me a little giddy, now that I'm conditioned to it.  Cheap and legal, if childish (childlike?), but it does clear out the cobwebs! If you go to an actual cathedral, where the buttress and arch shapes at the heights can make the place cells go completely bonkers, these exercises can make you understand why the cathedral masons were considered sacred artists.  It's quite amazing. (It's much the same in a classic mosque or synagogue or hindu temple -- most sacred architecture!  But understand I live in Boston so cathedrals are most readily available.) Again, this is all theory, work in progress, speculation, and I am a cogsci geek and a game designer and none of this is medical advice.  If you fall on your tailbone or get arrested as a nutter, it's none of me. ;) 