What can you not fathom, understand, or reconcile no matter how hard you try?
A bunch of evolved monkeys inherited a pale blue planet. Some still claim it was 5000 years ago while learned monkeys known as scientists claim it was far far earlier. At first they knew nothing. Some even claim they lived in harmony. They tried to understand but could not comprehend the vastness and mysteriousness of everything around them. They were scared and intrigued at the same time by the rising sun. They worshiped nature. The monkeys gradually realized that they were smarter than all the other animals around them at least. The monkeys got greedy. The monkeys were unsatisfied with what they had. They also feared not knowing. They made up a few Gods. They appointed their rulers. Then they started fighting with each other, killing over whose made up God was right, whose monkey king was more powerful. The monkeys never realized that all they were doing was trying to become momentary masters of a fraction of a dot. The monkeys drew lines on earth. Divided the resources, never once thinking that all of it was never truly their's to begin with. They started forming their own monkey groups based on color, sex, location and other things only evolved animals with a consciousness can. Slowly they made bombs too. It was fun they thought. Killing moneys who disagreed with them heightened their sense of power. A monkey with one ball and a stupid mustache ordered the killing of 6 million moneys showing no remorse and in the end killing himself. The monkeys are still killing each other, never to be satisfied with what they have. They want more. A few printed papers give them more happiness than a walk on a moonlit night. The monkeys have no idea what to do with their existence. They pretend that their God created the whole Universe for one of the 10 million or so species of life that inhabit the speck of dust and that they are supposed to feel important. They are raping the environment like there is no tomorrow. The monkeys won't stop until they have finished off everything. They have developed arsenals to destroy the only habitat they have. But they are not concerned. All that matters for them is to be momentary masters of a fraction of a dot in the vast universe. Inspired by : Pale blue dot by Carl Sagan Dance monkey Dance Updated 30 Oct 2013 • View Upvotes