Would society be better off if everyone had a basic understanding of differential and integral calculus?
Yes! I think almost everyone agrees now a basic science education is one of the most important parts of general education. You can't really get even a basic science education if you don't learn calculus first, however. All modern science and technology finds it's beginning in the work of Descartes, Fermat, Barrow, Kepler, Huygens, Galileo, Newton, Leibniz, etc. culminating in the development of calculus-based physics, one of the biggest conceptual breakthroughs in the history of mankind in general, that has completely transformed both our understanding of the universe and our place in it, and our technology, directly shaping our lifes at least since the XVIII century. So, there is no science without calculus. Our schools typically circumvent this, feeding pupils "rules" or "laws", which could not have been discovered without it, and which in fact tend do not make any sense until you learn about derivatives and integrals. The notion of instantaneous velocity for example, is crucial to even the most basic discussions of motion in physics, and understanding instantaneous velocity is the same as understanding limits and derivatives, so either you understand none or you understand both. There is no point in teaching science to anyone who does not have an elementary understanding of calculus. The high school science classes taught before calculus are in fact in some sense encourage kids to be conformist and so anti-scientific - almost any part of science taught before calculus can not be explained satisfactorily to any curious enough student, so either the student blindly accept what the teacher says, learning nothing about the actual methods of science that let us arrive at plausible models of the universe, or they are left puzzled by why they are taught nonsense. The saddest thing is that great many people are already taught calculus, yet they typically not only don't get an understanding of the technicalities of it, but do not even understand the need for it, to a huge number of people calculus is in fact the very exemplification of useless. There you have it: the biggest conceptual leap in the history of mankind, to which we owe all those so beloved gadgets, is now seen by young students around the world as the most boring and useless subject imaginable. How is that not a huge failure of our educational system? 