Why are there only 12 pitch notes (C, C#, ..., B) in the world?I learned that pitch is determined by frequency of the sound waves. I know that each note has specific frequency Hz. For example, C3 is 130.8Hz and C#3 is 138.6. So what the heck is between those two pitch notes? If there are so many pitches between these half-step notes, how come it feels like almost all pitches in the world can be identified as one of the 12 pitch notes?
There aren't. However, only 12 notes are used in the modern Western tuning system, 12-tone Equal Temperament, or 12TET. 12TET was probably first developed because of the piano. Using more keys, while making the piano able to hit better tuned intervals, would make the piano a daunting instrument to play, and a full piano would either have infinitesimally small keys, multiple layers, or would be in excess of 15 feet wide. All of these would not be feasible to play. As such, most other instruments (and virtually all with valves, keys, or frets) were made to play in 12TET. Other instruments, though, such as the trombone and orchestra string instruments, can play other temperaments with relative ease, even though for most instruments, due to their design, 12TET is the only easy (or sometimes the only possible) system to use. However, other tuning temperaments are used, such as 17TET, where notes are divided into 3 instead of 2 and C# and Db are not enharmonic, and 22TET, where notes are divided into four and quarter steps are used. 34TET, 55TET, 5TET, and many more are used. There are many different tuning temperaments that are not equal temperament, such as Pythagorean tuning, in which justly tune fifths are also used. If you want to know more, Wikipedia, for once, has fairly reliable information because this knowledge is common enough that many know about it, but not cared about enough to be vandalized. So, in conclusion, music is not limited to 12 tones, but they and their octaves are the only ones you will usually hear, due to instrument design and the simplicity and widespread usage of 12TET. 