What is a cool mathematical thing I can do on the back of a notebook?
Draw a circle with a compass and then use a protractor to mark points on the circle every 10 degrees (or any other factor of 360).  Then number the points in a clockwise or counter-clockwise direction (you can do this in your head instead of on the page).  Finally, pick an integer, k (I recommend starting with something like 10), and use a ruler to draw the line segment from point 1 to point k+1, from point 2 to point k+2, ...point 10 to point k+10, etc... Treating addition as modulo the number of points. You'll find that your have drawn another circle inside the first as well as a very interesting pattern between them. (A circle with points every 10 degrees, and lines joining every 10th point. Drawn using GeoGebra.) Some other similar things that produce different results: Draw two perpendicular rays originating at the same point.  Mark the points an integer number of units along each ray until you get to some integer k on both..  Think of them as the coordinates for the first quadrant of the xy-plane.  Now draw the line segment from point 1 on Ray A to point k on Ray B and the line segment from point 2 on Ray A to point k-1 on Ray B, etc... So for 1≤i≤k  , draw the line segment from point i on Ray A to point k+1-i on Ray B.  You'll end up with a parabola rotated 45  degrees and k of its tangent lines.  This one also looks pretty cool, but I prefer the circle version.  To be more precise, you get the graph of y=(k  √ −x  √ ) 2   on the interval [0,k]. (20 points on each axis. Drawn using GeoGebra) A variation on this is to not make the rays perpendicular. Instead, have them meet at any angle you want (though I don't recommend 180 degrees...).  In fact, the angle you pick is θ=360k   for some integer k, then you can draw k rays θ  degrees apart and have k of these constructions, each one a rotation of the other.  For example, 8 of them at 45 degrees looks really good. Can you figure out a way to do a similar construction with a semicircle and its diameter?  How about a circle and a line?  There are tons of different ways of doing it and they all come out looking pretty good.  Experiment and figure out what you like best.  I did this stuff all year during 8th grade. Updated 16 Sep 2014 • View Upvotes