How many graphs can you name that should be known by calc I and II?
First on the list are straight lines, of course, as so much of calculus has to do with slopes of lines. Circles, of course, and in particular the unit circle as it's related to sines and cosines. Next, parabolas, but you don't have to know all of them. Certainly the basic parabola y=x 2   , and you need to know that the graph of every quadratic polynomial y=ax 2 +bx+c  is a parabola that either opens upward if a  is positive, or downward if a  is negative. Hyperbolas aren't so important, but the standard rectangular hyperbola y=1/x  comes up often since it's related to the natural logarithm function. Sines and cosines. Their graphs y=sinx  and y=cosx  should be very familiar. You really don't need to know the variants of sines or cosines, but you should know how a graph changes if you add or multiply x  or y  by a constant. You also need to know that the graph of an inverse function can be found by exchanging the x- and y-coordinates, that is, by reflecting across the line y=x  . You should be familiar with the graphs of tangent and secant, and also the graph of arctangent. And the exponential graph y=e x   and its inverse function the natural logarithm y=logx  . That's about it.  You might ask why I didn't list the witch of Agnesi, y=11+x 2    .  The function is important since it's the derivative of the arctangent function, but you should also be able to sketch its graph from principles of differential calculus for graphing functions which I'll mention in the next paragraph. You should know the connection between positive derivatives and increasing functions, and negative derivatives and decreasing functions. You should know that if a function has a local maximum or minimum in an open interval then is has a horizontal tangent there. You should know the connection between second derivatives and concavity of graphs (concave up, also called convex, and concave down) and that inflection point occur when the second derivative is 0. Also you should know how to find vertical and horizontal asymptotes by using limits. It's fun, however, to study curves even if you don't need them for calculus.  I recommend  the Famous Curves Index to see a bunch of them. 