What is a cool mathematical thing I can do on the back of a notebook?
Conner Davis is onto something in his answer, although he barely scratched the surface of a pool of cool drawings one can make in the same manner. Along the same lines one can draw: Cardioid 1. Draw a big circle. 2. Make marks with regular intervals along the circumference. Say n of them. 3. Pick a starting point n 0   , this will be at the "bottom" of the cardioid, opposite to the pointy part. 4. If the number of points n is odd, leave the starting point, otherwise connect it to the point two across (skip one point, and connect it to the next). 5. If you left n 0   , connect the next point from where you started n 1   to n 3   two across from it. Otherwise connect n 1   to n 4   . 6. Continue through all the points along the circle, moving the starting points one by one, and the ending points two by two. Done! Feel free to experiment with the intervals between the end-points, although be warned that for intervals above 3 the drawing requires a lot of points to maintain a fairly smooth "curve". Another way of representing the same figure is also worthwhile: The procedure is fairly easy: 1. Mark points with regular intervals along a circle. 2. Pick a point P. 3. Draw circles centered at every marked point, and have them all pass through the point P. (Op-art tip: Start with one of the smallest circles and colour it black. Colour the remainder of the next circle white, and the remainder of the next black, etc.) Spiral Another shape you can make by drawing straight lines between points on a circle. 1. Draw another circle with regularly marked points. 2. Draw a line between a point and the point two across. 3. Do the exact same thing for the next two points. 4. Increase the interval between starting and ending point by one, in other words: draw a line to the point three across. 5. Continue in this manner drawing lines in sets of 3 with the same interval, then increase the interval by one and keep going. 6. Stop when you feel like or when you cross the diagonal line. Dodecahedroid This is basically just messing around with a compass and straight edge followed by some shading. It should be fairly simple to replicate from the picture. Squiggly thing (knot). This is really fun to draw! 1. Start with a simple, connected graph/squiggle (as on the right). 2. Make marks equal distance above and below each vertex. 3. Retrace the graph but instead of passing through the vertices, pass it alternatingly through the point above and below, so it weaves up and down. 4. (The tricky part) Give the graph "width" and accentuate the parts "in front" of others. 5. Give it some shading, and voila! Try varying by adding multiple graphs, and colours. You can also draw them flat, non-orientable etc. Triangles Ok, so everyone knows and loves triangles, so what could be better than to draw a bunch of them? 1. Start by drawing a few fairly big triangles, well spaced. In this picture I started with 4. 2. On the edges of every triangle, draw new triangles, a bit smaller but still fairly similar in size. 3. Iterate step 2 with the new triangles until you can hardly make out the triangles on the edges, or until you can connect the adjacent isolated sets of triangles. Twisted surface This is a variant of the  knotdrawing procedure. 1. Start with a simple connected graph. 2. Start at an edge and trace the graph, marking each vertex alternatingly over/under by bolding the edge you are following or the one crossing respectively. 3. Start at an outer face (one sharing an edge with the "outside"), and shade it in with a pencil. 4. Shade in every other face so that no two shaded faces share an edge. 5. (The tricky bit) use a bit of artistic shading to accentuate the over-under relation of the faces. (Fun thing to try: draw all combinations of two dimensional surfaces, that has two sides, has one side, has two edges, one edge, two linked edges and one side, etc. An elludingly simple one is a one-sided surface with two unlinked edges.) Twisty tori with polygonal cross sections Martin Gardner used a term to describe the objects I'm referring to, however I am unable to recollect what it was. Regardless of its name, it is entertaining to draw, and pose a variety of levels of challenge. 1. Draw two ellipses (it is easier to visualize as slanted circles), with distance equal to the thickness you wish for your toroid. 2. Mark n points paralell along the edges of both ellipses. The distances between consecutive points should appear to be equal, although compromises must be made to adjust due to the perspective. 3. At each (pair of) point(s), draw a polygon of your choosing, slanted as to "fit". 4. Choose how twisted you want your torus, and draw lines connecting the vertices corresponding to applying the twist. In the above picture n=6, the polygons are squares and the twist is 1/4 turn clockwise. For a challenge, try using non-convex polygons, like the pentagram. The heart I was looking for a procedure to create a heart shape using steps similar to those used in creating the spiral and cardioid, however I could not find any that was satisfying. After while at the (literal) drawing board, I came up with the following: You're going to need a protractor for this one. And some time. The idea behind this is that the starting and ending points for the lines are different sets. The end points have been marked with orange in the picture. The distance between the end points measured in degrees is on the form 3*n, while the distance between the starting points is on the form 2*n. 1. Pick a number 1≤n≤5  , this will determine how "smooth" your drawing will be, with lower n resulting in finer resolution. 2. Mark the starting points around the circle spaced 2*n degrees apart. 3. Mark the first end point at one of the starting points, and then every 3*n degrees around the circle. 4. Start at the point where you want the bottom of your drawing to be, and connect it to the end point a quater turn counter clockwise. 5. Connect the next start point and end point, counting one each time.  6. Keep counting until you have made half a turn, at which point the line drawn is the diameter through the initial starting point. 7. Return to the starting point, and preform the mirror image of steps 4-6. 