What are some of the most counterintuitive mathematical results?Like cantor's results on infinities, the rearrangement theorem in analysis
In ZFC, the continuum hypothesis (CH) asserts that no infinite sizes (cardinalities) of sets exist between the size of the natural numbers and the first larger cardinality we can construct and reason about, which is that of the real numbers (or of sets of natural numbers). It seems true, because we can't provably construct such "between" sets, and conventional mathematics doesn't need for them to exist. For an aside, the continuum hypothesis isn't an "unsolved problem". It's formally independent of standard mathematics (ZFC) which means that a valid mathematics exists with and without it. This means that which mathematics to invest one's energy into is a judgment call based on what's more intuitive a representation of the mathematical world. But for CH, neither possibility is intuitive. Not-CH gives us weird sizes of sets that we can't reason about or do anything with. If the continuum hypothesis is true, however, you're in for a ride. That means that we have a set A in the R^2 for which f(x), mapping each x to the set of y for which (x, y) is in A, is countable for all x, but either (x, y) or (y, x) is in A for all x, y. In other words, this means that a set that is extremely sparse (only countably many points on any vertical line) can be unioned with its reflection across y = x and produce the whole plane. "Intuitively" (and intuition is wrong here) this set is infinitely sparse, like a measure-zero "dust" set (in fact, it doesn't have a well-defined measure) but covers "half" of R^2. How so? Let's assume the continuum hypothesis and the axiom of choice. We know, in ordinal terms, what the smallest uncountable set is: it's the set of all countable ordinals. (What we don't know, without CH, is how that compares to P(N) or R.) If CH is true; then, even though R is uncountable, we can map it (call this mapping g) to the set of countable ordinals, which is (of course) totally ordered and for which each has a countable number of inferiors. Then, our set A is defined as (x, y) for which g(y) < g(x). That fits the bill. Constructing the mapping g requires a well-ordering of R, but the Axiom of Choice is equivalent to the well-ordering principle. In sum, either there are infinities of sizes that mathematics doesn't need according to traditional set theory, and that can't be constructed; or there is a set of real number pairs that simultaneously cover almosts none of R^2 and fully half of it. 