What are the advantages of B+ Trees over B Trees?What are the advantages over B tree. I know couple of them a) Providing support for range queries in an efficient manner. b) You can iterate over an ordered list of elements. Are there any other advantages when compared to B Tree?Short Answer: It's all about branching factor. Because of the way B+-Trees store records (called "satellite information") at the leaf level of the tree, they maximize the branching factor of the internal nodes. High branching factor allows for a tree of lower height. Lower tree height allows for less disk I/O. Less disk I/O theoretically means better performance. Long Answer: B-Trees ("B Trees") and B+-Trees ("B Plus Trees") are balanced search trees that perform well on magnetic media and secondary storage because they minimize disk I/O ops. * As a matter of background information, in a typical 7200 RPM disk drive one platter rotation takes ~8.3ms which is ~5 orders of magnitude longer than the typical 100ns access time of silicon memory. So using the most efficient data structures to do dynamic set operations (like Search() Create() Insert()) is very important. B-Tree algorithms are good for accessing pages (or blocks) of stored information which are then copied into main memory for processing. In the worst case, they are designed to do dynamic set operations in O(lg n) time because of their high "branching factor" (think hundreds or thousands of keys off of any node). It is this branching factor that makes B-Trees so efficient for block storage/retrieval, since a large branching factor greatly reduces the height of the tree and thus the number of disk accesses needed to find any key! * For relative sizing reference: A B-Tree with a branching factor of 1001 and a height of 2 can store over 1 Billion keys! And since the root node can be kept in main memory, you only need 2 disk accesses to find any key in this tree! In B+-Trees, all records ("satellite information") are stored at the leaf level while keys and child pointers are stored in interior nodes (aka non-leaf nodes). This maximizes the branching factor of the internal nodes. This is the advantage of a B+-Tree over a regular B-Tree. 