How many trees are there on Earth?
NASA did not make an estimate of 400 billion trees.   If NASA did, it is a wrong estimate by orders of magnitude. This is not to say that NASA is not capable of such as misjudgment.   NASA missed: 1. the cost of the space shuttle program per pound lifted; 2. the achievable amount of trips to space and 3. the payloads that could be delivered.  All by orders of magnitude, yet for some reason, NASA still has retained its credibility.)   There are not 400 billion trees on the earth. There are trillions and trillions and trillions.   The 400 billion tree estimate was supposedly given by an "ecology" PhD that was "surprised" to find that there are more trees on the earth than people!   If this is true, then she demonstrated in her work that, despite her level of education, she had, and still has, no real sense of the world around her, nor of scale or of numbers. She is either without the gift of common sense, or the story on the internet is simply made up.   This ecology professor's first great error is that she lazily sat at her computer for sources and to work all her figures.   If she were worth her salt, she would do an actual sample count in the woods.  It is very easy.  You can even do it.   Go to at least one forest area, and measure out an acre of land (208.7 x 208.7 feet) and count the trees. Also count the dead trees but keep a separate count of the dead trees.   Go to another forest area and do the same. Note the wide variations in the numbers of trees per acre.   When you count do not skip the seedlings and saplings--they are real trees too. We live on one acre of land of which much of the acre is yard, driveway and the house, yet when including the counting of the seedlings and saplings, we have over five hundred trees on our acre of land.   NASA's number for the trees per acre in a forest (if they are really NASA's numbers) are worse than out to lunch.   In the end, you will find there are trillions and trillions of trees on the earth. There could easily be zillions of trees on earth.   By counting the dead trees, you will also find out that there are magnitudes more trees that die naturally than are, or ever will be,  harvested by man.   You also need to take into count all wooded areas of the world that are not counted as forest areas by the pseudo-pros. Updated 166w ago • View Upvotes