What are some interesting facts about the least known countries in the world?
Did not get time to read all the answers, so sorry for any repeat. 1. Dec. 30, 2011 didn't exist in Samoa : Samoa skipped a whole day, missed out on Friday, Dec. 30,2011 altogether, jumped swiftly from Thursday to the weekend, and into the adjacent westward time zone in a bid to improve ties with major trade partners Australia and New Zealand. The change comes 119 years after Samoa moved in the opposite direction. Then, it transferred to the same side of the international date line as the United States, in an effort to aid trade. But New Zealand and Australia have become increasingly valuable trade partners for the country. 2. Iceland : This is one of my favorite. Iceland is one of the most atheist country in the world. And they are now building a temple to Thor. Read Why Iceland Is Building a Temple to Its Pagan Gods 3. Unclaimed region between Egypt and Sudan : Due to border dispute between Egypt and Sudan there is a whole block of unclaimed land which both the countries refused as their share of land. The below image explains the whole story : Edit : On request explaining this. See both Egypt and Sudan claims the Hala'ib Triangle as their share of land. As per Egypt the red+black straight line is the border. Whereas Sudan claims the black+green zigzag line is the border. Between these two borders there created one space, who ever claims it loses the bigger chunk, the Hala'ib Triangle. So this region is unclaimed. Hope it helps. 4. New Zealand : This country is actually changing its national flag and recently conducted one contest to design its future national flag. Here are the flags that are shortlisted : Update (09/01/15): Now they have shortlisted 4 flags out of all the flags for a referendum where New Zealanders will select their new national flag. The final 4 flags : *For those who are interested to know how does the process work, go to this link: The flag consideration process More fact : Students on their exams are allowed to use text-messaging language. Teachers must treat these abbreviations as standard English and may not penalize students. Pretty Cool ! Read, New Zealand students able to use txt language in exams 5. Bhutan : Bhutan is the world's only carbon sink nation. Which means they absorb more carbon than they produce. Use of plastic is also banned in this country. 6.North Korea and Finland : The distance between North Korea (Far East Asian country) and Finland (West European Country) is 6,682 km.Yet these two countries are separated by only one country, that is the mighty Russia. Courtesy : Google Map Edit (Thanks Ankit Jain for pointing this in the comments) : In fact Noway is far west than Finland and has much more distance from North Korea (7,513 km) yet separated by one country Russia. Norway & Finland Border With Russia North Korea & Russia Border 7. Canary Island : People of canary island do conversation using whistles. 8.Andorra and its Princes : Andorra is a parliamentary co-principality with the President of France and the Bishop of Urge ll (Catalonia, Spain), as co-princes. This peculiarity makes the President of France, in his capacity as Prince of Andorra. François Hollande, current French President and co-prince of Andorra since 15 May 2012. Andorra : A tiny state between France and Spain Edit : 9. Tokelau : Tokelau  is a territory of New Zealand in the South Pacific Ocean. While Tuvalu is well known for its .tv domain (already mentioned in other answers) Tokelau is known for the popular free domain .tk . This island is also sinking and the motivation behind the free domain service is to increase awareness about Tokelau in the world. Read About Dot TK And yes, they also did not see Dec 30, 2011 along with Samoa. Map Courtesy : World Atlas 10. North Korea & South Korea : Although the conflict between North Korea & South Korea is widely known and should not get a place in this list, what many people do not know or do not give attention to the fact that the two countries are still at war. The Korean war started on 1950 and till this day both the countries yet to sign a peace treaty to officially end the war. So its one of the longest going war. North & South Korea 11. Antarctica : Just a random thought, Antarctica must have the highest average IQ of any continent. 12. Poland : Poland has been invaded or fought for freedom 43 times from 1600 to 1945. Its capital is Warsaw which has witnessed many blood shedding battles. But wait the name has nothing to do with wars. Read about Warsaw 13. Scotland : The national animal of Scotland is Unicorn. Have you ever seen it ? Its a fictional animal. Read about Unicorn And this is how it looks : Bonus Fun Fact : Ten Unusual National Animals That Rival the Unicorn : http://www.smithsonianmag.com/sc... 14. Tahiti : Tahiti is an island of French Polynesia. Tahitians keep mail boxes outside the homes of their residents not for mail, but for French bread delivery. Residents get a fresh loaf dropped off twice a day. Wondering how do they get mail then, they must go to the post office to retrieve their mail! Mailbox (Or bread box ?) outside Tahitian resident 15. North Korea : Some crazy facts about this country are already mentioned in other answers. But do you know Kim ll-sung (1912-1994) is still the eternal supreme leader of this country even after his death. So does it make this country the only necro autocracy of the world ? Kim ll-sung 16. Tokyo to Honolulu : If you leave Tokyo by plane at 7 am, you will arrive in Honolulu at approximately 7:45 pm the previous day. Due to a massive gap in time zones, Honolulu is 19 hours behind Tokyo. Subtracting the 7 hour and 45 minute flight time between these two cities gives us a trip difference of 11 hours and 15 min. Therefore, you would actually land in Hawaii more than 11 hours before you left Japan! That's surely a time travel ! New Edit: 17 Iceland and Greenland : Ever wondered why the country called Greenland is covered in ice and snow, whereas Iceland has rolling fields of green ? Today while surfing the net I found out a great story behind the names of these two island, so thought its worth sharing. Its a long story, but long story short: Iceland and Greenland were named by two different persons who thought in similar manner but opposite. Iceland was named so to distract extra people from settling there and Greenland was named so to attract more people to settle there. Read the full story here : How Iceland And Greenland Ended Up With Such Messed Up Names Bonus : Greenland does not even qualify to have a FIFA standard football stadium due to lack of grass. And they call it Greenland ! _______________________________________________________ Other answers already have the awesome facts about the countries like Niue (its cool currency), Nauru etc, so I am not adding those facts again. This answer is not perfectly edited I admit. Because the facts here I collected by recalling what ever I have learnt through out time and whenever I got to know some facts, I have added and edited the answer. And also it is not specifically about least known countries, rather I added least known facts about countries and places which we do not find easily on the net. I will be adding more facts later. Updated 5w ago • View Upvotes