Which movie or book can change your life forever?
A wise soul once said, 'A room without books, is a body without soul.' Since times immemorial books and various other forms of art and entertainment shaped peoples' lives. And the trend continues even today through books, movies and T.V shows. Some books and movies that have changed the way I perceive the world around me are- 1. The Kite Runner The book is about the plight of Afghanis during the Soviet invasion. It is a story of two friends who despite being completely different from each other share an unbreakable bond that exists despite social and financial barriers. Hassan's loyalty, Assef's treachery, Baba's righteousness, Soraya's warmth, General Tahiri's smugness, Farid's bravery and Rahim Khan's compassion are beautifully portrayed throughout the story. And caught in between is the protagonist Amir, whose story has been depicted here. A wonderful excerpt from the novel- There is only one sin, only one, and that is theft. Every other sin is a variation of theft. When you kill a man, you steal a life. You steal his wife's right of a husband, you rob his children of a father. When you lie you steal someone's right to truth. When you cheat, you steal the right to fairness. There is no more wretched act than stealing. A man who takes what is not his to take, be it life or a loaf of naan, I spit on such a man. And if I ever cross paths with him, God help him. 2. The Pursuit of Happyness This is the most inspirational movie that one can come across. A bankrupt man whose wife deserts him takes on the world to achieve his goal and at the same time never shies away from taking his son's responsibility. He is even forced to spend a night in a public bathroom. And this isn't a fable, it's the true story of Chris Gardner, the paradigm of 'Rags to Riches.' It teaches a person never to lose hope in the worst possible situations. But the last part where Chris, who had always been a disappointment finally gets rewarded for his endeavors is the most emotional. An inspiring thing that Gardner tells his son- Don't ever let someone tell you that you... You can't do something. Not even me, alright? You gotta dream, you gotta protect it. People can't do something themselves, they wanna tell you you can't do it. If you want something, go get it. 3. Breaking Bad 'This, is not meth' The incredible transformation of an underachieving high school chemist to the don the drug empire. Walter White is a chemistry genius who is suffering from lung cancer and in order to provide for his family starts cooking methamphetamine. What starts as a temporary affair soon develops into nastier business. It costs blood of friends and family. It teaches, albeit in a dark light, the true highs or lows that a seemingly benign man can go to once he sheds his fears and inhibitions. I have spent my whole life scared, frightened of things that could happen, might happen, might not happen, 50-years I spent like that. Finding myself awake at three in the morning. But you know what? Ever since my diagnosis, I sleep just fine. What I came to realize is that fear, that’s the worst of it. That’s the real enemy. So, get up, get out in the real world and you kick that bastard as hard you can right in the teeth. Breaking Bad fans, you need to check this out - SRK To Adapt The Hollywood Popular Series 'Breaking Bad' For His Upcoming Bollywood Film 4. Swades Some movies aren't made to earn profits. They are made to show a mirror to the society in order to introspect and correct the flaws within. Swades is a tale of the metamorphosis of a detached N.R.I who views his nation as a place full of troubles and negativity to a patriot who actively participates towards nation building. Throughout the movie, through conversations and songs, the movie has tried to highlight the flaws and evils existing in our society. Issues like child labour, child marriage, illiteracy, caste system, women empowerment are discussed. And then there's a talk on why India isn't great- Main nahi maanta ki hamara desh duniya ka sabse mahaan desh hai. Par ye zaroor maanta hu ki hum mein kabiliyat hai, taakat hai, hamare desh ko mahaan banane ki. Shayad mujhe ye baat kehni nahi chahiye par aapne baat chedi hai isiliye keh raha hu, jab bhi hum mukable mein dabne lagte hain, to hum ek hi cheez ka aadhaar lete hain... sanskaar aur parampara. America ne apne balboote pe tarakki ki hai. Unke apne sanskaar hain, apni parampara. Ab ye kehna ki unke sanskaar, unke rehen-sehen, unki manyataayen galat hain aur hamare sahi, ye galat hai. Aur zaroori baat ye hai ki yaha log jaati ke aadhaar par bhed-bhaav karte hain. Maine ye ehsaas kiya hai ki hum aapas mein ladte rehte hain jubki hame ladna chahiye ashiksha ke khilaaf, badti abaadi, bhrashtachaar ke khilaaf. Har din, har roz, galiyo mein sadko mein harkoi yahi kehta rehta hai ki, "Is desh ka kuch nahi ho sakta. Ye desh barbaadi ki taraf bad chuka hai." Agar hum sab yehi kehte rahe to sach-much ek din ye desh barbaad ho jayega. Translation :- I don't agree that ours is the greatest country in the world! But I do believe that we have the strength and potential to become great. I shouldn't say this but since you have broached the topic let me say that, whenever we suspect losing in comparision, then we clutch on to our favourite refuge... culture and tradition America has progressed on its own strenghths. They have their own culture, traditions. It would be wrong to claim that their culture, their traditions and beliefs are inferior and ours laudable. It's wrong. What is important is that we make differences based on caste. I've realized that we keep fighting among ourselves when we must fight against illiteracy, over-population and corruption. Everyday, in our streets and homes, each one keeps saying, "The country is on the path of destruction." If we keep saying this we will one day land up there. 5. Word Power Made Easy This might seem to be an absurd choice for life changing books, but I'm sure that such a view can only be held by a person who hasn't read this wonderful book. This is the most cost effective book designed by a semantic stalwart Mr. Norman Lewis. This isn't an ordinary book that aims to throw unfamiliar, foreign words at you. Rather it educates you and takes you through a learning curve that teaches you origin of various related words. From psyche, Greek word for spirit, soul or mind, you get psychiatrist - one who medically heals of the mind psychologist - one who studies the mind psychology - the science of studying the mind psyche - the mental, spiritual or non physical aspect of one's life psychic - phenomenon or qualities that cannot be explained in purely physical terms, sixth sense etc. psychopathic - suffering from a mental disease psychosomatic - the influence that the mind, especially the unconscious has on the body psychoanalysis - technique developed by Sigmund Freud that exhaustively probes into the unconscious psychogenic - of psychic origin psychotherapy - treatment of psychogenic diseases psychotherapist - a practitioner of psychotherapy 6. Zindagi Na Milegi Dobara Literally meaning, 'You won't live again' this flick teaches its audience that it's you who are the most important. Live freely and do whatever you want to do without caring about approvals from the society. It has helped me to take a very important decision in my life. "Dilon mein apni betabiyaan leke chal rahe ho, toh zinda ho tum. Nazar mein khwabon ki bijliyaan leke chal rahe ho, toh zinda ho tum. Hawa ke jhokon ke jaise aazaad rehna seekho, Tum ek dariya ke jaise leheron mein behna seekho. Har ek lamhe se tum milo khole apni baahen, Har ek pal ek naya samaa dekhe ye nigahein. Jo apni aankhon mein hairaniyaan leke chal rahe ho, to zinda ho tum. Dilon mein tum apni betabiyaan leke chal rahe ho, toh zinda ho tum." Translated roughly 'As long as you carry eagerness in your hearts, dreams in your eyes, you are alive. Learn to live free like gusts of wind, learn to float like a boat in waves. Hug each and every moment that you come across. Witness new things and avenues every instant of your existence.' Updated 4w ago • View Upvotes