What are some cheap and creative ways to have fun and enjoy your trip to Singapore?
For food, definitely eat at the local hawker centres. For foods to try, take a look at my answer to What food will I regret not trying after I leave Singapore? For transport, get around via public transport. Do your research regarding the places you want to go before your trip to Singapore and you will be able to find directions to anywhere here in English on the net. Places to walk about, look see and snap pictures: Haji Lane area in Kampung Glam. This hipsters area is littered with quaint shops and boutiques selling colourful clothing, accessories, household knick-knacks as well as Middle Eastern cafes and even tattoo shops. There's a special vibe here not found in any other place on the island. Picture source: Shopping in Haji Lane Picture source: Naumi Hotel, Singapore Picture source: NY Times: Singapore Lane Springs to Life - Haji Lane Chinatown Singapore. The Chinatown MRT station brings you right into the heart of the area. Picture source: Walking Around Chinatown, Singapore Picture source: Chinatown - Singapore Little India. There's also an MRT station that brings you right into the Little India area. The 24hrs shopping centre that sells almost anything imaginable from around the world: Picture source: http://www.travelfish.org/sight_... Picture source: Conservation Districts Marina Bay Nighttime Water-Laser show From Marina Bay Sands Light and Water Show. The Marina Bay Sands Light and Water Show is one show that you can watch in Singapore every night for free.  The shows start at 8pm and 9.30pm.  On Friday and Saturday nights, there is another show at 11pm. There is a little catch that you should know – although the show starts at the same time, you cannot watch both at the same time.  You have to be at the Marina Bay Sands side to watch the Water Show, and you have to be across the bay to watch the Light Show.  You can catch one at 8pm and then stroll over to the other side to catch the other one at 9.30pm. Marina Bay Sands Light Show: Marina Bay Sands Water Show: Pictuesource: Marina Bay Sands Light and Water Show Chek Jawa wetland reserve boardwalk on Pulau Ubin. You need to take a boat ride (S$2) from Changi Jetty, alight at Ubin Jetty and either rent a bike (get a bicycle lock) or get onto one of the island taxis for around S$2 per person to get there. If you go there by taxi, arrange with the driver to pick you up at a later time. Check out these 2 links for details regarding getting there: how to get to chek jawa, pulau ubin, singapore and About Chek Jawa. Chek Jawa is an intertidal area, with various ecosystems unveiled at low tides of 0.5 metres and below. Do refer to the tides table when you plan a visit to avoid disappointment. Picture source: Pulau Ubin and Chek Jawa Places with Free admission: Gardens by the Bay, an SGD$1 Billion park. Picture source: Gardens by the Bay Singapore has been embarking on a paradigm shift as it develops from a “Garden City” to a “City in a Garden” in a global city, with a much more holistic and all-encompassing programme to enhance greenery and flora, and so, to raise the quality of life in Singapore significantly. Gardens by the Bay realizes this paradigm shift and partakes in this phase of development. A premier development leading this new phase, Gardens by the Bay is positioned with the best international standards, in applying cutting-edge innovations and environmentally friendly technology,. For sustainable natural resource management and other aspects. We are poised as a gem on the “necklace of attractions” at Marina Bay to boost Singapore’s International attractiveness as a place to live, work and play. Started as a project by the National Parks Board, the Gardens has since grown to become an independent organization. Picture source: Bosch IP for Singapore’s Gardens by the Bay The picture below shows the OCBC Skywalk, a suspended 128 metre bridge letting you walk amongst the Supertrees but costing SGD5 each for an adult: From What to do in Singapore. Singapore’s new high-tech Supertrees mimic functions of real trees, including producing energy (via solar panels), catching rain water, moderating temperatures and providing shade. The 18 steel structures, ranging in height from 25-50 M (80-160 ft), are covered in vines, flowers and ferns. They create a unique and impressive, lush forest on reclaimed land at the gorgeously landscaped Bay Gardens South. Eleven Supertrees are fitted with solar panels. Several others serve as air exhaust receptacles for the two nearby plant conservatories, dubbed Flower Dome and Cloud Forest. Still others have large rain water catchments. A sky walkway connects two of them, offering spectacular views over the gardens and the city. One of the 50 M trees has a restaurant on top. Entrance to Bay Gardens South is free. Visitors are welcome to stroll around the extensive landscaped gardens and admire the Supertrees from ground level. On the other hand, the two conservatories and Supertrees Skywalk have entrance fees. Marina Barrage (below) is also located within Bay Gardens South, further out along the outer harbor. Picture source: Gardens By The Bay - ocbc skywalk The Marina Barrage. Good for a short visit to it's visitor centre or for a half day kite flying & picnic activity for the family. Picture source: Marina Barrage Built across the mouth of the Marina Channel, the Marina Barrage creates Singapore’s 15th reservoir and the first in the heart of the city. With a catchment area of 10,000 hectares, or one-sixth the size of Singapore, the Marina catchment is the island’s largest and most urbanised catchment. Together with two other new reservoirs, the Marina Reservoir has increased Singapore’s water catchment from half to two-thirds of the country’s land area. The Marina Barrage is the result of former Minister Mentor Lee Kuan Yew’s vision nearly two decades ago when he envisaged damming the mouth of the Marina Channel to create a freshwater reservoir. Picture source: The Marina Barrage Picture source: Entering Marina Barrage.. - Picture of Marina Barrage, Singapore Walk around the Marina Bay Waterfront Promenade. See this time lapse video that makes you feel 'being there', really cool: The Singapore City Gallery. The Singapore City Gallery is the only gallery in Singapore that tells the story of the nation’s planning efforts, showing its remarkable physical transformation – past, present and future. With 10 thematic areas and more than 50 audiovisual and interactive exhibits spanning three ﬂoors over 2,400 square metres, the Gallery offers an exciting, multi-sensory learning experience into Singapore’s planning journey. Immerse yourself in beautiful Singapore, through a 270-degree panoramic sights and sounds show.The Singapore City Gallery. See a blogger's experience there: Singapore City Gallery (URA Centre) "Model of Singapore Central Area - taken from Singapore City Gallery Third Floor, Mar 2014" by Daigordai - Own work. Licensed under CC BY-SA 3.0 via Wikimedia Commons - File:Model of Singapore Central Area - taken from Singapore City Gallery Third Floor, Mar 2014.JPG Picture source: The Singapore City Gallery If you're a local or have loads of time in Singapore: Comcrop @ *Scape Singapore's first rooftop aquaponic farm right in the middle of Orchard Road, the island's 2.2km long favourite shopping boulevard. To visit this rooftop farm, drop Comcrop a message on their Facebook page. Picture source: Comcrop @ *Scape ~ Singapore's First Rooftop Aquaponic Farm In The Heart Of Orchard Road! The Green Corridor. The area that was the old railway tracks from Singapore to Malaysia. The train service stopped and the tracks were open to the public in 2011 and will be preserved as what's now known as the Green Corridor. Picture source: The Tan Family's SG50 Adventure Picture source: A Trek To Explore More Treks: Bukit Timah Nature Reserve by SANL The items below is a copy & paste from another of my answers: What tips/frugal tips would you give to an international student moving to Singapore? Once in awhile you can spend some time at Changi Airport just walking around and enjoying the view & place. You can also explore the The Southern Ridges, a 10 km route of connected parks and green spaces. A shorter route of around 4 km would be from Hort Park to near Vivo City, a leisurely half day walk while taking pictures. Picture source: Hike at The Southern Ridges Picture source: hjtann photo blog Picture source: The Southern Ridges (now with pictures!) Picture source: Wisata Singapura Picture source: http://duwal.com/ar/travelguide/... Garden at Khoo Teck Puat Hospital, good for one hour or so of exploring. Picture source: http://www.greenroofs.com/projec... Kallang River cutting through Bishan Park, a concrete canal was teared down and converted into a public creek for people to catch small fishes & for families to spend some time. Picture source: BISHAN PARK ISOMETRIC MAP Picture source: Landscape Architecture Works | Landezine Picture source: Australian Design Review Picture source: Longkang fish at Bishan Park - Sengkang Babies Singapore Botanic Gardens Picture source: Singapore Botanic Gardens 