What are some interesting facts about the least known countries in the world?
Papua New Guinea: It's a small country north of Australia formed by eastern part of New Guinea and a few smaller islands. It is one of the least explored countries in the world. It is highly diverse and has 800+ languages listed on the Ethnologue page. Ten of these languages are believed to have gone extinct. Papua New Guinea Only 18% of the population lives in urban areas. Majority of population depends on agriculture. It is supposed to be a home to a huge number of undiscovered flora and fauna. Spiders and frogs identified among 50 new species It is considered one of the worst places in the world for its sexual violence against women. Some quotations from Wiki: An estimated 55% of women have experienced forced sex, in most cases by men known to them, according to a 1993 Survey by the PNG Medical Research Institute. Up to 50 percent of girls are at risk of becoming involved in sex work, or being internally trafficked. Many are forced into marriage from 12 years of age under customary law. One in three sex workers are under 20 years of age.Child Protection It has one of the highest rates of HIV transmission in the world. Urban areas are infested with mafia gangs known as Raskol Gangs who are becoming more and more organized. Laos: It is one of the poorest and one of the four communist countries in the world. It has poor urban infrastructure but stunning landscapes. It is the only landlocked country in South East Asia. It doesn't have a railway system. It is the world's most heavily bombed nation. More bombs were dropped on Laos than were dropped by all parties during the Second World War. During the Vietnam war, America dropped more than two million tonnes of bombs over Laos. Most of these bombs were cluster bombs or bombies. Around 30% of these did not explode and are still present in the country posing a threat to the people living there. The unexploded ordinances (UXOs) still kill and maim people who accidentally or intentionally step on or tamper with them. It is said that during the Vietnam war, there were more bombs than people in Laos.One can still find people using bomb shells as decorations in some parts of Laos. 