What are some interesting facts about the least known countries in the world?
Tuvalu Probably not such a little known fact by now, due to its heavy circulation, but certainly an interesting fact about a country very few people could locate on a map (it's somewhere between Hawaii and Australia). Tuvalu is a tiny country. But also one who turned rich one day. The reason? A random coincidence. When domain names started to be distributed to countries back in the late 80's and early 90's, Tuvalu received the predictable abbreviation of. tv. Which, of course, became an obviously desired domain name for any individual, entity or company connected to the entertainment sector, especially television, making the .tv domain one of the most valued internet "real-estates". Which is why the country negotiated in 2000 a 12-year $50 million lease contract for its domain, and in 2011 a 10-year period of having the domain managed for a few millions of dollars a year. This additional income the country was earning enabled it to become economically independent, and even afford the $20,000 membership fee for being a member of the United Nations, which is why it finally joined the UN in 2000. The money also went into much needed infrastructure, electricity, schools and so on. However, since the country's economy is really modest, Tuvalu still relies on foreign aid. Another interesting (and very unfortunate) fact is that Tuvalu seems to be slowly sinking -- well, to be correct, it is actually being slowly submerged by the rising ocean levels). Its highest elevation is somewhere around 15ft (4.5m), and water is actually starting to bubble up from the ground, like in a sinking boat. But even if the country sinks completely, the domain will still exist. And it appears that the country itself will still exist as well, just without territory. Let's hope it won't happen though. Laos A little better known than Tuvalu, but still a name that might not often come up if people were asked to name 50 countries. Laos is located in Southeast Asia, which often brings to mind exotic seascapes, but Laos is the exception: it’s the only landlocked country in the area. No sea, no ocean, but definitely not lacking in beautiful landscapes and interesting places.   One of these interesting places is the Plain of Jars, a field (the Xieng Khouang plateau) with as many as 90 sites full of scattered ancient jar-shaped monoliths. How ancient? They seem to date from as early as 2500 years ago, during the Iron Age. How many? Thousands, of varying sizes, and although various collectors have picked up most of the smaller ones, there’s still around 2500 of them left in the field. The large number of remaining jars is also surprising because the region was carpet-bombed during the Indochina wars, yet there they are, most of them still intact. To this day, there are still 80 million unexploded bombs in the area, and only a handful of these sites were cleared and properly marked, so visiting them all is not possible.   As for the purpose of these jars, it seems that they were used as funerary urns, or at least in strong connection with burial rituals. Burned teeth and fragments of bones were found inside the jars, indicating that the deceased may have been cremated. But human remains have been found buried in the ground as well, in the near vicinity of the jars, suggesting that maybe the purpose of these monoliths was to serve as monuments indicating the proximity of the surrounding graves, or possibly serving as burial place for the head of a family, while the other members were buried around it.   There have recently been discussions about declaring the Plain of Jars an UNESCO World Heritage Site, but before that, it is crucial to clear the areas of the unexploded bomb hazards. Many people, including locals, are interested and involved in this project, so maybe one day not too far from now, the Plain of Jars will turn into a safe and prosperous tourist attraction. Niger Niger is an African country, having most of its territory in the Sahara desert. And it once featured the loneliest tree in the world. It was an acacia tree, locally called L'Arbre du Ténéré, and the only one in a radius of over 400 km (250 miles).   Its survival in the rough conditions the desert offers was due to its very long roots (35 meters / 115 feet) that reached a water table that was well below the surface. The tree was often used as a lightpost by those taking the caravan routes in the area, and it carried a few superstitions as well. The azalai people used to gather around it before venturing into the desert, and it was a cherished tree by both locals and people from far away who often visited and studied this tree.   Unfortunately, even the loneliest tree in the world, isolated in the middle of the desert, can fall victim to a drunk driver. And that is what happened to L'Arbre du Ténéré, in 1973, when a Libyan truck driver drunkenly knocked it down. The tree was later moved to a museum, and replaced with a metal light post that resembles a tree.   Bhutan I’m not sure of the correlation, but Bhutan is both the happiest country in Asia, and one where this is not an uncommon sight:   In fact, most houses in Bhutan’s rural areas feature such "decorations" (which are always in an erect position, and often ejaculating). Actually, they are not just on houses. You’ll find them on car license plates, you’ll find them as scarecrows in fields, dipped in drinks before being offered to guests, and even used as a blessing device. Their main purpose is keeping evil spirits and bad luck away.   The origin of these phallic-centered customs goes over 6 centuries back in time, when a lama / poet named Drukpa Kunley, was popular for using highly unusual ways of teaching Buddhism. His methods included enlightening people, particularly women, often by giving blessings in the form of sex. His penis gained recognition as having the power to subdue demons, receiving the name of "Thunderbolt of Flaming Wisdom", while Kunley received the title of "fertility saint."   Chimi Lhakhang, the monastery that was built in 1499 in his honor, is in a relatively remote location, accessible from a nearby village. All the houses on the way to the monastery were painted with phallic symbols, which is probably how this custom started. The monastery is still active, and women who seek blessings in order to have children are being hit on the head by the monks with wooden or bone phalluses. Federated States of Micronesia Here's a country made of 607 islands, somewhere in the Western part of the Pacific Ocean. One of these islands, called Yap, has a rather unusual money system.   The photo above shows a few of the many such stone disks called Rai that exist on the island. They have varying sizes, ranging from 7 cm (3 in) to 3.6 m (12 ft), they were carved out of limestone, and are used as currency. Since most of them are too heavy to be carried from one person to another, their ownership changes verbally, simply by having the transaction acknowledged by both parties.   Each Rai has a certain value, which doesn’t only vary by the stone’s size, but also by its history. Many of them were actually quarried on other islands, and then transported to Yap. The harder such a transport was, the larger the stone’s value, especially if people were injured or killed in the process.   These stones even witnessed a type of inflation after 1874, when an Irish man helped the locals acquire more Rai stones from neighboring islands. Even though the new stones were larger than most of the older ones, they held less value, due to the easiness with which they were obtained.   Currently, the main currency used on Yap is the US Dollar, but Rai stones are still in use, especially for tradition-related transactions, such as for marriage ceremonies, payment for land ownership, or compensation for damage. Updated 60w ago • View Upvotes