What are the little known things about some famous logos?
Here are some of the famous logos.While some of these are easy to recognize some really leave your heart in the danger of missing a beat.And each of them has a story to tell. Android How android design really came to be The image given above are the actual drafts of the design of the android logo. Irina Blok,the designer of the android logo, says that the original Android design objective was to generate a representation that completely captured the product (including the open source angle), as well as a strategy for forming an emotional connection with the brand. Initially, the logo was aimed squarely at developers, and was intended to have the same weighting as the Linux Penguin. As it turns out, the logo resonated strongly with both consumers and developers. Blok says as Google considers “…anything that resembles traditional marketing [as] cheesy and unworthy of attention…”, a typical officious presentation just wouldn’t cut it, so Blok and her team came up with a mischievous display method to ensure the logo made its covert way into the right hands. This guerrilla scheme involved leaving a sheet of paper containing the logo on a particular table in the Google offices, where they knew it would get noticed and leave Google boffins positively foaming at the mouth. Sure enough, it did: so much so that Blok says the logo went viral. She knew it had hit critical success when she spied a huge Android statue whilst driving to work, thinking: “…This is cool, how something you create has a life on its own.” The next step in the Android logo evolution was the release of the source design within Google, so engineers could sit and waste their precious grey matter and time doodling cartoony fat stick figures modify and adapt the design to create their own versions like those below. These versions produced by assorted Google engineers seem a tad clumsy, especially the grey-blue versions that looks a little like an unfortunate blind and catatonic stumpy-legged-nightshirt-wearing granny with a mixing bowl stuck upside down on her head. The many versions created by the Google engineers themselves. NASA NASA’s meatball In the “meatball” design, the sphere represents a planet, the stars represent space, the red chevron is a wing representing aeronautics (the latest design in hypersonic wings at the time the logo was developed), and then there is an orbiting spacecraft going around the wing. Known officially as the insignia, NASA’s round logo was not called the “meatball” until 1975. That’s when NASA decided a more modern logo was in order. Richard Danne and Bruce Blackburn were hired to replace the complex meatball with a stripped-down, modernist interpretation where even the cross stroke of the A’s were removed. During the first design presentation, the proposed system was met with some resistance. Danne remembers NASA’s administrator, Dr James Fletcher, and deputy administrator, Dr George Low, having the following exchange: Fletcher: “I’m simply not comfortable with those letters, something is missing.” Low: “Well, yes, the cross stroke is gone from the letter A.” Fletcher: “Yes, and that bothers me.” Low: “Why?” Fletcher: (long pause) “I just don’t feel we are getting our money’s worth!” Still, the new program was approved and implemented. Apple Truly smells of Art in every sense.Every logo has a story behind it. The apple logo has always been amid speculations. Some people think that the shift to the apple design was to make it more appropriate for the company name. Others think of it as a more fitting tribute to Newton and his discovery of the colors and gravity. The rainbow colored apple may have been an advertisement for the color capabilities of the second computer produced by the company, Apple II. There are also people who think that the apple symbolizes Alan Turning – the father of modern computing – who took a bite out of an apple poisoned with cyanide that ultimately took his life. Here is another story- The apple is a reference from the Bible story of Adam and Eve, where the apple represents the fruit of Tree of Knowledge, with a pun on ” byte/bite”. Rob Janoff, said in an interview that though he was mindful of the “byte/bite” pun (Apple’s slogan back then: “Byte into an Apple”), he designed the logo as such to “prevent the apple from looking like a cherry tomato.” Lacoste The company name derived from the surname of its founder, Rene Lacoste, a world renowned tennis player then. Rene Lacoste was nicknamed the “crocodile” by the press after he made a bet with the captain of the French Davis Cup team. Apparently, Rene was promised a crocodile skin suitcase, something that was very important to the team, should he win the match. Though he lost the match, the public stuck with the nickname “crocodile” and Rene then decided to have a crocodile embroidered on his blazer, which he wore to the court. Fast forward to the time Rene had to get an identity for his business. The crocodile was made part of Lacoste’s brand identity. Yahoo The website started as "Jerry and David's Guide to the World Wide Web" taking after the name of founders David Filo and Jerry Yang but soon changed it to ‘Yahoo’ which stands for "Yet Another Hierarchical Officious Oracle," but Jerry and David insist they selected the name because of its definition: "rude, unsophisticated, uncouth." Nike According to legends, a Greek would say, “When we go to battle and win, we say it is Nike.” Originally, the mark was referred to as ‘the strip’ but was later changed to ‘Swoosh’ to describe the fibers used in Nike shoes. In the spring of 1972, the first shoe with the Nike SWOOSH Logo was introduced. Adidas The shapes of the 3 stripes on the logo represents a mountain,pointing out towards  the challenges that are seen ahead and goals that can be achieved. Audi The four rings, which make up the Audi logo, represent the four companies that were part of the Auto-Union Consortium in 1932. They were DKW, Horch, Wanderer and Audi. BMW The BMW medallion represents a propeller of a plane in motion, and the blue represents the sky. This is because BMW has built engines for the German military planes in World War II. The colors are the national colors of Bavaria, which now forms a part of Germany. IBM If observed closely, the IBM logo, also known as “Big Blue”, generates a message of “Equality”. The Big Blue IBM logo, with its lower right parallel lines, highlights in the shape of an “equals” sign. Furthermore, the term “BIG” in the Big Blue IBM logo refers to the company’s size in the market share, whereas, the “BLUE” is the official color of the eight-bar IBM logo. McDonalds The idea of ‘arches’ was first introduced by Dick and Mac McDonald as arch shaped signs on the sides of their then ‘walk-up hamburger stand’. From an angle, those arches looked like the letter “M” and thus, were incorporated in the McDonalds logo as a merger of the two golden arches together. Mercedes-Benz The star in three corners represents the Mercedes-Benz dominance on land, sea and air. Mobil A simple typeface was used to attain exuberance and vitality. Red, being the intense color, evokes the strength and blue builds up a feeling of faithfulness and security for the company. Volkswagen The simple logo icon contains the letters V and W: “volks” means “people” and “wagen” means “car”. Toyota The Toyota logo contains three ellipses, which represent the heart of the customer, the heart of the product and the heart of technological progress and limitless opportunities of the future. In Japanese, “Toyo” signifies abundance, and “ta” means rice. In some Asian cultures, the rice represents wealth. Tour de France There is a biker in there somewhere. Can you see him? He is literally on Tour. Notice how the “o”, “u”, and “R” all come together along with the yellow dot to form the image. Mammoth The brilliant logo for the popular ski resort located in California not only looks like a big “M” but it can also be interpreted as mammoth, a mountain, and a ski trail. Pittsburgh Zoo The white space in this logo pops out a whole lot more than in some of the others so it shouldn’t be that hard to spot the monkey and lion staring each other down. Source : 25 Famous Logos With Hidden Images The meaning behind 12+ Famous logo designs you will see today Logo Design Love Android, Apple, Starbucks & NASA: What inspired these four world-famous logos? 