What is the one thing you would like to do if you came to know you had only 24 hours left with you?
There is not one thing that I would like to do. For me the 24 hours would proceed like this. 24 Hours. It would take an hour or so to sink in. Then, I would realise that I have 23 hours left now.  Each passing moment, death draws nearer and there is nothing I can do to avoid it. Assuming that I have made sure that I would die in 24 hours no matter what I do, I would take a pen and paper. Write a personal letter to everyone who would be affected by my death. Asking them to be strong about it, and that i am going to a better place. I would address one of those letters to my nemesis, and an addition that it was him who made me competitive and knowingly or unknowingly, always pushed me to do good, challenging me and helping me improve. I would forgive anyone who had hurt me, So that they don't have any residual guilt after i die. I will ensure that people connected to me in no way feel Incomplete. I would miss everyone, for sure. Next, I assume I have 21 hours left now. It is time I go to my favorite restaurant with my favorite people, Have the dish I always love having. Be it a burger in mcdonald's or a pizza in Pizza hut, have it for one last time. Now, I expect 19 hours to be left on my watch.  It is time I return where I grew up. There may be a constraint on this wish, Since I may be living in a country far away from my home, but assuming I live in the same country, I will fly home. Money wont be a constraint I hope, So I can fly business class for once in my life, Since I always flew economy. I would request my beloved to travel with me, stay with me and bear with me for one more day. Now, around 15 hours are left, I have reached the place I was born, My hometown. All my childhood memories are associated down those narrow lanes. I reach home, I Hope my parents are still alive. If they are, I would hug them, Hug them really tight. Then, I would ask my mom to prepare that one I dish I always missed having while I was away from home while I sat with my father discussing all the beautiful childhood memories I have had. Once I am done chatting and hogging, I would thank them, Thank them for all they gave me, all they did to make me what I was.  I probably have 12 hours left now. I have my mom, dad, the love of my life and all my close friends with me. It is time I throw a Party. Enjoy the company I would surely miss for one last time. It wont be a dull party, It will have everything a great party needs, and we would play games, Games I loved playing. I would ask everyone to write on a chit of paper one thing that they liked about me and how I impacted their lives if I ever did. Expecting that in that moment, No one would jot down negative things about me, I would collect all the chits in a jar for later. The party wont last for more than 2-3 hours.  I have 9 hours left. I am obviously tired, But I don't really want to sleep.  I wouldn't really be able to sleep. I almost forgot to mention, I will definitely invite my teachers to the party. From my elementary school teacher to my college professor, I would want everyone who taught me and shaped me into existence to be there. Now, with 9 hours left, It is time I do things that bring me peace. All humans have a certain protocol they follow when they are frustrated, angry or distressed that calms them down and gives them peace. I would probably go on a long drive with my wife/girlfriend to a calm and serene place. I would listen to some soothing music on the way with her. I have 8 hours left now. Once I reach the place, A lake or maybe a beach, or preferably a deserted landscape, I would go and sit on the grass, legs outstretched, with her. I have the jar of comments with me. With some good music playing, I would start reading the comments about me one by one, Feeling happy about everything, good or bad, rejoicing every memory associated with each comment. It wont take me more than an hour to read all the comments. Now, with 7 hours left, It is time I focus on the person sitting right beside me. In this vile yet beautiful journey, she stood by my side. There is nothing that could make up for what she would go through. None of my actions would fill the void that I would create. I will lay down, rest my head on her lap, like a child getting caressed by his mother and talk to her. There wont be much to say, silence engulfing us in the moment but I would try to be funny, Like I always was. I want to be normal for a few hours, forget about everything that is bound to happen, and have that normal sensation of life I have always ignored. I would try to feel everything, the warmth, the love, the affection, focus on my senses real hard so that i dont miss anything. I think I have 4hours left. I am holding her hand and laying by her side, Looking in her eyes. My mind is blank, at peace I guess. My limbs are hurting, Tired as I havent slept in a while. Nothing matters now, Acceptance is a hard battle, I have fought it with grace and subtlety. It is time I close my eyes, because I think I am the happiest now. Death itself is peaceful, It is the fear of death that isnt. If you overcome that sensation, there is nothing to be worried about. I would share one last kiss with her filled with passion and immense emotion. It is time I sleep, for sleep was always the most peaceful. I would love to die in my sleep. The sleep that would extend perennially. I dont need the 3 hours I have left now. I am done with my chores, I am at peace, and I want to sleep. Let my body rest, feel relaxed, happy, and peaceful. 