What is the craziest story about North Korea?
It's important to understand that a lot of the wackier stories that circulate about North Korea are not true, not really credible if you scratch at them a little bit, or aren't really so weird if you consider them in context. Among the reasons for this: The DPRK is very parsimonious with information, and nobody outside the country trusts the little that is shared. Further, the inaccessibility of officials and the general population makes it impossible to confirm anything. Because there's so little real information, stories that do come out are often cited again and again, even though it may be unclear where the "information" came from, or how credible the sources were. When people see it repeated over and over again, many wrongly take it to be confirmation from multiple sources. I see quite torrid stuff from the Bradley Martin book repeated all the time, and it might be true, but when you read the book there is no indication of where it came from. The regime's propaganda is quite over-the-top, and its target is kind of hard for Westerners to parse. When a commercial implies that women will like you if you use a particular brand of toothpaste, we understand that kind of communication and recognize the context in which we should receive it. But when the DPRK media shows the leader touring an endless succession of factories and department stores or reports that birds and animals mourned the passing of Kim Jong-il, we don't even really see what they're getting at and it just looks like they're nuts. Much of the "information" that gets published comes from sources in the South Korean or American governments, who have reason to show the country in the worst and weirdest light. Surely some of these stories are manufactured or at least cherry-picked in order to advance policy objectives. Sometimes, the regime really does do things that are bizarre and beyond the pale, like kidnapping renowned South Korean director Shin Sang-ok and his ex-wife, compelling them to remarry, and having Shin create a Godzilla-style North Korean monster movie called Pulgasari. If that's true (and it is), what is too weird to believe? With that in mind, some of the stuff brought up in this thread just doesn't seem to be true, and some makes a little more sense in context. The World Cup I believe the one about the citizens of the DPRK being told they won the World Cup originated as a joke. I've never seen any credible report of this. Many international games, including World Cup games, are shown live in the DPRK (sometimes illegally, because the DPRK doesn't always buy the rebroadcast rights), so it would be hard to deny the outcome. That said, it's true that North Korean coaches and players in all sports often attribute success to advice or support from the leader. This should be understood in the context of the national narrative, which revolves around the idea that everyone is personally supported and cared for by the leader. An Olympic gymnast, for example, is meant to understand that the coaching, housing, and food that enabled them to train and compete were all generously provided out of the leader's personal attention and care to them. While that narrative may be creepy and manipulative, you can see how it resonates with people when it's the central theme of all media, education, and personal experience. When you show up to get your monthly ration, you're told it's being given to you out of the benevolence of the leader. You get a package of treats on important days -- current and past leaders' birthdays, generally -- and are told it's a personal gift from the leader. If you've got a TV, you watch footage of the leader inspecting collective farms to make sure that your food is good enough, or factories to ensure that you'll get quality consumer goods, and the narrative is always that the leader does this out of love and care for you. King Tongmyong's "Unicorn" The unicorn lair thing is way overblown and out of context. It's not likely that North Koreans believe or are meant to believe in unicorns (and "unicorn", which was the North Koreans' translation -- it appeared on the English-language KCNA release -- is probably an unfortunate word choice; it's supposed to be the lair of a kirin, an mythical creature not like our conception of a unicorn at all). The discovery of a site near Pyongyang that is supposed to be associated with one of the great kings of ancient Korea is probably just being played up to show that Pyongyang has always been the historical center of power in Korea. Liquor and Cigarettes I'm quite unclear on where the oft-cited $700,000 in Hennessy cognac figure originates from, but if we assume it's true, it doesn't mean that Kim Jong-il drank $700,000 worth of liquor. There is evidence that the loyalty of senior cadres is courted with lavish gifts, and high-end cognac would serve that purpose. North Korea's is far from the only government that does this. "Superdollars" Some observers have pointed out that the "superdollars" story has an odor to it.  The equipment needed to produce the sophisticated notes, goes the reasoning, would cost tens of millions of dollars, which is weird because the amount of these notes apparently in circulation (estimated at $50m) wouldn't even really cover the capital costs. Meanwhile the North Koreans can't manage to print their own currency -- they spend precious foreign currency on a contract with a Swiss company to do that. I'm not sure about this one, but the doubters raise interesting questions. On the other hand: The regime really did run a propaganda campaign discouraging Western hairstyles. While I think it's probably a little simplistic to say that non-approved styles are "banned", the considerable pressure put on citizens to conform probably does extend to hairstyles, and the oft-photographed boards showing the suggested styles are probably best not diverted from. Wood- and coal-powered cars have indeed been seen in parts of the country, though I have not heard any reports of this lately. I doubt there were ever enough of them to make a real environmental impact; deforestation in search of cooking and heating fuel has probably been far more devastating. The axe murder incident at the DMZ in 1976 certainly happened, and seems to have been orchestrated in order to ratchet tensions up to a convenient level at the time. Many members of North Korea's celebrated 1966 World Cup squad, who beat Italy to reach the quarter-finals, were later sent to prison camp, apparently as punishment for inadequate later performance. It is said that some died there. I never heard the one about the 14 year-old who drowned saving a portrait of Kim Il-Sung, but the official media often carry stories of people putting themselves in danger to rescue such icons from fires, etc. It would appear to be meant to demonstrate to the population that their fellow citizens revere the Kims. 