Arranged Marriages: Why do many Indian parents insist that their daughters get married?
Thankfully, I have parents who aren't particularly excited about getting me married too soon. So, I would like to approach this question from the perspective of Indian families (not just parents). Here is what I think the reasons are. 1. The famous "log kya kahenge" (what will people say) attitude: Most people in India would justify marrying off their daughters because of this.  A late marriage would apparently create apprehensions in the minds of people (including prospective 'ladkewalas') who would, at the slightest hint, jump to a number of conslusions about the girl, including the following: (i) she was ditched by some guy she was dating for really long; (ii) she is far too ambitious, too 'hep'; (iii) there is some 'dosh' in her kundali (the stars weren't appropriately aligned at the time of her birth), etc. Presumptions such as these exist everywhere, for no real reasons. So, now that I am 24, I should probably assume that my mangal would start becoming bhari post one year from now! :D 2. Fears regarding dating someone else: Most parents are distrustful of the person their child is dating. I would say such a concern is absolutely reasonable. What if she finds a total jerk? What if he doesn't treat her well?  What if he eats meat? What if he does not do puja regularly? What if he is a mechanic, wears tight leather pants and a bandana(oh, don't we love bollywood movies! :P)? Such concerns increase when you have a daughter. This is primarily because, till date, the joint family culture is prevalent in India and more often than not, it is the girl who will be married into another family and will have to stay with them. In such a case, parents would obviously be at ease if their daughter is married in a family where she will have to make minimum adjustments. 3. The better suitors would (mysteriously) disappear if you marry too late: For some reason, it is perceived by many that a young bride would get better suitors. I wouldn't know about better suitors but you would certainly get more number of suitors, considering the number of men who are available/perceived to be available at the time. After you cross the "eligible age", you apparently stand a chance only with a widower/divorcee or with some ugly, bald man! 4. Children: A lot of people would want their daughters married soon so that they do not have any issues during child birth. I agree with this to a certain extent considering the fact that certain women are known to attain menopause even in their early 40s (I am not really sure about any other issues associated with this). This is definitely a simpler way to get your daughter married considering it would appeal more to her sense of logic. And if that doesn't work, then you always have the famous death threat - "Marne se pehle tere bachhe ka chehra bas ek baar dekh lun!" (let me see your child's face at least once before I die!). :D 5. Marriage expenses: Marriages are a lavish affair in India even for societies which follow rather simple traditions. Things become even more difficult if you have a fairly long guest list. In such a situation, several people who have jobs with a fixed tenure (particularly government jobs) and do not have sufficient resources would want to ensure that their daughters are married before their retirement. Apart from all this, Indian families are usually excited about marriages in general. Everyone likes celebrations and new relationships being built (and the search for more children to be married off during such occasions). Not to mention, the gossip surrounding every single marriage ceremony. :) 