What is the craziest story about North Korea?
On 1 January 2016, wow, I couldn't believe that this answer got 9.8k upvotes, thanks everyone and you have made me so happy! :D ======================================================== Nothing is craziest, because you can always find something crazier in North Korea. I visited the country in 2010, and here are some photos I took. 1. Most cyclists you met in North Korea are men, not women. Some North Korean defectors claimed that Kim Jong-Il once said that it was so disgusting to see a lady riding a bike, and many North Korean's families warned their daughters not to ride bicycles for fear that it would "tear their cunts". (Source: Nothing to Envy: Ordinary Lives in North Korea by Barbara Demick, page 14.) 2. It was actually quite okay for visitors to take photos, most people didn't care. I know some people will contradict me on this, but from my personal experience, I didn't get much trouble for taking photos, even for those guys in uniform. 3. There were lots of portraits of the Kim's family, all showed that son Kim Jong-Il was almost as tall as his father Kim Il-Sung, but Kim Jong-Il was only 157cm (5ft 2in), while his father should be 173cm (5ft 8in). (Source: 50 fascinating facts: Kim Jong-il and North Korea  and N.Korea Asks Chinese Wax Museum to Make Kim Il-sung Taller) 4. Most North Koreans wore black or grey jackets except the more privileged class. It was not a dress code, probably just out of practicality. 5. To take a snapshot of the statue of the Dear Leader Kim Il-Sung, one must take the whole body into the photo frame. It was not allowed to take just a part of the statue, so the photo below would be banned from displaying in the country, because it showed only half the body of the Dear Leader. 6. Roads in Pyongyang and highways between cities were always almost empty, and in good condition. Road from Pyongyang to Panmunjom (border between North and South Korea). Road in Pyongyang, the capital city. 7. I asked this lady if it was expensive to go to a hairdresser. She told me that they lived a country where all people were equal, all people could afford to go to hairdressers, and all people could receive equal chances to get everything they wanted. She let me take a photo of her hair style. I examined this photo carefully and found that she was actually wearing a wig, fake hair. 8. Visitors were usually invited to see a performance at a local school, students performed so professionally as if they did nothing except rehearsing. It was the typical smiles I found on almost all performers. 9. I asked my North Korean tour guide about the requirement of applying for a job as a traffic police. She said three: First, tall enough (fair enough). Second, good eyesight (fair enough). Third, beautiful (...) I asked why beauty was a part of the requirement. The answer? It was important to the images of the city and country! 10. We were not allowed to wear jeans to go the Panmunjom, the border between North and South Korea. Because it would show a dirty, corrupted and fallen image of North Korea, as the propaganda shown in the US and the South, explained our tour guide. My North Korean tour guide told me that she was the only one in her family to have visited the border at Panmunjom, she was excited to see the South counterpart for the first time, but she felt sad to take foreign visitors here, "because it shows the scars of our people." The two photos below were the place where I was standing in North Korea, but taken from the South Korean side after a month. Of course I couldn't cross the border at Panmunjom, I went back from Pyongyang to Dandong (China), took a boat to Incheon (South Korea) and joined another tour to the same place on the opposite side again. The place we were standing was called Panmungak (판문각, 板門閣), the Pavilion of Panmun). 11. Korean War has always been a big theme for all visitors coming to North Korea, even though it was ended in 1953. We were arranged to visit museums, memorials and statues relating to this war, North Koreans called this the "Fatherland Liberation War" (조국해방전쟁, 祖國解放戰爭, Joguk Haebang Jeonjaeng), this museum was named the Victory Museum. Yes, North Korea was presumed to have won the war against the US Imperialists. The brave North Korean soldier laughed at the US Imperialist who were escaping, the US soldier actually looked like Mr Bean. As for the North Koreans' attitudes towards the US Imperialists, there were no ways to find it out except from the words of our tour guides (yes, we actually had two tour guides, both North Koreans, both could speak perfect Mandarin, it seemed that they could monitor each other as well). "We don't hate the US people, provided that they show respect to our dear leader, our country and our people." "Have you ever met any Americans?" I asked. "No, not personally, but I've heard that some Americans are nice and they are willing to learn the Juche Ideology," my tour guide replied. "Are American tourists banned to visit North Korea?" "No, there are many American tourists now!" "How many?" She swiftly gave me an exact figure, "Six, there are six American tourists currently traveling in our country (in March 2010)." "How can you know that figure so precisely?" "Because all tourists must come through our working unit." She answered. We joined a tour organised by a private Chinese tour agency, but all people involving in this tour arrangement from the North Korean side were working for the state-run agency. Here is another photo taken at the Victory Museum, the miniature of the USS Pueblo (AGER-2), which is the only ship of the U.S. Navy still on the commissioned roster currently being held captive. (Source: USS PUEBLO) 12. The metro system in Pyongyang has been rather well developed, yet you would find this message on every ticket machine at the entrance. The Korean text means, "Do not put your paper ticket into the machine." There's a ticket inspector at the entrance of every metro station. It seemed that the ticket machines were either broken, or they wanted to hire more employees to check the tickets. Unemployment rate was only 4.6% in 2003, better than most other countries. (Source: North Korea Unemployment Rate | 1991-2016 | Data | Chart | Calendar ) 13. Our tour guide put the word "devils" together with the word Japanese all the time, but you could find some North Koreans using Canon and Panasonic cameras, I have no idea if these were just normal civilians or actors. This photo was taken in the supposed wedding, at the Koryo Songgyungwan (성균관, 成均館), near Kaesong. 14. We could also buy Japanese snacks at the State Department but was expired a few months earlier. It was the two-coloured Daifukumochi made in Hokkaido in Japan, the expiry date (賞味期限 shōmi kigen) was 8 December 2009 (we visited the place in 2010). The shopkeeper at the State Department happily gave us refund, and she put the unopened package back to the display shelf. 15. North Koreans love reading, at least it was what our tour guide told us, it was very common to see North Koreans reading books almost everywhere. The literacy rate is claimed to be 99%. (Source: Country Studies, Library of US Congress ) I do notice that one of our North Korean tour guides was extremely well informed about the world affairs, her memory was amazing and always gave me some surprise. One day she told me it was the first time that she received a visitor from Hong Kong (it was me), then she said that she understood the history of Hong Kong briefly, that Hong Kong was controlled by the British after the Opium War. Then our conversation carried on, as if it was a school test. "I know there were two opium wars. The First Opium War ended in 1842, the Treaty of Nanking was signed... The Second one ended in 1860, and the Treaty of Tientsin (Tianjin) was signed..." I was honestly surprised that she remembered the details so well, I told her that most Hong Kongers couldn't remember the dates of the Opium Wars, she remained humble and said, "We learned it at school." A young student in our tour group studying history at a university in Beijing was very eager to discuss politics with our tour guide, sometimes too eager, once asked her what she knew about June Fourth Massacre. At the beginning, she said she hadn't heard about it, but when the student told her that it happened in 1989, lots of students were killed in Beijing, the tour guide immediately said, "Oh you mean the Tiananmen Square Incident? We called it the Tiananmen Square Incident." Note that most Chinese wouldn't call the Tiananmen Square Incident as June Fourth Massacre, the young student told me he read lots of materials from all over the world.  16. Without doubt, food in South Korea is usually much better than those found in North Korea. Yet this is the only dish I really miss in the North, the famous Pyongyang raengmyeon (랭면, more common to be called naengmyeon 냉면 in the South, cold noodles). I've tried many cold noodles restaurants in Seoul, nothing could beat their rival in the North, this is one of the things that the Northerners should be really proud of... 17. The official calendar used in North Korea is called the Juche Calendar, based on the birth date of the Great Leader Kim Il-sung (15 April 1912). So this year is supposed to be Juche which is based on Kim Il-sung's date of birth: 15 April 1912. Now it's 2016, so this is Juche 105. Juche ( 주체, 主體) means self-reliance and is the official political ideology of North Korea. One of the most prominent monuments in Pyongyang is the Tower of the Juche Idea, 170m (560 ft) tall. You may also notice that there were not any advertisements displayed in the city landscape. The flame on top of the Juche Tower was depicted throughout the country. One tip for those travelers going to North Korea, try to memorise the definition of Juche, it's the best way to impress your tour guide (and your group members). So what is the Ideology of Juche? Official answer: Everyone could control his own destiny and the power lies within his own body. (If it contradicts what you thought of North Korean's destiny, read on...) The Leader is head, the Party is body, the People are cells. Therefore, body and cells should listen to the command of the head. If there's no head, life will be lost." Your tour guide will definitely ask you, "if anyone knows anything about Juche?" Answer him, applause will be followed and you will be treated like a VIP! A poster in a school, the text means "Our country, Socialism System, Long Live!" At the train station in Pyongyang: A street sign propanganda: 18. Yes, we could use the internet in North Korea in Yanggakdo Hotel, it cost only €2, not per minute or hour, but per 100kb in 2010! If you want to download 1GB, expect to pay  €20972 (or US$22782) per GB, that's insane. So who would use this service? I personally knew a friend working for a news media in Hong Kong who stayed at this hotel because of the visit of the former China's premier Wen Jiabao in October 2009. My friend did use the internet and the speed was said to be quite acceptable. My friend saw the bill on the last day, the figure was 5-digit in US dollars (yes, they had to transfer video files!), her company was supposed to pay for it but a staff from the China delegates came and chatted briefly with my friend, then grabbed the bill and said, "We'll take care of it." 19. We were confined to our hotel at night, we could only find some entertainment inside the hotel compound, the place is big enough and it was like a maze. 20. Yes, they have a casino in North Korea, located at the basement of Yanggakdo Hotel. It was run by Stanley Ho, "King of Gambling", one of the richest guys in Macau, who had built a powerful gambling industry in Macau. The casino forbids all North Koreans to get in, whether as customers or employees. All people working there were from Macau or China (mostly from Dandong, Liaoning Province). I've heard that they could provide "special massage service" to those desperate (mostly Chinese) visitors. 21. Some typical pairs of words in irreversible orders in CJKV languages (Chinese, Japanese, Korean and Vietnamese) are, for example, Man and Woman (男女), Black and White (黑白), South and North (南北), etc. These are called irreversible binomials (also known as "Siamese twins" in linguistics), it would sound weird to say "North South" (北南) in CJKV. Yet, in North Korea, it seems to be politically incorrect to say "South and North Korea" as I noticed our tour guide would explain some details as follows, "This is the statue of the reunification of the South Joseon and North... oh no, I mean, NORTH and SOUTH JOSEON!" The North must precede the South, perhaps it happened only in some sorts of political statement, not a generalisation of the daily conversation of North Koreans. Also, the tour guide explained everything in Mandarin, and never used the word "North Korea" (北韓) or "South Korea" (南韓), she used the term "North Joseon" and "South Joseon" instead. Joseon (조선) was a Korean kingdom founded by Yi Seonggye that lasted for approximately five centuries, from July 1392 to October 1897. It was officially renamed the Korean Empire in October 1897. (Source: Joseon) 22. North Koreans love beer, and beer was always served at every meal we ate except for breakfast. Below is a photo of the famous Taedonggang beer (대동강맥주). Taedonggang (대동강, 大同江) is one of the largest rivers in North Korea (439km long), which also runs through Pyongyang, passes the Juche Tower and Kim Il-sung Square. For those who are interested in the North Korean TV advertising campaigns, which was rare in this communist state (okay, should be a state of the ideology of Juche), take a look at this TV ad of Taedonggang beer launched in 2009, a worker in uniform was having a good time after taking a mug of frothy beer, with a typical satisfactory smile afterwards. The beer was praised as the "Pride of Pyongyang". So how did the North Korean make their highly praised beer? They bought a brewery in Trowbridge (Wiltshire, England) in 2000, then rebuilt it on a cabbage patch in Pyongyang! You can read the fascinating story here: How a Wiltshire brewery produced Pyongyang's number one beer The less famous Ponghak Beer. It tasted rather bad to us because of the rusty bottle cap, perhaps just one bad egg... the quality control in North Korea shouldn't be too bad. 23. Most of my friends thought we must have been starving in North Korea, not really. While I wouldn't say the food was great, definitely foreign visitors were not going to starve to death, far from it, we were actually fed quite well, especially compared to the standard of the average people in this country. Utensils laid out elegantly... A splendiferous banquet. Hotpot was provided, we were happy!  We could even try the famous Samgyetang (ginseng chicken). Traditional cuisine at Kaesong. 24. Some foreigners found it revolting to bow to a dictator, but it seemed that many North Koreans wholeheartedly expect all foreigners would really want to do bow to their great leader wholeheartedly. The huge statue of Kim Il-Sung at Mansudae, Pyongyang. The statue of the son Kim Jong-Il was later installed at the same place after he passed away on 17 December 2011 . Two young North Korean boys suddenly came from nowhere and bowed to the Dear Leader. Then walked away with a satisfactory smile. There was a huge crowd waiting at the Mansudae, waiting to give their respect to the great leader. In North Korea, it was the custom to bow once to the elderly or people of higher ranking, or bow thrice to the dead. It would be more appropriate to bow thrice to the Great Leader who passed away in 1994, but many North Koreans still prefered to bow only once to the statue or portrait of the Dear Leader, as they thought he was still "alive in their hearts", explained my tour guide.  25. There was a huge aquarium in the Yanggakdo International Hotel, the glass was exceptionally clean and almost transparent, it seemed that the staff spent a great effort to maintain it, perhaps important to the image of the country and people of North Joseon. 24. There's a 105-storey pyramid-shaped skyscraper building named Ryugyong Hotel (류경호텔, 柳京飯店), which has been always under construction in the city centre of Pyongyang. Construction began in 1987, halted in 1992, started again in 2008. We visited DPRK in 2010 and the tour guide told us that it would be finished soon, but it was then stopped again in 2013. Here are some more photos of the Ryugyong which were rarely seen on the internet. 26. The actual border between North and South Korea didn't exist on some maps in North Korea, this map was found at a local school. Most people referred to the border between the two countries as the 38th parallel, but the 38th parallel in question is a circle of latitude 38 degrees north of the equatorial plane. This line divides the Korean peninsula roughly in half (leaving about 56% of Korean territory on the northern side). The actual border between North and South Korea slants across this circle of latitude, finishing some distance north of it on the east coast. Nonetheless people often loosely refer to the border between the two Koreas as the “38th parallel”. (Source: Why is the border between the Koreas sometimes called the “38th parallel”?) 25. There's at least one Buddhist Temple in North Korea, one of our group members asked the monk if he could pray for us, he said something in Korean, not sure if it was real praying or chanting. The temple we visited was Pohyonsa (보현사, 普賢寺), very close to Myohyang Mountains (묘향산, 妙香山). According to my tour guide, "North Koreans could practice whatever religion they like, provided that they also respect the Juche." "It was different from what I read from the news..." We could actually talk to our guide rather freely. She promptly replied, in a calm tone, "It was all lie on the western media." 27. From left to right, this is me (wearing a Tibetan jacket), my friend WC, and my friend KH. Photo taken at Panmunjom, the border between South and North Korea... oops, I mean North and South Joseon. The big characters written at the back were "Jaju Dong Il" ('자주통일, 自主統一), which means "unification made by ourselves" (without any interference from other countries, which probably include China as well). Note that the word "reunification" in the Korean script shown in this photo was obsolete, the third character is usually written as 통 now. This is the longest post I have written on Quora so far, I hope you will like it! :) I woke up this morning and saw more than 4000 upvotes to this answer, wow, thank you for everyone, especially those who helped me to clarify some points. I can see why people spent their precious time to write long answers on Quora, unlike other forums, Quora users are really reading what you wrote, it gave me lots of satisfaction! You can also see my other photos (mostly in Tibet) on my Instagram: http://www.instagram.com/pazu Updated 4w ago • View Upvotes