What are the 10 must-know algorithms and data structures for a software engineer?
The Amazon A9 Algorithm "Amazon is a fantastic example of incorporating very sophisticated machine run algorithms that are designed to manage the overall behavior of the group of people who are visiting that website." ~Jerry Kaplan According to Jerry Kaplan, the Amazon A9 algorithm exploits the fact that they know a whole lot more about buying patterns than the average consumer does, and that sort of information asymmetry is the real crux of their business plan. As with Google, the A9 works to find the right pages using specific on-page and off-page data in order to build the SERPs. The A9's definition of success is: 'to find the product that will provide the best sales conversion/profit'. Uber's surge pricing algorithm is in some ways operating on similar principles. Nobody can look under the hood of the A9, but there is some speculation that 'predictable agent' principles might be employed in the smart machines which are programmed to achieve an outcome pursued via self-learning and experimentation. In contrast with Netflix's: Human, SVD & RBM algorithms (30% human decision and 70% machine...but the human element is valued more), Amazon seem to rely on the machine algorithm.  We do know that the A9 is particularly interested in 'recent sales' of a product (rather than life-time sales). Furthermore, A9 analyzes both click-through-rate (CTR) and click-to sales (CTS). Machine Learning is heavily deployed in Amazon: For binary classification, Amazon uses logistic regression (logistic loss function + SGD). For multiclass classification, Amazon uses multinomial logistic regression (multinomial logistic loss + SGD). For regression, Amazon uses linear regression (squared loss function + SGD). Browsing History Most websites track our behavior and in doing so present products and information based upon our browsing history. This is convenient to the consumer but, Amazon also add on what consumers might be willing to pay for a product (predictable agent). As a matter of fact the best machine algorithms can determine when to charge someone more for a product (than the next guy). Amazon are the perfect example of this machine algorithm 'magic'. Their algorithm analyzes; time of day, what you bought in past, how you respond to incentives, where you are from (source), your browser etc. etc. in order for them to get you to buy at the highest price possible. As a consumer on Amazon, you in fact adhere to very specific statistical properties. Giant Machine Learning Algorithm Amazon's biggest problem is that it wants people to keep shopping after they buy what they came for, even though they don't need the vast majority of what Amazon sells. The giant algorithm is designed to arbitrage what it pays for a product and what it sells that product for to consumers. The algorithm adjusts profits within a zone which could never before be achieved in the retail market. Amazon also built an index of items that customers tend to purchase together. When someone views a page or makes a purchase, the site shows them products with high ratings and similar qualities based on that index "item-to-item collaborative filtering". The process is super fast and scalable. The recommendation engine is therefore, also based on products not just people. "The next time you spot a price shift for a product you've been keeping an eye on, remember that a hyper-intelligent computer system has for just as long kept its eye on you, and it's smarter than you think." Watch Jerry Kaplan discuss: Amazon’s Algorithm ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The author has curated this video and has no affiliation with Amazon or Jerry Kaplan Updated 6w ago • View Upvotes