Arranged Marriages: Why do many Indian parents insist that their daughters get married?
There are couple of things when it comes to marriage in India. Let me choose the top most points. First, what is a marriage in India for couples? Second, how Indian parents think about marriage? Third, how Indian society think about marriage? Fourth, how we treat our girls? Fifth, other influencing factors on marriage? Let me start with third point (most important): Indian marriage (usually a family drama) system is highly influenced by society. Because of societal pressure, Indian parents don't want to feel bad while listening to the neighbors, relatives and other human beings (who are good at negotiating deal for marriage). Indian society believes in one nice word "settled" which means getting married. If a girl is not getting married or not ready for that, society creates hell lot of pressure on parents. Even, we had a TV serial [1] about marriage in India; I don't know if it is still in production. In all TV programs, movies, and other popular media coverage, marriage is a must deal, with some exceptions. First point, a few Indian couples started thinking about marriage as an institution but for most of them it is just a matter of having a "homely wife or a decent earning husband". There is almost no professional counselling or advise for people who wants to get married. Either Indians are very smart or they understand marriage in and out. To understand marriage, one should be in a relationship and try to spend good time with his/her partner. Being in a relationship helps to understand your partner and some other critical things he/she wants in life. Now, why we don't have many relationships; credit goes to Indian society again which creates all kind of roadblocks to stop dating guys and girls. Second point, most of the Indian parents wants to "settle" their kids. How to "settle" kids. Make them doctor or engineer or something like that; once they get a job, start emotional torture about marriage. There is another type of parents; for them spending money on education is a waste, find a guy for a girl and "settle" her fast. Once girl is married, parents often go to temple/religious places to thank god for being so helpful (to get rid of girl fast). Fourth point, India has a poor record of gender equality. We are at number 101 in total 136 countries [2]. There are parents who provide good education and encourage their daughters to get a job; but when it comes to marriage, they are highly influenced by society (point no. 3). In rural India and some traditional families, sending girls to school or work is considered as against family values (WTF, so called family values which was created to control girls in the past). Fifth point, India as a society has many social problems. As I mentioned above about gender equality, there are other problems such as dowry [3]. In few communities dowry value can be as high as $300,000 (Approx. 15000000 Indian rupees). Indian males (not all of course) have a tendency to marry young girls (there are popular movie songs which supports this crap), so parents wants to "settle" girls at a young age. Last but not the least, though India has a population of more than 1 billion people, finding a good match is always a challenge. Why? Indians mostly prefer arranged marriage, or forced to do (whatever the case). In arranged marriage, one has to go with so many parameters that chances of finding a suitable match goes down [4]. For example, if a girl from a particular caste wants to find a guy, she has to first choose Hindu religion, then a caste in which she can get married (she can't go out and pick up a guy from any caste), then profession of the guy, family status, social status, language and so on. After going through all these steps, she has to like the guy (did you notice, girl's choice comes very late in the marriage drama). If she don't like the guy, then whole process (drama) starts again. Parents don't want to repeat the drama (for girl) many times and they force the girl to get married as soon as possible. Note: traditionally, Indian marriage system was more about society and less about couple. Unfortunately, this trend is still alive...... Source: [1]. Swayamvar (Indian TV Show) [2]. India ranked 101 in global gender gap report [3]. Dowry system in India [4]. Newspaper Matrimony Sample Ads Updated 31w ago • View Upvotes