★What are DNS services?
Since DNS stands for "Domain Name System", the "DNS services" premise is to provide the subscriber a way to use  that system. There are two different camps in the world of DNS Services. First provide "Authoritative DNS" for the publishers of the records and others that facilitate reliable "Recursive DNS" for the end users of the records (see the short Wikipedia overview on DNS). While both services are focused on delivering resilient and fast DNS answers their other features are quite different. Recursive DNS service. It historically was provided by Internet Providers and network administrators. Since the maintenance of the recursive DNS server is not quite easy, some of them become overloaded, unreliable, and slow. Companies like OpenDNS realized that and started to provide higher quality service. Now the Google Public DNS is largest among many and the small networks would prefer using those to running their own. Business model is to add to free promise "our service will just work" something like "and there is privacy/security for you" or other features that you can monetize. Authoritative DNS service. In order to be visible on the Internet you had to maintain your DNS server. But the time passed and it become harder and harder. Especially for businesses with serious internet presense. There are big security risks (spoofing your DNS means the ability to steal/spoof most of your traffic), there are operational expenses (you need more servers around the globe for resilience and minimal latency, you need network admins besides of server admins), there are changing standards like DNSSEC, there are new practices like DNS failover, geo-dns, DNS-based load balancers and so many more that you need to have dedicated technologists to figure things out... Eventually there is a constant concern of DDOS agains DNS services which require you to invest heaviely in "what if" scenario. That all formed authoritative DNS services market. Disclaimer: I work for Dyn, DNS services provider.