★What is DNS Poisoning?And how can we protect ourselves from it ? Does it mean everything we know about security is flawed ? http://ketil.froyn.name/poison.html
BriefDNS poisoning is an attack where the attacker can cajole the DNS resolving server to resolve a domain to an incorrect IP address. If your DNS resolver is attacked , you could see a different site being loaded when you type Google on your browser How it works To understand this, we need to understand there are 2 different types of servers which collaborate to resolve a domain name Authoritative Server : This server persists the Ip address and domain name mapping for a specific domain and resolves it when a resolving server queries it. Resolving Server: A resolving server is what an end-user sets up on his machine (either explicitly  or via DHCP). For every domain name , resolver resolves it either from its cache or by querying the Authoritative server for that domain.Now the DNS cache poisoning attacker which wants to change the cache of a renowned DNS resolver would work something like this. It would query the resolver for a specific domain Most of the time , resolver would serve it from cache. In the response it would also have the TTL of the response. This TTL tells the resolving server how long it can cache the response. The attacker server would query the domain around the tim when the cached response expires and this time immediately after the response , sends the response along with as well with a compromised IP. The resolving server would treat this response as the genuine one and respond with compromise IP and more importantly cache that response . The attacker can chose to give a very high value of TTL . For the attacking server to make the resolving server believe it is the authoritative server, it needs to spoof the IP of authoritative server and the request Id. It also needs to ensure the attacked response needs to be received before the response from authoritative server response. Please note that most(>99%) of DNS queries are over UDP, so the resolver cannot determine authoritative server response from "connection". Now every DNS query for the compromised domain in that resolver would resolve to wrong IP address and it can be used to hijack everything . There are slightly modified forms of this attack abut most rely on same underlying fact of poisoning the cache of DNS resolver. Does that mean DNS is that vulnerable? DNS protocol predates Internet and it was written for a network with trusted and known members. When it was adopted for Internet ( which implies members cannot be trusted) , it was modified to have DNSSEC protocol. You can be re-assured most DNS Server today would be patched to be able to handle the poisoning attack ( unless you are using your own installed DNS resolver with a noob as network admin )