I am now 76kg my age is 21 am hitting gym for couple of weeks now I want to reduce weight to 70 to 65 what diet chart to do regularly in a day?
Men now burn fat faster and Burn more calories than women. though the older you get, the slower your metabolism. Fortunately, you can do a few things to put your metabolism into high gear. Here are a few tips, 1. Build muscle mass The best way to speed up your metabolism is to put your muscles to work. This is best done through weight training. Muscles burn a lot more calories than body fat. Half a kilo of muscle consume 35 calories per day, while half a kilo of fat, putting away two calories a day. Even in idle mode keep your muscles consuming energy. So if you want to boost your metabolism for the long term, then weight training is the way. 2. Exercise in the morning If you exercise your body on the way to work in the early hours, this works all day on your metabolism. Take the bike to work instead of the bus or car, and you'll notice that you have the whole day more popular. 3. Drink more water Your metabolism slows down already at slight dehydration of the body. So make sure you drink enough water. Scientific research showed that people who drink eight glasses of water per day burn more calories than people who drink four glasses of water per day. Ice cold water to drink also helps to speed up your metabolism slightly. This is not recommended if you have a sensitive stomach though. 4. Eat more often If you eat three large meals a day, then your metabolism will be trained to slow down. In the hours between meals, your body goes to power saving mode. And At the next big meal calories digest especially slow. It is better to spread throughout the day to eat several small portions. This will keep burning well underway. Several studies have also shown that people who eat small portions throughout the day, during the main meal eat less. 5. Eat more protein Your body needs twice as much energy to digest proteins than for digesting fats or carbohydrates. Proteins are in tofu, eggs, fish, chicken, lean pork or beef, nuts, beans and dairy products. 6. Avoid crash diets A crash diet is a disaster for your metabolism. With a crash diet you consume less than one thousand calories per day. The weight loss that you will have at the beginning, at the expense of your muscles and poor nutrition is not worth it. and the less muscle mass, the slower your body burns calories. At the time you resume a normal diet again, your metabolism has slowed sharply, making weight loss extra hard. 7. Spicy food Chilli peppers increase metabolism by 20% for half an hour after meals. Spicy food cause not so spectacular and prolonged acceleration in your metabolism. so every little bit helps. 8. Drink black coffee Coffee has many advantages: it can make memory functions better and provides important antioxidants. But the cup solace offers even more advantages. It also has a slightly stimulating effect on metabolism. Try to Drink your coffee black, because with milk and sugar, the effect of increased metabolism is nullified. 9. Drink green tea Green tea is also a way to increase your metabolism. Green tea contains vegetable, flavin-containing proteins that the process of burning fat accelerates. Do not expect to lose kilos by drinking green tea alone without exercise. Think of it as a helping hand for your metabolism. Hope this Helps feel free to check out more info on my website on how to lose weight fast but safely Here 