Why are US budget deficits rapidly falling right now?
There appears to be a strong indication that the U.S. economy is getting weaker as we recover from the economic melt down and resulting credit down grade for the first time in United States' history. Our debt to GDP ratio: This ratio is reaching historic levels. It is at 73% of GDP. http://www.marketwatch.com/story... The Federal Reserve System has driven the prime lending rate to nearly zero. See (4) below. This is making borrowing to cover entitlement spending, etc and interest payments very cheap. Until the day our creditors demand payment and or our interest rates rise. The Feds are very good at creating financial bubbles and trying to reverse them when the financial markets turn. Timing gets critically important then. Interesting reasons, some of which are itemized here. 40 'Frightening' Facts On The Fall Of The US Economy http://www.zerohedge.com/news/20... This is an interesting analysis below. Included are entitlement spending, as mandated by law, the stimulus spending by the Feds (Keynesian economics), and demographic changes as baby boomers age and the birth rate (worker replacement) declines. And some forced social policy decisions I attribute to the "government-knows-better-than-you-do policy". 1. The federal deficit over the past three fiscal years through September 2011 totaled $4 trillion, averaging $1.3 trillion per year. This fiscal year, which is the third full year of the economic recovery, the deficit is likely to be around $1 trillion again. 2. Total public debt outstanding, including nonmarketable securities held by federal trust funds, rose to a record $15.6 trillion during March. It's up $1.3 trillion over the past 12 months and $6.1 trillion over the past four years. 3. Dividing all this debt by the labor force in the U.S. shows that American workers each owe a record $100,720. That's double what they owed during 2004. 4. The Federal Reserve has enabled this fiscal recklessness by pegging the federal funds rate near zero and buying lots of U.S. Treasuries. The Fed's holdings of U.S. Treasuries rose $1.1 trillion over the past four years through the week of April 4. 5. The social welfare state in America is set to grow faster than the economy as the Baby Boomers retire. From 1993 through 2010, outlays per beneficiary for Social Security and Medicare more than doubled from $10,459 to $22,319. Over this same period, total wages and salaries in compensation and nominal GDP did about the same. Because Americans are living longer, the number of Social Security beneficiaries rose 88 percent over this period, and will increase at a faster rate as the Baby Boomers now start to retire. 6. The number of people claiming disability has soared. It rose to a record 8.7 million during March, doubling since February 1997. Over this period, their numbers have increased by 4.3 million. This helps to explain some of the drop in the labor force participation rate, which fell from 66.9 percent to 63.8 percent over this period. http://www.cbsnews.com/news/6-sc... Some other less serious reasons: http://listofx.com/2013/07/19/10... 