What are some useful computer related technical skills I can learn within a day?
Something that I didn't see mentioned here yet, but is very important: Learn a few things about how computers work for people who don't speak English - internationalization, localization and multilingualization. An important thing to start from would be basic understanding of Unicode. Joel Spolsky wrote an article about it ten years ago, and it's still relevant: The Absolute Minimum Every Software Developer Absolutely, Positively Must Know About Unicode and Character Sets (No Excuses!) Further things to do: Play with the Character map application on your computer. Windows, GNU/Linux desktops and Mac have such applications. (On a Mac it's called "Character viewer".) Search for different scripts there, such as Greek, Cyrillic, Armenian, Arabic, Devanagari, Korean. Try to write some words there by clicking the letters and copying them to a text editor. Try to understand what is special about how the different alphabets of India and the Middle East work and why it is hard for some operating systems to display them. The Wikipedia article Complex text layout is a good starting point. Try switching the language of your software to something different. Especially if your native language is not English, switch to your language and try sticking to it! If you're a developer, you may be very accustomed to English, but do try it - you'll discover a very interesting world, and you'll be more capable to help your friends who speak your language and don't know English to use computers. Try to write a little program that is internationalized, that is, in which it's possible to translate the user interface into another language. It can even be a "Hello, world" program that displays the string in a different language that is loaded from a file. Learn about an actual localization framework, such as gettext, jquery.i18n, Java properties files, etc. (Disclaimer: I am one of the developers of jquery.i18n.) Try to play with a translation website, such as Transifex, translatewiki.net, or Pootle. (Disclaimer: I am one of the maintainers of translatewiki.net.) Learn how to define the language and the direction of HTML elements (lang and dir attributes). Learn to use them always, even if all of the content of your HTML is written in English. These things are not hard - they only require some curiosity, and very little programming. But they will help you be a much better programmer, and to be able to create software that is accessible to many more people. Updated 132w ago • View Upvotes