What are the most significant breakthroughs in combinatorial mathematics so far?
Classification of finite simple groups could probably be considered as combinatorial breakthrough, though that would be a bit of a stretch . At least, most of the sporadic groups appeared as automorphism groups of combinatorial structures. I have heard from important mathematicians that these results were some of the biggest breakthroughs in combinatorics: Robertson–Seymour theorem, Szemerédi regularity lemma, Lovász local lemma. But the field of Combinatorics is too broad to be able to give a satisfactory answer to this question. Every major breakthrough in coding theory, design theory, graph theory, matroid theory, finite geometry, polyhedral combinatorics etc. could be considered a breakthrough in combinatorial mathematics. Still, here are some of my favourite combinatorial breakthroughs*: This short paper by R. C. Bose which initiated the use of linear algebra in combinatorics: A Note on Fisher's Inequality for Balanced Incomplete Block Designs. See my blog post for details and further references: The origins of the linear algebra method in combinatorics. The paper by Segre on ovals in finite projecitve planes is one of the most significant results in finite geometry and it's one of the first of its kind: Ovals in a finite projective plane. Also check out his ICM talk on the topic: On Galois Geometries. These two papers by Erdös (not the first of their kind) gave rise to probabilistic methods in combinatorics: Graph Theory and Probability I, II. The role of Alfréd Rényi should not be overlooked. See this: Erdős–Rényi model. This 1976 paper by Peter Cameron established an interesting and useful link between seemingly disjoint areas: Line graphs, root systems, and elliptic geometry, which later played an important role in spectral graph theory: Graphs with least eigenvalue −2; a historical survey and recent developments in maximal exceptional graphs One of the first uses of topological methods in combinatorics by  László Lovász, to prove Kneser's conjecture, opened up a whole new branch of mathematics. It's also now one of his most cited papers: Kneser's conjecture, chromatic number, and homotopy. For further details, see this  and this. Another big breakthrough by Lovász was his work on the Shannon capacity of a graph. The counterexamples to Borsuk's conjecture found by Jeff Kahn and Gil Kalai in 1993 was a pretty big breakthrough. In 2013 Andriy V. Bondarenko showed, using the strongly regular graph related to the finite simple group [math]G_2(4)[/math], that this conjecture is false for all dimensions greater than or equal to 65. See this blog post: Borsuk's Conjecture is False for Dimensions Greater Than 65! The proof of Strong perfect graph theorem by by Maria Chudnovsky, Neil Robertson, Paul Seymour, and Robin Thomas. The original paper is available here, The strong perfect graph theorem. The solution of  finite field version of  the Kakeya conjecture by Dvir is a very recent breakthrough. See this blog post by Terence Tao: Dvir's proof of the finite field Kakeya conjecture, and this survey paper on Polynomial Methods in combinatorics. A counterexample to the Hirsch Conjecture found by Francisco Santos in 2010 is a big breakthrough in Polyhedral combinatorics as it solved one of the oldest open problems in linear programming. The proof of MDS conjecture over prime fields by Simeon Ball, which generalises the classical result of Segre: On sets of vectors of a finite vector space in which every subset of basis size is a basis. The asymptotically tight solution to the Erdős distinct distances problem in the plane by Guth and Katz. Here is a nice exposition by Terence Tao: The Guth-Katz bound. Solution to a century old conjecture on the existence of designs by Peter Keevash. * I'll keep updating this list as I learn more. Finally, here's a collection of articles by important mathematicians that discuss some of the big breakthroughs in combinatorics: Discrete Mathematics: methods and challenges by Noga Alon Combinatorics entering the third millennium by Peter Cameron Updated 1w ago • View Upvotes