★What are some systems (i.e. personal communication and voting) in our society that could benefit from a decentralized and highly secure infrastructure like bitcoins?
Since you've already mentioned Bitcoins, how about the payments system? It may not promote democracy specifically (though in theory, it might help bring down dictatorial governments), but something that it would do, is unleash a huge amount of potential economic energy that is buried under an entirely unnecessary cost burden. If bitcoin ultimately becomes less volatile, which we'll find out as more liquidity is added, it might still work as a good alternative currency with which to make occasional transactions in certain situations. But bitcoin, or systems like it, would be fantastic at disrupting what has got to be one of the biggest rackets in the world (aside from text messaging fees): interchange fees. Interchange fees are basically a tax on all businesses from payment systems, who collectively set those fees in an uncompetitive environment. Yes they own the infrastructure, but like text messaging, the cost of running that infrastructure has gone down significantly, while the fee structure has more than doubled in the last 10 years. Why is this so important? Because although 2.5-3.5% of a transaction may not sound like much, when you have razor thin margins, then credit card companies and banks can make more money on your business than you do. Effectively, if you plan to accept credit cards, that "service" can cost you your business model. This is particularly the case with businesses that are online, or don't make their own products, like aggregators, re-sellers, marketplaces, or anyone providing a service and taking small transactional fees. Eliminating this tax would effectively create a window of profitability that doesn't currently exist, in which many new businesses with small margins might thrive. It should be noted, that this is an industry that has been accused of price fixing and anti-trust violations all over the world, with sometimes successful litigation. Like text messaging fees, interchange fees are also used to pay for an infrastructure that was built in the past. A POS and communications infrastructure that is massive, proprietary, and extremely prone to fraud, hacking, and theft (at this point we're accustomed to massive breaches of credit card information on a regular basis). With modern systems, transactions can be originated, routed, accounted for, secured, terminated, and reconciled, all without this old infrastructure. A decentralized p2p system is certainly one good way to build a new payments model. Imagine the innovation and business that might be unleashed, were this payments tax to be removed.