★What were the reasons for the failure of American intelligence at Pearl Harbor?How could American intelligence not be able to detect such a massive Japanese flotilla coming towards Pearl Harbor? How were the Japanese able to fool one of the world's military powers and launch a surprise attack?
(Several of the answers above are very good. But, please ignore the conspiracy theory.) I want to provide you with a different perspective. Have you ever played the Hasbro game "Battleship?" http://m.hasbro.com/hasbro_en_US... (see above picture) If you have, you know that while its a simple game it is not easy to beat your opponent. You guess at ship locations on a gridded map (approximately 14x10 squares). If you guess right, you score a hit on that ship. You and your opponent take turns. The person who sinks all an opponents ships first wins. The game would be very simple if you could look over at your opponents map … like the US could do with satellites now. But, there were no satellites in 1941 and peeking at your opponents map is cheating. Now, imagine playing Battleship in real life. Instead of having a map with 140 squares to search, you have one with nearly 64 million squares. (The Pacific is nearly 64 million square miles.) Complicating your task are the facts that you don't know if you are going to be attacked, when if you are, or where the attack(s) will be. That is the task faced by the US before Pearl Harbor. The US simply lacked the intelligence, technology, manpower and equipment to know what was going to happen. To further drive that situation home, I suggest that you watch two movies (takes less time than reading the books and gives enough information to show my point): "Tora, Tora, Tora" and "Midway." Both movies deal with the Japanese attack on the island of Midway. They describe the intelligence successes and failures and the uncertainties and difficulties in executing each side's tactics in an area much much smaller than the entire Pacific. If you can understand the difficulties that were faced by both parties then and there, then you will begin to understand just how difficult it was to anticipate Pearl Harbor just a few months earlier.