★What were the reasons for the failure of American intelligence at Pearl Harbor?How could American intelligence not be able to detect such a massive Japanese flotilla coming towards Pearl Harbor? How were the Japanese able to fool one of the world's military powers and launch a surprise attack?
There were a lot reasons why Japan was able to achieve total tactical surprise at Pearl Harbor. Most of them relate to communications security but the attack plan itself was well designed. So what did Japan do protect its communications? Japan changed its main naval operational code, called JN-25 by US codebreakers, in December 1940 and on December 4, 1941, shortly before the Pearl Harbor attack. The US had had some limited success breaking JN-25 before the war but changes to the code temporarily stymied US codebreakers. In addition to changing its codes, Japan also changed the call signs of its ships and bases. This hindered traffic analysis by the US, the practice inferring information from who is sending messages to whom, even if the contents of the messages cannot be decrypted. Changing call signs meant that the US could not identify the senders and receivers of messages and their final recipients which can point to impending operations and the general area where they will occur. Japan went even further to protect its communications. Radio telegraph operators were identifiable by their "fist," the rhythm of their dots and dashes in Morse code and other small idiosyncrasies. The US tracked Japanese radio operators and tried to infer what ship or base they broadcast from. The IJN transferred the radio operators on the major ships of the Pearl Harbor strike force before it sailed. Since the IJN strike force sailed directly from Japan, it could use land lines for teleprinter traffic and avoid radio broadcasting entirely. No part of the Pearl Harbor attack plan was ever broadcast by radio. When the strike force did sail, the radio transmitters in its ships were dismantled and kept under lock and key; no radio transmission would give away the position of the fleet to radio direction finding. Kido Butai, the main carrier force of the IJN, sailed an indirect course to Hawaii, detouring far to the north, well outside of commercial shipping lanes and into a region of the Pacific where squalls, rain and fog could obscure its approach. The Pacific Ocean is a Very Big Place, ships and even fleets sailing outside of shipping lanes in bad weather are not likely to be spotted. The limited range of scout planes meant that only radius a 100 to 200 miles around the Hawaiian Islands could be searched but by that time the Japanese carriers would be in position to launch their planes. One last factor helped to obscure Japan's plans; in some respects, the US had too much information. US officials were fully aware that war was coming and had made some reasonable deductions about where Japan was going to attack and even issued a "war warning" in mid November 1941 that warned of surprise attacks. Pearl Harbor was not the only place Japan attacked on December 7, Guam, Hong Kong, the Philippines, Singapore, Shanghai and Wake Island were bombed. A Japanese invasion fleet carried out landings in British Malaya and Thailand was invaded as well. The sheer size of Japan's opening offensive helped obscure the preparations to attack Pearl Harbor. See also: Is there any evidence that Churchill knew the attack on Pearl Harbor was going to happen? If so what evidence and how long before did he know?