★What weapons from World War II were most effective and least effective?
Patton said of the M1 Garand "In my opinion, the M1 Rifle is the greatest battle implement ever devised." The M1 earned Eisenhower's praise as one of America's great weapons of WWII. Eisenhower also praised the DC-3 cargo plane and the Bazooka. Unlike the combat rifles of every other Army in the world the M1 allowed the user to place eight well aimed shots into a target as quickly as he could pull the trigger.  I trained on the M1 in the army and fell in love with this easy to use and accurate weapon.  I found it to be no more difficult to use than a .22 and the recoil was tolerable. M1 Garand and KA-BAR bayonet Another weapon that made the list is the Japanese Zero, the best fighter in the world at the start of the war it was outclassed by the end.  Others are the M1 and M2 Carbine, the Thompson Submachine gun, the Russian PPSh-41, the Russian T-34 was a tank so advanced it led to the development of the Panther Tank one of the finest tanks of the war, the Luger, the America KA-BAR bayonet, the Japanese torpedo, the German Sturmgewehr 44, considered the first assault rifle the second being the US M2 carbine, the B-17, the P-51 Mustang fighter.  The Mustang changed the nature of the air war in Europe and put the German air force on the defensive for the first time.  We were losing the air war until the P-51 was introduced.  The B-29 Superfortress was the most technologically advanced bomber in the war upon its introduction and was not phased out until the mid '60's. P-51 Mustang was a happy marriage of an American airframe and a British powerplant making it one of the deadliest prop driven fighters of all times. Russian PPSh-41  - Because this submachine gun was suitable only for close quarter fighting it brought the Soviet soldier from behind his barricades turning him into an aggressive fighting machine.  Like all Soviet guns it was crude but effective.  Inexpensive it was manufactured by the millions and used by the Chinese in the Korean War. German Sturmgewehr 44 is considered the first assault rifle.  It was popular and deadly creating an entirely new class of weapon.  M2 Carbine assault weapon.  Wasn't as hard hitting at the Sturmgewehr.  It was used in Korea and replaced by the M16.  Was effective but suffered the same problem as the first M-16, soldiers used it on full auto until they ran out of Ammo. M1 carbine T-34 this innovative tank influenced all future tank designs.  Reliable and hard hitting it was hard to bring down because of its sloped armor, a revolutionary development. Panther Tank with design features taken from Russian T-34 including sloped armor.  One of the finest tank designs it was plagued  by a problematic final drive. Tiger Tank was a hard hitting and nearly unstoppable tank it was unreliable and expensive to manufacture.  One properly operating Tiger could take out dozens of enemy tanks. Japanese Zero, probably the best fighter in the world at the beginning of the war it was hopelessly outclassed by the end.  Lightly armored without self-sealing fuel tanks the pilots ruefully nicknamed it the Roscoe after an american cigarette lighter because of its propensity to catch fire when hit by enemy guns. B-29 was the most technologically advanced airplane of the war and was used for another 20 years before retirement.  The Russians copied the design for their postwar bombers from captured American B-29s. Russian copy of the B29.  It was a carbon copy but not as technologically advanced as the US bomber because the Russians didn't understand all the features.  It was still an effective airplane and frightened the American military because the Russians could now fly nuclear weapons to the US.  This fear ultimately led to the development of the B-52. One of the most famous airplanes in history the Enola Gay b-29 dropped the first atomic bomb used as a weapon in history.  The unpainted surf... (more)Loading...