★World War II: How did the Germans not know that the British cracked Enigma?
In addition to Ken's answer, there was an additional factor:  hubris. The German military considered the Engima unbreakable by any conventional means, and thus completely failed to follow good communications security procedures. Key rotation of the Enigma varied widely amongst various military departments, the vast majority of which rotated keys far too infrequently, or used poor keys. So did the number of rotors, and the methods of use of Enigma (i.e the type and general composition of message traffic).  Messages did not follow good cryptographic policies (i.e. there was virtually no effort put into the plaintext to increase the security of the message).  There was no coordination between departments to come up with a consistent, tested, and audited communications policy. As such, only a couple of departments managed to follow even basically reasonable communications security procedures. In addition, the Germans failed quite spectacularly at detection of codebreaking.  That is, their counterintel was abysmal. Much of that goes to Ken's #2 reason - the spectacular, coordinated effort by the Allies to deceive the Germans about the insecurity of their communications. But much of the problem is also down to the Germans simply not doing proper audits of their coms, and never running significant tests of its security, because they had faith in it.  Faith is a poor substitute for testing. The end summary (of both Ken's point and mine) is that the Germans were convinced that their codes couldn't be broken, and so failed to perform the ordinary security processes one should follow to detect breaks. The Allies (through heroic efforts) had managed to break them, and, in a massively well-coordinated effort, deliberately fed the German hubris, reinforcing their mindset as to the "unbreakability" of their codes.   This is a classic intelligence ploy:  find something your opponent believes is superior, and repeatedly outwardly demonstrate that the opponent's belief must be true, all the while subverting it.  That is, use your opponent's self-confidence against them. To quote a line from a movie famous for its misdirection: "The greatest trick the Devil ever pulled was convincing the world he didn't exist."