What do linguists think are the main causes of language evolution?
The overarching reason that words change meaning over time is because language is not simply a tool for communicating precise meaning in some sort of efficient code. Rather, language is a social phenomenon. We're not computers, we're people. First a note on the terminology in your question: The idea of languages as biological species that evolve is a metaphor. A very useful metaphor -- the latest approaches to historical linguistics are dominated by computational cladistics taken from biology -- but still just a metaphor. The more generic term is language change, which has been a central focus of linguistic research for centuries, particularly before Chomsky. We can talk about language change at lots of different levels, from syntax (grammar) and morphology (word formation), to phonology (sounds) and semantics (word meaning). You're specifically asking about semantic change, why words morph in meaning. I'll address that here, but know that the other types of change are equivalently fascinating. The first important thing in understanding semantic change is to realize there are lots of different types of semantic change (I give examples of each, some old, some new): pejoration (negative connotation) - e.g., awful used to mean full of awe amelioration (positive connotation) - e.g., bad or phat in the '90s narrowing - e.g., meat used to mean any food, then animal flesh, then now is more for red meat widening - e.g., xerox and the like, or guy, which was a man's name, then a term for generic man, and now means person metonymy (part for whole, whole for part) - e.g., the White House to mean the entire executive branch, saying Boston when you're referring specifically to the baseball team, or an older example, cheek is from the old English for jawbone, or couple used to only refer the thing holding two beasts of burden together euphemistic, e.g., loo or john, or things like not using gay for happy grammaticalization, e.g., literally, or going to/gonna meiosis (change from strong to weak), e.g., awesome, and one of my favorites, epic, as in that's was an epic McDonald's order. (Really? That McDonald's order was on par with Homer's Odyssey?) hyperbole (change from weak to strong), e.g., curvy to mean fat metaphor, e.g., ring to mean call, broadcast formerly meaning to cast broadly There are similarly a wide range of reasons as to why words change meaning and can be broken down into linguistic and extra-linguistic causes. Extra-linguistic reasons include factors like changing technology (e.g., to text), changes in social structure (e.g., change in the meaning of knight and knave over time), new scientific ideas and concept and philosophies, changes in social norms or even due to changes in the law (e.g., marriage). In terms of linguistic reasons, as I said at the top, the general principle involved here is that when we talk, we aren't simply communicating some specific piece of information to be decoded by the listener. We use metaphor, poetry, exaggeration; we adhere to social conventions and downplay things that are uncomfortable; we allude, joke and beat around the bush. When enough people do that often enough with some word, the meaning changes. For example, metonymic change happens because we use metonymy in speech (shocking, I know). We may refer to 20 head of cattle because that's what we use to count our cattle. Frequent use conventionalizes this  sense over time and now we have a new meaning for head. Metonymically, we also often over- or under-specify what we're talking about and use super-ordinate (animal for cat) or sub-ordinate labels (tabby for cat) categories. This can lead to narrowing or widening. Pragmatics (the exploration of what you really mean given the context of what you're saying) also play a role. When interesting is used often enough, it feels like it's become pedestrian, so everything needs to be kicked up a notch. So, awesome is used to mean interesting and epic is used for awesome. The same thing happens in the opposite direction, where politeness or reserve prevents us from telling it like it is. So, curvy comes to mean fat. These factors lead to meiosis and hyperbole. Pragmatics plays a role in euphemism as well. People don't use queer to mean odd anymore in order to avoid the other meaning. People also use irony or understatement to magnify attention or intensity. This is how you might get pejoration or amelioration. If you describe someone as being well... niiiice it's what you're not saying that's communicated. That gets conventionalized into the word itself over time (keep an eye on nice, a word that has interestingly swung back and forth, in the next fifty years) Finally, brevity and frequency can be drivers of semantic change as well, interacting with these other factors. At a certain point, electric guitar was being said so frequently (as a response to extra-linguistic factors) that people just shortened it to guitar with acoustic guitar meaning the old unplugged kind. If you want to read more, a great book on the subject is by EC Traugott, Regularity in Semantic Change. Because there is a lot more to say. A literal shit-load. 