Which online Python course is the best?
I am currently working through "Think Python" by Allen B. Downey. http://greenteapress.com/thinkpy... So far I like it and would recommend it to new programmers (and it is free). I am essentially starting from scratch on learning object oriented programming, I had to take one C++ course in school, but I don't think I could even write 'Hello World' in C++ at this point. I feel like 'Think Python' does a good job of explaining the 'whys' so you learn the fundamental concepts, not just cookie cutter solutions. It is a fairly easy read (unlike most textbooks) and short, you could work through it in a couple days if you tried. Here is the description from the Think Python site. Think Python is an introduction to Python programming for beginners. It starts with basic concepts of programming, and is carefully designed to define all terms when they are first used and to develop each new concept in a logical progression. Larger pieces, like recursion and object-oriented programming are divided into a sequence of smaller steps and introduced over the course of several chapters.  Downey also has a couple follow on books, "Think Stats: Probability and Statistics for Programmers" and "Think Complexity: Exploring Complexity Science with Python" both are also free on http://greenteapress.com/. Another resource I have found helpful in my journey learning to code, is Project Euler, http://projecteuler.net/. It is not specific to python. It is a series of programming/math problems to work through and explore a new language. Here is the intro from Project Euler: Project Euler is a series of challenging mathematical/computer programming problems that will require more than just mathematical insights to solve. Although mathematics will help you arrive at elegant and efficient methods, the use of a computer and programming skills will be required to solve most problems. The motivation for starting Project Euler, and its continuation, is to provide a platform for the inquiring mind to delve into unfamiliar areas and learn new concepts in a fun and recreational context. Hope this helps. 