What do linguists think are the main causes of language evolution?
A language and its semantic can change quite drastically within a generation and not for the reasons given in the other posts. I don't know if this has happened in other countries but the Vietnamese who left their motherland after 1975 cannot understand well the language being used and spoken in their old country anymore. After Ho Chi Minh took control of the North. he made a "patriotic" decision to get rid of the influence of the Chinese on the Vietnamese language and culture. The end result is that anybody who has not lived in the country after 1975 can not hide that fact because s/he does not use the same words or the new meanings of the words. I cannot even understand the published materials completely without having to look up a dictionary because many new words have been invented even for daily life communication. Those new words still use the same old Sino-Vietnamese sounds (in spites of HCM's wish, there is no way to get rid of the Sino-Vietnamese sound because around 70% of the Vietnamese words share the same origin with the Chinese) but are given completely new meanings which have absolute nothing to do with their traditional etymology. The Vietnamese youngsters cannot understand well the literary material published before 1975, as indicated by numerous questions on Yahoo and Wiki answers about the meanings of Sino-Vietnamese quotes and idioms. *** I read Laurence Sherzer’s post and feel that I have to edit my post to expand on my thought about the evolution of language. I am not a linguist, BTW, but I do speak three and read four different “sets of communication.” The majority of people who use language but never study linguistics would not know, or agree that language is a set of symbols to reference meanings, (may be because they do not know what the sentence means.) To them language is a tool to communicate with others – or to express oneself alone, like the sound a falling tree make in a forest. To communicate effectively, the speaker/writer has to use the same language that the listener/reader uses. So, the way your language sounds and means would change with the circumstances and context. As humans and societies evolve, language will change, and we do have to recognize that fact, if we don’t want to live in a perpetual Babel tower. Sherzer’s definition of evolution/evolve appears to be biased. According to etymology, the English term first appeared around 1620s from the Latin evolutionem and the English evolve first appeared around 1640s from the Latin verb of action evolvere. Both terms involve the act of unfold, open out, or unrolling (a book, for example.) There was no Darwin’s theory of evolution lurking behind the meaning of evolution yet, not for two more centuries. The original meaning of evolution was “growth to maturity and development of a living thing” . We can imagine how language came about. Humans, like all animals have an innate need to communicate. One day some of our smart ancestors realized that imitating other animal or natural sounds could convey some meaning to the sounds and the first onomatopoeia started the human verbal communication with vocal symbols. A growl may mean there is a lion, tiger or wolf nearby and a woof may very well mean there is a wolf. The Vietnamese may say gâu instead of woof but to all Vietnamese gâu = wolf; it then means dog after we domesticated the wolf (or one of its cousins, depending on the theories.). As human’s knowledge expanded, so did their store of words and ways to put words together grew, expanded, unfolded, evolved like a living thing, even though nobody paid attention to the origin of their ability to communicate verbally (very likely, they thought that they were born that way,) or gave a name to the set of sounds they used. All that would have to wait until the coming of the first linguistic. In the meanwhile, languages continue to change with time, with the need for new words and new meanings to accommodate the need to communicate effectively to their contemporary companions. Most of us would have trouble understanding the English of Chaucer, the Father of English literature, and the majority of modern Chinese would not be able to read and understand Confucius’s teaching written 25 centuries ago, when there was no standardized Han’s script yet. And I don’t think Chaucer would understand us now, mainly because our knowledge, culture and vocabulary have evolved. *** I just happen to see this "War of words: The language paradox explained" article on New Scientist written by Mark Pagel (an  evolutionary biologist specializing in the development of languages) more than one year ago  (Dec 11, 2012.) The article is fascinating. It tells us that what happened to the Vietnamese language has happened to other languages for reasons which have nothing to do with the natural trend of languages to evolve with time. It also gives one explanation to the reasons why languages change: BTW, you can see that Mark Pagel is an Englishman by his spelling. An answer to this question is emerging with the realisation that human history has been characterised by continual battles. Ever since our ancestors walked out of Africa, beginning around 60,000 years ago, people have been in conflict over territory and resources. In my book Wired for Culture (Norton/Penguin, 2012) I describe how, as a consequence, we have acquired a suite of traits that help our own particular group to outcompete the others. Two traits that stand out are "groupishness" - affiliating with people with whom you share a distinct identity - and xenophobia, demonising those outside your group and holding parochial views towards them. In this context, languages act as powerful social anchors of our tribal identity. How we speak is a continual auditory reminder of who we are and, equally as important, who we are not. Anyone who can speak your particular dialect is a walking, talking advertisement for the values and cultural history you share. What's more, where different groups live in close proximity, distinct languages are an effective way to prevent eavesdropping or the loss of important information to a competitor. And it also talks about the unfortunate loss of culture when a language changes drastically, like in Vietnam. In the ongoing war of words, casualties are inevitable. As languages become extinct we are not simply losing different ways of saying "good morning", but the cultural diversity that has arisen around our thousands of distinct tribal societies. Each language plays a powerful role in establishing a cultural identity - it is the internal voice that carries the memories, thoughts, hopes and fears of a particular group of people. Lose the language and you lose that too. Updated 89w ago • View Upvotes