What is Bhutan's concept of Gross National Happiness? How is it calculated?
It's possible This white paper by the Centre for Bhutan Studies explains the method: Page on grossnationalhappiness.com A Gross National Happiness Committee reviews the results and accordingly makes policy decisions. Actually, if you think about it, it's not so different from any government using results of surveys and polls, conducted by government or non-government sources to guide better governance (yes, very idealistic!) Their GNH Index factors in the following, with further subcategories: Psychological wellbeing Health Education Culture Time Use Good governance Community vitality Ecological diversity and resilience Living standards Fortunately, the Bhutanese tried to share this GNH Index with the world. Unfortunately, this strategy couldn't ensure the win of the Bhutanese Prime Minister who tried to propagate this worldwide (Jigme Thinley). Fortunately Canada, France and Britain found this index good enough to incorporate similar metrics of citizen happiness in official statistics and hopefully they set some balls rolling worldwide. [source: Bhutan's New Prime Minister Says Happiness Isn't Everything] (Picture of a happy kid, just because any answer with lots of statistics can do with one) Actually lots of different types of research use "unmeasurable and emotional" quantifiers. The fields of social sciences and psychology have been doing so for decades. And while, yes, it is more of an art to get it right, with the set of domain experts agreeing on certain standards, it can be very useful to view such metrics. One example I can give which is increasingly being used in the medical domain is the idea of Quality of life (healthcare) and Outcomes Based Healthcare. With the advent of new policies in healthcare in the US and elsewhere, it is now important to prove that any medical technology is not just safe and effective, but also improves "quality of life" (another soft metric like happiness). People realized that we need more information about which technologies are "live-saving" but maybe not "life enhancing" versus which technologies may not increase lifespan for fatal diseases (like end stage cancer) but may improve quality of life by relieving certain symptoms for the patient, since these technologies may not have been allowed at all in the past. Economics also comes into consideration. Such metrics work by self reported patient outcomes or surveys. If you know anything about Ordinal data in statistics, or if you've ever taken a magazine survey, you'll know what I mean. You may say this is still too hard to swallow, and you'd be right. But the next goals of medical science and other fields are going to be to understand and work around the disadvantages and shortcomings of exactly such qualitative metrics, and use their information in meaningful ways. 