Military Technology: What are the significant differences between modern military technology and that of the Vietnam War era?
There are three primary differences which have radically changed how war is conducted since the 1970s: Communications Situational awareness Precision weapons Communications seems a simple problem, and the truth is that the technology is not radically different. However, there are two main improvements that have remade how Comms have advanced:  encryption and total integration. Nowdays, everything is encrypted. Practically, this encryption is unbreakable. Modern armies now have completely secure communications channels to talk over. There is no more "listening in".  Signals analysis is still possible (i.e. figuring out who is talking to whom), but actual conversation decoding is impossible. Secondly, and most important, is the total integration of communications systems.  Everything can talk to virtually everything. Everyone carries a radio of some kind. And the harmonizing of inter-service comms systems has eliminated a huge obstacle of coordination.  While bandwidth and simultaneous use still cause segmentation of the communications channels (i.e. we still have several different radio nets for various types of traffic) and it is not literally possible for a commanding general to talk directly to a front-line private via each's organic radio, the organizational result is virtually identical.  Platoon leaders can now talk directly to Close Air Support planes above them, without needing to loop back through a Forward Air observer.  Battalion commanders can talk to each other (even in different divisions) with just a minor reconfiguration of the radio net at battalion HQ. Guys in a tank can call up an artillery strike themselves (with proper authorization, of course).  And the reach of communications is incredible. Satellite phones make communications possible almost everywhere on the planet. Tight beam connections from portable radio systems can hide comms from snooping opponents, all the while enabling a field commander to talk to a general officer half a world away (or conference call with 6 other local and remote folks). It boils down to the ability for virtually anyone to be able to talk either directly to, or at most through a single intermediary, anyone else in any military organization anywhere on the planet. Compare this to the 1970s, where comms were rare, isolated, and insecure. At best, a unit commander could talk to their immediate superior and immediate inferiors, but couldn't even talk to a peer in another group. Communication between military branches (even when operating in close proximity) was virtually impossible or highly constrained. And distance and coverage of comms was spotty. Messages outside one's immediate comms circuit could take minutes under ideal circumstances, and hours to DAYS for many other common conversations. Situational Awareness builds on the ubiquity of the comms systems.  Massive data collection via drones, Recon planes, satellites, and humans reports can all now be done in virtually real-time. GPS now lets everyone know exactly where they are, units don't get lost, and you know where everyone else is.  Sensors are everywhere, and all tied into a data collection network that covers most of the battlefield (and runs back through the entire military). Infrared, radar search, sonic detectors, and video all cut through darkness, poor weather, and even solid terrain to provide a clear picture of where everything is at all times. Data collection now allows for real-time data analysis;  the outcome of any attack can be determined seconds to a minute after it occurs.  Bomb damage assessment is as fast as the analyst looking at the real-time video of the scene from a feed the orbiting drone is shooting; it can be overlaid with (marked up) photos of the site, compared from multiple angles, and judged within seconds. This assessment can then be passed right back to the commander of the air section that was conducting the attack, to let them know if a followup is needed. Generals now know exactly where their forces are, and how they are doing. Information flows quickly throughout the military, allowing multiple interested groups to consume it, and feed back important analysis and updates themselves.  It's to the point where warfare resembles a board game:  what's on the board is exactly what's happening (within a couple of minutes), commands go out instantaneously and are executed quickly, and status reflects this.  At the lower levels of command, it's nigh-on video game-like, where all your "pieces" instantaneously update their positions (and you have direct video feeds of much of it available at a click of a mouse or touch of a screen) on the commander's (often portable) device, and talking to one of your men can be as simple as touching their icon on a screen, even if you're in the HQ and they're half a mile away in a village. In the 1970s, you still have a thick "Fog of War" - information gathering was mostly carried out by rare specialized units, and collection, collation, and analysis took hours to days (or even weeks).  Most commanders operated using data on situations that was (at the very best) hours old, and typically days to weeks out-of-date.  You never knew where people really were, units got lost all the time, and enemy positions were guesses. Communication times were atrocious (in both directions), and analysis was mostly educated guesswork. Precision Weapons have changed the execution of war so much as to be practically unrecognizable from the 1970s.  Weapons (from the soldier's individual firearm to tank guns, to artillery, to bombs and missiles) have been equipped with computerized guidance and/or aiming aids, which have ludicrously increased the first-round hit probability.  In the Vietnam War, a typical "iron bomb" from a B-52 had a CEP of several hundred meters:  that is, about half the time, the bomb would hit within 200-300m of the intended target.  The first generation "smart" weapons were just coming into being, and accounted for only a minuscule portion of all ordinance. Even there, they were restricted to aircraft-dropped bombs. Modern times have guidance systems on virtually ALL ordinance:  artillery shells, bombs, rockets, missiles, and even mortars.  These guidance systems have a CEP of a couple of meters. Given the destructive warheads of these weapons, virtually every weapon hits the target, the first time. "First Round Kill" probability is approaching 99% for the vast majority of weapons. Gunsight computers on tanks, aircraft, artillery, and other platforms enable complex calculations to take into account every variable possible (air temperature and wind velocity, humidity of the propellant, speed of the vehicle and target, etc.).   GPS and similar technologies allow for weapons to be fired at distant targets, and hit with unerring precision. Even the last bastion of unguided projectiles (the infantryman's rifle) now has high-precision sights, allowing for significantly higher accuracy. In short, the amount of ordinance that has to be expended to hit (let alone destroy) a target has dropped by a factor of 1,000.  A single plane dropping a single bomb can destroy a bridge with 90% confidence; in the 1970s, using 1st generation smart bombs, it would have taken at least a couple of planes and a half-dozen bombs, while anything using contemporary unguided "iron" bombs would have required a full squadron and hundreds of individual weapons being dropped.  Which means that each vehicle becomes much more lethal:  a plane carrying a dozen bombs can now hit a dozen different targets and destroy them all, rather than have to expend all their ordinance on a single target to guaranty a kill. A side effect is the drop-off in collateral damage; since virtually everything hits the target the first time, and almost always destroys it (since your ability to pick the proper weapon has been greatly enhanced by the aforementioned Situational Awareness leaps), there is little need to blast everything around it.   Consequently, modern warfare is both MUCH more lethal, and MUCH less damaging.   In the 1970s, you could levels a village and still miss half the enemy hidden in there.  Today, you'll be able to destroy just the building where they are hiding (as your drones have reported back to you in real-time), each with a single bomb no bigger than absolutely needed to destroy the building and leave the next-door one standing.  As a result, you can kill 100% of the enemy, leave 90%+ of the village standing, and reduce "friendly" or civilian casualties by several orders of magnitude. TL;DR:  The 1970s were still fighting an Industrial war - large amounts of quality mechanical devices in a tight hierarchy of command, operating virtually blind in a deep Fog of War and with terribly weak communications.  By the late 1990s (and now in the 21st century), we're in the Information War period, where smooth flow of ubiquitous communications and surveillance information provide a virtually perfect view of the battle theater; heavy computerization has helps process this information into usable and timely intelligence, which can be acted upon near-instantaneously.  The tools of the warfighter have improved a bit, but the quantum leap of information processing ability has radically remade how war is conducted. Naturally, there are some margin of error in the above, and it's not a perfect world. But we're still living in a 90%+ reality, where 90%+ of the time, the "perfect" world and the "real" world are the same thing.  It really does work like that the very large majority of the time. There are other advances in technology (stealth, logistics, healthcare, transportation, drones, etc.) that also have helped change how wars are fought, but the above 3 are the primary ones that have change the strategy and character of war, not just the details of conflict. 