Why is the generative/discriminative distinction important in machine learning?
There are several very good answers here, I can only think of one other perspective to add. If your goal if to perform identification, then the discriminative and generative approaches have different objective functions. The discriminative objective function for identification is cross entropy.  Optimizing (minimizing) cross-entropy is the same as maximizing the posterior probability p(class|data,parameters) for the true labels of the data. The "parameters" are the model parameters your seeking to optimize. The generative objective function for identification is likelihood p(data|class,parameters).  The optimization in this case maximizes the likelihood of the data for the true class. In both cases parameters are found using an optimization technique like stochastic gradient descent or the expectation-maximization (EM) algorithm.  There is always a possibility of over-fitting the data when there are a lot of parameters in the model relative to the amount of data so care must be taken.  After training (optimizing) parameters for the discriminative or generative model, the goal is to apply the model to new data.  Identification is performed by finding the class that maximizes p(class|data,parameters).  In the generative case the posterior is computed using Baye's rule together with prior probabilities p(class).  Note that in the discriminative case priors are already part of the model (i.e. learned from the training data in most cases). The reasons for using a discriminative versus generative approach are often practical.  A generative model like a Gaussian mixture model (GMM) can be trained using EM and training scaled easily to a very large amount of data.  But it can be a problem if your feature dimension is very high.  A discriminative SVM is great when your feature dimension is high, but it is hard to scale to a large data set. There are also hybrid approaches to consider like discrminatively trained GMM using the MMI criteria function, or a generative model followed by a discriminative calibration step. 