What are the implications of Russia's announcement that it will begin long-range bomber patrols over the Gulf of Mexico?
I would guess this is just about force projection. Power projection (or force projection) is a term used in military and political science to refer to the capacity of a state to conduct expeditionary warfare—i.e. to intimidate other nations and implement policy by means of force, or the threat thereof, in an area distant from its own territory. What Americans need to realize is that they are probably not the target of the intimidation being mentioned in the definition. We'll get pissed off and huff and puff, make some big show of something somewhere, probably test diplomatic bandwidth to see it stopped, but ultimately, we aren't really the target anyway. After all, what are a few Russian planes going to do? Randomly start a cliched movie intro by dropping a nuke on NY? And then what? As Igor Markov said, they don't have the means to fight a full on war with the United States, so why bother with a few planes and ships patrolling the Gulf of Mexico and West Atlantic? What they are probably doing is making a show for other nations, mostly those in the old Soviet Union's sphere of influence that they in fact can do it. By showing that they can walk right up to the Eastern seaboard of the United States they are saying to all those other nations, Belarus, the Balkans, the "Stans" to the South of Russia that, "Look, the United States can't do a thing to stop us. Why would you ally with them? Why put your faith with them? Do what we say, or else." By putting gear on a patrol of the Eastern seaboard of North America and in the Gulf they gain nothing in a meaningful tactical regard, but there is a massive strategical advantage to be gained abroad, namely in the doors they will open through force diplomacy and also in the loss of credibility the action casts on NATO. Expect to see many more actions like this in future. Ian Kearns, director of the European Leadership Network, a London-based think tank, said the bomber patrols were part of Kremlin's efforts to make the Russian military "more visible and more assertive in its actions." The new bomber flights "aren't necessarily presaging a threat," Kearns said. "They are just part of a general ramping-up of activities." 