What are the implications of Russia's announcement that it will begin long-range bomber patrols over the Gulf of Mexico?
The main thing is that people don't realize how often intercepts of Russian aircraft happen. It typically happens upwards of 50 times per year. Earlier this year, NATO said they had already intercepted over 100 Russian aircraft and that it was estimating around 3x increase in intercepts by the end of the year. For instance, just today: Dutch fighters intercept Russian plane over Baltic Sea. We regularly catch them off the coast of Canada or Alaska. We've even caught them as far south as California. It's really great intercept training for NATO, actually; while it doesn't do a whole lot for the Russians (other than rattle sabers, which is exactly what they want). The Eagle intercepts the Bear. Let's talk for a minute about what actually happens when the U.S. (or anyone else) intercepts unknown aircraft. A nation's ADIZ (Air Defense Identification Zone) extends well beyond the sovereign airspace and borders of their country, and any civilian aircraft entering the ADIZ with the intention of eventually entering that country must identify themselves. Military aircraft, on the other hand, are not obligated to acknowledge or abide by the ADIZ (and it is U.S. policy that our aircraft generally do not identify themselves when entering a nation's ADIZ if we don't intend to enter that nation's sovereign airspace). However, if an aircraft does not identify itself when entering an ADIZ, it will very likely trigger a response from the other nation, usually a scrambling of interceptors. As you can imagine, their proximity to Russia means Alaska/Yukon Canada (to the west) and the Baltic/Scandinavian states (in Europe) are the primary locations for these kinds of intercepts. An interceptor is a fighter specifically designed to intercept other planes. They typically have extremely powerful engines and very long range, but tend to be much less maneuverable. This is OK, because they are not dogfighters. Their goal is to quickly reach an incoming unknown contact, identify it, and either escort it until it goes away or shoot it down.  So first, you have to detect it. This is either done by ground-based radar, or airborne early warning. When interceptors are scrambled, they are vectored into the target at an angle that allows them a high probability of a kill shot, while getting them there as quickly as possible. This is not necessarily an easy thing when the offending aircraft could be moving as fast as Mach 2, and you need to get a firing solution on them before they release their ordinance.  Modern fighters can share this information all by data-link (The Swedes basically invented this, and successfully intercepted not only Russian MiG-25 and MiG-31s, but even the U.S. SR-71 on its high-altitude overflights. Now, every modern fighter has some kind of capability for this).  RAF Typhoons intercept a Bear. Intercepts are not easy. A friend of mine is an AWACS guy whose job is to plot these things for our F-22s, and it is definitely a skill that requires training and practice to maintain. You've got a target that is moving extremely fast, you don't necessarily know what it is, it may be trying to evade you, and it may be escorted. Now, you have to do the trigonometry to figure out at what speed and at what angle you need to fly in order to not only intercept the target, but to do so in a way that allows you to identify and potentially engage it (ideally with a missile shot from the rear aspect) and to do so quickly enough before it releases its ordinance, or gets out of range. All without getting shot down yourself. While trying to fly a several hundred million dollar airplane at full afterburners at up to Mach 3+ (if you're Russian and don't care about your engines surviving -- see comments section regarding the MiG 25) and trying to acquire a radar lock.  This is not easy. Fortunately, Russia gives us plenty of opportunities for this.  It's all part of the game of tensions and maneuvering between nations. We both know the stakes, and we both know the procedures. Things only go wrong when one party isn't playing the same game (such as China in the Hainan incident, where the reckless actions of their interceptor trying to be a show-off caused him to ram a U.S. EP-3 -- a big, slow, propeller plane modified from a 1960's Lockheed Electra passenger liner -- resulting in his own death, and forced the EP-3 to make an emergency landing). Though this is one of ours, the goal of an intercept is to prevent the bombers from launching cruise missiles like this. The U.S. and Russia, even during the Cold War, generally had (with a few notable exceptions -- *cough* MiG-25 *cough*) an extremely good idea of the other nation's capabilities.  A lot of that gets lost in the jingoistic rhetoric on both sides, unfortunately (the myth that the U.S. was technologically superior to the USSR during most of the Cold War, for instance. When it ultimately comes down to it though, there is no "Crazy Ivan" -- Russia is simply further testing our defenses; pressuring our air defense forces by making them continuously run sorties that take a toll on the maintenance life of airframes and cost money; and giving both sides good and valuable training (though much more for the intercepting side). Updated 63w ago • View Upvotes