Which online Python course is the best?
If you are new to programming and also would like to learn python, I would recommend Introduction to Computer Science and Programming provided by edx(specifically MITx), taught by Eric Grimson, John Guttag and Chris Terman. Even though there is no current offering of 6.00x, I will advice to enroll whenever new session is announced. If you want to download lectures check this site MITx: 6.00x (Introduction to Computer Science and Programming) Mirror Introduction to Computer Science and Programming on mit opencourseware is also a good option but might be hard to grasp as lecture length is about an hour. What you will learn in 6.00x? Core Elements of Programs Simple Algorithms such as bisection, newton raphson Functions Recursion -  divide and conquer Objects - Tuples, lists,functions as objects and dictionaries Debugging - black box, glass box testing, Integration and unit testing Efficiency and orders of growth - complexity, asymptotic notation Memory and search - search and sort methods, hashing Classes Object Oriented Programming - Inheritance Plotting - using matplotlib Simulations and random walks - stochastic programming Sampling and Monte Carlo methods Statistical thinking Using randomness to solve non-random problems Curve Fitting Optimization - knapsack problem Graphs -DFS, BFS, cliques, min-cut Dynamic programming Its just so much to learn. The best part is the programming exercises, each and every one of it will make you think harder and in the process will teach you python. According to me this was the best class I have attended as it filled those gaps in my understanding of OOP concepts I learned in the past and also introduced python to me. The method of teaching by Eric Grimson is one of the best, you just can not take your mind off the concepts when he is teaching. If you already know all these things and just want to know the language in short period, then I think this is probably not a correct class to invest time in. But if anyone out there is new to computer science or wants to brush-up things a bit and want to learn python I would highly recommend this course. P.S. For a person completely new to computer science, let me remind you the class will be hard so set aside 12 hours/week, but it would be worth investing your time in. 