What are interesting and unsolved research questions in data visualization?
Time-based geographical data (and other space-related data) pose unique difficulties for analysis. Traditional static imagery can assist with analysis, but the resulting visualizations are often highly specific to particular data questions and must be rebuilt to answer new questions. A solution to this problem is the creation of dynamic interfaces (as Dominikus Baur mentions in his answer) that use time as a mapping for the temporal component of the data. Interactive visualizations can provide analysts with control over the dynamic component of the visualization. These kinds of visualizations are particularly important when the data is geospatial as well as time-dependent, since effective static visualizations of such multidimensional data are difficult to create. Within the context of any mode of inquiry, three different kinds of specific questions are typically asked of temporally-based geospatial data (Langran, 1989):   A) What changes have occurred with respect to a feature or object of the data? B) What changes in spatial distribution (including specific location, if applicable) of an object (or set of objects) have occurred? C) What is the temporal relationship among multiple phenomena?   MacEachren (1995) identifies seven categories of questions that can be asked of all temporal data, not just geospatial data:   a) Existence of an element of data b) Temporal location and/or cyclic behaviour of a data element c) Temporal limits (the interval) of a data element d) Frequency (also called the temporal texture) of an element e) Rate of change of a data element f)  Sequential order of the data elements g) Synchronization (if any) of the data elements   Langran’s questions are data-centered, in that the questions relate to the data object with respect to itself or other data objects. In other words, any question posed from his categories would take the form, “What was happening with <data> at <time>?”.  MacEachren, by contrast, has temporally-centered questions that ask, “What are the <time> constraints of <data>?”.  Either set of categories can encompass the same questions, but the focus on the data element in geospatial applications is worth noting.  Geospatial visualizations tend to focus on a response variable and observe the effects of time on that variable.  Characteristic of this trend is Peuquet (1994), who suggests that including time with observational data permits the examination of change in the data, but ignores the examination of the temporal constraints applied to the data. All of the above general categories hide an enormous complexity and variation in the specific questions that can be asked of a data set.  For instance, the above map is a snapshot from a sequence of graphs of caribou herd geographic utilization in Northern Canada. (Geographic utilization is a good method for determining population density in a geographic area.)  When viewing the entire sequence of graphs (representing the temporal change in the geographic utilization of the three identified caribou herds), an analyst could ask many different exploratory questions that would all be categorized in A), above:   a) How have the densities of the Cape Bathurst herd changed in the last 10 years? b) Have the mean densities of the Cape Bathurst herd changed in the last 5 years with respect to the mean densities for the previous 5 years? c) Has the proportion of maximum density of the Cape Bathurst herd declined (or increased) in the last 5 years more rapidly than in the last 10 years? d) Is there a cyclic component to changes in density over time in the Cape Bathurst herd?   All of the above questions are very simple. They explore only a single dimension of data (density) over time without considering geospatial changes (the other dimensions of the data) or changes with respect to other features of the visualization (e.g., other caribou herds or geospatial features like geographical boundaries or geological/hydrological features). Despite their simplicity, an analyst would have a difficult time answering any of the above questions without generating a different set of visualizations to express the data in a question-specific manner (e.g., means in 5-year periods to answer question b)).   The demand for specialized visualizations to answer specific kinds of questions (or even specific questions) has long been recognized as a problem in static visualization design. Muller and Schumann (2003) identify several stages in the evolution in complexity of time-based data visualizations, from the simple and ubiquitous time series graph (where position on the x-axis represents the time component) to static visualizations that support complex relationships between data and time including conditional, variable, or even unknown time values for data points (such as Sets Of Possible Occurrences graphs (SOPOs) (Rit, J-F. 1986) and Time Annotated Glyphs (Kosara et al. 2001)). Ultimately, the more elaborate the visualization, the more specialized – in fact, SOPOs are so specialized that the co-creator suggests that they are write-only visual tools, not visualizations (http://eagereyes.org/Techniques/...). If, however, designers of visualizations for complex temporally-based data sets wish to permit a broad base of possible uses, they must consider dynamic visualization techniques.   Visual Variables for Time Representing time-based data in a visualization is relatively simple with only a single, one dimensional response variable, since a spatial axis can be used to represent the temporal component, as with a time series graph. With two dimensions of data, time can no longer be as easily represented and creative solutions need to be used, like Minard’s visualization of Napoleon’s march on Russia, or grouped graphs, where each graph represents a different time slice.  Geospatially-based data can be shown by using the z-axis as the temporal measure (as with Lund school or aquarium visualizations), but this assumes that the data is relatively sparse, path-oriented (and therefore relatively lacking in the potential for occlusion), and that the z-axis is not used for the natural mapping of topographical data. (Source: http://www.itc.nl/  International Institute for Geo-Information Science and Earth Observation) When the geospatial component of the data requires all three axes, denying the visual variable of position to any other dimension of the data, static visualizations are at their least effective in representing the temporal aspect of the data. Alternatives to position are hard to find. Time is difficult to represent in many of Bertin’s visual variables for two reasons: time is continuous and time can have a very wide range. As a consequence, any visual variable that will be used to represent time must have a wide range of possible values and should be able to represent continuous (or nearly continuous) data. This removes shape, colour, orientation, and texture from the set of possible visual feature for temporal representation, since they all have either a reduced range of possible values or a reduced range of easily differentiatable values. Size, although able to represent a wide range of continuous values becomes difficult to evaluate at the top end of the size scale and can have occlusion or space problems when a wide range of values are presented. Value can easily represent time, but since time is usually monotonically increasing, value is likely the least useful mechanism for representing changes in time. All that remains is position, the most common of utilities for representing the time “axis” of data. Position on a (not always linear) axis almost universally represents time in every static, time-dependent visualization, from time series graphs to the Lund School aquariums (as in Kwan et al., 2003) and newer, alternative visualizations like spiral graphs (Weber et al., 2001), time wheels (after Tominski et al., 2003), calendar views (van Wijk et al., 1999), the ThemeRiver (Havre et al,. 2000), and wormplots (Treinish et al., 1997).   There are situations where position is not necessarily the only solution to representing time in geospatial visualizations. In some cases, the data in question may be from a small set of possible values for time (e.g., three sets of samples taken a week apart), in which case any of Bertin’s visual variables will work well for representing the temporal component. In other scenarios, the temporal component may be cyclical, like the minutes of the hour, and can be represented by a relatively small number of values from a variable repeated over each cycle, although value data may need to be added as annotations to differentiate cycles.  Finally, ordinal data can sometimes be bucketed into a relatively small set of time values that can be represented by a non-positional visual variable (e.g., colour). If a higher granularity is needed for a specific bucket, the process can be repeated with the data in the bucket, ignoring the data in other buckets. This allows large sets of data to be represented with time as a non-positional visual variable, but the technique is a hindrance when comparing individual samples (high granularity) from widely disparate times (low granularity).  Further, high granularity patterns are difficult to discern while artificially constrained by bucket boundaries, since patterns may exist across boundaries or between buckets.   Dynamic Visualizations The best solution to this problem is likely dynamic visualizations, although these have not been explored sufficiently to determine whether they can really answer the more complex questions about space and time I mentioned above. Visualizations can be considered dynamic in two ways: animation provides a playback mechanism whereby the data (under whatever representation is designed) is displayed over time to the analyst, andinteraction provides mechanisms for the analyst to change the data representation and/or control the playback. Some forms of dynamic visualization have only interaction, others have only animation, and some have both. Dynamic visualization tools that incorporate both animation and interaction have more flexibility in the kinds of questions they can assist in answering than those without.   Dynamic visualizations where the analyst has control over the manipulation and the presentation of the data were first introduced by Becker, Cleveland and Wilks (1987). At the time, they emphasized “direct manipulation and instantaneous change” as the key advantages of dynamic visualizations. These two components solve the problem of specialization in static visualizations, since interactivity can permit the analyst to modify the output to suit the needs of the problem. Although rarely mentioned, dynamic visualizations also resolve the lack of visual variables to represent the temporal component of the data, since the sequential order of frames in the dynamic visualization represents the relative temporal relationships between data elements.   Animation Animated visualizations rely on an absolute temporal ordering of data and generated, static frames, each of which is a slice of data at a specific time. At the time of viewing, the frames are played back to the analyst in sequential order either in real-time, time-lapse, or slow motion. Some neighbouring frames will be identical, to represent time slices where either data did not change or where there were no new samples collected. To smooth the differences between slices where the time between data samples is noticeable, additional frames can be interpolated (using a process known as inbetweening).  The decision of whether or not to interpolate and what interpolation function is most effective is difficult. Interpolation can misrepresent data in unexpected ways.  Similarly, discretizing continuous data can cause misinterpretations due to the natural interpolation inferences made by an observing analyst.   Some visualizations rely on an event timeline rather than a regular timeline.  In event timelines frames are generated every time a data element changes. In this setting, the time between changes as they occurred in the data (i.e., the time between collection of sample i and sample j) is not represented in the animation. Event-based timeline animations have been shown to be effective in a variety of fields, including monitoring of real-time processes (Matkovic et al., 2002, in Muller and Schumann) and simulation (Dorner et al., 2000, in Muller and Schumann).   Interactivity When dynamic visualizations were first introduced by Becker et al., animations were not mentioned as a significant component.  Instead, the authors focused on processes that directly manipulated the visibility of data elements, such as deletion, brushing, scaling, and rotation. These techniques simply scratch the surface of interaction with a static data set.  New visualizations like the experimental SkyRails project (http://cgi.cse.unsw.edu.au/~wyos...) illustrate the huge space available for interactivity with a data set.   Animation and Interactivity Where dynamic interfaces are most effective are when they incorporate both animation and interactivity (Andrienko et al., 2000; Slocum et al., 2001). Interactivity can be extended, with an animated visualization, to include controls to permit changes to the rate of playback, skipping between frames, identifying keyframes, generating new animations from subsections of the core animation, direction changes, and more.   The combination of interactivity and animation blurs the distinction between the visualization creater and the observing analyst. Provided that the underlying data is available and a strong and flexible enough tool system exists, there should be no difference between the creation and the analysis of a visualization. Changing a dynamic and interactive visualization to suite the specialized needs of a particular question is a natural solution to the specialization problem faced by static visualizations. Using an animation to observe those changes on a time- or event-based timeline is an excellent solution to the lack of visual features available for representing the temporal component of data.  Any restrictions found through the necessarily linear nature of animations can be eliminated by providing the analyst with control over the playhead as an interactive feature.   Criticisms of Dynamic Visualizations There has been a mixed response to the value of dynamic visualizations. Most work has been done with animated visualizations (a subset of dynamic visualizations), although the results of these studies have been generalized, incorrectly, for dynamic visualizations. For instance, Morrison et al. (2000) found, though meta-analysis of animation-based visualization studies, that animations were of little use for educational purposes. Slocum et al. (2001), however, contend that Morrison failed to include interactivity with his animations and argue that animations are most effective when interactivity is available to the user. Time-dependent geographical data is extremely hard to represent visually in a way that can help people answer the kinds of complex questions we ask about this kind of data. I generally feel that geovisualizations are the last, great barrier in small-scale visualizations (i.e., they don't deal with abstract, big data). They are incredibly important, however, and are used in crisis management, urban planning, resource management, diplomacy, and other highly critical domains. We have some increasingly sophisticated tools to help us handle this data, but we really haven't solved the problem of showing it well. 