What is the "Arrow's impossibility theorem" in layman's terms, and what is its practical significance?
The other answers give a good summary of the most commonly-held understanding of Arrow's theorem. Though technically perfectly true, they are also wrong in one key aspect. The key is that Arrow's theorem assumes only ordinal voting systems, where the voters may rank alternatives. In layman's terms, I call these systems "comparative"; a voter can compare A and B to say which is better, but cannot give any information that would indicate how much better. But since Arrow's proved his theorem around 1950, theorists have realized that you can get around this particular problem by using cardinal voting systems. I call these systems "evaluative", because they ask voters for some kind of evaluation of each candidate independently. For instance, in approval voting, the simplest evaluative system, you just say whether or not you "approve" of each candidate or not, and the candidate with the most approvals wins. And approval voting, like other evaluative systems such as Graduated Majority Judgment and Score Voting, easily passes all four Arrovian criteria as given by  Tanay Jaipuria in their answer. Now, that isn't to say that evaluative systems are perfect. In fact, Arrow consciously discounted such systems because he knew that, even if voters are asked to evaluations of each candidate independently, they can and will always use comparative logic for strategic reasons. For instance, in approval voting, if there are only two options, and both are good enough that you would normally approve of them, you will probably approve only the better one because otherwise you might as well not have voted. As soon as voters think comparatively, though, independence from irrelevant alternatives is broken. Add a third candidate you hate, and that could cause you to approve both of the first two, even if it turns out that the third candidate would not have won anyway. This problem of strategy was proven to be unavoidable soon after Arrow by Gibbard (and also by Satterthwaite; but Gibbard's proof is in my opinion much cleaner and more general.) They showed that any voting system is subject to strategy; there is always some situation where knowing how others will vote makes you change your vote even if your preferences remain the same. This holds even if you patch up the problems with evaluative voting by allowing vote delegation, as in the recently-designed system of Simple Optionally-Delegated Approval (SODA) voting. So yes, in the end, it does remain true that there can be no "perfect" voting system. And there certainly still are cases where only preferential data is available, and so Arrow's theorem remains relevant. But in my opinion, a fatalistic reading of Arrow's theorem is a big mistake. No voting system is perfect, but that shouldn't blind us to the fact that one of the very worst systems (plurality voting) is the most-used. 