How do we solve Bengaluru's traffic issues?
Excellent Question First of all, we must give 5 star to the question itself. Thanks for asking. I hope many more people ask (re-ask on Quora) this question. This question is special and different than other similar questions,  because of the phrase, " How do WE solve". Important word is WE. I understand 'We' here means common citizen of Bengaluru (and not any govt./corporate rep). Answer The solution has to be simple and replicable by most of the citizens. Everything I say here is what I have been practicing on daily basis. I will provide you evidence too ;). It is all practical and no theory. There are only two things you need to do. Before I get there let me re-iterate the problem. Understand the problem Traffic issue is primarily due to more people and so vehicles (or less roads). So there are two ways to solve it. A. Build MORE Roads / Infrastrucutre. Under this comes building good roads, filling pot holes, building metro train, flyovers bus network etc. This is not something we citizens can do ourselves beyond complain/protest about these. Infrastructure work is mostly done by govt bodies which consists of people we elect. Fixing govt.  is much larger issue and can be solved by active participation in election and being part of govt. Let us rule this out for this question. B. Reduce Vehicles. This is totally in our control. First we need to realize the limited infrastructure we have. Stop focusing on what we do not have or what other countries/cities have. We know that we have limited roads. We know the roads are not good and it has limited life. We know there are limited public transport facility. What does it mean? What do you do when you have limited resources? You use it carefully and sensibly. We need to use these roads carefully. Since we use roads daily to go to work, so let me take this example. How can we reduce vehicles? In cities like Bangalore, NCR, Mumbai, Pune etc. Lot of new huge apartments / localities have come up. We also see new huge office spaces concentrated in an area like IT Parks, SEZs etc. I am sure everyday there will be 2-3 people starting from same area around same time, leaving to same SEZ in different vehicles. They might be also coming back around same time. Isn't that insane? Short answer to reduce vehicle is Carpool. Finally here are 2 things I do to handle this problem . A. I carpool with 2 more folks for office commute. One is my office colleague who lives in different nearby apartment. Other is my neighbour in same apartment but works in different IT park near mine. B. I encourage others to carpool. i. by sticking messages on my car door. "Fill the Seat, Not the road". "Why Drive Alone?". ii. by writing blog sharing my experiences with carpool. Visit my blog. BhaagDhanno Coming back to original question. How do I/we solve Bengaluru's traffic issues? Ans: Do what I have been doing. A. You can carpool for daily commute to office. B. You can encourage others to carpool. Here are Tools to help you do above things. You can use any similar tool and this is guidance. 1.  Find carpool partner. I, with the help of like minded people, built one android app since there is no single successful app in the market. It is called Bhaag Dhanno. It is a simple app only for office commute with the same partners. Car Pool Android App, Bangalore. Download now. 2. Encourage others to carpool. You can get Free Car stickers to promote car pool . We know one picture tells thousand words. So I will sum it up with these pictures of my car. I believe the day we have 50K such cars in each Indian city, there will not be any traffic jam. Can you help me bring that day sooner? My car view from inside with carpool partners. My car view from outside with carpool message. PS: I have launched this as campaign and named it BhaagDhanno. You can join campaign on facebook.com/bhaagdhannobhaag and on twitter.com/bhaagdhanno . This is self funded campaign with the dream to see a traffic free city. That will be reward for me and my family. 