What is the best write-up on Rahul Dravid?
“In a career that is marked by grace, style and beautiful batsmanship, it’s a slog that’s ended Rahul Dravid‘s career. But once again, it was what was needed.” – Harsha Bhogle. Shattering of stumps imparts a finality to the whole proceedings on a cricket ground, which no other action on the field is able to do. Rahul Dravid’s career ended just like that. Quite abruptly. It was dubbed as a clash between Sachin Tendulkar and Rahul Dravid, and how aptly it ended, adhering to the script of their lives; Sachin Tendulkar basking in all the glory, while Rahul Dravid pushed to the background, amidst the shadows, with no spotlight, but abundant respect. A beautiful game of cricket The number of spectacular shots witnessed in those 4 hours is something to be seen to be believed and marveled at. Tendulkar played that heart-warming cover drive; Rohit Sharma crouched a little and swept a length ball for a gorgeous six; Maxwell walked forward and let loose a pendulum to hit one straight down the ground; Sanju Samson used his long lever-like limbs to a great measure to mesmerise everyone; and Ajinkya Rahane played like he has been throughout the tournament, quite silkily. But Rahul Dravid of all people, played an ugly innings. And as anti-climatic as it was,“it was what was needed".Having dropped himself down the order,  Dravid always knew it was going to be a slam-bang stay in the middle or nothing. The night dedicated to the two heroes actually witnessed heroics from plenty more. Even as the camera zoomed in on Sachin Tendulkar’s face, his childlike joy quite visible on the screen, it was sad to see Dravid ending on a losing note. The end came in a T20, come to think of it, quite ironically, as even the last few moments of watching him walk back were compact as the next ball was to be bowled, and the game needed to move on. And yes, the game does need to move on. CLT20 2013: Champions emerge on the final stage in Dravid-Tendulkar farewell  