How do we solve Bengaluru's traffic issues?
Fix the existing roadsThe existing roads in Bangalore are inundated with Potholes and are often very uneven. To stress the the importance of having good quality asphalted roads, I would give an example. There was a 2-3 Kilometre stretch which was flooded with potholes and was notoriously bumpy. To cover this stretch, we (I commute via the company vehicle) would spend around 30-40 minutes at rock-bottom. This was for a good 6 months or so. We had the General elections in April-May 2014, so the government woke up from it's slumber, and fixed this stretch on a weekend circa March 2014. Our commute time on that particular stretch drastically came down, we could zip through it in 5-10 minutes. Fixing the roads also has an ameliorating effect on the vehicles due to the reduced braking and lightened convoluted manoeuvres. Establish Stringent measures while purveying Driving LicensesObtaining a Driving license is a walk in the park in India. Let me illustrate the different mechanisms through a Driving license can be procured via the RTO (Regional Transport Office), Difficulty Level - Hard Pay the stipulated amount for the Driving Test, the RTO authorities will ask you to drive in the designated driving test track. The odds of clearing this test are pretty low and you'll usually end up with the driving license only after a couple of attempts. Difficulty Level - Medium Well, it is comparable to the above level, but the only difference is you would end up shelling out around 1000 Rs as bribe after the Test to procure the license. Difficulty Level - Easy Pay the stipulated amount for the test and show up in the RTO with a vehicle and be ready to spend around 2000 Rs as a bribe to the officials, you'll end up with an easier track or may be they would just ask you to drive around a tree. Irrespective of how you perform, you'll acquire the license. Difficulty Level - Very Easy Pay the stipulated amount for the test and show up in the RTO without a vehicle. Shell out around 4000-5000 Rs to the officials, you can obtain a license without even attending the test. I am not sampling my case based on the RTO where I took up my test, unfortunately it is the same in most of the RTOs in Bangalore. If we were to make a list of the most corrupt organisations in India, the RTOs from Bangalore would rank very high in that list. I reckon, now we have a fair idea why we have so many bad drivers on the streets of Bangalore. People have to understand that driving is an exacting task, the concentration needs to be on driving and driving alone. Introduce Swift Emergency Breakdown Response VehiclesMany a time, we are caught up in chock a block traffic; only to find out that a bus has broken down, creating a reckless pandemonium on the streets and slogging it out for an hour or two. So it would be far better having emergency response teams which would cover a radius of 2-3 Kms catering exclusively to the breakdown of vehicles. If the response is swift, it would in turn hinder a chain reaction of queueing up of vehicles by freeing up the lane. Create an auxillary lane near the bus stopsCreating an extra lane (50-100 meters) near the bus stops would provide some breathing space for the vehicles who gang up behind the buses when they stop near the bus stops. The buses can move into the extra lane and pick up/drop people without impeding the vehicles behind them. Also Provide adequate shelter in the bus stops and accoutre them with sufficient seats, so that people don't start using the extra lane as a place where they can entrench. Advocate use of Pedestrian BridgesI am a big fan of Pedestrian Bridges, it would cut down braking by a great extent which would in turn allow faster passage of vehicles.  This would dramatically reduce the accidents (both major and minor); by major I mean involving a pedestrian; and minor accidents which involves scenarios like bumping into another car or minor nudges and prevent drivers having hyperbolized brawls with each other in the middle of the road. And Of Course, for the people to utilize the Pedestrian bridges, the medians should be barricaded. I visited Germany a year ago, and was pleasantly surprised to see animal-bridges or ecoducts that allow animals animals to safely cross human-made barriers like highways. If animals could use the bridges to a great efficiency to cross the roads, we could certainly do a little better in utilizing the Pedestrian bridges. My 0.02$. 