What specific skills, software proficiencies, etc. qualify someone as a management analyst?
There is little specific statistical tools needed for business analysis (as opposed to physical, biological, medical, financial or macro-economic datasets). One common aspect is that most data is expressed daily, weekly, quarterly, so de-seasonalisation can be useful; more generally, linear models can come handy. They are not ideal to separate effects of simultaneous efforts, but that’s their main function in business decisions. Business data come in all shapes, and managers are not very interested in details like how scalar, ordinated and type data are different, so you need to be fluent with any tool converting those. In particular, many data rely on efforts (scalar) converting to decision (binary) so logistic regressions can be quite prevalent. Also, marketing people give tons of opportunity to use MCA and hierarchical clustering to set up typology. When this works, it’s magic; it generally doesn’t when I'm around, and I’m not sure why. I work in an area where big customers buy a lot more than small fry, orders of magnitude more, so I have a surprisingly rich array of tricks to convert scalar data into less categories via logarithmic scales. More importantly, As opposed to scientific clients, managers were not selected for their love of subtlety, and many are proud of it, therefore your clients will tend to have little patience for fancy like log-scale, or detailing what logit parameters actually mean. More than statistical skills, what you need to be is sensitive to communication issues. What all clients will like is clear recommendations: managers take tough decisions all day; this taxes the executive function, a glucose-hungry and rapidly tired brain process. They usually physically can’t make anymore delicate arbitrage. They need you to relief that exhaustion more than to help them take what generally is fairly obvious business decisions with complicated tools. My recommendation is to use log scales and logit, but to rehearse a lot to present those as natural choices; the lack of rhetorical preparation for such important presentation is usually staggering. Examples are really good for explaining. I also have interesting results with presenting first what each axis is about, and what the curbs could be first, and then showing the data (before they spend too much energy arguing about it). That can be annoying to the audience, so try it only when introducing a new analysis. Pace yourself, too: I’m bad with that, and it is a big problem. Both of these piece of advice (simple tools, communicate clearly) come with an obvious consequence: the most important things you will do, and the most common, will have no analytical added value: 80% of the decisions taken thanks to me were based on simple historical sums on the two weeks surrounding a commercial update. The decision that I am the proudest at the moment is to filter a conversion funnel into three obvious categories, to say: the problem comes from those users. The impact were either so negligible no second derivative could have meant anything, or so strong any sales person knew your conclusions days before you started. I could easily debate ARIMA adjustments to better model changes in the power-law alphas on an asymetrical complex graph, or connect volatility smiles to the structure of cushion-guaranteed fast-trade algorithm ment to arbitrage between price-based- vs. rate-based paper emission; tough luck. Those glorious nuances can be useful, usually when you expect them less, and knowing them well will really help—but knowing when not to use them is more important. An analyst helps someone making a business grow, that is hire people and make family eat and go on holidays; I adore refined statistical models, but your priorities have to be clear: good advice comes before messing with second order moments. The biggest issue anyone in that area face is usually called HiPPO, for Highest-Paid Person’s Opinion. A simple way to avoid wondering for the manager you are advising is to abide to what seems to be natural authority, or as you will see it: the prejudice of whomever is the furthest fromt the market in the meeting. Hating your client for that is like hating a gazelle for sprinting away from a lion. It can be incredibly frustrating: higher-ups are fickle, bone-headed and are not keen on being challenged. Questioning their relevance can be an explosive sport. Playing the Jester, being the obviously ridiculous option provider can help — remember how The Economist sells digital suscriptions? Either you get digital to 50, paper for 90, or both for 90? That was a genius way to judo a no-brainer into an up-sale. Know those tricks, and use them in your presentation. That takes years to master. Getting business data can be delicate, too. I would highly recommend you know enough about data storing and processing to have a conversation with the grunts actually handling the servers. If something goes wrong before you, it will be you who gets the bad wrap: database architects and admin sys rarely see the decision maker. Beyond that, your main asset will soon be virtuose control of the tools of the trade. You will master csv-to-SQL-to-Excel-to-PowerPoint tricks; I can import, query, sort, plot and comment in a slide quarterly revenues pooled by order size faster than you could understand that sentence. You will attend to a zoo of pivots and hate the flimsiest details, like how Excel doesn’t include axis legends by default. Expect lack of glamour: on my first highly-paid job, 21% of my time (I measured exactly) was spend converting yellow trend lines to orange because my manager couldn’t see those on white print-outs, and Excel wouldn’t let me set different colours by default. Time spend choosing the right colour shemes, and applying them thoroughly will greatly improve your standing, because it does wonders on making your graphs faster to grab. Learn from designer, story tellers, movie directors how to use fonts, surprise, fade to black. Those are your new friends. 