What is the best write-up on Rahul Dravid?
Here are some of the best write-up on Dravid, I have read. 1. Goodbye Dravid Excerpts:- I find it hard to think of a more versatile cricketer. You were one of our finest short leg fielders. You were, for the most part, a remarkable slip catcher. You have opened the innings, batted at No.3, batted at No.6 (from where you conjured up that 180 in Kolkata). I’m sure you have batted everywhere else. You have kept wicket, offering an added dimension to the one-day side in two World Cups. You even scored 145 in one of those games. You captained both the Test and one-day teams. Sure, things didn’t go according to plan but you were a superb on-field captain. More importantly you were India’s finest vice-captain, an aspect that is often conveniently forgotten. Jeez, you even took some wickets. There’s something unique about this. In Indian cricket’s hall of fame, you can proudly share a table with Gavaskar and Tendulkar. But you can also share one with Kapil, Mankad and Ganguly – cricketers who excelled in more than one aspect of their game for an extended period of time. 2. Rahul Dravid and the eternal lament Excerpts:- Ever since his Test debut at Lord’s, when he was overshadowed by his fellow debutant, Dravid seems to bat with this lament as the background score. Whatever he achieves doesn’t seem to be enough to gain enough people’s attention. A conversation about Dravid is incomplete without words like “under-appreciated” and “unsung”. These are often followed by a sigh. And the tone usually softens. I have stared at several ceilings. Yet I have been confused with my angst. Sure, unlike you-know-who, Dravid doesn’t have hordes of reporters standing outside his house on his birthday (Jan 11 in case you’re interested), his little finger isn’t hyper-analysed if it’s injured and he’s not the most searched name on Cricinfo on 362 days of the year (I am convinced that there are thousands of people who wake up every morning and begin searching ‘Sachin Tendulkar’ on the internet). But does all this translate to being ‘under-appreciated’? Hasn’t Dravid been immortalised by a number of his innings? The moment someone says Adelaide or Rawalpindi or Kingston or Headingley isn’t it Dravid that comes to mind? Several years from now won’t his efforts be one of the few things we will remember from this series whitewash in England? Haven’t writers crafted eulogies about his technique and temperament? Won’t we tell our kids about how the Draxman union could turn dust into gold? Over time I found some answers. Dravid’s Test career is a totally different beast. He has owned many Tests and series. He may have lived in the shadows in his early years – especially the streak when he kept getting out in the 90s – but he has held his own for several years. People associate Dravid with some epic wins. A lot of people understand his tremendous value to the Test side. They acknowledge his greatness. 3. When Dravid was there Excerpts:- One of my father’s friends, Venkat, once told me a story about Sunil Gavaskar’s 236 against West Indies in Madras. On the third day of the match, with West Indies all out for 313, Venkat – a huge Gavaskar fan – took off early from work to try and catch India’s innings. His workplace was quite far from Chepauk but he thought he would take a chance, trying to watch at least the last thirty minutes of play. Gavaskar didn’t open the innings that day but hardly had Venkat left his workplace than India were 0 for 2. On his bus ride to the stadium, Venkat, with a transistor glued to his ears, felt reassured as Gavaskar calmly defied a blistering attack that included Marshall, Roberts, Holding and Winston Davies. By the time Venkat was at the stadium, Sidhu was gone. Worse, there was a melee outside with several people turning up to watch India bat. Just as Venkat entered the stadium, Ashok Malhotra was dismissed. This left Venkat with just a few minutes to watch Gavaskar and Shivlal Yadav batting for stumps. The crucial bit is how Venkat ended the story: “Gavaskar was there when I left the office. He was there when I was in the bus. He was there when I was trying to get into the stadium. He was there when I walked in. And he was there when the day ended. Gavaskar was always there.” I hope Venkat watched the first two days at Trent Bridge. Rahul Dravid was there in the most dangerous phase on the first evening; he was there during the tricky phase on the second morning; he was there when Laxman blossomed; he was there when Laxman left; he was there when Tendulkar left; he was there when Yuvraj revived his Test career; he was there when Yuvraj left; and he was there when the lower order imploded in one over. Dravid was almost always there. 4.  Dravid and the mastery of the struggle Excerpts:- I think of all this when I watch Rahul Dravid: his daily search for the struggle, his eagerness to bat on a spiked pitch, his desire to treat every ball like a grenade, his technique to counter any ball on any pitch and, most striking of all, his temperament to put behind the struggle that went before and focus on the struggle that awaits. Not for him a flat pitch on a sunny day. He’s not going to derive immense joy in hitting through the line. He craves a that masochistic joy. For me, an ideal Dravid innings needs a most challenging pitch. If it’s a batting beauty with the ball coming on to the bat, give me Sehwag or Laxman; if there’s a truly great array of bowlers set to be unleashed, give me Tendulkar. If it’s a minefield, give me Dravid. Great bowlers and a taut state of the match are a bonus. Kolkata, Adelaide and Rawalpindiare awesome but I want Headingley, Perth and Jo’burg. I want Kingston. I want Hamilton. The pitch must be spiced up or crumbling or smattered with cracks. A crater would be ideal. Or even a sandpit. Dravid cannot take stance knowing what the ball is going to do after pitching. He must not be offered predictable bounce. It’s all too insulting. Dravid is the anti-McGrath. A batting metronome. Ball after ball, over after over, he wears bowlers down with his patience. It’s almost as if he has a plan: leave, leave, defend, leave, score. He sets up the bowler, making him bowl where he wants. Amid all this he calculates the vagaries of the pitch. It’s when he’s in a struggle that he’s in the zone. For Hoggard, Caddick, Tudor and Flintoff at Headingley read Collins, Taylor, Collymore and Bravo at Kingston. For Donald, Pollock, McMillan and Klusener at Johannesburg read Doull, Cairns and Nash at Hamilton. Today he was up against Edwards, Rampaul, Sammy and Bishoo. They were operating on a pitch that was up and down, just that nobody knew when it was up and when it was down. The ball jagged to and fro. Partners came, partners swished, partners got talked to, partners swished again and partners left. Through it all Dravid struggled, a truly masterful struggle. 5. Tanya Aldred: we will miss Test match specialist Rahul Dravid; his duel with Shane Warne was thrilling - Telegraph Excerpts:- Back in July 2000 the old ground was saying goodbye to first-class cricket — a victim of poor pitch reports and an alluring Rose Bowl flouncing her wares over in West End. The summer sun was meltingly gorgeous and there were ice-creams in the press box. The salt on the warm wind seasoned the skin and seagulls patrolled the ground for rogue cheese and onion crisps. The final championship game at the ground was between Hampshire and Kent, which for that season meant Shane Warne and Dravid — riches unimaginable today. And the match became Warne against Dravid, flamboyance against rectitude, passion against calm, genius against near-genius. Warne, who had claimed supremacy over Dravid, pulled every one of his multiple tricks; Dravid, who had claimed he could read Warne from the hand, watched, waited and masterfully dispatched; the holiday crowd who had paid just £9 to get in sat in rapt concentration. The winner? Dravid, with 137, 73 not out and a Kent victory to his name. And as he walked off after his 137, every Hampshire player, every spectator and every journalist, stood and applauded. To see such a duel, such brilliance somewhere so unexpected, only added to the thrill. I’ve always had a soft spot for Dravid. With his good-boy’s haircut, old-fashioned parting and his long lean but slightly awkward limbs, he has more of the air of an excellent GP than an international athlete. 