What is the "Arrow's impossibility theorem" in layman's terms, and what is its practical significance?
Tanay's answer is correct: for a reasonable set of assumptions about what a voting rule ought to do, there exists no voting rule that satisfies them. But what does that mean? A majority vote seems to work in making decisions, and on some (rare) occasions everyone agrees and pretty much any reasonable voting system will do. So at least some of the time, voting rules work. Here's my laymen answer for what Arrow's impossiblity theorem says: When groups with conflicting views are making a collective decision about what to do, and have to select from many options, they will probably have extreme difficulty doing so in a "fair" manner. What Arrow's theorem is pointing out is that under some circumstance (when people have particular conflicting views), groups of people get stuck in a circular discussion about what they collectively want. Given that, you might ask: What is a good outcome? This is a loaded question, because "good" is always what you want, but let's consider two concepts: If everyone prefers one outcome to another, than we should definitely choose the outcome everyone prefers. (called Pareto efficiency) If one outcome beats every other outcome in a one-on-one battle, then we should consider that one the winner even if its no one's favorite. This is what happens in compromise. (called Condorcet criterion) How often do bad things happen? We know they exist, but as long as they're not prevalent they don't really matter. Except they are prevalent. And it does matter. In fact, for any small group of people, as the number of possible outcomes (called alternatives in the chart below) increases, the probability that there is no majority winner increases towards 100% (which is 1 in the chart) and hence we need more qualifications to choose an outcome. On the other hand, when the number of choices is small (by which I mean 3), there is still a reasonable chance that a good outcome exits (90%). So all is not lost. These are based on random preferences, so they probably don't represent the correlation of preferences in groups, but they do show that the trends of disagreement over what ought to happen arise when there are multiple options on the table. Okay, bad things are happening, now what? Well, a decision is still made, so what's going down behind the scenes? Well, now the process matters, and knowing this, people play a little more strategically. Imagine you prefer a third party candidate in the U.S. presidential election to the two main candidates. Guess what: your favorite is not going to win. As a result, people might vote for one of the main candidates instead so that their vote "counts" toward the winner. In small groups with many options, people are even more strategic (creating coalitions and colluding for better overall outcomes for involved parties). However, sometimes the voting system is just irrevocably biased towards one outcome or another (say the chairwoman of a committee limits discussion to outcomes she finds reasonable), but since it was inevitable that the bias exist, we can't really blame it. One "fair" way to decide things is to have an open discussion: everything can be proposed, discussed, and voted upon until a majority decides to stop discussing. Tiny problem: when conflict is really bad, this causes major deadlock. A tiny light at the end of the tunnel. Arrow's theorem is pretty miserable from some standpoints (and eerily awesome from others), but there are ways to make reasonable decisions and more sophisticated techniques pop up all the time. Another way to think about voting is for its informational value. If we are trying to decide how many pennies are in a jar, chances are that the average will be better than most of our guesses. The better we get at combining the information/preferences people have, the better decisions we can make (in terms of ease, speed, and perhaps "fairness"; actual results being better is not guaranteed!) Chart from: "Condorcet Winners and the Paradox of Voting: Probability Calculations for Weak Preference Orders" Disclaimer: I purposely confuse a couple topics: Condorcet is not the only definition of "good" though it is my favorite; Arrow's theorem deals with the entire ordering of collective preferences whereas I just consider the winner; strategic voting can elect a Condorcet winner (but I wanted to keep the example simple). 