Data Analysis: What are the steps of a data analysis process?
This is just the kind of question that I would love to answer! As it so happens I have a good breakdown of the different pieces of a complete project in Data Analysis. This is my process, which may be similar to many others in the field. As an example, I am including the project that I used for a job interview at a tech company. This is the dataset for the problem: Automobile Data Set Tools: R Understand the question at hand This is the most important of all the steps. What exactly are you trying to uncover? How will you approach the problem? For my project I wanted to answer: What makes a car high risk to an insurance company? A dataset from UCI allowed to me answer just this question. From here, I wanted to do the following: Break the problem into its constituent parts Build the constituent parts into a model Use the model to predict the risk assessment for any car Tear apart the data This is key to understanding the next few steps. How will you clean and prune the data? When I looked at this dataset, I noticed the data consisted of the following: A pieces stick out: Categorical variables ==> lots of dummy variables ==> possible large sparsity in my data if I were to stretch it out. This could pose problems later Where are all the ordinal variables? Low sample size (n=206): We have to be careful our model doesn't overfit, if we were to build one. Visualize the data This step is actually optional but will give better insight into what's going on with the data. One word of caution, 3d plots don't really tell a good story unless the trend is super clear. Case in point of what not to do: This is a 3d plot of price, weheelbase, and insurance rating. From the looks of it, there isn't really much going on here aside from cheap cars being more 'risky' (higher symboling). But the really important part, that wheelbase length is attributed to high risk, isn't really immediately apparent at all! This defeats the purpose of data viz in the first place. Here's a better sense of data viz: Here, the blue area are cars with 2 doors and the red area are cars with 4 doors. Risk is the X axis with the right side being more 'risky'. We can already infer now that 2 door cars are more risky than 4 doors. Easy! Build the model specifications Ok, now we have a good sense of what the data contains. Let's build our model! We want to assess whether a car is 'risky' or 'not risky'. Ok, sounds like it's time for the good ol' logistic regression! Let's fit all the data into the model and then... Aw, man. Those categorical variables are biting us where it hurts. We'll need to tune the model to make this a better fit. But how? Decision trees, of course! They use recursive partitioning to easily fit a few parameters into the model, and indeed, they definitely find a couple possible causal factors in the data: Perfect, here we find that a couple parameters, namely the make, number of doors, the wheelbase, and curb weight, which all contribute to the riskiness of a particular car. Assess accuracy Now that we have our model, we can assess accuracy by plotting the Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC), or a fancy way of saying "how accurate was this model?" Amazing. Looks like our pruned model achieved a higher ROC curve. Hooray! Here's another way to check out accuracy of the model with the Area Under Curve (AUC) score: We got ourselves a nicely fitted model the second time around after pruning parameters with Decision Tress. Nice job! Now, we can turn it into an actionable application. Productionalize For this problem set, I chose to create an iPhone app from scratch and apply the weights inside the app to determine whether the car you're buying happens to be risky. Code, for those who are interested: livelifeatthemargin/CarEvaluator Here are a couple screens: This is the outside of the app (hey it's gotta look nice at least!): It's a little barebones inside but that's ok! It works as intended. If we put in a typical family sedan (let's say a chevy), we get the following result: Great job! You just saved yourself 15% in 5 seconds of you typing in those numbers! I must say, I'm beating Geico at its own game. :) What if you put in something like a fast car? What do you get? That's pretty rough, dude. Better luck next time! To me, Data Analysis is much like exploration. I think of this as a process of discovery. Formulate the right question, tear apart the data, put it back together, build insights, predict, tune, productionalize. Every time it's slightly different, but the actual process fascinates me. Good luck in your endeavors into Data Analysis! I hope my quick instructional set has helped you out. 