What is the "Arrow's impossibility theorem" in layman's terms, and what is its practical significance?
Say you have a group of individuals and their individual preferences for a set of 3 or more alternatives and are trying to come up with a preference for the group. To translate these individuals preferences into an outcome for the group, we will have to use some sort of voting system. Some reasonable conditions one can expect the voting system we use to meet are: U - Universality i.e. Each of the individuals should be able to have any of the possible preferences. In other words, the preferences of the individuals should not be restricted in any manner. P - pareto efficiency. If everyone in the group prefers x to y, then the group should prefer x to y. Think of this as unanimity I - Independence from irrelevant alternatives. This is tricky to understand. The best way to think about it is that the choice between two alternatives x and y should depend only on their relative positions and not on the position of say a third alternative z. If z's position changes but the relative positions of x and y are the same, then it shouldn't make a difference to the choice between x and y. Therefore, for the choice between x and y, the profiles xyz and zxy are treated the same. (In both cases, x is preferred to y) ND - Non dictatorship. A dictator is defined as someone who gets exactly what he wants every time. Non dictatorship simply means that there shouldn't exist a dictator as defined above. Additionally, we should want the voting system to output a transitive ordering (if a is preferred to b and b is preferred to c, a is preferred to c). If this isn't the case, then our group choice might not make much sense, since we will have cycling between choices (say a is preferred to b which is preferred to c, but c is preferred to a. Which is the real winner then?).  Such a voting system which outputs a transitive ordering is called a social welfare function. Arrows Impossibility Theorem states that there is no social welfare function that satisfies U,P,I and ND. Alternatively, it can be stated as: If you want a transitive group ordering that satisfies U,P and I, you must have a dictator. If you consider the above conditions as the criteria for a fair voting system, then what Arrow's theorem basically says is that no fair voting system exists, which is pretty remarkable. As an exercise, think about which of Arrow's conditions commonly used voting methods such as method of majority rule, plurality rule and using points/rankings(borda count) violate. 