★What is the best basic mobile phone?No need for any Smart Phones or enhanced features. A basic phone that has good battery life and decent audio quality?
The Nokia 1100 was the world's most popular cell phone in its day. They were rare in the US and only moderately popular in Europe, but worldwide Nokia sold over 200 million of these. They are now discontinued, but as you can imagine, with that many sold, there are a lots of used ones on the market. And they basically don't break, although the numbers do rub off the keypad over time. The phone is designed for absolutely optimal battery life. For that reason, it has a simple black-and-white LCD with a switchable backlight, and even though it's one of Nokia's cheapest phones ever, they put in one of their higher-capacity batteries of the day because they knew battery life was really important to a target market where charging a phone might mean paying some dude who owns a shack full of car batteries. Like modern smartphones but unlike many feature phones, the screen is easily readable. (Many feature phones with color screens fill them with unreadable decorative crap.) It has a built-in flashlight. How cool is that? Basic Nokia phones like this were built like brick shithouses. If you drop them, several pieces may fall apart, but those are the ones that are designed to come off, and you just pop them back together. The video is for a different Nokia phone, but there are many similar YouTube videos for other models. The 1100 in particular is designed to be extra resistant to water and dust/sand even by Nokia standards. The Nokia 1100 is actually lightweight and small. It even fits in the little "watch pocket" in standard 5-pocket jeans. If you do get one, do be aware that, like many phones of its generation, it is dual band, not quad band. That means that it will work only on GSM, and only one of the two international variants. In particular, Europe and the US are on different frequencies. But this is part of the charm of the whole thing: leaving out the antenna and associated electronics that is only needed if you do intercontinental travel all the time keeps the phone cheap and lightweight. If you travel between the two global regions a lot, you can always get one 1100 for both variants and swap out the sim card. There is no CDMA Nokia 1100, presumably because CDMA is not used in any of the markets Nokia was targeting with this phone. I bought my Nokia 1100 unlocked in The Netherlands when I realized that a SIM-only plan and an unlocked phone together were cheaper than a regular plan with that very same phone "for free." (The cell phone salesman immediately admitted this when I pointed it out, said he was not at all upset to give me the discount because I had figured it out. Apparently, many people did not.) In the US, the Nokia 1100 was offered for a long time by tracfone, a prepaid carrier, and the characteristic blue tracfone Nokia 1100s, adorned with the tracfone logo, are commonly available used. PS: If you insist on a phone that is still in production, check out the Nokia 103. Unlike with the 1100, I have never had the pleasure of using one of these, but I have the distinct impression they are supposed to be the successors to the older bare-bones Nokia phones. I don't think they are being sold in all of Nokia's markets at the moment, though. In the US, for instance, it seems Nokia only actively advertises its smartphones, although that does not necessarily mean that there isn't some carrier somewhere that is picking up a Nokia dumbphone as one of its low-end options.    Embed Quote