★What will mobile phones look like in ten years time?Mobile phones have become smartphones; they do infinitely more than take calls and send text messages. As they become smaller, faster and more powerful what will they look like and what kind of user interface will we be interacting with? Will they become increasingly aesthetically pleasing?
The modern phone isn't really a phone, it is serves as an actual personal computer.  Telephony is a becoming secondary. If we are looking at 2022 we would expect to see a number of changes to how the device works. Not as much change to how they look. Form Factor Portability of mobile devices places downward pressure on size and thickness. But screen size places an upward pressure. Average thumb size helps define a common overlap.  Handsets will converge around a 4" diagonal screen. But we will see a variety of screen sizes from 1" to 15" for other specialised portables. The biggest change to handset hardware will be the inclusion of identity verification hardware. Fingerprint scanners being the most likely one. Battery Life Computational power is improving exponentially, but the improved efficiency is offset by increased demands. So power usage stays level. Battery technology is not improving at the same rate. So I think a daily charge will be with us in 10 years.   Inductive charging has some convenience benefits, but wires will always charge faster. Screens Screen pixel density have hit the limit of human vision so any remaining improvements will be to colour accuracy, contrast and brightness. Software and Services - Activity cluster The idea of a service that is available on one of your devices but not others will vanish. Your activity will segue between devices. So media playback will switch from handset to wall screen automatically.  Documents on the desktop machine will be available on the handset.  So instead of thinking about an activity tied to the device, the activity is tied to the user - and all devices in the proximity of that user act collectively.  A headset, earbuds, cameras, wall screens, desk screen, tablet, keyboard, speakers - all would participate in whatever activity was being performed. With pervasive wireless communication - the notion of docking devices is moot. Interface Natural language interfaces will continue to develop. Complex multi-part transactions can be completed with voice input alone. The rise of voice control will result in a decline in web-searching as an activity.  Headsets By 2022-2025, alongside the handset we'll start to see the headset. The headset would look like (and work like) regular eyeglasses. But would be able to augment your point-of-view with projected imagery.  Outward facing cameras would capture world view but also body/hand position for gestural input. Identity verification Our current use of password verification is a time-bomb. It needs to be replaced by a more robust solution. The replacement will be biometric verification tied to one authoritative device.  That device will probably be the handset. If your authorised handset verifies your biometrics then identity verification is pretty reliable. At that point the handset could be used to sign transactions. This would in turn mean the end of credit/debit cards - and the end of being able to control a bank account or make a purchase with only a password.    Embed Quote