★Can this version of the ontological argument be refuted?
Assuming that this is Anselm's ontological argument sad in a little more complex way then what he initially stated: Although Kant holds the title of "the guy who officially refuted Anselm's argument for God's existence", it's first interesting to notice that it has been rejected since it's start from people such as Thomas Aquinas, that is, it's decisively rejected as refuted even among theists far before Kant came into scene. Today, is worth mentioning, his argument is just stated more for historical reasons rather then to provide any serious discussion about God's existence. Now about the refutation to the argument, notice that what makes an argument to be a good argument is: Valid logic True premises Premises that are more plausible then their negatives Having established that, lets see the argument: By definition, God is a being than which none greater can be imagined. A being that necessarily exists in reality is greater than a being that does not necessarily exist. Thus, by definition, if God exists as an idea in the mind but does not necessarily exist in reality, then we can imagine something that is greater than God. But we cannot imagine something that is greater than God. Thus, if God exists in the mind as an idea, then God necessarily exists in reality. God exists in the mind as an idea. Therefore, God necessarily exists in reality. Is the logic valid? Well, I have my problems in following the reasoning behind with premises 3-5 because it makes a total confusion in the usage of the word "God", but I'll let that pass. What about true premises? Well, what reasons are there to believe that Premise 2 even makes sense? How does "greatness" could entail "existence"? In fact, to compare two things, one that exists and the other that don't exists and then proclaim that the first is greater then the second because it exists is like to treat the second thing as actually, temporarily existing so one could make such assertions about greatness to it. But the problem is that the thing don't exist - how could one say that something is greater then it if there is no it there to be evaluated? In other words, the second premises takes "existence" as some property of something like its shape, but existence is not a property. So the second premise seems to fail completely and with it goes the argument. At the end, I guess the OP even didn't pick the best way to put forward Anselm's work - as I sad earlier, premises 3-5 seems to make a big confusion with the word "God" since once it seems that "nothing greater then this being can be imagined", but then it starts talking as if it could!    Embed Quote