★Ontology (philosophy): What is the nature of Being?Ontology is about the nature of Being. But what is Being? Does Being have an essence?
The following is a very dense summary of 2,300 years of philosophy. 1.  Being from Aristotle's Categories and Metaphysics is the word "ousia" in Greek which is a present participle.  So, in an incredibly trivial way, being is literally that part of a language that can be thought of as "said of" or "being in".  E.g., "This is a tree" as opposed to "Tree-ness is in it."     2.  Professor Edward Harter showed me his now famous paper entitled. “Aristotle on Primary ουσια,” Archiv fur Geschitchte der Philosophie, 57 (1975), pp. 1 -20, when I was a kid in 1970, and I told him I agreed that Aristotle's refusal to equate ousia with the universal genus as in the Metaphysics was evidence that Aristotle had moved away from Plato's naive idealism.  Substance as ousia was a compound of the concrete individual. What this means in approximate modern parlance is that substance is that which which makes something different from all other things ("being qua being") and it is something that can be "said of" of that thing. 3.  But look at what's happened over the 2 millenia.  The conundrum has proliferated into:  (1) emphasis of 'said of' over 'being in' as nominalism, (2) 'being in' over 'said of' as in realism, (3) neither, which is nihilism, (4) both, which has yet to be realised scientism.  In (1) the word-substance as dogma leads conservatism. In (2) substances can only be approximations of the real, so theories, models, hypotheses are part of the mapping of reality.  In (3) the word-substance and the real never come together so in effect the union of the word and the real in substance is denied, leading to ineffectual indifference. In (4) any discrete word-substance is a limit on a continuum of choices, and the perfection of language is only within the strict limits of a mathematics.    Note:  substantive cause and essential cause are the "same" in the sense that substantive is a translation from the Greek and essential is from the Latin. The above summary merely tracks being in terms of its logical ramifications rather than its historical bumps.                          Embed Quote