★How does an ontology work?I'm doing a research work on existing ontologies.. and i am absolutely new to this.. so if someone could explain it right from scratch it would be of great help :)
So, there are a couple of possible answers to this, and they're all more or less context-specific. (I'm going to try to explain this in simple terms: be aware, almost every term I that I use the "common usage" meaning of, probably has a jargon-based specific definition (being, essence, category) that will differ depending on the field you are talking ontology with. So... if you read this, understand that in philosophy, computer science, A.I., network design, etc... many of the terms I am using to communicate will mean different things to specialists, and they may not know that you aren't speaking to them in their jargon language. Its hard- be prepared to struggle with the language a bit. ) Originally, Ontology was mostly a philosophical term. It was considered the first philosophy of metaphysics, and was specifically concerned with the definition of what did and did not constitute a "being", and what things did and did not belong to the category of "being", and why. Then it further went into different essential(basic) categories of the kinds of beings there were... what properties belonged to those beings... and then various discussions about how you organized and talked about those different kinds of beings in a larger scheme. So in basic form, Ontology was the study that dealt with "reality"... what did exist, what didn't exist, what it meant to exist, and the different levels on which things existed (for instance, the issue of Unicorns... we all know what they are, we can draw them, but they don't "exist" the way a horse does... that is a real basic discussion of ontology.) Later, when people began to identify concepts as a type of "thing"... and discussing whether concepts existed or not, abstracts became a tricky thing for ontology to deal with. There are lots and lots of philosophical and theological debates about those kinds of things. You can ask me about them specifically if you want, and I can try and explain. More recently, and due in no small part to the contentious inclusion of abstractions and concepts into the larger discussion of ontology, people who had deal with the creation of categories and classes of specific types of abstract beings became interested in ontology. Here I'm talking about people creating object-oriented computer schemas, librarians trying to create abstract indexing systems for media storage, and of course... artificial intelligence researchers and designers... who had to "build" ontologies for the A.I. to  organize the world's data, and their own environment designs into. So... all that said... ontology is more or less the study of what does and doesn't exist, how to class those things, and what attributes are strictly necessary for Thing A to be considered a member of Category B. See how that sits with you. If you're looking for something else, pipe up, and I can try and clarify.    Embed Quote