★Does Richard Dawkins realise that atheism is not a complete world-view, seeing as it doesn't contain a school of ethics or an ontology?
Metaphysics? That's where scifi and fantasy come from. That so much philosophy and religion is steeped in it says a lot more about philosophy and religion, and the needs for some humans to combine magic and closure, than it does about the real cosmos. Ethics? Atheism is merely the rejection of magical beings or a universe-scale intentional conciousness. Deciding how to be in the world is something we all have to figure out. Some religions dictate some aspects of that, though followers of religions all choose for themselves what strictures they actually follow and which they don't and how to behave in situations where their religion is silent. Furthermore, anybody who comes from one culture and marries onto another one, or leaves their culture in disgust for whatever reason, can be viewed as being confronted with the same choice of having to decide their ethics. No ethics are dictated for deists, pantheists, agnostics, or atheists, either, so lack of any guidance on morality from our thinkings about the cosmos is hardly limited to atheists. In reality, this really doesn't come up all that much, and outside of things like eating pork or slicing off particular parts of our children's genitalia, and perhaps what percentage of our income to donate to religious institutions, we really don't spend our lives swimming in all that many complex ethical dilemmas that need religion for guidance. The golden rule works well, and is a hallmark of our species, having evolved within our social groups, operating alongside the more destructive tribalism, for hundreds of thousands of years. Some within religions seem to think that without the dictates of their preferred magical being, or the threat of absurdly horrie treatment in the afterlife, we must all devolve into some wild animalistic frenzy of destruction for personal gain. I still can't quite decide whether I would prefer pain for eternity or utter boredom for eternity. In reality, there is precious little evidence that the God/afterlife/Karma threats really work, with culture itself dominating as a stabilizing force over those magical threats. There is even evidence that the cognitive dissonance between religious strictures and personal ambitions and tendencies can sometimes make behavior worse. And there is no particular evidence that being outside the religions that dictate morals makes people behave particularly worse. I personally gain from not having to pick fights with everyone else for dominance, and I don't wouldn't want to deal with the non-magical ramifications of sleeping with my neighbors wife, even if I did have the hots for her. Back to the start of the question, Richard Dawkins actually does have quite a lot to say about morality and ethics, but that is probably driven less by his atheism and more by his understanding of biology and his disgust at the free pass that the religious give themselves on their own collective behavior. He attacks Islam and Christianity quite viciously for its passive or active acceptance of rape, misogyny, and suicide bombers, and sees moderate religion's tendency to value the religious over the secular as enabling the more extreme elements to continue without being properly challenged. Is he right to do as he does? Arguably yes. Does he go a bit far with it? Almost certainly. Tribalism, ideology, greed, fear, and ignorance are the prime forces of large-scale destruction caused by us humans. Religion operates on all sides of those forces. But so do plenty of secular institutions. And, political ideology, demographic tribalism, and greed certainly accounted for vastly more destruction in the 20th century than religions, per se. I guess to summarize all this, the answer is the same for all of us. Atheism has almost nothing to do with it. You might as well say that a geologist can't stop merely with understanding rocks, but must come to a conclusion about metaphysics or morality as a followup to any papers he/she writes about fossils of marine creates found in the Himalayas.    Embed Quote