★Ontology (philosophy): Will tomorrow ever exist?
Yes. I personally, currently, believe that as a species we are infatuated with the concept of linear mathematics. It puts the world into perspective for us. As things increase, we can better understand the mechanics of how to decrease it. Control over our surrounding allow us to have a feeling of circumventing uncertainty. We love loop-holes. We celebrate them, we believe they are great measures for intelligence. No matter how much we understanding and appreciate the community element of existence, we still celebrate and look up to those that have found a way to better understand our existence and malnipuate the world around them before the rest of us. We raise them up, well beyond the reasons why we exist and continue living. Control, makes the world less scary. Will tomorrow exist? Yes. I would say that we hope, as a species, that we could "think" our way out of the constraints of reality. That mind and body are separate and independent. That if we understood all the variables of life, we could possibly gain an advantage, over life, over obstacles, and passing down this advantage to our children. A drive for why we do the things we do. Family. Children. Hot button topics, no? What if life was not on a sliding ruler of linear cognitive bias? What's if it is truly impossible to reverse time? Though I, can not be certain. Which is why I made it a personal and contextual statement of "current" --- but what if? What if the objects destroyed today, could be reassembled? But due to variability, could never be exactly identical at a level deeper than we can see or measure? What if life it self would be directional -- harsh and unforgiving, that we could never go back and fix the cognitive mistakes, the accidents, and forgive ourselves for being imperfect. What if the acts we decide today, now, have an ever lasting iterative effect for generations to come, forever? What if the "comforts of correcting" our mis-decision today were cognitively accepted to be irreversible, harsh, and unforgiving? Would our day-to-day decisions be of greater importance? Would be look deeper into the actions we perform on the daily? I hope, that tomorrow does exist, and that yesterday can no longer exist again. That we may consider our one existence, as an never returning existence. Such that each moment be one of much greater importance than we hold it today. Regardless of any religion or atheistic view. I believe that the knowledge passed down from generation-to-generation, all understand one grand concept. That tomorrow does exist. That our children will one day experience a tomorrow -- that perhaps we can not. That the actions we do, perform and pass-down, has an great impact on the people and generations of children after us. That beyond belief, differences, and cognition --- we intrinsically understand the mechanics of offspring. That they do not "exist" in our self-centered view, but that they exist along side us. That when we pass, they continue. That our lives are not a game for one. That it is not a test that we did not perform well raising the children we are given. But a trial of humanity that we can realize this bias and overcome it, then do our best for the children we are given. Setting an example, for generations to come; the children's children, and then their children's children. Are we not already excerising our ability to build a legacy of lessons for generations to come? Tomorrow, for some --- in passing --- will not exist, but for those that continue, it very well be damned that they will experience our generation's long lasting decisions for how and what we hold dear. We hope that tomorrow, they will see yet another tomorrow, and yet another tomorrow.    Embed Quote