★What is ontology?
Ontology is the study of the basic kinds of entity that there are. The traditional word for a "basic kind" in this sense is a category. To take an example, we distinguish between particular objects and their features, such as the color and shape and weight of this leaf. This distinction is presupposed in all the sciences. Thus hypotheses or "theories" about this distinction, about what it is to be a property or a particular,  do not fall within any of the other sciences. This is typical of an ontological issue. The other two answers here are incorrect insofar as they imply that epistemology is somehow a part of ontology. It's not. Epistemology is a separate study. Epistemology is concerned with how beliefs become warranted or what knowledge is. An entity can be understood as anything about which true statements can be made, anything that has any features whatever. All languages without exception have a distinction between a subject, something that we can say things about, and the verb phrases we use to predicate or assert features of that entity. All languages without exception make a distinction between asserting a predicate of something and denying that predicate of that thing. So the subject matter of ontology is not due to the peculiarities of any particular language family. There are a variety of candidates that have been proposed for the status of category. I've mentioned two thus far: particular and property. Others include event or activity, process, state of affairs, fact. For example, some ontologists propose that there are particular objects, such as molecules, trees, people and so on, and events take place in these things, and these things persist through the various changes that take place place in them. On this view events are a complex entity that consists of particulars having event-properties. The persisting particulars are usually held to have natures, which are the basic capacities for change they have. Or at any rate, the persisting particulars do have capacities, and these are exhibited by their activities. Other ontologists, however, hold that particulars are an illusion, reducible to strings of  events or processes. So these event-ontologies take events or processes as basic.    Embed Quote