★Ontology (philosophy): What is the nature of existence?
Let's start with the assumption that there are various particular things. These things have various capacities or abilities or dispositions. If something can undergo change in its properties over time, such as gaining or losing weight, that implies it has capacities. The capacities a particular has frame the limits of what is possible for it. So, in the context of an ontology of this sort, we can that the things with capacities are concrete particulars. This differs from features, which are more abstract. For one thing, they can be shared among particulars....two pairs of Levis can be exactly the same shade of color. Now existence: When any concrete particular exercises any of its capacities or dispositions...something happens to it or it does something...then it logically follows that particular entity exists. And indeed this is a way we find out about the existence of particular objects: they exercise their capacities, and we can perceive the features they exhibit. If a bulb suddenly is illuminated, it now exercises a feature it didn't before. And thus it follows it exists. If the bulb were sitting there dark before, it still existed because it still have various capacities & exhibited various features such as shape. If a concrete particular were to cease to exist, it would no longer have any actual capacities, it will no longer be able to act on other things or exhibit features. But existence is a peculiar sort of property. If this light bulb didn't exist, it wouldn't be anything at all, there would have been no such thing. Since I'm assuming here, for the sake of argument, that the world is divided into particulars, that is, I'm assuming these are packetized bits of reality with capacities, and thus things that exist, if they are anything at all. So existence, as I understand it here, is related to the causal power of entities in the world, and the causal interconnections in the history of entities. So existence is closely tied to causality. What has existence first & foremost has causal power of some sort. When the concrete particular entities do something or change in some way, they exhibit properties, or undergo events, and we can then say these properties or events exist. So for properties it seems that existence is demonstrated by their real instantiation. And existence for events seems to be their actually occurring, their making up part of the actual history of the world. For particulars, they exist when & only so long as they have capacities. For events they exist so long as they are going on or unfolding. The ability of events to exist, I'm assuming, is based on the capacities or dispositions of the particulars. My initial set of hypotheses are controversial because I've here assumed an ontology of persisting particulars with capacities...things such as atoms, particles, molecules, animals, stars, plants. A different ontology might offer a different account of what existence means.    Embed Quote