★How can I easily explain the word ontology?what is an example of ontology or ontological analysis?
tl;dr: Ontology is the study of how you put things into categories, including figuring out just what it means to be "the same thing" as it undergoes changes.  It also refers to crafting hierarchies of categories so that things can be organized and efficiently accessed. The original idea dates back to Greek Philosophy: it's the study of what there is in the world (from the Greek ontos, "to be").  It tries to pin down just how an object exists in relation to other objects and classes or categories of objects: How does it persist over time (i.e. are you the same person you were yesterday?) What categories does it fit into? What features of it help you sort it into categories?  Which ones can change?These questions are tangled up in other areas of Metaphysics, like Epistemology ("how do we know anything at all?") and Semantics ("how do we convey meaning"). It wasn't all quite so metaphysical.  Putting things into categories is doing ontology.  Distinctions like animal/mineral/vegetable, Linnaean taxonomy, the periodic table of the elements, etc. are part of ontologies.  Philosophers of ontology get all meta to that, and try to figure out just how "real" those categories are and try to provide general criteria for making them rigorous. There has been, for a decade or so, a fancy for using the name "ontology" to apply to any system of classification.  We have a Quora Topic Ontology of answers, which sounds all metaphysical until you realize that it's precisely the same thing as the Dewey decimal system or the orignal Yahoo! home page: http://web.archive.org/web/19961... In particular, the term has been co-opted by the Semantic Web project, conceived by Tim Berners-Lee as the successor to the World Wide Web.  Conveniently, it's not semantic, and it's got practically nothing to do with the World Wide Web.   But it does have a taxonomy, with the intention of sharing taxonomies for easy information interchange.  In that it's not really all that much different from UML (Unified Modeling Language), which can also be said to be an ontology language.    Embed Quote