★Ontology (philosophy): What is the nature of Being?Ontology is about the nature of Being. But what is Being? Does Being have an essence?
What if we stepped away for just a moment from any concept already mapped out and deeply vetted by the great philosophers of all time and reflected a bit on this question from a more internal focus for a moment?  I feel (not think) that our essence and being are one and the same.  I think and feel that what we try to get at with our methods of inquiry, namely the use of language and thought with language without feeling, makes it very difficult to define the indefinable.  Take the hard and easy questions of consciousness for example.  There are so many perspectives and each uniquely holding merit from their own origins.  We are essence or you can even call it consciousness in form or at least seeming to be given our current framework (all that we were taught about our existence from day one of a physical existence perspective).  But let me ask you a question.  Have you ever sat quietly for a moment and felt your own essence, the essence of a flower, the essence of the entirety of the universe as it is simply be-ing?  With limited language we can come up with all manner of very intelligent hypotheses and theories and some may be right and some may be wrong.  None of that really matters, I feel.  At the end of the day, the only opinion worthy of any merit truly is your own. However, it is quite fun to explore topics and gain different perspectives from which we can better define our own.  In a long winded and round about way, I feel (not think, again) the answer to your question is being has more than an essence - being is essence.  But then again, that answer is wholly dependent upon the reliance upon the framework from which I stand and view this world and your question and my potential relation to it. It's a really great question that you ask and thank you so much for asking it.  I hope you gain some good info from the other fabulous responses you received here. Best wishes.    Embed Quote