★What are Kernels in Machine Learning and SVM?I'm trying to get into SVM, but I cannot get the idea of kernels. What are they and why do we need them?
Analogy of equilibrium of a spring-mass configuration is yet another way to understand it, which is attained when the config has minimum Potential energy. //Caveat : Low math , limited scope. We can compare : Learning model  to the horizontal line in figure, which contains the data pointqueried. The data points are like weighted particles. Similarity of data points with query point is comparable to spring length and the spring constants to Kernel functions , adding weights to data points corresponding to their similarity with the one queried . Potential Energy to Error in predicting the data points similar to the one queried from the learning model. and equilibrium to the state when this error is minimum. All springs are identical till kernel functions are not user for weighing the data corresponding to their similarity. Once used springs are not equal anymore. Sometimes no values of the parameters of a [non-linear]global model can provide a good approximation of the true function. There are two approaches to this problem. First, we could use a larger, more complex global model and hope that it can approximate the data sufﬁciently. The second approach  is to ﬁt the simple model to local patches instead of the whole region of interest. In the second approach Now error in prediction behaves much as thin plate splines minimize a bending energy of a plate and the energy of the constraints pulling on the plate, in a planar local model[ the line in figure] can now rotate as well as translate. The springs are forced to remain oriented vertically, rather than move to the smallest distance between the data points and the line. the ﬁt (the line in equilibrium) produced by equally strong springs to a set of data points (the black dots), minimizing the criterion  , looks like following  As the kernels are put to action ,springs nearer to the query point are strengthened and the springs further away are weakened. The strengths of the springs are given by K (d(xi , q)), and the ﬁt minimizes the criterion .. & [equilibrium]looks like following http://www.qou.edu/arabic/resear...    Embed Quote