How would you explain the various sorting algorithms to a six year old?Probably the easiest way is to demonstrate them using a set of unique, orderable objects, like playing cards. Take all the cards of one suit from a deck (we don't want to confuse a 6-year-old with multi-factor comparisons just yet), shuffle them, then lay them out in a line: BubbleSort: Start with the first card in line. Compare it to the second card. Is the second card less than the first card? If so, swap their position. If not, leave them be. Now look at the third card. Less than the second? If so, swap; if not, leave them. Continue moving down the line until you reach the end. At this point, you now know, for a fact, that the last card in line is the highest value in line. Now, go back to the beginning of the line, and repeat, except that we know the card we end up moving last this time won't be greater than the last card, so we can skip checking it. Repeat over and over, until you either have not made any swaps in a pass, or until you have started from the beginning the same number of times as there are cards in line. SelectionSort: Start with the first card; remember its value as the "lowest", and its position as the "swap to" position. Now, go to the second card. Is that card's value lower than the first one? If so, remember that card's value as the new "lowest" and its position as "swap from". Continue with the third card; if it's lower than "lowest", its position becomes the new "swap from", and so on, until you reach the end. Now, swap the cards in the "swap from" and "swap to" positions, and move the "swap to" position up by one card. Repeat until the "swap to" position is the last card; there will be nothing else you can swap it with. InsertionSort: This is probably the most "intuitive" sort. Gather all the cards up in your hand (this sort can be done "non-destructively" but it's easier to demonstrate "destructively"). Take the first card and simply place it in the first position on the table. Now take the second card. Is it less than the first? If so, shift the first card to the right and place the second card in the first slot. Otherwise, place the second card to the right of the first. Take the third card. Less than the first? Then shift both cards and place it in the first position. Between the first and second? Then shift the second card. Otherwise, place it at the end. Continue drawing cards and identifying their proper place, "shifting" other cards out of the way, until they're all in order. QuickSort: Gather all cards into your hand (again, easier to demonstrate destructively though most implementations are non-destructive). Deal the first one face-up. Now deal the second. Greater or less than the first? Less, it goes in a pile to the left. Greater, a pile to the right. Repeat for all cards in your hand. Now take the left-hand pile and pick a card, any card. Place it face-up to the left of the first face-up card, with some room in between them. Deal the next card; greater than the new face-up card? A pile to the left. Less? A pile between the first and second face-up cards. Continue taking the "left-hand" pile until you have one or zero cards in that pile; then, move to the next rightmost pile on the table and repeat, until there are no more piles. MergeSort: Lay all cards out in random order, face up. Go to the first two. Take the smaller of the two and place it face-down, then place the larger over the top. Continue with the next pair, and so on. Now go back to the left side and take the first two pairs. Turn the top cards over. Which is less? take that card, place it face-down between the piles, and turn over the next card in that stack. Repeat until you have "merged" those two stacks. Repeat with the next two pairs, and so on, then repeat with progressively larger stacks until all cards are in one stack. Turn the stack over face-up and deal it left-to-right to show the cards are in order. There are tons of other sorts. With the possible exception of the BucketSort (which is best illustrated with several places' worth of number values, so not very conducive to cards numbered 1-13), they're all pretty easy to illustrate. 