Given an undirected and acyclic graph, how do I find the node for which the maximum distance to any of the other nodes is the lowest?Lets look into problem step by step Undirected and Acyclic Graph If there are more than one strongly connected components, then max distance for all nodes will be equal to infinity. We can find from single DFS if there exist multiple strongly components or not. Lets assume for now graph has only one strongly connected component. Undirected, Acyclic and one strongly component => Tree I will assume weights edges in tree as positive in this solution. We can redefine our problem as Find a node for which the maximum distance from any of other nodes is the lowest in tree. In below tree we can observe that Leaf nodes can not be our answer for tree with more than two nodes. Why ?? Lets assume B is our answer. For any node distance from A will be equal or less than B (Positive weights). Equal in case when weight of AB edge is zero. We can see that A will be also answer in case of zero weight. For any weight except zero for edge AB, We will contradict our assumption. So We can safely remove leaf nodes from our solution space. One more thing we need to notice that our solution node will have a maximum distance from a leaf node as graph is a tree. Final Approach :- Remove B and store weight of AB edge at Node A. Remove F and store weight of EF edge at Node E. Remove D and store weight of CD edge at Node C. Now We have two new leaf nodes A and E. Remove A and store maximum of current value at node C and (value at node A + Weight of AC). Remove E also similarly and now we have only one node our answer. Sudo Code :- Create Array // to store node values, initialize with zero Create Queue leafNodes // contains all non removed leaf nodes Node Solution; While (!Queue.empty()){ remove top leaf node Solution = removed node; Array[parent] = max(Array[parent] ,(Array[Solution]+ weight of joining edge) Add parent node into queue if parent is leaf node after removing node above } return Solution Feel free to ask any query, Thank you 232 Views  View Upvotes