What are the different ways of proving that Reachability is not definable in first order logic?Before addressing your question, some important remarks: Reachability is definable in first-order logic. For instance, you can express it in the language of set theory by quantifying over paths in the graph. And set theory is a first-order theory. Reachability is not definable in the particular first-order language where quantification is only permitted over nodes and the only relation symbols available are for the incidence relation on the graph and equality. So whether reachability is definable or not depends on the particulars of the first-order language that is being allowed. When people claim that "reachability is not definable in first order logic", they implicitly assume a language with the features that I mentioned above (or a similar one). Hereafter I'll assume that we are indeed restricting our attention to such a language. A standard proof of non expressibility of reachability goes as follows: Suppose there is a formula ϕ(x,y)  ϕ(x,y) , with free variables x  x and y  y , expressing reachability between x  x and y  y . Using ϕ(x,y)  ϕ(x,y) , we will define a formula that will be true of a graph if the graph is a cycle. First, we let ϕ 1 :=∀x∀yϕ(x,y)  ϕ1:=∀x∀yϕ(x,y) which says that the graph is strongly connected, i. e., all nodes are reachable from all nodes. Then we construct two more formulas, ϕ 2 ,ϕ 3   ϕ2,ϕ3 , stating that every node of the graph has indegree one and that every node has outdegree one, respectively.The conjuction of the above three formulas: ψ:=ϕ 1 ∧ϕ 2 ∧ϕ 3   ψ:=ϕ1∧ϕ2∧ϕ3 states that a graph is strongly connected and all nodes have indegree and outdegree one. That is, the graph is a cycle. As there are finite cycles with as many nodes as desired, ψ  ψ has arbitrarily large finite models. Thus, by Lowenheim-Skolem theorem, it also has an infinite model. But infinite cycles do not exist, so our assumption that ϕ(x,y)  ϕ(x,y) exists must be false. Hope this helps! - A 81 Views · View Upvotes