Is Graph Theory a nice-to-have course to have for machine learning?I've done both, and unless your Machine Learning course involves Probabilistic Graphical Models, I'd say No. Even for Probabilistic Graphical Models, you'd probably do Bayesian Networks, which can be studied without extensive knowledge of Graph Theoretic concepts. The 2 can be phenomenally unrelated. A standard course in Graph Theory would define a Graph mathematically, and move on to enumerate a few properties of relationships between Edges & Vertices, the structures of Graphs and their properties, and Algorithms. Machine Learning relies heavily on Statistics, Linear Algebra and Computational Learning Theory. The latter is not stressed on too much in an Undergraduate course. Classification, Regression and Kernels can form a bulk of the Vector Space model stuff, and then you move on to Probabilistic Models. Personally, I was not very thrilled with the level of formalization, or Mathematical depth in Machine Learning, which is why I lost interest in it at some point down the lane. Graph Theory, on the other hand, is a very abstract and well developed subject (Algebraic Graph Theory, Topological Graph Theory, Extremal Graph Theory). To make contributions there would require substantial abstraction skills & creativity, good Proof-Writing skills and a fairly deep knowledge of some pretty fundamental Math. It's easier to make contributions in Machine Learning as its new, still developing and fairly naive (atleast Mathematically) in some sense. However, it all comes down to interest. Take both courses, and treat them to be independent of each other so that you can gauge your interest and skill in both. They're both good to have. See what you like and move on from there. For now, however, these 2 fields don't have too much in common. If you have to choose one, then I'd say a more Mathematically rigorous and abstract person may enjoy Graph Theory as a first step into a large world of deeper concepts and linkage with fields like Topology and Combinatorics (and Algorithms). A more experimental, hands-on and hungry-to-try-things person might enjoy Machine Learning a tad more. Hope this helps! 270 Views  View Upvotes  Answer requested by Dong Liu