How can statistical physics be used to map the resiliency of social networks?Using statistical physics, Northeastern network theorist Albert-Lszl Barabsi and his colleagues have developed a tool to identify that tipping point--for everything from ecological systems such as bees and plants to technological systems such as power grids.You might be interested in my answer to a similar question, on using social network analysis to determine the resiliency of social and physical networks: Is there a "central node" in network theory? To summarise, the idea is you can use a partitioning algorithm to remove edges, thus simulating a directed attack the network. An example is the Betweenness Clustering technique, which though computationally expensive is conceptually easy to understand. It starts by computing the betweenness of all nodes, then removing those with the highest values (nodes on the most critical paths). In effect, a directed attack on the most important bridges in the network. This gives rise to the notion of Network Resilience: that seeks to answer if a given fraction of nodes or edges are removed (a process called percolation), are all the nodes still reachable? You might see this represented by the value z, the percolation threshold. When z=1 everyone is reachable, i.e. the network still works. Where resilience gets really interesting is when you introduce the notion of tipping points, which you allude to in your question. Let’s consider a familiar real-world network, a nationwide electricity power grid. Here the nodes will be generators and substations, and the edges high-voltage transmission lines. In this system, power flows simultaneously through multiple paths in the network, this means an individual failure can start having knock-on effects, beyond just losing a potential path. For instance, a failing node will distribute its load to its neighbours, and if the new load exceeds their capacity to cope, we have what’s known as a cascading failure. A collapse. Historically, network capacities tended to be chosen expediently, (i.e. implemented cheaply), but this can make the entire system brittle. As a result, many have a tipping-point property: below it, connections act as shock-absorbers, beyond it, they act as shock-amplifiers. The idea behind network resilience studies is to quantity what reserve capacity to design in, and where it should be positioned to make the entire network more robust. 713 Views · View Upvotes