What is Markov Clustering Algorithm?https://www.cs.ucsb.edu/~xyan/cl... Would you please explain impact of expansion factor and inflation factor on clustering ? Why do we add self loops ? And why it doesn’t perform well on graphs with large diameter ?The MCL algorithm is short for the Markov Cluster Algorithm, a fast and scalable unsupervised cluster algorithm for graphs (also known as networks) based on simulation of (stochastic) flow in graphs. The algorithm was invented/discovered by Stijn van Dongen (that is, me) at the Centre for Mathematics and Computer Science (also known as CWI) in the Netherlands. The PhD thesis Graph clustering by flow simulation is centered around this algorithm, the main topics being the mathematical theory behind it, its position in cluster analysis and graph clustering, issues concerning scalability, implementation, and benchmarking, and performance criteria for graph clustering in general. The work for this thesis was carried out under supervision of Jan van Eijck and Michiel Hazewinkel. The thesis, technical reports, and preprints can be found in this section. For quickly getting an idea of how MCL operates, consider the flow pictorial at the top of this page, or even better, have a look at an animation of the MCL process. The basic interface to the algorithm is very simple - you need only one option (the -I flag) to get to the heart of it, and for large graphs you should also be aware of the -scheme flag for regulating resources. The default approach is to vary the argument to -I over some interval (doing an mcl run for each value), and analyze the clustering output with the other programs that come with MCL (cf the mcl manuals). For a full description of the MCL algorithm and process you are advised to read one of the technical reports among the publications. It is also possible to view a somewhat longer introduction or an introduction to some of the mathematics associated with MCL. This is the implementation of the MCL-Algorithm in VisualBasic. It is intended for demonstration purposes only. Future Modifications will eventually make it usefull for scientific applications. At the moment it only demonstrates the MCL-Algorithm on a fully connected dummy graph with similarity-scores based on pixel-wise distances. For more queries:- Lyceum Tutorials Lyceumtutorials Coaching for IIT JEE,MHT-CET,Medical, XII, XI, Lyceum tutorials Mumbai Lyceum Tutorials is best IIT coaching 206 Views