What is the quasipolynomial-time graph isomorphism algorithm in layman's terms?I saw this phrase used in some theoretical mathmatics answer, and I have no idea what the heck it means. Please break this down for someone who hasn't even taken Stat or Calc yet.It is Babai's Algorithm, and uses the Split-or-Johnson routine at its heart. Depending on your familiarity with String Isomorphism (which Graph Isomorphism reduce to) and Group Theory, you can look at Babai's lectures. Fair warning : The Algorithm is fairly intense, and requires a good understanding of Johnson Graphs, Permutation Groups, Automorphisms, Cosets. Here is the link to Babai's paper: http://arxiv.org/pdf/1512.03547v... UPDATED::: Layman terms : 1) Graph Isomorphism - It's a way of seeing if two graphs that look different, are essentially the same, and can be shown to be so if we 're-arrange' them. Look at Graphs G and H for a clear example: Graph isomorphism 2) Quasi-Polynomial - 'Almost' Polynomial. In Theoretical Computer Science, Polynomial Time Algorithms are considered efficient. Therefore, the Quasi Polynomial Algorithm is 'almost' as efficient as we like our Algorithms to be. It is better than the previously known result. This problem is in a class called NP. If we can at some point in the future show that there is a Polynomial Time Algorithm, then this problem would be shown to be in the class called P. That would be huge, because it would collapse certain “hierarchies”: P versus NP problem 3) The Algorithm itself, no matter how much I try, is simply beyond your comprehension if you don't even know elementary Graph Theory or Group Theory. I'm so sorry, but this is the truth. I've expressed the claim made in terms of the efficiency of the latest proposed Algorithm, and tried to explain to you what the problem is intuitively. The solution wouldn't be worth 4 decades of Research if somebody without an elementary knowledge of Graph Theory, Group Theory & Combinatorics could understand the solution. =] 260 Views · View Upvotes