How do customers shape innovation? How would a customer-innovation graph look like?Customers always shape innovation as it is they, by definition, that have the unmet need that an innovator is trying to solve. At a high level there are four steps to the customer-innovation graph. The first step is observation, the second step would be idea evaluation, the third step would be segmentation and the last step would be prototype. In the first step you would want to preferably witness the struggle the concern the challenge that the customer is dealing with. What problem are they being frustrated by, or expending more energy time or money than you or they believe to be reasonable. There are several good text for observing customers in their environment to ascertain their true needs The second step is to propose possible solutions, now this is a tricky business as many consumer will not necessarily appreciate idea concepts verbally, in text or in drawing. Nevertheless attempt to break apart the process the customer is struggling with and attempt to show how your idea might remedy the frustration. This is the creative part and there are many text such as Bryan Mattimore’s (of Growth Engine) book 21 DAYS TO A GREAT IDEA , for ideating great solutions The third step of segmentation is to take a step back and understand if your target audience is homogeneous or if there are more than one mindset towards the problem. For example, one portion of your target customers might be willing to pay a certain price for a solution and another not. This step defines better the size and persona of your target customer which is critical to knowing if you have a viable business. To better understand segmentation see Malcolm Gladwell’s TED talk on spaghetti sauce. The last step is to build a prototype that your customer can trial it is only now that a customer can begin to appreciate all aspects of your innovation. Always assume you will need a few iterations here to make the product better suited to the customer. Once you have gotten to this last step and assuming your prototype trial is successful you are ready to consider launching your innovation. 232 Views · View Upvotes · Answer requested by 1 person