Is this statement true every time, weight of any spanning tree is less than 2 times weight of minimum spanning tree?I would like to add two more details the graph is complete n follows triangle inequalityWe can construct a family of counterexamples to this proposition as follows: Visualize the vertices of the complete graph as points on the x-axis, letting the first vertex be at x = 0, the second vertex be at x = 1, etc. For every pair of nodes, if x = i and x = j are their coordinates, let the weight of the edge be |j - i|. We can verify by induction that this assignment of weights satisfies the triangle inequality. This should come as no surprise when we consider the physical interpretation of the triangle inequality (holds for points on maps). Now we propose to construct two different spanning trees on this complete graph. One will be constructed by connecting the vertices at adjacent x-coordinates. In other words, the node at x = 0 will be connected to the node at x = 1, the node at x = 1 will be connected to the node at x = 2, and so on. The total weight of this spanning tree will be n - 1, where n is the number of nodes. The second spanning tree will be constructed by selecting the middle node as the tree's root, and then recursively applying this tree construction procedure to all the nodes on its left to generate a left subtree, and to all the nodes on its right to generate a right subtree. Consider the weight of this tree. In the first level, the root (middle node) will be connected to the n/4 th and 3n/4 th nodes, causing the weight of each of those edges to be n/4. Further analysis shows each level will total roughly n/2 in weight, and there are log 2 n  log2⁡n levels. The total weight of the subtree is therefore Θ(nlogn)  Θ(nlog⁡n) . One tree has weight n−1  n−1 , and the other cnlogn  cnlog⁡n for some c  c . As n increases, 2(n−1)  2(n−1) will become smaller than cnlogn  cnlog⁡n ; the proposition is therefore false. This argument, constructing a family of counterexamples, shows that a counterexample can be found for any n  n , assuming it is sufficiently large. 202 Views · View Upvotes · Answer requested by Apoorva Sahay