★Do you know of any sign-in & registration forms that show password as plain text (unmasked)?Jakob Nielsen suggested it in 2009 ("Stop Password Masking"), and Luke W concurs this to be a good idea, but are there any real-world implementations of such "visible password" fields?
I remember this Nielsen's article as well, but I don't recall ever seeing such a module with unmasked password field. I know I encountered one site, where that field carried a checkbox underneath it to unmask/ toggle the masking in it (•••••• to glyphs and back), which I found a nice touch to verify what one has written. I know I played with it a bit, but didn't think it that remarkable to make a note of it. Also, the iOS iTunes sign-in field shows last letter in plain for perhaps a second, then replaces it with a bullet.              Sadly, the (developments in the) fields of UI/ UX do not promote greater ease of entry for end users, but benefit commissioning commercial parties, often at the expense of users.             My premier horror example here is one particular company's strategy to "wed," basically to replace "retype-this" CAPTCHA phrases in sign-ins by—no joke—slogans from American TV brands' ads. As if these phrases were common knowledge on the global Internet. They claim this method to be a win-win situation—for brands' repeated exposure; for themselves„ and for target websites that receive a cut off brands' ads directly at sign-in/ login level.             That that method also considerably raises the threshold of, indeed prevents entry for global users—whose contact with American TV may at best be of largely ad-free YouTube clips—is not mentioned. After all, there are plenty potential American customers who should have previously been exposed to, and remembered these advertising slogans.             At least one major American website that I notified of this, I am unsure whether National Review Online is American or Canadian, has since removed it for a traditional CAPTCHA phrase method, and then scrapped it althogether in favor of DiSQUS comment system with its own sign-ins.             I'm sorry for somewhat off-topicality of this response, got carried away; seems like a waste not to post it anyway.    Embed Quote