★What is the best converter from MediaWiki to plain text?
Don't try to convert wikitext to plain text, convert the rendered HTML instead. This is better for one good and one bad reason: 1) the good reason is that wikitext contains markup for templates that need to be expanded to get the actual content. These templates in turn may contain complex code using "parser functions" to implement conditionals, etc. So, to get the actual  text of a wiki page, you'd need to load and evaluate all templates it uses; and to do that, you would have to essentially re-implement all the extensions that influence page rendering. 2) the bad reason is that MediWiki's wikitext syntax sucks. There's no formal grammar for it, and no parser. It's not a context free language, so the standard parsing approaches don't work for it. In fact, there is no actual parser - MediaWiki itself just applies a bunch of regular expressions and hand coded conversion to the text until it looks somewhat like HTML. The Parsoid project is bound to help with both issues, providing a way to generate a parse tree from wikitext, with or without expanded templates. But it's not ready yet, and even when it is, I suppose converting from HTML would still be simpler and more reliable. And there's plenty of tools for that out there. EDIT: I did a quick test run with the HTML of the Wikipedia article "Quora" using pandoc. Here's the result: pandoc -f html -t plain Quora.html > Quora.txt pandoc -f html -t markdown Quora.html > Quora.md This is just a very quick proof of concept, but it works OK. There are several things you could do to improve it: make sure to use utf-8 throughout (my example has encoding issues) strip the [edit] links strip off everything except the actual page content, so you don't get sidebar, etc. You can get it from https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Qu... introduce some special handling for citations and such. In any case, a solution based on converting the HTML to some other format using a standard library, plus some custom processing, seems the way to go.    Embed Quote