★Why is most of the corporate email still being sent in plain text and not encrypted?
Key Management remains the largest hurdle to widespread email encryption. Why isn't everything encrypted?  Surely we have plenty of CPU power and lots of sophisticated software, so universal encryption of all data should be standard, right? Absolutely.  But how? Email encryption standards like S/MIME and PGP relay on  public-key cryptography, where every user generates a public and private key pair.  A sending party can use a public key to encrypt a message that the receiving party's private key decrypts.  Securely distributing public keys is a hard problem.  In a company, the problem is more constrained, but still non-trivial. Even if public keys could be reliably distributed, keys need to be periodically refreshed due to key expiration, compromise or revocation.  For a given individual's mailstore, a collection different private keys need to be kept that match the public key originally used to send the message.  To keep archived, encrypted messages, an ever growing keystore will need to accompany it, along with a database of which keys apply to which messages. In addition, encrypted messages cannot go to mailing lists, since the whole model of Public key cryptography presumes point to point communication.  Therefore, encrypted mailing list messages would need to be sent individually to mailing list recipients based on their public key. If  a user's private keys are lost or corrupted, their entire mailstore becomes forever inaccessible. Search tools can't index an encrypted email box unless the search engine has the relevant private keys, and then the search index is likely stored in plaintext, defeating the utility of an encrypted mailstore.  Although homomorphic encryption systems seek to solve the problem by being able to operate directly with ciphertext, no practical system yet exists for such a thing. Servicing subpoenas for email discovery becomes a lot more complicated with encrypted messages.  Either a trusted third party needs to hold all of the private keys for all of the organization's employees.  In short, the incremental costs and risks or managing a complex key management system for all users typically outweighs the benefits afforded by a fully encrypted email system. Complete mailstores (like PST files) may be encrypted or may be stored  on encrypted filesystems, but ubiquitous individual message encryption  remains impractical under the current best practices for encrypting  messages. There is good news, though.  Email transport has been increasingly conducted over ciphertext streams using STARTTLS.  Enciphered transport cannot be guaranteed end to end since each individual email server's system administrators need to set it up.  However, the revelation of the NSA warrantless surveillance (2001–07) methods inspired many major providers to adopt STARTTLS.  See: New Gmail Data Shows the Rise of Backbone Email Encryption . Additionally, most Email clients and web browsers will support encrypted connection between the mail client and mail server, no interception or email in transit from the mail server to the reader becomes harder.  It's not perfect, but it's getting better.    Embed Quote