★What's the best way to store a password in a plain-text file so that's it's not human-readable?I'm writing a small script which requires my Gmail login credential as part of the script. How can I store an encrypted version of the password and decrypt it whenever I run the script? It doesn't have to be VERY secure, just that someone reading the script shouldn't see the password. The script is going to be Linux-only, so I'm okay with using Bash, though I'd prefer Python as I'm more familiar with it.
I design my passwords so a series of questions/hints to myself can give me the answer - but not anyone else.  That way I can keep those in an ascii file, or on a sticky note, or whatever. Here's an example of how you might do this. Let's say you want to remember the password:   steak75greenSteelers In a cleartext password file you would have line after line that reads like this: domain.com    accountname     hints/questions ---------------------------------------------------------------------- whatever.com  yourname      and potatoes pickup irish football (you can skip the account name column if you use the same account name everywhere... in that case, only mention it when it's not the same as your default) Most people would look at "irish football" and think "Notre Dame".  They can spend all year on that and never get it right.  You know you never liked Notre Dame, so you wouldn't use that in a password.  You like the color green, and you like the Steelers, so "irish football" means "green Steelers" to you.  They'd need to know your first pickup truck was a '75 ford.  Since they don't you're pretty safe.  Also, you can use the size and details of the hint to yield different strings about the same thing: pickup                      75 pickup truck             1975 first pickup truck       75Ford my first pickup truck  1975Ford And, lastly, They'd be guessing on the steak thing as well... could be eggs and potatoes or any number of other things with potatoes. These things all together should have some sort of joining factor - a picture or memory in your head that's not going to go away. For the above example, that would be this:  only YOU know that you once took a date out to an Irish pub in your pickup, had Steak and Potatoes, and cheered the Steelers. What I've described above is what Harry Loraine called an "association" - a mental picture associating a number of things you want to remember. The book's now out of print, but if you can dig up a copy of "The Memory Book" you can learn techniques that'll make it easy for you to "pwn" password management within your own brain. NOTE: the bulk of this answer was penned before the question details indicated the need for a programmatic solution    Embed Quote