Can you be a good software engineer and not perform brilliantly in programming competitions like Codeforces, Topcoder, Codechef, etc.?
Of course. The skills you need to be a good software engineer are actually pretty different than the skills you need to perform brilliantly in programming competitions (PCs). In general, as a software engineer, you are working in a team environment where you optimize for different goals, which require different skill sets: How can you build reusable, easy-to-understand solutions and good interface and abstractions, so that you can work effectively as a team of people with diverse skill sets and experience levels? Writing maintainable code is critical when working in a team environment where you need other people to understand your code. Your code must be self-protecting (not just with unit tests, but in the core design)--you have to ask yourself, what mistakes could a rookie engineer make with your code, and how can you mitigate that? This is in contrast to algorithmic mastery that's crucial for PCs but is required only a fraction of the time in software engineering. How can you design systems that scale to millions (or billions?) of users on tens of thousands of machines over multiple data centers and regions reliably and durably? Rarely do you need these skills in PCs. How can you build ever-evolving products whose specifications are not set in stone? This is where understanding design patterns and having a sense for good abstractions are incredibly helpful. You need to build something that's flexible so that you can keep iterating and changing the product as the requirements change. In PCs you are given a clear problem definition and obvious inputs and outputs. Those are just some examples of where software engineering is unlike competing in PCs. Of course, there is overlap in some skills (like creativity, familiarity with implementation language and algorithms/data structures), but they are not everything. You can be a great software engineer without being a topcoder. Updated 152w ago • View Upvotes