★How much time did you spend preparing for Google's interviews?
Let me assure you that the work you are doing is easily what 90% of folks in the industry are doing. Interview is a different ballgame and needs serious preparation around algorithms / data structures and problems that you don't necessary use in your routine job. If you aren't rusty with code I would expect two or three months to prep for Google interviews. This would require going through available books, apps and online resources. Here goes the list: Books: - Algorithm Design Manual: It is a hard book to follow but the content is really good. If you are someone like me who finds it hard to read books with a lot of theory then I recommend starting with interview questions and solving a couple everyday. Selectively read concepts as needed by each question that you are solving. Also another thing that helps big time is having an interview prep buddy. Divide questions and discuss solutions on daily / bi weekly basis. Also do some whiteboarding together on questions that you discuss. - Cracking the coding interview: It has a good set of problems but I wont expect any of these exact questions to be asked since this book has been around for a while and is probably the most well known resource for preparation. Apps: - Coderust: Good set of more recent interview questions with explanations and quality solutions. I recommend solving these questions by yourself and then comparing answers. Websites: - GeeksforGeeks: Checkout the solved problems on the site. They also have very good explanations of optimized solutions that have been verified by a pretty big audience. - Careercup: Good collections of questions. Note they are questions only - I wont trust responses on careercup site as I have seen a lot of vague/incomplete answers. I recently did a blog post on what senior ICs are asked in interview. I recommend going through that. Excel in Programming Interviews One more category for Google Interviews is Bit Manipulation. Google has this thing for bit manipulation questions and they really like asking it.    Embed Quote 