★What are the most useful tips on design workflow/tools?
Here are some tips from Design guru, Don Norman: Design principles have not changed over the years. True, time has passed, but design principles don’t change. However, technologies are different, which affects the ways these design principles are applied. Great products are only part of the story. You can come up with an awesome solution to a problem. However, if you don’t package the product well enough, it might still not work. Great features are important, but they are only part of the whole product. User experience completes the picture. Think about how Apple grabbed a large market by focusing on providing an amazing user experience. The ipod had the same function as the walkman — to listen to music on the go. However, it killed the walkman, simply because people loved the way the ipod worked — it was able to store more songs; easy to search for music; had a sleek design; minimal buttons to learn; etc. Every single detail that Apple invested into creating the best user experience with the ipod, enabled it to take the market by storm, and the ipod made history. That’s how important user experience is to a great product. The complete user experience is extremely important. Not just the product user experience, but the entire interaction between the user and your product. When you buy products (TV, cell phone, tablets etc), do you save the box? When you buy apple products, do you save the box? Most people will answer the 2nd question with “yes” more often than to the 1st question. Why? Apple is a good example of providing a full, complete user experience — from the moment you buy the product, to the time you go home, and open the box… you see the product first (not the cd, nor the user manual), and the phone that comes out of the box is also immediately usable (not needing “48-hour charge first”). That, is complete user experience. Not just how you use the product, but every single little interaction that you have with the product. And it all matters. Being too early is worse than being late! Don’t be too much ahead of the pack. Great designs are awesome, but make sure that your target customers are ready for the revolution you are thinking of! Being too early (and not having a sufficient plan to change the user’s thinking) is worse than being late. Why? Because the product dies off after a short while if it is too early. However, if you are too late, you just need to put in many more times the effort to catch up. Of course, neither is good, so besides thinking of the best design for the future, think about reception of your fantastic ideas before moving forward. Design might not be essential in an MVP — in the first iteration. If you can give great value to people (what they need), then UX and design won’t matter as much. But that only applies to the first product iteration. Design WILL matter in later iterations and in the future. So if you are a startup and you need to save on resources, give users what they need first, add the UX later. Focus on the technology, focus on their needs. Start by watching the people who will use your product. Don’t spend tonnes of money doing surveys. Just watch them. Don’t ask them, observe them. Many things we do are sub-conscious, so they won’t necessarily do what they say. Instead, observation is the most accurate way to know what features you need in your product to solve your customers’ problems. (More on UX observation tips at our blog with Everett Mckay) Focus. That’s what MVP is all about. Keep it simple. Even (or especially) in the design aspects. Have one dictator designer. E.g. Steve Jobs at Apple. He kept it all together, with one branding. Contrastingly, Microsoft had many different designers, thus they ship thousands of products but it is difficult to keep them all coherent. To have an integrated branding on your line of products, stick to one dictator designer to help you focus. ... (more)Loading...