★What is the workflow for developing console games?I am just curious how console games for the xbox 360 and PS3 are created from inception to production and the technologies\softwares that they used to develop the game.
Let me break it down for you: Process: 1. Idea: Everybody has got several 2. Green Light: Discuss all the ideas with relevant people (Marketing guy, publishing team if you have, art director, game/level designer, tech director etc 3. Approval: If most of these people agree that idea is worth taking forward, it's approved Pre-Production 4. Concept Design Document: A short summary document of what this game is all about, USP, innovation, fact sheet, some concept art etc. (Ask me if you need a sample) 5. Concept Art: Some basic concept of characters/vehicles, world are done 6. Submission: This is very specific to consoles. You need to submit your idea with CDD and concept to console manufacturer like Sony, Microsoft or Nintendo. It’s Internal Product Assessment at Sony. Don’t hurry submission but do it early when you think that you have rock solid foundation. 7. Approval: Console manufacturer will either approve, give feedback or reject. Approval can also come with some feedback which they want to see in the next submission. 8. Game Design: Game designer gets into details game design 9. Concept Art: Based upon detailed designs, concept art work starts and goes through multiple iteration. 10. Level Design: Once game design is over, level designer starts created levels. This is not directly in art tool but generally Microsoft Visio like software. It’s more of a blue print. 11. Script: If there are lot of story elements then script writers come into picture. 12. Tech prototype: Things might seem easy but it’s always advisable to prototype grey areas and specially technical innovative stuff. Once you are in production, it’d be very difficult to manage a bottleneck. Identify early. 13. Storyboarding: For all specific events in the game and for cinematic, it’s always handy to do storyboarding. Production 14. 3D Modeling: Once concepts are approved, team can start working on all 3D assets in chosen software. 15. Texturing: Once models are done they are textured. 16. Rigging and Skinning: 3D models are rigged to get them ready for animations. It’s like adding bones. 17. Animations: All different sort of animations are done. 18. Programming: It generally starts with writing base framework. 19. Physics Programmers: Physics programmer writes all the physics things in the game like vehicle physics etc. 20. AI Programmers: These guys write all artificial intelligence for other characters in the game. Heavily used for shortest path, attacks etc. There are multiple states and consequences. 21. Tool Programmers: These are the most interesting bunch. They are more like bridge between artists and programmers. 22. UI Programmers: They write HUD etc. 23. Network Programmers: These are the guys who write all networking related things. Gods who give us multiplayer. 24. Level builders: These are the artists who take 3D world assets and create world based upon initial designs. 25. Lighting: These guys set the right mood. 26. Mission Programmers: These guys setup missions based upon game design. 27: Sound Engineers: Work on various tools to get right sound for your game. Heavily specialized job and always fun if your engineers know the tools too. 28. Sound Programmers: These guys are responsible to integrate and manipulate provided sound. 29. Musicians: Create music for game. 30. Cinematic: If the game is story driven then you need lot of cinematic to bind the missions. This is a separate project in itself and smaller studios prefer to outsource this. 31: VFX Artists: They add all those cool effects in the game. 32. Stage 2 Submission: Always focus on getting first level right. It can take up to one year but once it’s done, it’s easy to keep adding missions. Once you have three working levels, submit again to console manufacturer to verify if everything is still perfect. It helps immensely as it acts as your free resource for focus testing. 33. Approval: Once it’s approved, keep working on other missions. 34. Testing: Make sure that testing is always happening in parallel. 35. Focus Group Testing/Gameplay Testing: This is a major exercise which pretty much every studio does. Keep calling gamers and ask them to check your stuff and you’ll get stunning results. 36. Submission for Format QA: Once you have game done, it’s submitted to console guys for checking if it adheres to all the requirements established by console makers. This is ruthless check and very difficult to clear in the first go even for experienced developers. 37. Release Candidate: Once it’s approved….ship it.   There are various other things which keep happening. The entire project is managed by producer and some of his assistants. They follow spreadsheets or tools like MS Project to track project progress.     Tools: Engine: Unreal, Cry Engine, Havok Vision etc. Physics Libs: Physx, Havok, ODE etc. AI Libs: Kynapse, xAItment, AILive etc Sound Libs: AudioWise, FMOD etc UI: Scaleform, Umbra etc. Lighting: IlluminateLabs Modeling: 3D Studio Max/Maya, Zbrush/Mudbox, World Machine etc Texturing: Photoshop Animation: Maya, Motionbuilder etc.    Embed Quote