★What is the best workflow for PPC keywords processing?I understand that keyword reserach is done in tools like Google keyword tool or Wordtracker. But then what? An application that creates keyword combinations? Where to store the researched keywords in case I want to reuse them again?
The Google Keyword Tool is a great starting place for identifying the high-volume keywords. I usually follow a process of: Collect several hundred relevant keywords from the Google Keyword Tool. Export them in Excel and begin "bucketing" them in separate columns or worksheets for each potential AdGroup or Campaign. After initial grouped, copy each of the grouped lists back into Keyword Tool to generate additional longer-tail variations of the grouped keywords that may not have appeared initially.You can also do the process above all within your Google AdWords account instead of exporting to Excel by creating your campaign/AdGroup structure first, and then populating them with relevant keywords directly from the internal Google Keyword Tool. Real keyword processing starts when your turn on your campaigns. Assuming, you've left some broad or modified broad keywords in your campaigns, you'll start getting real data on the actual search terms people are using as soon as you start your campaigns. When I launch new keywords, I closely monitor the search queries to identify additional keywords to add as phrase or exact match, or as negative keywords. You can do this by going to the "Keywords" tab in AdWords and clicking on the "View seach queries" link. From this view, you can add the queries as keywords directly, or export the list to Excel for sorting. After your campaigns have matured a bit, you should still review search queries occasionally to identify new opportunities. Additional sources of keyword variations: Historic data (search queries) from AdWords or Analytics, or your Bing campaign if they exist. Competitors' sites or AdWords campaigns (using a tool like SEMrush.com or SpyFu.com). Google "related searches".You could combine the keywords gathered from these sources with the keywords gathered from the Google Keyword Tool in Step 1 above, and de-dupe them before sorting and loading them into AdWords. From there on, I let AdWords be my keyword database and discovery tool, and export keywords to other PPC platforms as needed.    Embed Quote