★Front-end: What's the best workflow?What's your workflow? Gulp, grunt, yeoman, sass, less, stylus, atomic design, jade, Boostrap? Tell me.
I think this question (as can be seen in answers) is very opinionated, and answers will probably vary from a dev to another.. Maybe you can derive something that works for you from all the answers though, it also heavily depends on what you can use, and how you feel about your tools. Feeling confident about your tools is quite important i'd say. So, for me it would be something along these lines : Sublime Text 3 (The text editor you'll fall in love with) with Emmet, Advanced new files and syntax coloring (see the Sublime Text package manager). Html5, css3 writen with Sass (Syntactically Awesome Style Sheets), whenever i can i use inuit.css (csswizardry/inuit.css), but do not forget polyfills, unless you can completely ignore "old browsers" (IE). Vanilla javascript, any utility lib you like (underscore, jquery..), any js framework that suits your project (i'd recommend against using a single framework for everything), maybe some commonJs wrapping for portability, maybe some Browserify if you like Node's style.. A templating engine can be usefull, Handlebars (Minimal Templating on Steroids), Mustache.. Twig (The flexible, fast, and secure) is quite powerfull and has js alternatives (justjohn/twig.js), maybe Jade if you like it. Everything here can vary depending on the project you're on. Version control : Git. Workflow tools : after trying out Grunt and Gulp, i still feel Brunch (ultra-fast HTML5 build tool) is way ahead, but whatever floats your boat. Charles (Charles Web Debugging Proxy • HTTP Monitor) can be quite usefull too. As unit testing framework, i'd recommand Mocha (the fun, simple, flexible JavaScript test framework) with Chai or Assert for exemple. Testing in browsers is paramount, as it is with multiple devices (IE, Firefox, Chrome, Opera, VMs for IE9 / 8, and ideally a "device lab" with multiple different devices and OSs to test on).    Embed Quote