★What are the various workflows to design a typeface?
At the highest level, type design workflow usually looks something like this: Plan Prototype & Space Develop Kern More testing The details differ a little between designers, but most of what follows is pretty typical. Note that although there are some differing design considerations, and the nature of testing may be slightly different, the workflow for a web font isn't much different than for a desktop font. (Also, the distinction is pretty dubious: it’s more a question of emphasis than a font truly being used only one way.) Plan: Before sketching or drawing, figure out what you are trying to do. A “design brief” is a great way to do that thoroughly and explicitly. (See my answer to What does a typical brief for a new typeface look like?) Not everybody uses a design brief, but more people should. Prototype & Space: Then there is actual implementation. About half of type designers sketch on paper first, and half go digital right off the bat. Most type designers do not use mainstream drawing programs like Illustrator, because they lack certain key capabilities that are important for type design—such as spacing. For those few who do use Illustrator, they typically do things like create a unit grid and turn on grid snap. Prototyping  few key glyphs generally starts with just a handful, usually lowercase, and gradually expands. The lowercase n and o and cap H and O are the most basic letters for shapes and spacing, and you go from there. Most people do a fair bit of lowercase first, before any caps. For example, the Reading MA in Typeface Design usually starts with “adhesion.” Although it is tempting to make many similar letters, it is more sensible and useful to start with only one letter for each general shape. Letters come in groups such as ijl, hmnu, bdpq, oce, kvwxy, as well as those that are usually more differentiated letters, such as rstfg. In this process you are making global decisions about the typeface in general, and the particular font you are working on (a digital implementation of one style of the typeface, perhaps the upright regular face). What are the proportions? How big is the x-height, cap height, ascender height, descender depth? How much contrast is there between thick and thin strokes, how thick are the strokes, and what's the angle of stress? If it's a serif face, what is the serif structure? What about horizontal proportions, and are the horizontal proportions of the caps oldstyle, modern, in-between, or something unusual? I'll just note that all these questions are at a lower level of detail than that of the design brief: the content of the brief is essentially the goals of the typeface, and should drive and shape all these decisions. Sometimes some of these things are in the brief (e.g. oldstyle typeface with triangular/latin serifs), but usually not a lot. But knowing that it is, for example, a newspaper body text typeface would give you a lot of direction and influence other decisions (sturdy shapes, generous x-height, no long ascenders and descenders). what guidelines and rules needed to be applied to consider things like optical distortions, using a em based grid? I answer most of this in a video, “8 Optical Compensations in Type Design” (a.k.a. Make Your Fonts Suck Less): Develop: Now you start to refine things, add more characters, and so on. A lot of this is iterative, you may back up and repeat things—often many times! Actually, just about all of type design is somewhat iterative—you will likely back up and repeat things in all stages, not only this one. Development is the bulk of the real work and time. Revise spacing? Start OT features Expand glyph complement Start prototyping the additional styles If using axis-based design, add axes Revise spacing again? (Rinse, repeat) Finish character set in all styles Kern: Never start kerning until you are completely, utterly done with spacing. You can’t leave kerning too late. Really. Nobody has ever kicked themselves for not starting it soon enough in the process.* But almost every type designer has started kerning, and had to throw out some or all of it when they later adjusted their underlying spacing. Anyone who cares about consistency and/or saving themselves time and effort should use classes for kerning. * Well okay, I sort of did, once. But I might be the only type designer in recorded history to do so, and I have made the opposite error several times. Testing: You need to use your new font(s) as much as possible, in as many different ways as possible. The larger retail type foundries have people whose entire job it is to test fonts. Smaller foundries may have a few select friends or customers they seed with new designs. Even so, errors will creep in. I just spotted an error in one of my typefaces... in a mass-produced printed book. Dang. All the above addresses what the workflow is, which isn’t quite the same as how to do it right. Here is my collection of more resources for type design: http://www.thomasphinney.com/typ...    Embed Quote