★Workflow tips/tricks for Mailbox App?Just got access to Mailbox App.  Looking for any tips, tricks or optimizations for using it.  Ideally real-world usage tips in addition to what is here (though helpful): http://www.mailboxapp.com/help/t... This includes list label suggestions (want to keep my list as short and concise as possible)
In Mailbox, it's best to use your inbox for the messages you need to deal with right now, and archive or snooze the rest. For people with thousands of messages in their Gmail inbox, the first step is to use the "Help me get to zero" button to archive all or archive all except unread or starred (depending on how you managed your email pre-Mailbox). Then reply or swipe to archive, delete or snooze the remaining messages until you get to Inbox Zero. Snoozed emails will return to your inbox at the time you specify. They'll be at the top of your inbox in the app and starred. The star helps you to find snoozed messages on your desktop app, which is ordered chronologically. For emails you don't want to deal with now that don't have a specific date or time snooze, there are Lists. Mailbox starts you off with To Read, To Watch and To Buy, but you're welcome to make more. Let's say someone sends you an article or a YouTube video, and now's not a great time to check it out - you can snooze that message to the To Read or To Watch List and dive in when you have a view spare minutes of reading/viewing time. Currently, Mailbox syncs its lists with labels inside of the [Mailbox] label. While users can move current Gmail labels into the [Mailbox] label for viewing in the app, it's best to keep that to a minimum. Snoozes and Lists are really for messages that require action, not for filing. For messages you might need to reference down the road but that don't have an action item, you're better off archiving, then using Search when that time comes. Couple great uses for snooze and Lists: - Have concert tickets? Upcoming flight? Snooze your confirmation emails to the day before the event/your departure and you'll never go digging for details again. - Create a List for trip planning.  Travel is a great example of something you want to focus on later that doesn't have a specific snooze time. - Need a reminder about birthdays or appointments? Email yourself and deferring it to the correct day (those messages will appear in your inbox as "Note to Self"). - Getting too many work emails over the weekend? Snooze to next week - they'll come back into your inbox first thing Monday morning. In the meantime, they won't stare you down and ruin your weekend.    Embed Quote