★What are the best workflows for iOS Development?Paper mockups? Wireframe software? Exporting assets?
I don't use mockups unless there is a party that I need to iterate on the design with. Otherwise, I just iterate on it by changing the code. Sometimes I sketch on paper but it is a very low fidelity prototype. I don't try to implement the sketch verbatim, but it helps me organize the ideas and develop an object model. If I am receiving assets from other persons, then I usually involve the artist late, late enough that I know what assets are needed, and I use placeholder art in the meantime, or I just make my own art. I regularly scout and save inspirations for all kinds of graphical presentations and experiences from around the web and in the app world, and sometimes I peruse them for inspiration. if I am exporting assets, I might be working on a game with cocos2d or something, and I use a texture packing tool called Zwoptex to make sprite sheets for use in-game. When it comes time to code, which is pretty early because I'm usually rolling solo on projects, I set up a GIT repo at assembla (they offer free unlimited repos and work great), get the repo working, and then start a new project and start writing code. I use testflight for distributing builds to parties that need to see a build, or want to test. Often, I have a few developer buddies, my mother, or some other poor-technical people on the list, who can run the app and test with me. Sometimes I observe them using the app and see where their usage problems lie. When in XCode I am often using the split view where I can see two source files at once, and sometimes use the version control repo view to see what past versions looked like. I iterate and then test on the simulator or a device, and then iterate some more, fixing bugs as I go. I also use the Instruments tool, primarily to find leaks if I am not using ARC. I also set a breakpoint on symbols such as objc_exception_throw so I can see the state of the app when an exception is thrown instead of a crash. When making an app these days, its important to get it done relatively quickly, to think about your launch day and the couple days following it, so you can try and have as successful a launch as possible, and just have fun with it. GL!    Embed Quote