★Which DAW has the best workflow for a midi composer?I would be starting first with the melody, getting it down via playing it on a midi keyboard and then adding harmony layers to it. Not EDM music but accoustic instrumentals. There be a lot of midi editing, as the melody will be played in parts and then link up together.
The answer is - there is nor "right" answer.  I have worked with all major DAWS and have had training in Pro Tools, Logic, Reason, Live, and Digital Performer. I have written in Cakewalk/Sonar, Cubase, and even Dr. T's KCS and Texture. I use Logic X/Live 9/Reason 7. All current major DAWS and are quite capable. Compositional workflows are as unique as individuals. It depends on how much hardware you own, your technical aptitude, your need to work with notation and/or video, your computer platform, if you wish to perform your music live, etc... For the most options in working purely with MIDI you may wish to suffer the learning curves of: Digital Performer with it's unique and often odd terminology or Cubase with it's "Germanic personality" - for lack of a better description.  ;< ) Logic X remains somewhat inflexible in it's MIDI routing and it doesn't run on Windows.  Still - it's a great overall value considering the included plugins. Ableton Live's MIDI editing capabilities have improved in Version 9. It's routing is fantastic. The interface is, IMHO, the most intuitive of all major DAWS. Pro Tools started as an audio recording program and MIDI was added in later versions. I did not find it to be the best program for working with MIDI but have not used it for some years. On a PC - SONAR was a great program for MIDI but I switched to a Mac at V2 after starting with Cakewalk for DOS. Don't overlook Reason, either. It's now capable of working with external MIDI instruments. The MIDI editing is not the greatest but the integration, the sound library, and the reliability is. Based on the little information in the question, for this user, I would suggest demoing a light version of Cubase or Live and in conjunction with a great sampler/player like Native Instruments Kontakt.    Embed Quote