★What are the most useful tips on design workflow/tools?
Photoshop When working in Photoshop try to use shortcuts with your keyboard as much as possible. If you use a Pen tablet, photoshop is designed for people to use (one key) shortcuts for the tools you will need for drawing. So you will have one hand drawing and one hand activating the different tools on your other hand. More complex shortcuts may require two hands but they would be rare to use when drawing. Try to use masks as much as possible to avoid destroying the original image. Its easy to take a part of an image and delete what you don't need but that part that got removed might be needed later on. By removing pieces of images with a layer mask, you can always revert back to the original source image by removing the mask and simply apply a different mask. Use smart objects as much as possible as well for the same reason as using layer masks. When you insert an image into your photoshop document you should get in the habit of turning it into a smart object right away. This will preserve the images source data when resizing. For example, when you shrink a normal image, photoshop has to remove pixels in the image data in order to make it smaller. When you enlarge that image to the original size the quality diminishes as photoshop now has to guess which pixels to use in order to add pixels based on the smaller image. With Smart objects you avoid this. A smart object will always contain the original source image and resize from that. So when you shrink the image it shrinks from the source image. When you enlarge that image it resizes based off of the source image and not the smaller image. So you retain the quality it once had. Photoshop never removes pixels permanently. Since we are talking about smart objects lets talk about another neat feature they provide. Lets pretend you are making a web design layout template for a page. You have several button graphics you created on that page for the mockup but you are asked to change the font on every single one. Now, although that is simple enough what if every button was a smart object. All you would need to do is change the font on the button once and all instances of the smart object would change as well. Now any changes to the button that need to be made by you or someone else will only need to be changed once instead of multiple times. HTML (coding) Zen Coding is a helpful tool if you're a designer who also works with html. The ZenCoding plugin can be downloaded for many Text editors. Google has a good description of the plugin and third party plugins that do the same thing for other Text Editors. http://code.google.com/p/zen-cod... Smashing Magazine has an article with a short video demonstrating how effective it is. http://coding.smashingmagazine.c...    Embed Quote