What are some practical business uses of decision trees?A decision tree is a graphical representation of possible solutions to a decision based on certain conditions. It's called a decision tree because it starts with a single box (or root), which then branches off into a number of solutions, just like a tree. Decision trees are helpful, not only because they are graphics that help you 'see' what you are thinking, but also because making a decision tree requires a systematic, documented thought process. Often, the biggest limitation of our decision making is that we can only select from the known alternatives. Decision trees help formalize the brainstorming process so we can identify more potential solutions. When you think of a leader there's a certain set of skills that you commonly associate with that behavior. The most important of those skills is decisiveness. A leader decides and takes action. But the process that a leader uses to make important decisions isn't based on just being impulsive, it's based on a particular set of tools, skills, training and mentoring that they received as part of the process of learning. The difference between a good manager a CEO and a leader is simply having the right education and building experience upon that knowledge. A decision tree is one of those key tools in a leadership tool belt. Think at the simplest level of answering a yes or no question. If the answer is yes, then there's a number of possibilities that will happen. If the answer is no, which I would say just not now, then there's a different possibility of steps that are gonna occur after that. A decision tree moves through a bigger level helping you predict next steps and finding answers to complex problems. In your business a decision tree is most helpful in imagining your marketing process and your customer service experience. Consider your ideal customer experience from the minute you meet the potential customer all the way through the first purchase in your system. By knowing this ideal process and looking ahead you can see potential gaps in the process, missed opportunities and areas that can be dramatically improved. Doing this exercise on a consistent basis will dramatically increase your productivity and decision making abilities. Applied in real life, decision trees can be very complex and end up including pages of options. But, regardless of the complexity, decision trees are all based on the same principles. Here is a basic example of a decision tree: You are making your weekend plans and find out that your parents might come to town. You'd like to have plans in place, but there are a few unknown factors that will determine what you can, and can't, do. Time for a decision tree. All the Best!! 430 Views  View Upvotes  Answer requested by Afzal Farooqui