What are the advantages of using a decision tree for classification?Related: What are the disadvantages of using a decision tree for classification?All of the above answers are certainly true. To put my views into perspective, If the decision tree implementation is aimed to translate into a business problem like fraud detection or prediction of loan default etc., the major advantages that you get with decision trees are: From a business prespective, Explicability: Business folks love algorithms that give them easy to interpret rules in the form of if-else cases which can be used in their real time production systems instead of complex equations generated by other techniques such as logistic regression etc. Important attributes: Come to a conclusion about the most important attributes which is evaluated by the Information Gain which is sometimes not really trivial looking at the data even when you have a good domain knowledge. The data might tell you something more interesting. From a developer's perspective, Speed: They are very fast to build and test. Non-linearity: Building algorithms that work on highly non-linear data easily is any machine learning developer's dream. See the easy of code in building a decision tree. Visualize: In some use cases, visualizing the tree might be important. This can't be done in complex algorithms addressing non-linear needs like ensemble methods. Flip-sides: Weak at the bottom: Trees tend to perform incredibly well at the top, but at the same time tend to overfit at the bottom. This is a major flipside and therefore a major science on where to prune the tree! (In C5.0 implementation, pruning is automatic, you don;t have to worry about this) Greedy search: The algorithm performs greedy search at every node. This very well limits the scope of trees. A more natural selection like in the case of random forest works very well in most cases(and hence the better performance of random forest in majority of the cases). 1.5k Views  View Upvotes