★Is there a way to increase or train mental pattern recognition?
You need to study patterns. All kinds of patterns. Learn them and learn why each step in some process leads to the next, and internalize that fact. What do I mean? Well, let's try an example. It's supposed to be pretty easy, but if it's not that's fine too, because you'll probably learn even more. Which of 1-6 goes in the missing spot? I've ripped this image right off of http://testingcentre.nicheconsul..., which is hopefully fine since I'm not operating for a profit. Anyway, this image is an example of a more general sort of pattern that occurs all over the place: things in a grid following rules based on row and column. You might notice that everything in the first row is made of squares, and everything in the second row is made of circles. Pretty easy. You might, then, guess that you want a circle in the bottom right. Now look at the columns. You get exactly the same arrangement of shapes in each column, regardless of what these shapes are. From these two pieces of information you can gather that the answer to this puzzle is 1. Awesome! You've also learned that patterns involving grids can make use of both row sub-patterns and column sub-patterns, and that you should always try to look for both. This general idea can allow you to solve even harder problems later (incidentally, this is why IQ tests are trash: you can study for them and do better, so they in no way measure natural intelligence, whatever that even is). Now let's try something harder. Maybe you've heard of the game 2048. It's pretty awesome, and very addictive. Try it out a little. Lots of patterns can emerge here. For example, through trial and error, I found that the best strategy is to push all of my largest numbers onto one edge of the board, with the largest in a corner. 2048 has a lot more random variables than the puzzle above, so you need to use a different sort of reasoning. This is why trial and error is best when you start. You learn the rules, and what's more important is that before you learn what works, you learn what doesn't. Try moving everything randomly, see how well you tend to do on average. Try moving the arrow keys in some kind of pattern. Maybe try up, left, down, left, repeat. Maybe a longer pattern. If it's better than randomly pressing keys, it's possible you can refine it to be better. So why the heck am I talking about some computer game when you want to know about pattern recognition? Well, I'm really doing the same thing in both of the examples I gave. I look at the problem, attack it in as many ways as I can, and then one way "looks right" so I go with it. The more times that something "looks right" the better my intuition gets and the less I have to guess the next time. At this point I can beat 2048 almost every time I play it. I've broken the game down so that I'm putting patterns in the rows or columns. And good thing I already know how to deal with row patterns from above! There are two differences between the examples I gave: 1) the first one is simply easier than the second for me. By that I mean that I've seen enough similar patterns that my intuition was strong enough for me to instantly pick out the right answer. You are capable of doing this with most anything. 2) the first one has a significantly more definite goal than the second one. In the first case you're tasked with finding the correct answer out of a finite number of cases. In the second your task is simply "win". What you need to do whenever you might be looking for a pattern is to instantly break down your goal into constituent parts. When you do this, it's incredibly likely that you'll simply have easy problems you already know the answers to. Otherwise, you've at least determined what you actually need to do, and can ask a friend for help as you move forward. So in conclusion: recognize patterns by creatively breaking them down into smaller patterns, and do this as often as possible with as many things as you can. Small patterns are way easier. I hope this was enlightening for you!    Embed Quote