★Is deep learning pattern recognition going to improve and give even better results in the future?
One of the main reasons this type of research is so hot is that neural networks can be used to produce work without being explicitly programmed.  A classic example of this is writing a piece of software that identifies the sweetest mangoes.  You might only know size, weight, color, smell, region.  Perhaps the small light yellow mangoes from the Caribbean are the sweetest, but the large bright yellow mangoes from Thailand are actually the sweetest.  Logically, you could write a set of rules into software that tell you which of these are the best based on a set of rules (ie: if Thailand and size is large and color is bright, then "sweetness likely to be high").  Alternatively, you could create a neural network (or another machine learning method) that could achieve the same results or better, without having to be explicitly programmed, and at a larger scale than the rule based approach would allow.  There are a few holes in this example but conceptually this is an important motivation behind big companies to adapt this technology and why they have an interest in progressing the study of deep learning / neural networks. Some more recent achievements: IDSIA developed model for identifying handwriting without knowledge of target language. Neural networks first pattern recognizer to be human-competitive with IJCNN benchmarks (competitive event at a large neural network conference). Performance advances by adapting current GPU architecture. You have researchers pushing this field forward on multiple fronts, not limited to robotics, psychology, medicine, gaming, financial, computer vision, data processing.  Many applications to almost every industry.  Another phenomena that advances just about every technology is the application in for-profit business.  Consider this study: Building High-level Features Using Large Scale Unsupervised Learning One of the advances from this research can be seen when you type the word "cat" into google: Notice how Facebook seems to know that its "you" in a photo of your friends?  Facebook shows off its deep learning skills with DeepFace. "Is deep learning pattern recognition going to improve and give even better results in the future?" If recent history is any indicator of the growth and interest in this field, I think it's not "if" deep learning pattern recognition applications will improve, but "when".    Embed Quote