★What are some online (open-source) resources for learning pattern recognition?
By Pattern Recognition I assume that you are basically looking for Machine Learning* Online Videos - General Machine Learning Learning From Data - Caltech by Prof Yaser Abu Mostafa This is among the most awesome Machine Learning courses on the web. This is a short course (in the number of topics covered). This focusses mainly on Supervised Learning and the theoretical underpinnings of Machine Learning. However Prof Yaser's lecture delivery is impeccable, he is very clear in his explanation of concepts. Quite a few times whenever I had a doubt, his very next sentence would address the very same thing. Machine Learning - Coursera by Prof Andrew Ng These are recorded lectures of the CS229 Machine Learning course from Stanford University. I haven't gone through all of them, but the teaching style is very accessible and the course covers more topics than the first one. A much toned down version of this class, but with practical assignments that you can work out is at Coursera. Statistical Learning by Profs Hastie and Tibshirani Don't be confused by the title, the professors are both statisticians and like to call Machine Learning as Statistical Learning instead. The lectures and also their accompanying textbooks are free. Prof Nando de Freitas of UBC also has a couple of recordings of undergraduate Machine Learning courses he gave at UBC. Machine Learning at UBC 2013 Machine Learning at UBC 2012I haven't seen any of Prof Nando's lectures, but the content, specially in the 2013 course looks very broad. Some Free Books Introduction to Statistical Learning - James, Witten, Hastie & Tibshirani Elements of Statistical Learning - Hastie, Tibshirani & Friedman. David Barber : Bayesian Reasoning and Machine Learning Online Videos - Neural Networks In recent years, Neural Networks, especially since the advent of Deep Learning have become more popular Neural Networks for Machine Learning by Prof Hinton Professor Hinton is arguably one of the leading authority on Neural Networks. And this is a good introduction to Neural Networks and introductory deep learning. However one small complaint is that he uses lots of words to describe something that can be succinctly be demonstrated in figures and pictures. Neural networks class - Université de Sherbrooke by Hugo Larochelle is a much more thorough introduction to Neural Networks and Deep Learning Free Books Neural Networks - A Systematic Introduction by Raul Rojas I could only find this book free online. This doesn't cover Deep Learning as this was written in around 1996 (Deep Learning started in 2005~2006). Prof Yoshua Bengio's Deep Learning Book - Early Draft Prof Bengio is another big name is the Deep Learning world, he is writing a book, the early drafts are available. Hands On Tutorial and Other Reading Material There are quite a few sites as well Unsupervised Feature Learning and Deep Learning Tutorial Reading List " Deep Learning Also check out Prof Bengio's Answer - What are some good books/papers for learning deep learning? I sincerely hope that you find this useful. If I missed anything please add it in the comments, I'll include them as well. * - These terms are nearly synonymous, although I believe Pattern Recognition mostly applies to Unsupervised Learning, than to Supervised Learning. Nevertheless, most online resources provide a good overview of both these topics so I don't make a distinction either.    Embed Quote