★Text Analytics for social media data: what do you use, why, and what do you get out of it?
I was asked to answer this, so I will, but fair warning it is going to be an IBM oriented response. Is this the only to approach the problem, heck no. Before you read any further be aware that there is a specific POV here, and it will likely be somewhat contentious. It is not my intent to give anyone a hard time or that we walk on water, it simply reflects the challenges we've been asked to work on. As always use the simplest and least expensive tool you can to answer the question at hand, we just get asked to answer some not so simple questions at very large scale. OK, here it goes. I use our BigInsights NLP engine that IBM Research developed along with our entity identification and extraction capabilities. Why? Well obviously it is our stuff, but more importantly it is very-very good at what I need it to do. First, our BigInsights NLP engine is native to Hadoop (and works fine if you want to run Cloudera's distro or others) so it simplifies the deployment. Because we built them to run natively they pick up parallelism and other Hadoop goodies, but that isn't the only reason they are so fast and accurate. The underlying SystemT engine from IBM Research takes a different approach to the problem than most conventional solutions. Many of those still use a Bag of Words or other techniques that aren't well suited for short, fragmented and burst-oriented text flows that dominate social media. That we can do data collection, precise information extraction from fuzzy data and then combine that with internal data to then do machine learning against is awfully handy. As to what data - we pull topic, topic evolution, entities (often to an individual level), intent, location and other information out of the data. Too many social media offerings will tell you what the crowd is saying but not let you drill into actionable or mobilizable intent at an individual level. You need to deal with the notion of entity in my experience. You also need to combine the external data with internal systems data for blended analytics. Those internal systems can (and do) range from email to transactional data. If you cannot do that in my experience you are not going to get too far. You may be able to say "what" people are saying but you cannot answer "why" since you are blind as to your actions in driving the outcome. Does this mean hearing what the crowd is saying isn't useful? No, that is very useful indeed. We're just almost always asked to push beyond that. If your challenge is to simply listen to the crowd we're overkill frankly. For most of the customers I work with they have needs far beyond just listening. Keep in mind there are ultimately two tasks here. 1) Build the models and 2) score the models extremely quickly. We promote can models directly from BigInsights into Streams for scoring so you can trap and act patterns as they are happening in real time rather than hours, days or weeks after the fact. Having a model but not being able to exercise it quickly enough kinda defeats the purpose.    Embed Quote