★What are some good sources (books, video tutorials or websites) to learn text analytics?I am pretty new to the field of Analytics. Where should I start? What language is a must learn? How to improve programming skills?
All in all R [The R Project for Statistical Computing ] for statistical computing is your best bet. There are quite a lot of books you could use to proceed. Text/Image/Audio/Video all have the same basic models, the only difference is in the modeling for their feature extractions. That you have to learn for the field you want to delve into. Unfortunately, you haven't given any details as to what language(..if any) are you already proficient in, what's your mathematical background etc. All this makes a lot of difference. It's like you want to go to the moon, so people don't tell you to sit in a rocket. start ignition. blast off. reach the moon!! There is quite a lot of grunt work between different stages. For your maths, i would recommend you to go through: Elements of Statistical Learning. This will tell you, quite easily, how proficient are you in the maths. If this seems too difficult, time consuming etc you might wanna switch to: Introduction to Statistical Learning which is a dumbed down and easier version of the previous book. Here, if you already have knowledge about the R-programming language, it will be very helpful. If not, you can still go through it, you'll just have to learn R on the way. R's quite powerful and especially, now with the introduction of: Shiny web framework from the good people who bought us RStudio, you can even develop front-facing web applications. If you're proficient in Python, that's good too. Python has a lot of library's good for Scientific learning tasks, namely: Scikit-Learn, Sympy, Numpy, Matplotlib etc(I'm pretty sure that some scientific library also have other library support pre-built). If you're too-too busy to go through all the math required and just want to do some project without learning the whole A-to-Z of statistical learning, machine learning then you should Google for Natural Language Processing projects tutorials and ML projects tutorial. They have very decent walk throughs and you'll probably learn while doing the projects. You could start here: Working With Text Data . The tutorials are good and you'll learn loads, though it is always better to know why some classifier, boosting algorithm, regression algorithm works for certain cases and when it-doesn't. Then there's also over-fitting and under-fitting cases you have to wrap your head around. The best approach is to go in a systematic manner: 1)Start a Little Linear Algebra, with some knowledge about Partial Differentiation concepts. 1st order and 2nd order and so on.. derivatives. 2)Learn the Math behind.. etc. 3)Then start projects. For a more detailed answer with concepts you might wanna go through the Quora Thread: What are good ways to get started with data science for a complete novice? especially William Chen 's answers. Relatively, this guy knows quite a lot, and you can then further go from his answers to other detailed answer and Quora users who know even more about Data Science. You need to have a profound knowledge in almost all of the sub-fields listed here: http://datasciencemasters.org/ , which is another good resource by Clare Corthell(..but it's quite extensive and long. So, i won't advice to do each and everything listed there. It'll take you years..) You can see some other good and active threads.They link to other good answers: Can I become a self-taught data scientist? and, one of the best cumulated post on Quora: Data Science: What are some good toy problems in data science? Best Of Luck.    Embed Quote