★What are current commercial text analytics tools lacking?I'm talking about seemingly do-it-all solutions like Clarabridge. What business or user needs are they currently not responding to or what features or usability elements could be improved?
Although solutions like Clarabridge seem to tackle all aspects of text analytics, every engine has their weaknesses. What text analytics solutions like Clarabridge lack is the ability to understand context and support customization. Understand Context This is the most significant area of weakness in the industry because context is derived by ingesting millions of facts that comprise human memory and understanding how those facts relate to one another. Most text analytics tools are using large keyword lists to classify content into similar topics, however, context cannot be understood in this way. Semantria (http://semantria.com) has made significant advancements into deep-learning and understanding context by “ingesting” Wikipedia. We took the largest known human corpus, Wikipedia, broke it down into billions of factual connections and use it apply a layer of contextual understanding on top of our processes. This is why Semantria is able to understand that “sucks” is a negative term, but when a vacuum cleaner “sucks” it has a positive or neutral sentiment. Similarly, Semantria can distinguish between a comment about car windows versus one about Microsoft Windows by identifying the semantic relations of each topic.   Customization Many text analytics solutions do not offer customization of their engines, which can be extremely limiting when it comes to getting in-depth insight into content. Each user has a different set of requirements and each data set is unique, so an engine with customization allows for more versatile analysis. Semantria (http://semantria.com) offers a fully configurable engine, allowing users to create their own custom categories, entities, queries, and sentiment adjustments tailored to extract the most from their content.    Embed Quote