★What do you think is the top future trend of automated Text Analysis / Text Analytics?A lot is happening in the space. We have had automated entity tagging for some time and sentiment analysis is growing more popular. What do you think is the next trend?
If we look the evolution of text-analytic in end user application, we can see that most part of the current technology was intensively studied in labs 10 years ago. In fact, most of the analytic engines currently only manage named entities recognition and some aspects of text mining like sentiment analysis or word distributions, and most of the underlying technology was presented as functional prototypes and studied in scientific shared task like NIST-TAC or CoNLL since 2002. More recent technology like web semantic linking is not implemented in many API and when it is, frequently under a very unstable form. This said, we can imagine a possible future of text-analytic tools, if they implement what is studied actually in labs. Very soon, we can see introduction of most recently developed technology, and mature now, like syntactic analysis functionality (Stanford Parser give a good exemple of what can be done). There is also an important work done on technology related to automatic extraction of RDF triples from open text to build automatically semantic web compliant RDF sets and open data ( see for exemple some of the NIST-TAC tasks this year, like KBP). Next step could be as follow. If you apply to a text sequence co-reference detection (studied in CoNLL ST last year and this year), a semantic analysis (under the form of detecting  logical relation inside a sentence as studied in CoNLL 2007-2008 and Semeval), you can obtain a graph representing the structure of a text in an easy to compute form.  You will have in this graph the exact identity of any concept contained in it, with complementary information (for exemple, if you have the name of a car, you will get automatically its characteristics) and a representation of discourse relations (edge of graph) between concepts (nodes of graph) including meaning of verbs, adjectives, tenses, and so on according to their context. This would be done with linking to some meaning ontological representation like Framenet (surprisingly not very used in Text-Analytics yet) or common-sense reasoning ontology. This will allow very intelligent task to emerge like high performance Natural Language Understanding components for example, usable  in dialog systems or intelligent user interfaces.    Embed Quote