What does transformation in IT really mean in the short term?
The photo above takes a look at the way people feel about things IT does to us.  Doing Mobility was a transformation for IT.  Before the wireless process was costly, had a full cycle agile or waterfall release.  Before laptops were provisioned by one group and another group needed to add you to the network and another to approve a persons access to folders.   IT was remarkable, the mobility solution allows everyone to bypass all those long processes.  Now, you can create your own application without going through a release.  Now, you don't need to get a laptop simply bring yours from home and we'll give you complete access. The short term wins aren't in IT's area of responsibility anyway.  They have business sign-off.  That's the bottom line about the way IT views "short term" its about speed at all cost and "the facts don't matter mentality". Transformation is about change.  Changing people's behaviors rarely speaks to people in IT undergoing change.  We need to distinguish the FACT that people changes are going to need to be presented and controlled when changing IT.  In fact, Service Management has moved change management from the former reason to a completely different context, a way for IT to save the day and who needs the business users to change?  We'll just give you a report which tells you we were successful.   In SM, Change implies a light no regression test type of change.  An unscheduled release is brought through the Change Management process. IT sees Change Management as an unimportant and uneventful release.  Just log a ticket in a Change Management db (open a jira issue) and you can make any change you want.   We trust everyone.  There's no need for business sign off, even if we have an approver from business.  Guess what?  They are assuming IT's behaving ethically.  Ideally we would all have the same ethical compass, we don't.  We have to understand the country of origin or our cultural and family values play much more of a role in our idea of what is ethical in the first place.   One way to understand or quantify a break down in ethical values would be to understand the motivations.  People in business want IT or technology to make it easier on us to perform our work.  IT people want to provide business solutions and honestly think agile means deliver what IT knows how to do and figure out the rest later.   If the short means new work for business or IT, we must assume the answer is rarely going be "success".  Total Cost of Ownership just went up.  Common sense tells us the answer would be no value unless the longer term results were remarkable and sustainable.   The facts, not likely.   Return on Investment should be the first question when anyone proposes more process.  Example; Privacy and a person's unique "encryption key" MUST be the protection and design does not open and group for data processing.  Each person's information should NOT be unreadable by others.  If a script collects my information about my friends or contacts and the relationships from my social networks, the encryption failed.  Is the fact that a game was developed and presented by a platform (social media company).   If I log in or select an icon from my desktop, I am aware of the fact that I am using a different application.  Why was the question asked in the first place?  I already, said only my friends.  Deception Not acting in good faith I expect the key to be a backup for me if I inadvertently press okay, without reading the terms on mobile device.  Hello! I cant see the terms on my mobile! If I mark the "only my friends" no application would have the ability to override my settings.  If NSA cannot track me anymore, then its safe to assume IT needs to change the way they delivered mobility.  If we called a key logger a high severity exploit in security reports before, it shouldn't be a cookie today.  It was a cookie before, we renamed it and say its okay for advertising purposes.  To date;  we have three distinct types of encryption proposed.  None of the three factor the points at the individual encryption key, which is the intent of encryption for people as an individual rather than the only way IT sees data they own according to their own perception.  Phase I - Move from acquiring all my data, as the data owner you are not authorized to collect, as the terms and settings suggest to me.   From one key per row to group encryption by IT choices.  If it was working in the first place, IT couldn't make any alternative decisions. Encrypt at the disk-data in motion Encrypt via transaction by attribute - IT shouldn't know what attributes I have if encryption worked in the first place.  Off the top of my head I am not remembering the third.   Before we had one process, now we have three.  ROI/TCO please In one of the three, we must stand on our heads rub our bellies and open a Jira case to execute encryption.  What we fail to recognize? In all cases, the entire process from cradle to grave is faulted, people have the ability to log in as others in one platform or vendor security was not designed into the offer, according to the way I read the article.  Segregation of Duties Sarbanes Oxley 404 assurances.  Short term isn't really applicable to IT.  Everything has an over time consideration.  Agile might be the short term IT language in action.  A non data type change might be a short term maintenance release in action. A data report which states you met the goals and objectives.   Trade offs Ultimately, short term means "Issues caused by change", problems for IT people to work on.  Ultimately, short term means "agile work for a year or more".  Ultimately, short term means "business value at all cost" Privacy equals the view or hide shown in the attribute key.  We wouldn't have to worry about encryption in fewer IT people were exempt from the US laws.  The rational behind my response?  We need IT to quickly get on the right path about people, privacy and our rights under International, National and State laws we haven't been able to enforce. 