Is there any rational/data-driven reason why the United States should not/can not apply the European model healthcare systems in the US to achieve better health outcomes at a lower cost?
For any system you implement there are going to be pros and cons.  For a single payer system to function a number of painful changes will have to take place.   First of all, the demand for service is likely to go way beyond the capacity. Imagine all of the currently uninsured people suddenly coming into the system.  This will inevitably create long lines - which means that when your doctor orders a test,  you will find out that there are another 50 or 100 people ahead of you. You get scheduled for your test in a month or two.   Single payer system is essentially a socialistic system. Is everybody ready for socialism?  Everyone stands in the same line, and everyone gets the same kind of service.  Are the American elite ready for that.  People point to Canada as an example.  That is how it was a few decades ago when I had the opportunity to experience it as a physician.    Physicians can take care of simple ailments in their offices, and pediatricians can continue to treat well babies and children - and one may not notice much change, other than quick in/ quick out visits - what is the doctor going to do if the waiting room is overflowing.  But talk about complex diseases where physicians need to patiently examine the patient, and think. Oh! thinking? doesn't that take a lot of time? Who has time for that, I'll think tomorrow.   With the patients lacking the ability to run to the doctor's office, lines in the emergency rooms will likely get longer.  While emergency rooms are already mushrooming, do you know that these new emergency rooms do not accept patients of the only single payer system we have right now - the Medicare.  The front office tells you to keep driving to the nearest hospital ER.  ER filled to capacity, costs will skyrocket.   Terminally sick patients' relatives will need to learn to take care of the terminal care and death at home.  Hospitals filled to capacity will turn you back.  Care has to be provided - right.  Even more home healthcare facilities will be needed.  Costs will skyrocket.  Don't we know about the home healthcare scandal not too long ago.   People sleeping under the bridge, and in cheap boarding houses will head to the nursing homes.  Nursing homes will not have empty beds for patient who need to be moved out of primary care hospitals into the nursing homes. Costs will skyrocket.   All of these things were experienced in Canada.  The good thing is in the end everybody will learn  to live within the system.  There will be complaints for a few years.  People will complain about rising taxes.  Why? Taxes shall have to go up. Why? To take care of the health and sickness of about 30% more people. Still don't understand? Okay do the math.  Add the entire current cost of healthcare per year plus 30% more and add it to the current national budget.  Doctors will complain, patient's will complain, rich will complain (poor are already complaining, so that doesn't matter, right!)  But we will learn patience, imagine that - Americans learning patience, isn't that hilarious!   Pharmaceutical companies will set fire to their everything. Who are they going to fleece, the government won't have any fleece left.  The congressmen will go hungry, no more drug company lobbyists. (That will teach them a thing or two!).   At least the drugs will be cheaper - I knew there was a silver lining in there.  But if the companies cannot charge thousands (or is it millions now) for new drugs, we may have to import new drugs from the third world countries. Wow - that hurts!  Did I say, costs will skyrocket. Rationing comes to mind.    The question is : Are we ready to rumble? 