Is there too much Indian content on Quora?
Let's say a few prolific Chemistry authors publish 1000s of new Chemistry books this year. Does that mean life is doomed for the Economics students? Does that mean they will not get enough of economics books? That would be ridiculous. Same is the argument of "too much Indian content". How much is too much? And are we going to ration content - "Oops Mr. Kumar. There are already 3 other Kumars who have already answered the question. We are waiting for a Kristine". Filters, filters, filtersIt is the job of the system to create right set of information filters so the economics students are not too distracted by the proliferation of chemistry books in the market.  In the same way, it is the job of Quora to ensure that not enough  cross-contamination happens - the answers about IRCTC or IITs don't often end up in the laps of some Australian. That requires a whole lot of moderation and tagging, with them making use of the new surge in Indians. Like in all systems, we excessively romanticize the past & be nostalgic. It was not like Quora was a fully intellectual place before the Indian crowds came. When I joined, the questions were more like "where do I dump my poo in Mountainview?" or "the best place to get candy in the 5th avenue". It did have its percentage of intellectuals and it does have its percentage of intellectuals. And it always had its share of content that was useful only to a niche. The problem of information quality is not created by the Indians. It is through not having enough information management tools that Quora should have built. The homepage feed is still under-par for most people and despite being in operation for close to 5 years, Quora doesn't get too far in building the right filters. Good news is that it is improving though. Quora is a network of villages. The happening of one village doesn't necessarily impact too much on other villages. The partying chemists can have all their fun and the economists would blissfully not hear most of it. Underutilizing Indian audienceInstead, what Indians have done is to provide the network the scale. Quora population was too few in 2011-12 once the initial celebrity interest started waning. With or without the Indians, not many Americans were joining the network and this is true of many such Silicon Valley wonder apps [recent ones being Whisper and Secret]. It was not that the Indian audience turned most away. Most didn't/don't find enough interest in Quora in the first place. Had that continued, Quora would have been forced to pivot and do something else. Instead, Indian users have given a new lease of life & provide many potential revenue options. That is a country where newspapers are still making huge profits [unlike the US where they are shutting down]. A lot of the Indian Quora audience are rapidly climbing up the ladders of prosperity just at the cusp of major change in their lives. They would most likely be spending huge amount of life purchases in the upcoming months. Advertisers ranging from recruiters to automobiles to real estate companies crave for this type of audience back in India. India never figured in Quora's montetization plans and thus they underestimate the kind of userbase they have got & too slow to fully leverage this strength. 