Is believing in gods more rational than atheism?
What Peter Kreeft (the professor in the video) said is known as the Kalām cosmological argument. He didn't break any new grounds here. This is one of the favorite arguments peddled from the field known as Christian apologetics, people who want to defend Christianity and make it appear scientific. I personally think it's wholly unnecessary to defend what is at the end of the day a personal faith, but since the argument is made, let's take a look at what it entails. It seems logical to us that everything has a cause, because that appears to be the case from our observation. And if we follow the causal chain long enough, we eventually arrive at the question of first cause "is there something that starts it all, or is it an infinite regress?". So far, so good. The above would be accepted by most theists and atheists. But things diverge from this point on. Kreeft and others immediately claim that there must be a first cause, the Unmoved Mover, otherwise we will be faced with infinite regress, a logical impossibility. Ergo, God is proved. Unfortunately for them, the only thing it proves is that Kreeft and co don't know what "proof" means. Does it sound logical? Sure, it does to me if I don't think too deeply about it (there are logical holes, but others have that covered, so we'll skip that part in this answer). But just because it sounds logical doesn't mean it's correct, and certainly doesn't mean it's proven. There are plenty of things that sound logical but turn out not to be the case, and vice versa[1]. If logics alone is enough to explain the world, Aristotle would still reign supreme in physics with his Four Elements, and we would never have the discoveries from Newton and Einstein, and all the modern technologies that spun from the hard sciences. Chances are Aristotle is just as smart as Newton, but why didn't he discover gravity? Newton himself will tell you that he stood on the shoulders of giants. What he means is that he was able to work off of more knowledge hard earned from rigorous observations and deductions that came before him. It turns out that while our brains are capable of reason, they aren't all that rigorous without us putting in effort (we make plenty of logical mistakes), and our deduction powers are limited by previously gathered knowledge as well as available data. This is why adults know more than children, and why data gathering and processing is central to intelligence efforts. And this is also why science are done the way it is. It must be rigorous (provable by others is the standard), and it must be based on data, and we must be willing to challenge previously held assumptions in order to make advances. The result speaks for itself. It is not enough to only make logical sense. We have to see it works The moment we stop challenging our assumptions is the moment we stop advancing The interesting property about god(s), regardless of the actual truth, is that we humans use gods as explanation for events and things that we don't understand, even when the actual reasons don't involve them. If a volcano erupts, it must be because Vulcan (Mars) got mad. If there is a tsunami, it is Poseidon. And if gods are mad, we need to do something big to appease them, so let's sacrifice some humans so they stop being mad. And because human sacrifices worked before (all volcanoes and tsunamis will eventually stop so it looks like it worked), it confirms that gods exist and like human sacrifices, so we will do so next time. See? That's logics at work, and it sounds entirely logical if you buy into the premise. We know better because we have better knowledge, not because they have faulty brains. Logics plus bad knowledge lead to things like human sacrifices. The problem with using gods as explanation is that once we have an answer, we are satisfied and stop looking. This is a big part of the reason why that even though humans have been around for a couple million years, our advancement only come relatively recently. It takes a long long long time to question long-held assumptions that have been answered by gods. Who wants to question gods and make themselves a target for sacrifice the next time gods get mad? Luckily, once scientific advancement does occur, people quickly realize its benefits, and that the scientific way - challenging assumption, and rigorous methodology backed by data and peer reviews - is superior for explaining the physical world than just with logics. And we in turn come to realize the harm of using gods as explanations since it kills the drives to figure things out. We call these explanations God of the gaps to put them in their proper place to ensure the knowledge advancement continues. None of the above mean gods don't exist, by the way. Kreeft can be completely right that there does turn out to be an Unmoved Mover, and that Unmoved Mover also just turn out to be the exact God of the exact branch of Christianity that he belongs to. One might hit bullseye blind-folded, but that doesn't make one a sharpshooter. Who is more logical isn't really the question, because as we see above, logics alone is and has been insufficient to explain the physical world. It takes rigor, data, and willingness to challenge assumptions in order to make advancement in knowledge. And it will take the same standard to prove that gods exist. A logic-only argument, no matter how plausible it sounds, doesn't prove a damn thing, and is not scientific. --- [1] This is not central to the argument so it's in the appendix here. But if you are interested, ask yourself - are there more integers, or are there more numbers (not integers) between 0 and 1, and look up the answer. 