Why do people appear to be so systematically misinformed about basic facts?
"I'm talking about basic facts.  E.g., in the immediate run-up to the 2010 US midterm elections, a Bloomberg poll found that people, by a 2-to-1 margin, believed their taxes had increased..." That's not something one can just know, by magic. To know the truth about taxes, you have to research, even if, in this case, "research" is simply googling. People don't know basic facts because they haven't looked up those basic facts. Most people don't research, unless they're trying to figure out how to do something specific, like cook a recipe. They don't think to research just a random fact, even if they use it in conversation. In the U.S., at least, research isn't even stressed in schools. I once taught a college course, for Freshmen, in which I gave students a sort of library scavenger hunt. They had to find answers to ten questions, and I told them all the answers were in one room of the Library (the reference room). I gave them four hours to find the answers. Most of my students were totally lost. They just stared at the books. None of them got all the answers right, and the average score was something like three out of ten. And I didn't ask trick questions. But knowing how to research is the small part of the problem. The bigger part is thinking to do it in the first place -- simply having research embedded in your brain as something one does. Every day on Quora, I am able to answer at least one question by a simple google search. And by simple, I mean one search followed by a click on one of the links on the first results page. Yet the asker didn't think to do that. Some people have "I don't know the answer, therefor I'll look it up" as a brain module. Others don't. Finally, I'd say that most of the time, people don't research because they don't care about the facts. This actually makes sense, because they're not talking about facts, even if that's what it seems like they're doing on the surface. You brought up politics. Well, most political conversations aren't about facts. They're about cheering on your team and booing the other team. You can see this in action when you prove someone wrong about a fact. If it was facts that people cared about, you'd see this happening: George: Fred is a terrible candidate, because he voted "no" on proposition 123. Yes: Actually, I have the voting records right here. As you can see, he voted "yes" on proposition 123. If George cared at all about facts, his response would be something like this: George: really? Wow. I didn't know that. Well, maybe I need to rethink my position. That rarely happens. The more common response is... George: whatever, dude. He's still a terrible candidate. 