Can the Langlands Program be described in layman's terms?
Here, we take "layman" to mean someone who knows a little abstract algebra. Note also that many people think about these conjectures in very different ways. From my point of view, the Langlands Program is a set of conjectures relating representations of groups and certain types of functions.  There are two parts: reciprocity and functoriality. Given a global field K and an algebraic group G, reciprocity relates "Galois representations" (maps from the absolute Galois group of K to G) to "automorphic forms" (certain functions on a space built from K and the Langlands dual group of G). To actually describe how Galois representations and automorphic forms are related, one needs to introduce the notion of an L-function for each side.  Under the Langlands correspondence, one expects the L-functions to line up.  (Some people think of half of reciprocity as saying that "all" L-functions (under a suitable definition) are automorphic, i.e., coming from automorphic forms.) Functoriality comprises a lot of different statements, but the idea is that this relationship is well behaved (e.g., you know what happens if you change the field K to a bigger field, if you change the representation in specific ways, or if you have maps between different G's). For the pseudo-layman, a few small points of clarification: The global field K can be a number field (e.g., all rational numbers, or take all numbers of the form a+bi where a and b are rational numbers) or a function field of a curve (e.g., all rational functions in one variable over a finite field). Understanding the absolute Galois group gives us a lot of information about the field.  And studying the maps of the Galois group to G (in other words, linear representations of a group) gives a lot of information about the Galois group (it's like finding a way to linearly approximate something, which is basically all mathematicians are able to do anyway). The most basic case of reciprocity is essentially class field theory, which is already a deep result in number theory.  The main theorem of class field theory can be thought of as roughly relating abelian Galois groups over a field K with ideal class groups in rings of integers associated to K.  Translating this into the Langlands formalism requires relating functions from the ideal class group to automorphic forms for the group G = GL_1. The next easiest case of reciprocity would be G = GL_2 and K = the rational numbers, which is not known in general!  To give a sense of the difficulty and scope,  Wiles's work on Fermat's Last Theorem gives a partial answer to this case.  It says that for Galois representations that arise in a certain way (from elliptic curves), there is an associated automorphic form.  (The other direction, where one starts with an automorphic form and wants to produce a Galois representation, is partly proved by work of Eichler-Shimura, Deligne, Serre, etc.) For someone who wants a bit more detail about the Langlands program, here's a good overview: http://mathoverflow.net/question... And here are some more applications: http://mathoverflow.net/question... http://mathoverflow.net/question... 