What are some things that mathematicians know, but most people don't?
I'm going to answer only the aspects that can be useful outside the field of Mathematics. There's no reason to ask "What a [insert any specific occupation] knows, but most people don't?", if you answer with the knowledge that are mostly self-contained in the very field. Mathematicians work, all the time, with logic. That is the only tool we have. Therefore, we know how to deal with and how to handle arguments better than I can see other people do. For instance, I have heard a lot of arguments that use the (wrong) equivalence A --> B, so not(A) --> not(B), and this is a dreadful approach of the counterpositive rule (seriously, people usually struggles with that). In the case for the people that don't know, the correct approach is A --> B, so not(B) --> not(A). Another example of that is, after we learn about Banach-Tarsk Paradox, Gödel's Theorems, Weierstrass Function, Cantor's Infinites, etc, we see that intuition is untrustworthy (remark: I'm not saying it is not helpful). Last, we understand statistic data in a way that most people don't. Trust me, this makes a lot of difference. Of course, they're not a mathematician's gift, and it may be that a fisherman, a police oficcer, a model, a salesperson, have even more skills in logic, and know better about data, but even in other academic fields, I have found that we are, in general, a little better, both in creating arguments and in disconstructing them. PS: I would like to say that, for many, logic is not something to concern about. A good fireman may be terrible in that, yet still he will save a lot of people. Indeed, logic and data can even be harmful to him sometimes! Besides, I'm noticing that people don't follow rationals behaviours most part of the time, and this is (not always, but sometimes) ok. It give some feelings to our lifes. But, when logic is something that matters, we have to look at it carefully, and most people don't know how to handle that. 