What does Balaji Viswanathan think about the BBC documentary "India's Daughter", and the admiration and criticism it has got?
It was a trolling video and the Indian government was baited into it. It was a bad PR from the government's part in turning a useless video into a media sensation. There was nothing in it to be banned. They should have shrugged and moved on. They interviewed a brutal rapist and surprise, surprise he has an extremely brutal attitude about women in India. Any rational person could see that it is that attitude that got him to fatally rape a young woman, and one that got him into prison and one that would hopefully get him to the gallows. The video also proves that the lawyer defending these heinous criminals is a total douchebag. Shocking! What else to learn from the video? You interview that rapist and ask for his opinion of women in India. Then, you use that disturbed mind's words to stereotype 600,000,000+ men in India. Good job! Fantastic journalism. Indian women face plenty of daunting challenges and I have written plenty of articles on this: India Dreams Part 8: Fighting Sexism in India. However, this video is not going to move us one inch closer to that solution. Nobody has solved any problem by blanket stereotyping. To improve the lot of women in India (and in the rest of the world) a lot of things should be done. Including: Better use of technology to immediately respond to crime. For instance, the panic buttons that is now becoming mandatory in India's taxis. Beefing up an educated police force that can handle sex crimes and cleaning up the legal system with reforms to punish the guilty on time. Education campaigns - from protecting female kids to fighting the prejudices fed by media/films/pop culture.  All of these are long-term solutions where the whole society - including both sexes - have to fight together. The moment you start seeing one hemisphere of the society as a villain for the fault of 0.001% none of the solutions are possible. And no solution is likely with a video that just produces disgust and anger. Because, then the people who would have worked on solving would be put on the defensive. The past few years, a part of British media has turned extremely caustic when it comes to India. I have been reading them for nearly 20 years and I can see a big change in stance and attitude. All the reputed publications - Economist, Guardian, BBC report India with a kind of disdain, bordering on racism. Fighting Against BBC's Racism. I have canceled my Economist subscription and have stopped reading the BBC. I have ignored them. Indian government should have done the same. Stop giving them attention and advertisement revenues when you don't have to. This troll game played by this section of British media cannot be won by bans or protests. Whenever an Indian government official thinks of censoring anything, he/she should hit themselves three times in the head and read up on how information transfer works in the Internet. India should lift the ban, ignore the explosive contents and move on. No point in getting worked up. Protesting this should not distract us from our broader goals - if we cannot fix our economy, we cannot fix anything else. So, get back to work. 