Is believing in gods more rational than atheism?
Replying to the incredible lies and distortions in this video is not an easy task. It's not something I can reply to in three paragraphs and say, "There.  Done!"  This video is 5 minutes of so many wrong things, that -- frankly -- to address them all, I have to physically type the narrative of everything he says (in Word) and then reply to each assertion.  A note on religious beliefs.  I'm a humanist.  I really love the topic of religion and I love exploring the history and psychology of religion.  I think it's a beautiful thing.  I want to assert with no small degree of passion that there is absolutely, positively nothing morally or logically wrong with having a profound and passionate belief in [your version of] God. You should absolutely have the right to come to some spiritual decision on the genesis of the cosmos.  You absolutely should have the social respect to rejoice in that and celebrate it.  You absolutely should have the right to share your beliefs with others with confidence that no one will attack you.  But you absolutely should remember the difference between a spiritual belief and a scientific assertion.  Dan Holliday's answer to How do atheists explain how the world was created? Dan Holliday's answer to Atheism really bothers a lot of people on Quora, doesn't it? Dan Holliday's answer to Does atheism make sense? Buckle up.  The man in this video actually lies and not like, "Oh, woops!  Sorry.  I did put the movie tickets in my wallet!"  type lie.  I mean the "Cackling man in a black hat twirling his mustache" type lie.  He intentionally abuses rigorously defined terms.  He intentionally leaves out valid information that doesn't support his conclusions (which is cherry-picking).  He simplifies incredibly complex matters to adversarial talking points.  He does NOT follow the rules of logic.  He does everything he can to avoid rational, scientific discussion.  Lastly, he actually tries -- desperately -- to move away from what we understand about the universe by creating cartoon caricatures of science and atheism to distract people and point to his illicit premise. So, where do we start?  Let's address the abuse of terms like "proof", "theory", "logic", "science" and "evidence".  These words do have rigorous meanings in their specific fields.  The problem comes into play when our colloquial knowledge of these words (Dunning-Kruger) fools us into thinking we know how to use them in scientific or logical discussions.  In this case, he has rewritten and altered their meanings not only to make room for his religious assertions, but to specifically point back to the deity of his choice.  Now, does this mean that I never say, "I have a theory as to why they cancelled Parks and Rec?!"  (Bastards!)  No.   We all know that words have multiple uses and, depending on context and convention, we use them differently.  When the context of the conversation switches from my favorite sitcom to one of science, I put on a new "outfit" and dress according to the convention of the space I'm in.  My words shift as well.  When I go to a Hindu temple, I make sure not to use my usual peppering of profanity and loud bellowing voice -- I tone that motha' fuckin' shit dowwwwwwn.  I appropriately dress for the environment and occasion.  Thus we do the same when we have conversations in science and logic, we use the rigorous terms as they're used in those fields.  Unfortunately he abuses the term "proof" so many times that it boggles the mind.  He said, "Before scientists proved that the universe started with the Big Bang. . ."  No jackass. Scientists didn't PROVE that. They demonstrated that -- based on all evidence -- the Big Bang is the most reasonable explanation for the genesis of the cosmos and is supported by multiple tests and observations.  Right from the beginning, he states  "...logic can show that there is a god."  No.  It can not.   That's 99.99999999999999999999999999999999999999% impossible given how logic fucking works.  Logic is used when we debate and discuss science to ensure an equitable exchange of information such that we can rely on the terms and assertions being made.  We follow the scientific method in matters of -- um -- SCIENCE. If we did not, then ANYBODY could say ANYTHING they wanted and demand an audience and respect.  We simply need a lexicon of clear terminology to ensure clear communication.  We then follow a process of observation, experimentation and verification that starts with a baseline of "ignorance" and builds from there.  We do NOT plug an untestable, unfalsifiable "thing" into the equation to makes it easier on us and our pre-determined conclusions (magic, gods, Protomatter -- David Marcus tried that and look what he wrought?!). Now, science or even logic might (and I'm being generous) be able to show there was a "thing" that caused the Big Bang (which it has not heretofore done), but it cannot show that there's definitively a super-being or his favored deity.  All it will have shown is that there was something else before the Big Bang.  So, to the narrator's point, what observation has shown is that there are some of the "things" that he says exist (movement, causality, etc.) within our universe.  Great!  But none of that reasonably demonstrates that there's a god of any kind.  This is a rehashing of the "incredulity argument" that goes:  "The very trees are proof of God!"  Which is classical begging the question:  "God says the trees are proof of God.  Just look at them because, God!"  That's completely illogical. Speaking of logic -- what the narrator posits is a gratuitous violations of logical thinking and discourse.  He commits so many formal and informal fallacies that (frankly) this video should be shown in every 10th grade philosophy class as an example of what never to do to avoid looking like a moron: Special pleading [1] -- This is phrasing of statements and information to specifically stack the deck for his argument.  A common one is in saying, "Only a fool would deny God!"  or  (to quote the video), "If you look at the universe with an open mind. . ."  specifically to elicit the emotional response, "Oh, I don't want to seem stupid or closed- minded.  I better take another look."  There's no evidence given -- it's specifically crafted to nebulously support the major premise of the whole video.  Special pleading [2] -- He exempts his deity from the rules.  Special rules are created that apply to everything else but his deity.  "Oh, well, he's exempt from these rules because. . . GOD!" Argument from incredulity -- This is an appeal to us, humans, who (even the best of us) struggle understanding complex things.  Since humans cannot consciously grasp sub-atomic and quantum calculations, we simply call them "mumbo jumbo" and say, "That's ridiculous!" Argument from authority -- Quoting Thomas Aquinas is great as an exercise in thought.  But TA existed before we knew what Quantum Mechanics (nay, before even basic physics), his information was relevant and advanced then, but it's so far out of date, now, that it's irrelevant when pondering the cosmos.  Argument from ignorance -- Magic is plugged into the gaps of our collective or individual ken and asserted, "Well, since we do not KNOW that this magic isn't true, it must be true because. .  GOD!".   A specific example is this guy mentioning that on a quantum level causality isn't even known to exist.  And he says, "Hang on a minute. . . just because we don't see one, doesn't mean that there isn't one!"  Bingo!  The human factor is solicited into the equation (I need causality) and plugged into the gaps because we're ignorant of what's in there.  We can't and don't do that.  Thus far on a quantum level, we do not always see cause.  It may be there, but we do not know that.  Our brains need causality on a relativistic scale because they're adapted to operate on that level, but not on a quantum level.  So, saying that causality may be found is fair, but it is not fair to say it exists and it's definitely not fair to plug assertions into that gap and say, "Well, we just don't know, so GOD!" Affirming the consequent --  P --> Q; ~P --> ~Q.  This is a dependency argument that says, "God, therefore things.  Not God, no things."  It's essentially creating a self serving "logic" to say, "Things are dependent on this thing that I say exists.  Without this thing that I say exists, there would be no things."  The only problem is, that major premise (God!) hasn't been demonstrated to exist.  And even if you "proved" that all things were dependent on an original cause, all you've "proven" is that there was an original causality -- you've not "proven" that it was your god.  It could be inter-dimensional robots, it could be that we're just programs running on some celestial computer.  So, while it could be SOMETHING, you've only demonstrated that it's SOMETHING, not your selected deity.  Ad hominem -- "Some atheists find the existence of a multi-verse more rational than the existence of a creator. . ."  That was done specifically to attack and distract.  He has no clue what atheists find rational because he doesn't even seem to know what rational is.  The multi-verse hypothesis is explored as a realistic possibility because -- that's sort of how science works.  Exploring possibilities is what science is supposed to do.  Now, if testing for a specific deity were possible, then we'd probably be chasing it too (and applying for our James Randi & King Faisal International Prize).  Strawman argument -- Making claims on behalf of your opponent and tearing them down.  "Some atheists find the existence of a multi-verse more rational than the existence of a creator. . ."  No.   That's not what atheists believe and unless you substantiate it with something approaching evidence, then we'd be on to something. Bringing up the multi-verse hypothesis and throwing it at atheists (even "some atheists") feet is done to distract and attack.  Now, it might be rational to mention as to why some scientists posited it, using all the reasons they posited it, but then that would be too hard and that would make the entire video too balanced.  Begging the question -- "God exists and created movement and movement is evidence for God."  This man STARTS with the premise of his god existing in every statement, and uses "God" as part of the conclusion of every statement.  If you start with a desire to "prove" something and include it in both the premise and then come to a conclusion that also includes "God", you really haven't "proven" anything other than your own ridiculous ignorance.  Cherry picking -- "Never mind that none of these universes are shown to exist with empirical evidence."  HOLY SHIT!  Did he actually say that?  Uh, yeah.  No duh.  And let's turn that same desire for EMPIRICAL EVIDENCE towards your deity of choice.  Care to follow that logic to its conclusion?  Shifting the burden -- "Atheism takes faith.  It takes only reason to believe that everything has a cause."  No.  No it doesn't.  Atheism doesn't assert that "something came from nothing."  Atheism doesn't assert anything except the fundamental "I do not believe."  Now it's possible that some atheists go a step further and assert knowledge (agnosticism v. gnosticism), but otherwise the burden is ALWAYS on the individual claiming a thing exists.  Particularly telling is the theistic obsession with thinking that not having an answer is evidence of god.  This rationale gets rephrased all the time --- "Oh, well how did things start?"  or  "Something cannot come from nothing!"  or   "When have you ever seen things pop into reality from nowhere?" --- and it's all juvenile arguments that, while they sound great as slogans and talking points, they fail miserably on closer examination.  And that's just it, these arguments on one side depend wholly on talking points and rejoinders, whereas the other side tries desperately to keep the discussion on track using the rigorous definitions of words as well as the scientific method.  This is a rehashing of a standard religious argument called irreducible complexity, where the deck is stacked in the standard formal fallacy (special pleading) and an appeal to our needs for absolutes (black and white thinking fallacy) and our need for simple answers that satisfy our needs today.  The great one is "nothing can come from nothing".  That's a statement of absolute and it is unprovable and undemonstrable (depending on your level of attention to detail).  The problem is that we have never seen a "nothing".  All that exists is something.  So throwing out the really snappy, "SOMETHING CANNOT EMERGE FROM NOTHING!" is just a slogan; an advert; not a rational statement.  It's simply an appeal to human senses and prejudices.  It's soliciting the bias of the observers (most of whom don't know much about science nor enough to know the ridiculousness of this offering) in an attempt to win them over.  This type of argument has ZERO success on scientifically educated people -- but that's not who it's targeting.  It's targeted at the people that are "winnable" for this side and appealing to their base ignorance.  "Well shucks.  That is right.  When did I ever see something come from nothing?  Dupe-dee-doo!  Okay.  You got me Bub.  Let's get to church!"  So, to that point. . . If we roll the footage back on the movie projector that is the Universe all the way back to frame one: the Big Bang -- the very laws of physics, time, space, causality -- they all emerged at that moment.  Our brains cannot comprehend quantum particle that exists without time, space or cause.    So, asking what came before or what caused the Big Bang ends up being logically impossible since time and space didn't exist before the Big Bang.  There cannot be a "before" when there is no time.  If "before" is removed from the equation, then never having a cause or a beginning or a creator becomes logically and scientifically impossible to demonstrate.  Everything in our universe DOES have a cause (the Big Bang), but that very "cause and effect" is a result of the Big Bang.  And yes, EVERYONE admits that nobody knows what (if anything) caused the Big Bang and instead of plugging some untestable, undemonstrable "thing" into the gaps of our ken, we simply say, "Let's keep looking until we find it," rather than rest on our collective laurels and say, "Oh God did it!"  Because we've done that in the past a LOT and we've been wrong.  We were wrong that diseases were caused by evil spirits.  We were wrong that the Black Plague was caused by God's wrath.  We were wrong that the Sun rising each morning was some deity on a chariot.  We were wrong that Tlaloc was the cause of thunder and lightning.  Every time we plug magic or gods or She-Ra into the gaps, we end up having to slink away from that assertion and say, "Oh, well, we just didn't know then."  But do we know better now.  We have the LONG arrow of history and every lesson we learned along the way of how NOT to behave.  We have the scientific method.  We (well, most of us) justifiably have a very big aversion to just plugging anything into that hole in our knowledge just so we can feel better about being there. "Well, but what's in there! It must be God!"  No.  It must be SOMETHING, but if you don't know, you don't get to stick something in there just to make yourself feel better about it. All we know is that existence exists.  If that's all we know, then that's a good starting point.  We can certainly use experimentation to examine causality.  We can use the system we call "science" to observe, to test and to reduce ambiguity and increase understanding of the world around us.  BUT, even if you "proved" that a cause is needed before the Big Bang, all you've "proven" is that a cause is needed for the Big Bang -- that's it.  You have NOT "proven" any deity.  And THAT is the rhetorical trick (nay, lie) of this video.   Why? Because the narrator puts human understanding at the center of the equation.   He makes an emotional appeal to those who feel like they deserve to understand -- even to the point of inventing an explanation. These kinds of appeals stroke our egos that desperately need us to believe that each of us has the intellectual capacity to grasp why and how this universe formed.  Because we don't like to feel "dumb", we'll rework the problem as, "It's not that I cannot understand it, it's just that you all have over-complicated matters so much and turned away from God."  We want it simple and easy.  The problem is, quantum mechanics, cosmology, physics, chemistry, biology are NEVER easy unless you were gifted with an IQ of >145.  I don't have that, and it's taken 10 years of work to gain only the most CURSORY understanding of these fields, and I spend more time than the average dilittante has.  Most people have children and jobs and lives that cannot fit this in.  So they take the second option and go with, "Well God did it."  There!  Neat. Simple.  Quick.  And oh, so tempting.  This very human nature is seen in other areas that cater to "simple-ism".  "What's your one sentence solution to X?"  or  "Eat this one food and never diet again."   or   "Learn this one financial trick and be rich for life."  Everything in our mind wants it easy, but it ain't.  Science is INCREDIBLY complex and nuanced, and nothing is ever as it seems.  And that truth is so overwhelmingly dangerous to many theists, that they try to rewrite the rules (and even "terms") to suit their discussion. And that's what this fellow does.  He abuses rigorously defined terms like "proof" and "theory" and "logic".  He shifts the burden.  He argues from ignorance.  He rehashes ancient arguments that are negated by modern understanding of physics.  He uses strawman and ad hominem arguments.  If I didn't know better, I'd say he went to Wikipedia's list of fallacies and intentionally broke every fucking one of them just to be sure he hit them all.  All of this was done to muddy the waters sufficiently to make room for his essential assertion, "Please, you must believe in God because it's super-duper important to me." Updated 75w ago • View Upvotes