Game Theory: How can we move from a rational society to a superrational society? How close are we to the same?
I don't think we can even make a claim to being a rational society. There are a great many results that demonstrate that human beings do not follow the Homo Economicus model. Dan Ariely writes about it at length: http://www.amazon.com/Predictably-Irrational-Revised-Expanded-Edition/dp/0061353248/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1352846037&sr=8-1 and that's before we get into the fact that people are just plain bad at math: Innumeracy: Mathematical Illiteracy and Its Consequences: John Allen Paulos: 9780809058402: Amazon.com: Books Remarkably, some of those irrationalities mimic the effects of super-rationality. Consider one game that Ariely talks about: Alice is given ten $1 bills. She offers as many as she likes to Bob. Bob can either accept the deal, and both keep the money, or reject it, and both get nothing. How much does Alice offer Bob? And does he accept? Rationally, Alice offers Bob $1, and he accepts it, because he's better off with $1 than $0. In practice, Bob often rejects the deal as unfair. And in practice, Alice often offers Bob about $5, a fair deal. Even if the experiments make it clear that they will never see each other again, life forms a kind of repeated game. As with the Prisoner's Dilemma, people are punished when they get a reputation as cheaters. In my opinion, "superrationality" is really the wrong way to go about it. Games like Ariely's are simplifications of real-world situations. They are informative, and suggestive, as ways to study humanity and to suggest alternative ways of designing rules. When you know what most people do, most of the time, you can "nudge" people into making better choices. Nudge: Improving Decisions About Health, Wealth, and Happiness: Richard H. Thaler, Cass R. Sunstein: 9780143115267: Amazon.com: Books Trying to alter humanity instead seems like a fruitless quest to me. You don't alter society as a whole; you fix individual moments as best you can, knowing that many of the players will be not rational or even "predictably irrational" but sometimes simply incapable of knowing what's in their own best interest. People do bad, stupid things and you will never end that, and you end up gearing a depressing amount of your society around dealing with exceptional but costly cases. To get needlessly political: we have been engaging in national arguments in which we're often fighting about facts, rather than about opinions. Huge swaths of the population are arguing for positions that aren't merely wrong (anybody can be wrong) by flagrantly delusional. I'm not even going to begin to thinking of better-than-rational society until we get nearer to rational. 