Is believing in gods more rational than atheism?
There are many rational theists. Some are more rational than some atheists. I have a devout Christian friend (with degrees in Math and Computer Science) who could outpace the rationality of most people on Quora. I'm a huge fan of religion, and I know many religious people who are smarter than I am. I hope no one uses what follows as ammunition in the childish us-vs-them food fight that is endemic on sites like this. Keep in mind that I'm not criticizing theists. I'm criticizing the this particular guy and this particular video.  It's garbage. Not only that: if the guy really is a professor of Philosophy, it's deceitful. He's presenting the age-old Infinite Regress problem in a one-sided way, barely alluding the the fact that there's another side to it. I'm always amazed when both atheists and theists use it as "proof," because it's really a problem for all thinkers, and it supports neither view. When I hear some guy on the Internet claiming it proves or disproves God (or provides evidence either way), I assume he's just ignorant--that he hasn't read any modern philosophy or thought deeply about the subject. When a professor of Philosophy does it, shame on him! I don't care if he's a believer or a non-believer. He's not doing his job. He's not properly educating people. Before I delve into the more serious problems with his "reasoning,"  let's assume he's right about everything he says, which we can sum up by saying the Universe must have had a first cause (that was itself uncaused). If he got me to 100% agree, I would still be an atheist as I and most people like me define atheism. What is an atheist? He's a person who disbelieves in something. What is that something? Is it a frog? If you prove to me that frogs exist, have you toppled my atheism? No, because the something I disbelieve in is not a frog. It's also not a "first cause." You can knock yourself out proving to me that a first cause exists and, even if you succeed, you won't have made the slightest dent my atheism. Maybe you'll have obliterated your own definition of atheism, and that's fine, but if you listen to what most atheists claim (the reason most call themselves "atheists"), you won't have touched it. Here's the something I disbelieve in: a sentient and supernatural being who created the Universe and/or is bound up with human affairs. (By "supernatural," I mean he's not an advanced space alien. Though this aspect is less important to me than sentience.) To prove God to me, you need to convince me of two things: 1. The Universe had a creator. 2. That creator was sentient. The professor doesn't even address point two. And as for "rationality," it would be irrational to believe in a sentient creator without proof of a sentient creator. (Let me state, once again, that I don't believe theists are irrational people. I'm responding to the prof's claim that theism is more rational than atheism because [insert his argument here].) So, if he's proved anything, he's proved that it's more rational to believe the Universe had a first cause than to believe it didn't. That is a proof unlikely to please most real world atheists and theists. Most actual Hindus, Jews, Muslims, Christians, and Pagans don't just believe God is a "first cause." If you said to them, "So, He's a mechanical process with no intelligence at all, and no ability to love us or care about us?" they'd disagree. In fact, they'd rightly say you'd misunderstood the most important parts of their religions. Okay, on to Infinite Regress: most people, atheists and theists, are bothered by the idea of an object just popping into existence, completely uncaused. Most are also bothered by an object that has existed forever, with no cause (because there was no time before forever in which it could have been caused). Too bad, because those are the only two possibilities, and they screw up arguments made by both believers and non-believers who insist of using Infinite Regress as a debate tactic: Atheist: the Universe had no cause. It just appeared. Theist: That's absurd. Everything that exists has a cause. Theist: God had no cause. He just appeared. Atheist: That's absurd. Everything that exists has a cause. Atheist: The Universe has existed forever. Theist: God has existed forever. Theist: If everything came from the Big Bang, what created that? Atheist: If everything came from God, what created Him? There are only two reasons someone would use Infinite Regress as evidence for or against God or for or against theists or atheists being more rational: (1) ignorance; (2) dishonesty. You'll have to decide which is more likely in the case of this professor. When making an arguments based on logic, an intellectually honest (and not confused) person makes it crystal clear which of his premises are axiomatic and which are derived from axioms. Axioms are claims you accept without proof. There's no shame in doing that. All reasoning (theistic or atheistic, mathematical, scientific...) is and must be based on axioms. For instance, if I say ... 1. All men are mortal. 2. Socrates is a man. 3. Therefor Socrates is mortal. ... points one and two are (within the bounds of that argument at least) axiomatic. The argument offers no proof they are true. Really, what that argument is saying is that if you accept than all men are mortal and if you accept that Socrates is a man, then (if you're rational) you must conclude that Socrates is mortal. Here's a dishonest way of saying it: "As we all know, all men are mortal, and as is abundantly clear, Socrates is a man. Therefor, Socrates is mortal." By sneaking phrases in like "as we all know," the speaker is pretending to prove something he hasn't proved. The guy in the video plays this trick repeatedly, and, as he's a Philosophy professor, not a lay person, shame on him for doing it! I don't care whether he's a theist or an atheist. I care that he's a bad educator. If was a devoutly religious dean at a Christian college, I would fire him for making that video. I wouldn't care that it aligned with my views. I would care that it was bad teaching. He's the equivalent of a math teacher posting a video that claims PI is equal to nine. And the same would be true if I was the dean of Atheist U, and one of my atheist professors used Infinite Regress to "prove" that atheism is more rational than theism. I'd fire him, too. What the video basically says claims is that "all things are caused; therefor something isn't caused." That's a contradiction. (I'm not saying that atheism and theism are equally grounded in rational thought. I'm saying that Infinite Regress is a bad argument for either.) Here's what it could have claimed instead (with axioms in italics): 1. All mortal things have causes. (By "mortal," here, I mean things that once didn't exist.) 2. All caused things are mortal. (Immortal things don't have causes.) 3. Causes, mortal and immortal, are things. 4. Therefor the first mortal thing had a cause. (See 1.) 5. And its cause had no cause. (If it had, it would have been mortal (See 2), in which case it would have been the first mortal thing, which would contradict 4.) 6. Therefor, the first cause is immortal. Here--if you accept the axioms--I have proved that there was a first cause and that this cause was immortal, and if you want to define "God" as an immortal first cause, then this is proof your sort of God exists (if, again, you accept the premises). Here are some other errors: 1. He says that we observe that things move. This is a falsifiable claim, which can (at least in theory) be verified by observation. Fine. He then says, "Everything moves for a reason." That is just a claim. You can't derive it from the first statement, and he offers no evidence. He just states it as if it's obvious, but that doesn't make it true. 2. He claims mere matter never moves itself. He doesn't offer evidence. In fact, he claims that a first cause did move itself (or at least that nothing moved it). My guess is he would say that this is not a contradiction, because his not-moving-itself only applies to matter, and the first cause is not matter. Which is, again, a mere claim. 3. "Nothing can come from nothing": Claim with no evidence or reasoning to back it up. Quoting Shakespeare does not make something true. 4. "In other words, if there's no creator, there can't be a Universe." This is his slyest rhetorical move, and it's very subtle and clever. I have to admit, I admire it. Up until this point, he's been claiming a "first cause" exists. Let's say he's right. If so, it could be either a purely mechanical (non-sentient) process or an intelligent designer. Nothing in his previous argument suggests either of those possibilities is more likely than the other. And yet he switches his language, here, from "first cause" to "creator," which evokes sentience with it's relationship to the word "creativity." If called on this, he'd probably say he was speaking in metaphor, and that he meant "creator" in the same sense that a clouds are the creators of rain. I can't get inside his head and prove I'm right about his intent, but I'm suspicious. (And my suspicious is compounded, given the general slyness of the video, in which he presents an argument that's thousands of years old without even suggesting that there are equally old counter-arguments.) 5. "If the Universe had a beginning, then it didn't have to exist." He has not shown how "it didn't exist" follows from "it had a beginning." Unless there are parallel timeframes (which he hasn't claimed), the fact that it exists (in the only timeframe) proves it had to exist. 6. He keeps circling back to the Infinite Regress problem: "If there was a multiverse, it must have had a first cause..." (That was a paraphrase.) Again, he's claiming that everything is caused except for the first cause, but he's not backing that claim up with reasoning or evidence. It's just a claim. He's ducking the fact that "What caused God?" is as big of a blow to his logic as "What caused the Big Bang?" is to a materialist's logic. In either case, all anyone can do is say ... i. Nothing: God/The Big Bang is the first cause, and it just popped into existence or has always existed. ii. (My favorite answer.) I don't know. 7. "It takes faith to believe that everything comes from nothing." (Agreed.) "It takes reason to believe that everything comes from God." No. He hasn't shown that. 