Internet of Things (IoT): What new jobs will be created by the Internet of Things?
The two biggest and most obvious classes of jobs are data scientist/analyst and home repair electrician/technician. A less obvious class of job will be game designer, but I believe all three are critical. It will also be more important to have better product design and GUI design for these products, but that expertise exists - it's just not intuitive or accessible in this industry yet. Electricians The early devices that have come out (and likely the best devices of the near future) will benefit from (if not require) an electrician and perhaps network engineer. Many of the best prospects for Internet of Things devices require integration with your heating and cooling systems, major appliances, or monitoring of your water, electrical, and security systems. All of this goes much more smoothly with an electrician who has worked on remote devices before and can solve minor issues with frequency optimization, pairing, and setting up the various user interfaces. Data scientists Data scientists at both the consumer electronics companies and others (like utilities) who may gain access to the data from these devices will be needed to both interpret the data and make recommendations for improved capture and organization. The amount of data coming off of these devices is astounding, and for the most part its being thrown away or just not being recorded in the first place. Even when aggregated it could be hugely valuable for understanding patterns that would help city planners and utilities do a better job of forecasting and meeting demand. But most of that isn't happening now because these companies are mostly horrible at this, don't have any infrastructure or practice hiring good, senior data scientists, and don't have good practices around storing, analyzing, and monetizing data. I mean, if you are making some low cost battery trickle charger and you internet enable it, you could get all kinds of good data from the device but that's just an entirely new part of your business. You're going to be horrible at that for a very long time. And data scientists aren't exactly optimized for selling data science to companies that don't know what it is. This will happen slowly, and mostly be driven by business consultants for 5x the cost and 5x lower output for the foreseeable future. Game designers The dark horse here is gaming professionals. Most of these devices operate under the highly dubious assumption that giving a person more information about themselves or their environment will cause them to make rational decisions to improve their life, their environment, or optimize their use of resources (like water, energy, etc). But humans aren't rational, this is mostly a pipe dream, and things like competition and social pressure have repeatedly proven effective motivators where information + rational decision making has not. Behavioral scientists, game designers, and game interface professionals have the potential to take freshly installed "smart devices" and create ways for people to both understand the data and help people realize how to use it to improve their lives. When Nike found that people were far more likely to improve their fitness routine once they shared it, it became obvious that giving people more tools for doing so would be the key to helping people improve their lives. When San Diego water noticed a significant decrease in consumption after telling homeowners how they compared to their neighbors, it made sense for some networked thermostats to start doing the same thing. But again, this kind of insight is lagging way behind for most of the manufacturers of these products, which are stocked full of electrical engineers and radio people but not enough bodies thinking about usage and making the interface compelling and sticky. 