What was Josef Mengele like as a person?
Although I survived his experiments, I never had any in-depth discussions with him. The relationship between Mengele and us, the twins, was a unique and unusual relationship. We knew that we were alive because he used us as guinea pigs. I couldn't be grateful to him that I was his little puppet and he could do whatever he wanted to me - I did not like that position. Yet I knew I was alive because he wanted to use me as a guinea pig. Second, we knew within a very short time in Auschwitz that he was probably responsible for selecting most of our family members for death and sending them to the gas chambers. But that was not something that I was able to deal with in Auschwitz. The issues at hand were very pressing - getting more food, not getting sick, and staying alive. I understood that I was only alive as long as Josef Mengele wanted me alive. Ultimately, most of us would be murdered. Twins started disappearing from our barrack. First one twin, who was kind of sick, then the other would disappear. That was the way the rumor got started that if a twin got sick, they never survived. That was the pattern. There was no clear information from anybody except what we observed and heard from rumors. I can say that Mengele did bring in cookies and chocolate to some of the younger children. I never received any, and it's my understanding that he did not like me and I definitely did not like him. I was very defiant and angry. My close interaction with him was after I was injected with a deadly germ. Mengele did not do the injection. However, he was standing by as one of the nurses injected me with all kinds of things in my right arm. That night I became very ill. I explained this part of my experience in more detail here: What gives you hope during tough times? Mengele was always dressed immaculately. He was very proper. I never personally witnessed him kill another person, but that does not mean that he didn't. What I have also learned about him from other people is that he would give chocolate, candy, and goodies to the little gypsy twins (I heard this in a testimony in Jerusalem from one of the nurses who took care of the gypsy twins). He was so fanatic about the little girls being dressed perfectly. He would give them stocking-type leggings with a seam in the back. If the seam wasn't perfectly lined up, he would yell at the nurses. They had to be picture perfect. He would bring silk pantaloons for the little boys, and he liked to play word games with them, observe them, and ask them questions. By October 1944, all the gypsies in the camp were murdered and all the gypsy twins were gassed to death with their parents. I never saw the gypsy twins because they were in a different barrack - we were not intermingled. Some other thoughts about Mengele: Realizing that this guy had the power of our life and death in his hands, I couldn't possibly admire him. I didn't like what he was doing to me, yet I was at his mercy. I don't think I have ever had such a complicated relationship with anybody. In a strange way he was our protector and our tormenter, because as long as he wanted us alive, we stayed alive. Every single one of us knew that within a few weeks of being in Auschwitz. I talked to another former Nazi doctor, Hans Munch, who knew Mengele in Auschwitz. I asked him how he became friends with Mengele. He said, "Eva, it was the only way to stay alive. He was the only other Nazi in Auschwitz who didn't get drunk. After coming back at night from the miseries of the camp, at least I could have a conversation with someone." During those conversations, Mengele would justify it to him by saying, "I am saving those twins. If it weren't for my experiments, they would all be dead." So he was rationalizing the fact that he was using us as guinea pigs. I saw Mengele probably for the last time at the end of November, 1944. He seemed very preoccupied and nervous. When he got nervous, he would yell an awful yell. There were a couple of twins who died in the barrack, and he screamed about that. Sometime after November, the experiments stopped. There was so much bombing and artillery around, and we could sense this war was coming to an end. According to Munch, Mengele took all his files on January 18 and loaded them in his car as he escaped Auschwitz. The only things that have been found at the Auschwitz Museum are isolated pages. I have copies of three that fell out of the file as he was in a hurry, grabbing his files and taking them with him. If I saw Mengele today, I would go up to him, look him straight in the eyes, and number one ask him, "What did you inject into us?" Number two, I would say, "I forgive you. - not because you deserve it, but because I and every human being who has ever been victimized deserves to be free. And I deserve to be free from what you imposed upon me in 1944." 