Imposter Syndrome: What are some effective ways to overcome the Impostor Syndrome as a female engineer?
Any feelings I've had of being an impostor have come, I think, from being self-taught and not because I'm a woman. In that regard I suppose I am fortunate to not have experienced any condescension or unfortunate interactions due to my gender during my career. As a self-taught dev, I’ve often questioned whether or not I’m doing something The Right Way™. All of my knowledge has been of my own collection. The “you don’t know what you don’t know” aspect of learning has been overwhelming at times – to the point that I have implemented something, questioned it heavily, spent hours verifying that my solution was a decent approach, and, ultimately, learned that my solution was sound (and sometimes not so sound). Overall, I’ve wasted a lot of hours doubting myself. Currently, I work for an online coding bootcamp called Bloc, where students work 1-to-1 with a mentor during their program. I’ve worked as a mentor myself and have seen first hand how much difference having a mentor makes in a student’s ability to grasp concepts as well as build confidence in their work. But when I was first learning I didn’t have a mentor. As a relatively quiet and soft-spoken person, I had to learn over the years how to speak louder so my voice is heard when I have something to say and how to speak with confidence – especially when asking questions. It’s okay to not know something. Cultivating confidence, not just in my work, but in my daily life and in myself, has played the biggest role in not feeling like an impostor. The image below represents what I used to think (on the left) and how I know things to be now (on the right). I try to help my students understand this early on. Image from 8 Tips About Overcoming Impostor Syndrome I Wish I Had Known I think having a mentor, not just when one is in the “learning” stage (we’re always in that stage…), but even once we begin our professional endeavors is invaluable to our confidence and for avoiding feelings of Impostor Syndrome. Find someone who is genuinely interested in your personal development and whom you feel comfortable sharing your doubts with. This person will be an invaluable part of your personal and professional growth. 