Is believing in gods more rational than atheism?
Apart from some errors in logic, most of the video rests on the existence of causality. So, even if I assume that their logic is correct, we just have to look into the claim of causality and the need for it. 1) Existence of causality cannot be known. Anyone claiming it is making an extra assumption and needs to justify it or justify the need for it before using it. 2) The assumption of causality is unnecessary for Science. Aquinas and/or the person in the video build something out of an extra assumption, which, they feel, is above justification since it seems self-evident. And this is the central problem of such arguments when they face off against Science. They are using more assumptions than Science without reasonable justification for it. For example, I could assume that 'fate' exists and build a logically sound argument showing that foresight is true. There could be nothing wrong with the argument itself except that it involves more assumptions than those that we can all agree upon. Extra assumptions are justified if no progress of any sort is possible without making those assumptions i.e. if there is a need for more assumptions. Firstly, there is progress in science even with its bare-minimum set of assumptions. Secondly, if it were the case that Science had hit a dead-end and more assumptions were needed, this particular assumption of causality doesn't open up new avenues i.e. it is an assumption that does nothing to improve our situation had we been at a dead-end. So, it would still be an unnecessary assumption. Here is another way to look at it (The argument below is not well-worded and I apologise for that. I hope you'll be able to see my point though). Let us assume that this new assumption of causality is added onto the existing set of assumptions of Science and lets call this C-Science. The assumptions of C-science are internally consistent since causality is consistent with the existing assumptions of science. Now, if we use C-science to describe the world around us, we would find that we have the exact same consensus as we have in regular Science. So, we have two systems giving the exact same results. However, one system has an extra assumption. Hence, given our lack of knowledge of the 'truth' in the universe, it is logical to choose that system which has a lesser number of assumptions (lesser chance of being wrong, if any) if the systems are indistinguishable in terms of outcomes. Hence, I hope you can see this video with a different perspective now. Regarding the main question of this thread: I always have difficulty with the word 'rational'. I have found that people use it in a manner that suits them and the situation. In economics, a self-interested person is deemed to be rational but it is difficult to define self-interest since altruism can still be a part of self-interest. So, I use my own conventions when I use the word 'rational'. For me, rational means 1) Using a system that is internally consistent i.e. using any set of assumptions as long as they form a consistent logic, and then, 2) Among any two systems/sets of assumptions, if one set is a proper subset of the other set, and if the outcomes of these two sets of assumptions are indistinguishable, then, using the proper subset is rational. In other words, if there is a superfluous assumption, it must be dropped. Circularity and infinite regress basically mean superfluous assumptions. This is the part where one examines one's set of assumptions. If your set of assumptions are rational, as described above, and if they entail a well-defined creator, overseer deity, then for you, believing in god is rational. If your set of assumptions do not entail a well-defined creator, overseer deity, then for you, atheism is rational. One could say that one of the theist's initial assumptions is the existence of a god. This is (almost) the same as assuming causality and the arguments in the earlier part of the answer are a response to this assumption. It would be a superfluous assumption. In my own case, it is clear to me that Science is the only 'rational' course of action under the above definitions. And Science does not entail the existence of any well-defined creator, overseer deity. So, under these definitions, believing in a deity is not rational and atheism is rational. Infact, all I need do to is to show that theists believe in mathematics, and that is sufficient to make their set of assumptions a super-set of my own set, or rather, Science's set. And by the above usage of rationality, I would find their set of assumptions irrational. I hope I have addressed the relevant issue. If something is amiss or unclear, please let me know, and I'll improve upon it. 