What circumstances shape the United States Customs and Border Patrol sectors map?
As speculation, it appears to driven by the border crossing areas for regions that border Mexico, and size and traffic scaling for the Canadian border, and other factors. Along the Mexican border, the type of problem and the quality of the border barriers varies... (These descriptions may be out of date, by the way.) For San Diego, there is a huge volume of normal trade, and considerable people smuggling, which has become more difficult with more extensive fencing, tower, etc. Many people are intercepted trying to sneak in on false papers, and drugs are often hidden in vehicles, or tunnels are used. Since the San Diego area is densely populated, and has many roads, if the illegals get a few miles past the border, it can be hard for the border patrol to keep track of them. The San Diego area also included Northern California, which has some trans-pacific people smuggling. Coast Guard Seizes Ship, 169 Refugees :  Smuggling: Freighter is stopped 70 miles off San Francisco after dropping off Chinese immigrants. They are being held pending asylum hearings. http://articles.latimes.com/1993... Tucson has much less normal trade and tourist traffic, and some Indian reservations used as routes for both people and drug smugglers. There are fewer barriers and towers. Much of the illegal border crossing is on foot, but sometimes via 4x4 vehicles. Car chases sometimes occur, and the drug smugglers are often heavily armed. Even if the people or drugs get to an arranged pick up vehicle, the area is so sparsely populated, and had so few roads, that the pick up vehicle can often be tracked by cameras or aircraft, and a reliable interception made 50 miles or more away. For Miami, which has Florida, 95% of the problem comes by sea or air, not land and includes refugees from Cuba, who are under a different policy. **** To try to answer some of the additional questions... Del Rio has the Big Bend area, which has very low population and road density. The other Texas sectors have much larger populations near the border. I expect that the border with Mexico is a major driver for the sectors, not the area. Look at the east and west borders of Spokane. Those squiggly lines, that split states, reflect major mountain ranges that channel traffic to one side or the other. Those are good choices for sector borders. **** What this means is that each are will have different equipment needs (not many boats needed for Tucson), different skill and language needs, different threat types, and very likely different rules of engagement. (the Tucson and Rio Grande areas are known to be very violent, with heavily armed drug smugglers, and back up may be more than a half hour away) This map of sectors appears to be rational, data based response to current border problems. 