What are all the arguments against gay marriage?
Based on numerous long discussions I’ve had with opponents of same-sex marriage, here are 23 objections* I’ve often heard. I’ve compiled these objections, along with references to examples where they appear and my own responses to those arguments, at http://notstrangeatall.wordpress... : Marriage is not a civil right. It will lead to marriages with dogs. Most Americans oppose legalizing same-sex marriage. Gay marriage contributes to the meaninglessness of marriage and destruction of civilization. Gay couples are less able or likely to stay in long-term relationships. Marriage has traditionally always been between a man and a woman. Gay people can already get married, as long as it is to someone of the opposite sex; thus, restricting marriage to partners of the opposite sex doesn’t constitute unfair discrimination. Same-sex marriage violates natural law. Only opposite-sex partners are qualified to participate in the legal institution of marriage. Men and women (or fathers and mothers) aren’t interchangeable. The roles they fill as spouses (or parents) are unique. The purpose of marriage is procreation. Real marriage requires the ability to participate in heterosexual coitus; otherwise it is invalid. The only reason marriage is good for society is that it provides children. Couples that produce children naturally are more worthy of marriage than couples that do not or cannot produce children naturally. Donor-conceived offspring have difficulty dealing with their origins. Children are better off in households headed by opposite-sex parents. Other research has concluded that children fare best with their biological mother and father. There are scientific studies on both sides; anyone can just pick and choose studies that support their beliefs. Scientific studies haven’t yet found differences in gay relationships or parenting because of small sample sizes; the differences exist, but haven’t been documented yet. Marriage is a religious institution. Homosexuality is immoral according to my belief system. Legitimizing same-sex marriage favors one moral view at the expense of another. Legitimizing same-sex marriage is equivalent to establishing a particular religion. * I’ve since revised and expanded on the list I originally posted, so that there are now 25 objections in the post linked above. The original post is archived at http://notstrangeatall.wordpress... . Updated 224w ago • View Upvotes