What are all the arguments against gay marriage?
The arguments against gay marriage are: Boys are icky. When they make out with each other I get uncomfortable. (Women are ok though.) Only a man and a woman can make a baby. Of course, you don't need marriage to make this happen, also infertile couples should have their marriage rights revoked in this argument. Also gay guys can use a surrogate (As can straight guys.) And lesbians can use a sperm donation. (as can straight women.) But that's neither here or there. It destroys the institution of marriage. Every time a gay couple gets married, it forces a straight couple to get a divorce. Or their own incompatibility. I can't remember which one makes more sense. All I know is that one of my friends went through a divorce, and it was clearly caused by Ellen DeGeneres (actor)'s happiness. The Slippery Slope. If two consenting adults agree to love each other for all eternity, whats next? A consenting adult and a consenting other type of adult? Its insane. What happens when some consenting adult who isn't male or female wants to get married? ANARCHY IS WHAT HAPPENS. And a new type of gender called FeMole. God didn't make Adam and Steve, he made Adam and Eve. The bible says gayz are gross and stuff. And laws should be based on the bible. Thus we need to ban shrimp, and stone children to death when they are disobedient. What two consenting men do in the privacy of their own bedroom is icky, and we need to legislate that. I know that marriage is actually about love and commitment and deeply personal relationships, but seriously, there's this one part of relationship with two dudes where they get in bed together, and I don't want to think about that because it makes me uncomfortable, so we should ban marriage so they can't enjoy love and legal rights and stuff, because two dudes is yucktackular. Though two hot women is sort of ok. Because persecuting people who are different than you is awesome. And dudes are gross. And because Jesus is against it (oh wait, Jesus said nothing about gay people, AT ALL.) Here's some data to help with those arguments: Also see: Adam Mordecai's answer to Are parents who teach their children that "being gay is wrong" at fault if their child bullies gay kids in school, even if they teach their children bullying is wrong? Updated 232w ago • View Upvotes