How do INTJs think?
Short answer for the TL;DR types: Yes (and sometimes no). Longer answer: For an INTJ (I am one as you’ll no doubt notice), your question is, as Quin eloquently illustrated in another answer, merely a starting point of embarkation. In this question’s case, it is a highly open one covering a very broad range of possibilities (aka highly ambiguous). I’ll try to proceed, nonetheless. As Quin noted, our first order of business is to ask a million follow-up questions in an effort to narrow your scope down to what you really mean in asking your question. One aspect of non-INTJs that really gets us wound up tight is the way in which many people simply put forth questions/opinions/statements/etc. without thinking things through enough to frame the context more adequately. When we see folks put forth evidence like this of disorganized/incomplete/non-existent thinking, it becomes our unfortunate duty to take their hand (or not, if we don't think the end goal is worth it, hence the “sometimes no” above), walk them through logical progressions of finer-grained details, and hopefully, get the person to finally elucidate the actual problem/question they were trying to pose in the first place (we are highly intelligent and are the champions of problem-solving, but even INTJs can’t read minds... yet). Once we know the bounds of the task/problem, we can then set about working the problem. Knowing the bounds is very important, because as Quin eluded to, we employ both intuition and thinking at a very high level, both in scope/breadth and depth. We attack problems in a highly comprehensive and holistic way, knowing that the best answer to a task/problem (and yes, best means we take the time and effort to come up with a large number of possible solutions, not just one or stop at the first, and then evaluate them against each other to see which is most appropriate to employ given the context arrived at earlier), is sometimes not as self-evident or predictable as our keen sense of intuition initially sees due to unforeseen variables. The solution may involve (and routinely does) aspects, facts, disciplines, paradigms, etc. far outside the scope of things most other people limit their thinking/feeling to. We spend a great deal of our time learning about everything. Nothing is off-limits because the most seemingly arcane and unrelated of details may be in fact, be the prime factor in arriving at a solution (think Sherlock). It is because of this highly intricate use of a vast, neural-net-like approach to solve problems from a large array of possible solution vectors, that we need to get folks to clarify their scope. Otherwise, we would spend enormous amounts of time and effort (we hate inefficiency) chasing possible solution pathways down that in the end, weren’t relevant to the original question, because the question was not posed properly/adequately. Example: Don’t ask us the “meaning of life” and then have a hissie-fit when we tell you “42”. AKA -if you aren’t prepared to dive into details, don’t ask us questions you really don’t need highly thought-out answers to. Conversely, if you are honestly trying to understand something, with the understanding that: You don't have a clue to solve the problem You are willing to put in the required effort to truly understand the question, and then, also the answer (because non-INTJs usually don't have the patience or foresight to see why the answer presented is the correct one, only you have to get all the way to step 16, for instance, to realize it is in fact the answer before the seemingly endless rabbit-hole reveals the truth)then INTJs will save your world. You should also be aware that when we put forth solutions, we are intently observing your uptake of it. If we determine you don't take our solutions as seriously as the problem, you’ll no doubt get a “No” next time you ask a question, as the prior was an inefficient waste of our time/effort if you demonstrate the inability/unwillingness to see the solution through. INTJs really do want to save the world and are fairly kind at heart (even if our exteriors don't appear that way - remember we are constantly assimilating details about the universe and are mentally busy, 24/7), but we don't take kindly to those who abuse/disrespect our efforts put forth on their behalf. This contributes to the common misconception that INTJs are cold, maniacal geniuses out to take over the world. While we aren’t in fact out to “conquer the world”, we are very passionate about fixing/improving it (who do you think created the majority of all these technical advances that make our modern human society today?), we have little use for those who blindly stumble around in it causing needless problems, or who are unwilling to even try to be a part of the answer, even if they don't necessarily understand it. As such, we have a highly developed sense of altruism to use our skills on the side of good (if for no reason, it can be more efficient). Just don’t tempt us to turn to the dark side... that would be... unwise ;^). To summarize, we “think” at a frighteningly high level (at least to non-INTJs) of depth, complexity, context, everything. The scale of details (and context) factored into account when “thinking” is ginormous, compared with other MB types. We're “thinking machines”, but with a scoop of heart/conscience because we synthesize minutia of details with the big picture. The whole, and its parts, or equally informed/contributing in our “thinking”. We willingly follow the rabbit holes to their ends, because the view at the other end is often incredibly beautiful and worth the journey. I hope this helps. 