Imposter Syndrome: What are some effective ways to overcome the Impostor Syndrome as a female engineer?
Thanks for asking me to answer... this is a hard one. I’ve felt like an impostor many times so I think all the answers here are already very valuable! Having worked internships/assistantships in the US (NASA and MIT with a diverse mix of Americans), Europe (European Space Agency with a diverse mix of Europeans) and India (in the IITs with a diverse mix of Indians), I believe the answer to this question is VERY culture dependent. India is most definitely the hardest I’ve faced, but I’m going to try to make this as general as possible and address all of us girls as ‘you’. Recognize why you’re feeling like an impostor. In most cases, it is because you are severely outnumbered by males who are backslapping each other and because women are wrongly considered left-brain weak (not so good at math and logic). Every bit of scientific research shows that being female doesn’t automatically make you calculus-deficient (I could go on and on but here: The Clearest Graphs You Will Ever See Refuting the Idea That Women Are Bad at Math). You are not ANY DUMBER than the random boy next to you and you are where you are by as much merit as him. If you are feeling dumb, it is likely because circumstances are forcing you to feel that way, and you should ask yourself how you can change these circumstances. Remember that women all over the world in engineering face challenges; here are articles that’ll help you relate: Barriers to Women in Academic Science and Engineeringand Public image, self-image, and women in computer science. And here's a video to summarize: For any project, make sure you are on the same page with your supervisor and team-mates about what your deliverables and contribution will be. Since engineering is a largely team-based activity, and if outnumbered by men, you may find yourself at a disadvantage in matching up to expectations/biases/abrupt judgments. Bydefining “your territory”, you manage to individualize at least a part of your work. Then you can take ownership of that part and avoid being directly compared or questioned about your contribution to the giant soup. I find this easier to do in programming/coding jobs but not so much in hardware jobs, but still doable. Document what you've done either as a paper/report/CADfile/GitHub directory and link it to your name, if you can, for future reference. If you do well in “your territory”, it will build your self-confidence. If you don’t, you are in a better position assess why because you’re sufficiently decoupled from the social noise variables. Try to ensure that you are working with at least one other female team-mate or better still, reporting to at least one female supervisor. This is especially true when you're new and starting out. I have worked in many teams with zero other women and I can strongly feel the change in self-assurance when I have a female supervisor or team-mates.  When you do, make sure you work together and stick up for each other, much like the men camaraderie you’ll notice often. Also, looking at how well your female supervisors have done for themselves will boost your confidence. You may also watch them/be mentored and therefore learn a lot. If you aren’t lucky enough to find other women, try to choose a supervisor and/or a team who has a good track record on working with women. My current supervisor is a great example here. In all my interactions with him and talking with others about his very internationally diverse group, he comes across as a strong supporter of women doing well. He’s encouraged me (and other female students) to give a talk in his daughter’s high school on my experiences on being a STEM woman. If I disappear after winning an award or something (being a giant introvert in general), he makes sure the department heads and labmates find out about it. He encourages me to take pride in my achievements by doing so expressively himself instead of holler at me that I should cut out being a meek nobody. I’ve had a boss (who barely ever supervises girls) do the latter and it only pushed me further into my shell. Choose your initial environment wisely and the built confidence will take you a long way later with or without other women. Do not come across as too pushy/bossy/dominating when or to prevent being cornered/ignored. This is true for engineering or not alike (Sheryl Sandberg mentions it in Lean In as well) but the impostor syndrome increases tendencies to overcompensate. I’ve heard of women getting taken off teams because of “non-likeability”. I know it’s a bias, but people expect women to behave in a patient and understanding way. Even if they don’t, a woman being overtly loud is very noticeable and turns both men and women in your team off. Instead, offer suggestions in a firm tone and explain your logic calmly. Don't take judgment too personally, but do respond to it and be positive and constructive in your response. Anne K. Halsall has wonderful examples of this. Ask yourself what unique skill you bring to the table and build those skills and its associated image bit by bit. If you think you’ve been assigned something you may not be the best for, say so. You don’t have to say no, just set the expectations right early on. When you know your expert skills and have “your territory”, speak up about it. Fake it till you make it. In meetings, when asked about observations, back it up with inferences and reasoning. For example, during a discussion, if you’re asked ‘Did the anemometer spin?’, don’t just nod yes. Instead, say, ‘Yes, and I think it did so because…/from it I infer that…/but I’m not sure if…’ Show that you have a confident reasoning process to back up your judgment. Projecting self-confidence induces others’ confidence in you. Building an image bit by bit will increase your team worth and start a positive reinforcement loop. Talk about your experience in a project/team/company with women or people outside it to get a fresh perspective of your situation. It is easy to get sucked into a hole because you see no one else feeling as down. If you feel discriminated against, have an open conversation with your supervisor mentioning instances you felt so and why. State your assumptions and be specific because you don’t want to be branded as judgmental and whiney yourself. You could also try mentoring young girls using values and insights you've learned - their questions will help you reshape your own opinion and learning. It’s a hard world out there but it is incredibly rewarding and fulfilling when you do well in spite of all the odds. A lot of people understand this and will help you along the way. Take the help and give it back when you can, it’s an amazing journey when done right. I’m still a PhD student so no full-time work ex yet, so an engineer in progress yet, but I hope this helps! Updated 99w ago • View Upvotes