Game Theory: How can we move from a rational society to a superrational society? How close are we to the same?
First, superrationality is not exactly a situation where you expect the other player to be "good", it is a situation where you expect the other player to also be identically superrational and take this fact into account in your decision making (and likewise the other player does also, since you are identical), there is nothing normative about it. When you know that both of you are going to do the same thing, and you are superrational, you do the thing which is the best same-thing for you. This coincides with the good thing for the collective. Superrationality comes in flavors. To see this, consider a four-person prisoner's dilemma, where A and B play and C and D play, then C and A play and B and D play. You can have an AB superrationality shared by A and B, so that A and B cooperate because they share a strategy, call it "Holy Righteous superrationality", and also a separate C and D superrationality shared by C and D, called "Divine Action superrationality". The A and B holy-righteous players cooperate with each other, but knowing that the holy-righteous strategy is shared by holy-righteous players, which tells you to cooperate with holy righeous players when you are holy righteous, this doesn't tell you anything definitive about the divine-action strategy, so A and B defect against C and D. So it is good to distinguish the superrationalities and give each one a name. I will call them "religions", because that's what they are, and that's what religions are in positivistic essence, a guarantee of superrationality. The point of superrationality is that the individuality is always a construction of collectives, even you are a collection of neurons, and individuality can congeal in various ways. For example, consider playing your left hand against your right hand. These are controlled by two hemispheres of your brain that are largely independent, they are only linked by a communication bridge in the middle. So your left hemisphere might feel it can get a temporary advantage from say getting the right hand to chop off the left hand, because then the pesky right hemisphere would no longer be able to interfere with all the right-hand actions the left hemisphere wishes to do. This is completely ridiculous, because I am breaking up your individual into two collectives, and setting them fighting against one another, but this is nonsense! Your left brain and right brain are quite sure both that the other is different, but useful. There is some anti-right sentiment in your left hemisphere, it might take over some function it feels the right hemisphere isn't doing well, but it is always going to do so in awareness of the congealed thing that they together form, whcih is you. The superrationality shows you that the game-theoretic analyses depend on an unstated assumption, that the rational play is between uncongealed players. Human players are always congealed with each other, and know that there is a certain level of superrationality expected in any social order. So ultimately there is no predictive power to tradtional game theory, outside of certain very large markets, because the most important aspect, superrationality, is ignored, or else dismissed as irrationality. The superrational idea allows collectives to make a larger individual than any of the players. This individual I will call a "god". The communities play games against each other, and this is gods against gods, and there is a sense in which you would expect the gods to make bigger gods when they play superrationally against each other. The ultimate thing is the monotheistic conception of God. The notion of God is clarified only when you consider asymmetric games. In this case, you need to not only make judgements about best play, you need to evaluate how good one player's outcome is against another player's. This evaluation requires the god to assign a utility to each outcome, and the process of doing so rationally, by the Von-Neumann Morgenstern construction, produces a disembodied will. This is the will of the gods. The will of the gods are ultimately, when the gods are superrational, parts of the will of God, the ultimate superrational strategy on top of everything. That's the monotheistic conception of God. It requires not just superrationality, but asymmetric superrationality made universal. To implement superrationality in life, you just change the game, by adding penalties to behavior to make the rational and superrational play coincide. You can't do this for everything, so you also tell people about God, and you ask them to be good, and when a sufficiently large number are ok, you get enough progress. But in cases where superrationality and Nash rationality don't coincide, you need a new law. The problem is that it's not like any individual knows exactly what God's will is, so there is this situation of incomplete knowledge. In this case, it is important to not be dogmatic, and allow people to try out various forms of organization on different scales, and to congeal on an answer only when it is certainly correct. This is what people have been muddling with, with religions and economic systems, and although superrationlity tells you why that's going on, it doesn't really help you figure out the next step at all, it just shows that the process we are using is pretty much what you need. There is another thing, which is that there are situations where you want to eliminate superrational behavior entirely. In markets, any superrational behavior is a market distortion, which prevents efficient pricing. If you superrationally prefer your overpriced supplier because you have a long history of buying from this person, and good relationships, and you went to school together, you are costing a cheaper supplier income. So in order to make capitalism function, you need to make people less superrational than they intrinsically are, so as to find an economic equilibrium. This is not natural, so there is a lot of propaganda against religion in capitalist countries, and a lot of powerful people are atheists. But this type of selfish behavior is not incompatible with superrationality, so long as it is clear that the goal is maximum economic efficiency. You just have to make sure that the economic equilibrium is actually being approached. With regard to this, superrational behavior in markets produces terrible distortions, the class structure of capitalism is entirely maintained through people shaking hands and giving a leg up to their buddies, it is not a conspiracy of evil. But the superrational collective produced by the classes segregate wealth into certain classes, and right now, the distribution of money in an economy is so inefficient, that you need a government to step in and take money away from some people by force, and hand it out to others, just for the economy to function! In a perfect market, everyone has a job at a good wage, and this is unnecessary. I don't think there is any good insight here, you need to know about superrationality in the abstract, but a tolerance for variation to produce future stuff, and in situations where you set up a market, you need people to behave superficially non-superrationally in their hiring and buying choices, so that the market will work. As time goes on, the laws and structures make less of a gap between the ration and superrational outcome, and eventually, there is no difference, but at this point, new situations arise where there is a gap, and you focus on those next. It's just a neverending process, it's what people are going through. 