How do INTJs think?
I joked with my friend  that I think like a computer. Give me the right "program" and I can give you the right answer. Sadly this is really true. Whenever I tackle an essay, for example, I try to lay out all of the pieces I know into a template in my head I have which has never failed me in essay writing situations. As long as I recall the content correctly, essay writing is very simple to me. As far as recalling the content...I use whatever it takes. A smell, a sight, a sound, a conversation...that part of my recall seems miraculous to me in that it's just incredible how an average human being is able to recall anything in such a complex and rich way. Whenever I tackle math problems...same thing. I like math more than chemistry (especially organic) because the techniques you learn are usually directly applicable. But in order to tackle a chemistry problem, I lay out what I know to be my "tools". I look at a problem and say...which tools can I use? I try one tool...then I understand the dimensions of the problem better because the first tool most always fails. I troubleshoot and see if I have another tool in my kit to fix the problems that came with using the first tool. I go through things step-by-step and systematically.  Sometimes I even combine tools and feel clever for a moment. If you know what constitutional isomers are...well they say there is no "step by step" way to generate them. I said, "To hell with that!" And talked with many different people in order to generate my own steps. There is always a method to the madness. And I can do constitutional isomer problems like whoa. In lab there's no question where I went wrong if I go wrong (fairly often occurrence)...my procedures are a strange point of pride for me, and my notebook is kept well and meticulously. I want to be able to point out where I went wrong, and 9.5/10 times I am able to do that. TL;DR It's like I try to reduce everything I've learned down to a giant consistent flowchart depending on the task. I'm a consistent and hard worker, and so this helps me in my aim to do many problems in order to make as good of a flowchart as I can. My aim is not to understand it in the moment, but rather, to understand it for myself such that I'm able to explain it to a future me who has forgotten it. If I can generalize a problem solving process or isolate the necessary skills the solution requires, I will be better able to explain things to future-me. I would say my weakness is in things that are not articulated well so that I can translate them into a "program". For example, constitutional isomers. Or, for the first semester of Philosophy for me, how to churn out essays effectively. I talked to one of my professors for the Philosophy thing and cleared it up...the rest of my education there was breezy. For the science thing..it takes me more footwork. 