How do INTJs think?
Ok, I am an INTJ and I will tell you how I thought approaching this question. First, I read Annika Schauer's response.  I thought it was pretty clever and clearly represented the way I think. Then I came to read the other answers.  Then I got distracted thinking about how obsessed Quora is with INTJ's.  Do people ask how other personality types think? Then I had to figure out what the relative interest in INTJ's is on Quora compared to other MBTI personality types.  Turns out, Quorans are most fascinated by INTJ's with 475 questions on the topic.  Which personality type is least fascinating?  The ESTJ, with 8 questions.  Now, I find that hilarious because my husband is an ESTJ.  Of course, he doesn't have much interest in Quora so it seems fair that Quora would have little interest in him. So, thinking about what fascinates Quorans about the INTJ, I made a chart of # of questions on Quora compared to % of population with that personality type:   I had hypothesized, before going through the effort of getting the population percentages from the Myers Briggs website and making this chart, that Quorans might be more interested in the least common personality types.  I can even appreciate the greater interest in introverts, as many Quorans are probably introverts.  But, why are INFJ's less popular on Quora than the much more common INFP?  Now, I think it must be which personality types have the most active contributors.  INTJ's, I suppose, must like Quora especially.  Well, I like Quora, so that's makes a certain kind of sense. So after this analysis and thinking, I came back here and read the question details: Give  a scenario, demonstrating strategy, tactics, operational detail, etc.,  and then describe the associate implementation approach and decided to answer the question using my thought process in answering the question, and started typing. Now, I have to add, that just as I was typing about the ESTJ (just above where I put in the graph), I went back to check what the 8 questions were about and found that there is an ESTJ topic separate from the ESTJ (personality type) topic, which only has 1 question.  This is important because I had already created the chart of all the personality types and am now saddened that it may be inaccurate if there are multiple topics for each personality type. At this point in answering the question I will usually realize that I have gotten completely off track, delete all the previous writing, and restart.  I would simplify my entire thinking process to the shortest distillation which I think still answers the question: Scenario: Answer "How do INTJ's think?" Strategy: Choose a scenario, think about it, describe those thoughts Tactics: Read all information available to determine an appropriate scenario to describe and how my answer will add value Operational Detail: Get distracted in the process, learn some interesting things about Quorans interests in MBTI personality types Implementation Approach: As direct and straight forward as possible Then, I read that and think, is that really any more helpful than the other answers?  At this point though, I have put enough effort into this answer that I am posting it anyway. 