What psychological tricks and hacks are useful to know?
- Men are more attracted to women who possess a bone structure that resembles that of their mothers.  This is known as “sexual imprinting”; which is a term coined by researchers. ​ - When two people who love each other look into each other’s eyes, then their heart rates synchronize with each other.  Studies have shown that couples who are in love are so bonded that after three minutes of looking into each other’s eyes, their heart rates will synch up with each other. ​ - If time is on your side, then you might be more likely to find love than if it were not.  Timing significantly influences love, and individuals are more likely to fall in love when they are in a mindset of looking for adventure, wanting to leave home, lonely, in a foreign country, gravitating into a new stage of life, or financially and psychologically ready to share themselves or start a family. - Research has shown that if a man meets a woman while in a dangerous situation, or if a woman meets a man in a dangerous situation, they are more likely to fall in love with each other than if they were to meet in a mundane setting.  ​ - If you get dumped, or were a dumper; be careful.  Being dumped could lead to “frustration attraction”.  Frustration attraction only means that the individual who was dumped will love and lust the person who dumped them even more. - Be careful who you look at, because if you look into a stranger’s eyes, you can fall in love.  Our eyes are the windows to our souls, so it comes as no surprise that by simply looking at someone, even if you do not know them, you can fall for them.  By gazing or looking at someone, your body will produce phenylethylamine, a chemical that is associated with the body’s fight-or-flight response. - If you love cuddling, then you will be happy to know that cuddling is known to release natural painkillers.  When two people embrace or cuddle, their brains release oxytocin, which is a cuddle hormone.  Oxytocin appears in a person’s brain, and their ovaries and testicles are also involved in this bonding process.  Oxytocin helps to decrease headaches and can help pain go away for up to 4 hours.  So if you are feeling tired, stressed, or in pain – cuddling is a great alternative to any painkillers. ​ https://blog.udemy.com/psycholog... 