I am against same-sex marriage. Will everyone hate me?
No.  But you should seek to reconcile those reasons with logic.  It's perfectly okay to have an emotionally based and biased opinion.  That's life. We're humans we all have them.  But you should always question WHY you believe what you do and you should -- at least internally -- have a never-ending quest to rationalize your opinions against known information (the most important of that being: scientific information). If you have a shred of bravery in you, you should be able to stand before people and describe your opinion and offer valid, rational reasons as to why.  These reasons should follow closely the rules of logical and scientific discourse.  Now, again, you have the absolute right to believe whatever you want, no matter how extreme that view.  You should not have to justify those opinions to anyone for any reason.  They're yours!  But you should have the ability to justify them with something more rational than, "Cuz I said so!" or  "Whatever.  I don't care.  This is how I feel!" But if you think of yourself as intelligent, thinking and rational, then you should learn the rules of LOGIC and apply them to why you think the way you do.  If something doesn't work out logically, the intelligent thing to do is swallow your pride and accept the glaring fact that as a flawed human being, your prejudices just might be wrong and might need to be abandoned.  If you cannot do that, then you lack significant quantities of maturity, bravery and intelligence.  If you can apply logic to your views, examine their roots, causality and their purpose and STILL hang on to them, then there's no shame in them.  But no degree of homophobia withstands the test of logic and certainly not in the light of very reasonable scientific information we have available.  If you're hanging on to them "just cuz", then right there tells you the type of character you are. Your opinions are not you.  Opinions are just pieces of data we carry in a box with us.  They can and should be exchanged, altered or discarded when they are demonstrated to be flawed by available facts and logic.   If you marry yourself to an opinion, you'll cling to it regardless of what information is available.  You'll confuse the opinion with "the self" and see even reasonable questioning of that opinion as an attack on yourself. This is not rational nor is it intelligent.   If you want to be right -- prepare to change your mind! Updated 76w ago • View Upvotes