What are the best ways to fight corruption in India?
I am a little late in replying to this question. There are already 100+ answers to this question and everyone has made some valuable suggestions to fight corruption in India. I don’t want to waste your time in repeating the same answers in different words. I face another problem in answering this question because the question is directed against me as a government servant. Hence, I am going to act as a devil’s advocate and exercise my right of self-defense, which every civilized society gives to every accused person. My purpose is not to offer a justification for corruption but to provide you a different point of view which is difficult to visualize from your place as a citizen who is facing the brunt of the government officials. You are welcome to accept it or reject it. You are also welcome to criticize it with proper reasoning and I shall try to explain my point of view as best as I can. 1: Show us some appreciation When was the last time you have heard about something good done by a government officer? It may be a few days, a few months or may be never.  You have perhaps only read the stories or seen the videos of government officers making tons of money and never heard about millions of government officials who retire from the top positions of IAS, IPS or IRS without having a decent flat in a good locality.  We all need appreciation because we are all human beings. You have perhaps read this story somewhere. One day Thomas Edison came home and gave a paper to his mother. He told her, “My teacher gave this paper to me and told me to only give it to my mother.” His mother’s eyes were tearful as she read the letter out loud to her child: “Your son is a genius. This school is too small for him and doesn’t have enough good teachers for training him. Please teach him yourself.” After many, many years, after Edison’s mother died and he was now one of the greatest inventors of the century, one day he was looking through old family things. Suddenly he saw a folded paper in the corner of a drawer in a desk. He took it and opened it up. On the paper was written: “Your son is addled [mentally ill]. We won’t let him come to school any more.” Edison cried for hours and then he wrote in his diary: “Thomas Alva Edison was an addled child that, by a hero mother, became the genius of the century.” Do I still need to explain the power of appreciation? I am not expecting you to appreciate us falsely like the mother of Edison, which only a mother can do. However, it is not unreasonable to expect fairness in appreciation and criticism both.  I can assure you that it will work more effectively than all the criticism of the people and media put together.  2: Elect the Right People You are all aware of your power of vote. You can make an ordinary person a Prime Minister of this country and make a PM an ordinary person. Please don’t misuse your power by electing people just because they belong to your caste or religion. Please don’t vote for them because they are from a political party whose leaders you support, because if your leader can’t give tickets to the right people, he/she does not deserve your support. Please don’t elect people who are corrupt, criminal and goon because they are going to use all the government machinery of the country for their advantage only, if they come to power. Please don’t vote just because some candidate has offered you a bottle of liquor or a few hundred (or thousand) rupees because you will lose far more by taking such small favour and you will gain much more by resisting your small temptations.  You are the maker of your own destiny and you can’t exonerate yourself for your wrong decisions by blaming the person whom you have yourself elected. 3: Focus on Development You have perhaps heard the wise words of Mark Twain, "The lack of money is the root of all evil."  It is indeed true that poverty is the root cause of all corruption.  There is no poor country in the world which figures anywhere on the list of top honest countries  according to Transparency International. Please visit How corrupt is your country? to see it yourelf. I know you are going to say that unless we are honest, we can’t develop. I must rebut your claim by humbly submitting that it is not true. You know that China (100th position in honesty) is the faster growing nation of the world today and it is even more corrupt than India (85th position in honesty). Corruption happens mainly due to the wide gap in the demand and supply of goods and services. Around 20 years ago, people had to pay several thousand bucks to get a telephone connection and use their connection with MP and MLA. Today companies are coming to your doorstep to offer the connection. If the demand-supply gap would have continued, no punishment could have curbed corruption in telephone allotment.  If you take care of development, most of your problems (including corruption) shall automatically be taken care of. Please read Awdhesh Singh's answer to Why there is so much corruption in India? Why our leaders and bureaucrats are so corrupt? Why can’t we remove corruption from India?  to understand the real challenges in removing corruption. 4: Officers Also Need Rewards While it is true that in the ideal world, people should be naturally be inclined to do the right thing and avoid doing wrong things. However, such noble actions are possible only in an ideal world which may come after a few thousand years, when the humanity has evolved to the level of sainthood. Ordinary human beings need appreciation, awards and incentives to work harder. When you pay the same salary to a person who works 16 hours a day (plus risk his life) and the one who work merely an hour in a day; the system is bound to collapse without corruption. Why not develop a system when you pay the person according to his ability and his contribution to the organization? Don’t you think that a constable working 24 hours at a stretch deserve some extra-pay and extra facilities than a peon who just lift the files and salute the officer?  Treating everyone equal may be an ideal principle in the spiritual world but the real world need differentiation.  Please develop a system when the honest and hardworking officer earns more than the dishonest and inefficient; and they are given faster promotions based on performance.  If you want to fix the system, make good system which can produce great results by employing ordinary people and not depending upon saints and genius to deliver the results. Let me remind everyone the wise words of Peter Drucker, the legendary Management Guru of the world. “No institution can possibly survive if it needs geniuses or supermen to manage it. It must be organized in such a way as to be able to get along under a leadership composed of average human beings.” 5: Use Information Technology Finally, it may be pertinent to mention that you have to make use extensive use of IT in governance to provide good governance. You can't provide modern government with ancient system of paper-file-based system. This requires massive investment in government and change of procedures in government by extensive Business Process Reengineering (BPR).  An ATM does not follow the procedures of a human cashier. An airplane does not fly like a bird. A motor car does not move like a horse. Machines work efficiently when the procedures are modified to suit them rather than they created to suit the system. There is an urgent need to devise new procedures for governance and reduce government to improve governance. If we truly wish to remove corruption, let us not focus on symptoms but cure the ailment. PS:  Please read Awdhesh Singh's answer to Civil services in India: What concrete steps can be taken to significantly reduce corruption levels? 