In Matrix Revolutions, what's going on when Neo and a sentinel appear to merge?
I really loved this movie because when you really delve into it and look at the symbolism and you relate it to anyone who is into "Dream Work" it makes much sense. It makes sense in the way that we are ALL energy, electricity and we only accept a small percentage of that fact. Our mind is only as open as we let it be open and we never think of what we've dreamed about and apply it to our outside real world. ANY thing that we seek in the real world can be answered in the "Dream World" and we pass on from state to state through energy. Just like Neo connected himself to the Sentinels and Programs via his "Energy" we can connect to other people in out world. Eer wonder how we don't touch anyone and yet when we move our hand close to another it's not just the static electricity in the air that makes the hairs stand up or feel like we are being touched it's our "energy". By Neo accepting it all within him he touched everything! As it passed through him both energies and all entities that he interacts with are a sort of "known" thing to each other. We ask each other "have we met" or "have you been to" and we already have touched our energies with that person and actually everyone one the room which is why at times we know that someone is staring at us. If we hone our dream states and develop ourselves to mix conscious with subconscious what we missed throughout the day that we don't process visually will be revealed to us when we sleep. It's in it's own way why we dream what we dream because there is thousands and thousands of fragmented information that goes unprocessed that our brain has to make "sense of it all" we don't due to our conditioning. We only "see" what we want or what we are used to or what they tell us is there. To open the Third Eye is to open that which we have forgotten to over Millenia. We are such higher beings than we give ourselves credit for.  There's just way too much for some and there is so much mental disorder because a weak mind "short circuits" and has to sort of reboot. It's why most people who left the theater afterward left with many questions and asked each other are you real, is that you. We are all in a sense a memory and time is not relevant... 