What are all the arguments against gay marriage?
The only reasons I've heard for such claims that gays shouldn't be allowed to marry are: It will "somehow" denigrate the "sanctity of marriage." God says... Jesus says... (which he didn't, at least according to the Red Letters) "But, but, but, what about the children..."Ok... now I'm mad this last is just, flat, stoopid! (As in "Here's you sign!!") From another Answer of mine: Marriage, whatever the status of procreation, or lack thereof, is not "all about the kids." And it never has been. It is about forming, and legally protecting, a partnership between folks in life in such a way that your neighbors (and government) recognize the partnership. Under the claim implied by the Question: Anyone who can't have kids would be prohibited from marriage. This stance is patently, legally, Constitutionally, and morally ridiculous. Now... if you really want to go there (hint: you really don't) it's worth noting that The Church didn’t even begin to pay attention to, much less record, non- noble marriages until the 13th century A.D. In other words it's a Civil Function. The proof that it's a Civil function in the US is that every officiant in almost every State says words similar to: "By the power vested in me by the State of ×××, I hereby declare you to be married." The officiant then finishes filling out the marriage certificate/license, which was obtained from the State Records Office, and returns it to... the State Records Office. Not the Church. The Church, if one is involved, may act as a carrier for that license, but does not issue it. In several States neither the church nor the government need to be involved at all, and all the couple needs to do is show that they intended to be marriedby holding themselves up to their community as such for a set period of time. Here's the States which recognize Common Law marriage: Alabama Colorado District of Columbia Georgia (if created before 1/1/97) Idaho (if created before 1/1/96) Iowa Kansas Montana New Hampshire (for inheritance purposes only) Ohio (if created before 10/10/91) Oklahoma Pennsylvania (if created before 1/1/05) Rhode Island South Carolina Texas Utah In any case there is zero requirement in any State that the couple have larva, or even that they declare that they intend to have larva. In fact they could even declare that they do not intend to have kids and that would have precisely zero effect on the legality or legitimacy of their marriage. Last but not least; there's absolutely nothing which would prevent a gay couple from having kids... There are ways, and then There Are Ways. This alone invalidates the whole line of argument of argument by fallacy contained in the Question. Seriously, folks. Let's just get over this particular blatant false conflation. Please? All of these boil down to "But It's ICKY!" Which is a nonsensical reason on any level. Here's why I support gay marriage: Simple math. Rights = Rights People = People No Rights for some People = The potential to have No Rights for all People For the details on why I think this way please see the actual words of Our Constitution in the 14th Amendment, Section 1... and Kris Rosvold's answer to Can I be considered homophobic if I get mad when a same sex person hits on me in any given way? Updated 36w ago • View Upvotes