Is there too much Indian content on Quora?
There are so many variations of this question on Quora that it's simply nauseating. There are too many Indians, mediocre content, spoiling the Quora ecosystem blah blah that it gets tiring after a while. Anyway, here is an answer. 1) There are too many Indians on Quora: There are too many of us on this planet anyway. We constitute 18 p.c. of the world population. Find any popular social media platform and we are a considerable chunk there! 2) English proficiency: The only language allowed on Quora is English which plays into the Indian hands. Most educated Indians are at least an average-level proficient in two languages i.e. their mother tongue and English, and some people are more proficient in English than their mother tongue even! There are so many languages and cultures in India that English has become a sort of a link-language between people. At least among the educated mobile Indian population, English is the preferred mode of communication, more than Hindi even! Openly embracing English, unlike some other countries, has helped too! 3) "Indians driving people from other nationalities away" fear: Did Indians drive people away from Facebook? No! Did Indians drive people away from YouTube? No! Does the rising Indian Instagram population discourage Americans from sharing their pictures? A resounding no! If the product is robust, people will join irrespective of whether Indians, Japanese, Americans or Somalian pirates are the overwhelming majority. Period! 4) "Mediocre Indian content spoiling the feed" myth: I have been using Quora for the past six months, that too out of a single Indian city i.e. Hyderabad. However, I have noticed that the my feed keeps on changing depending on the topics I follow, the people I follow, the answers I write and the answers I upvote. So, I am very well sure that an user sitting in France/ Belgium/ South Africa won't get Indian content on his feed unless he/she follows Indians and/or predominantly Indian topics. Quora feed is heavily personalized. So, the quantity of Indian content isn't going to affect non-Indians unless they choose to follow Indians and Indian topics! Note: a) The Quora filters still need a lot of refinement however. I would say it's about 60 p.c. perfect now. b) Mute option is a handy tool too! P.S.: There are a couple of minor problem with Indian content too. a) There is no proper demographic divide among the Indian Quorans. Most of us in here are engineers in the age group of 20-35! So, the opinion sometimes might become a bit homogeneous! b) Due to the above demographics, most of us are generalists too (except a few Top Writers and popular ones). I am one! Updated 57w ago • View Upvotes