Do arranged marriages in India really work?
Let me answer this in terms of Poker............                                                                             Assumptions are: - All players have same no. of chips                                          Once the last card(river) is shown by the dealer, if you have to play you have to go All IN. Step 1 : You are asked by friend/decide to play poker tournament = You are pushed by family/decide to get married. Step 2 : You buy some chips = You put your profile on matrimonial sites or some relative of yours starts doing match making job for you.                                                Step 3: Players sit on the table = You start getting proposals from the social circle of your different relatives.   Step 4: Cards are dealt = Photos are sent/received.                                              Step 5-a) You like your cards (AA or some higher cards) = You like the photographs/families/background/profession etc etc.                                            Step 5-b) If you don't like your cards you fold(2-3, 2-7 or any such combination) = If you find any major issue, you decline the approach or halt it.                                                     Step 5-c) If you find your cards are okay okay, you take a chance (a leap of faith) = If you feel that something is there which you may like in the prospective boy/girl, you take a chance (a leap of faith).                  Step 6: You place your bet = You decide to meet the boy/girl and his/her family.                                              Step 7: Dealer opens the 3 cards at flop. You decide on raising/checking/folding = You get to know something more about your prospective match and his/her family in the meeting.  You decide to know more/ keep this match on hold and check/ say No at this stage.                                            Step 8-a): If you decide to fold, wait for the next hand = If you say No, wait for the next boy/girl and repeat the first 5 steps. Step 8-b): If you decide to check, you must see if no other player is raising, otherwise you will have to also raise/fold = If the prospective match shows more interest than you, you will have to decide whether you also want to show this much interest to this proposal or say No. Step 8-c): If you decide to raise, the other players should raise too or fold out = Your prospective match should also show the same amount interest in you as you have shown in him/her or you can get a No from the other side. Step 9: Dealer opens the 4th card at turn. You almost know what are your odds of winning this hand = Now most of the things about the prospective match are known to you and you can take a decision on advancing to the next step i.e. Engagement.                                           Step 10: Dealer opens the 5th card at turn. Now you see how strong is your hand and if you are really sure then you decide to go ALL IN but if something terribly goes wrong you decide to check/fold = Engagement is done and now Marriage is on the way. You again think that is everything right and if you feel so you go ahead with the marriage. If something goes wrong terribly, you decide to postpone the marriage or cancel it altogether.                                          Step 10-a) If you decide to fold, wait for the next hand (You may lose a good amount of chips by folding at this stage) = If you say No, wait for the next boy/girl and repeat the first 9 steps (You may get a lot of criticization from the society, your ex-match's family etc etc.) Step 10-b) If you decide to check, you must see if no other player is raising, otherwise you will have to also raise/fold =  If the prospective match and his/her family pushes for marriage still, you will have to decide whether you want to go ahead with the marriage or say No. Step 10-c) If you decide to go ALL IN, you are still not sure that you will win because you have to wait for all the players to open their cards and make sure your hand is the best. If your hand is the best you win. If your hand is beaten, its a bad loss and you lose a good amount of chips and your confidence is hurt = If you marry, you are still not sure that everything will be right. You have to wait for some more time to check whether you are happy in the marriage or not. If you stay really happy in your marriage, congratulations. However, if the marriage doesn't go as you thought then you are trapped. Now if you take divorce, you lose good amount of money, time and your confidence is hurt.                                                                Step 11: If you win the hand, you play the next hand. You decide till what time and amount you want to play. If you are winning, you will like to play till eternity. But if you start losing, you decide at what time you should stand up from the table or you will play till you are bankrupt = After marriage each day is a poker hand. If you are happy in marriage, you want that your marriage lasts for your lifetime. But, if problems start creeping in and you are not able to solve them, you decide what to do about marriage. Either take a divorce or take a decision that you will go down while trying to amend your marriage. or  P.S. -> Most of the people in India decide to go down while trying to amend the marriage. One reason is obvious that you mentioned in the question due to the social taboo/financial/children and other reasons. Second reason is hope. Hope is a very significant part of lives of people in India. They hope that if marriage is not going right, someday, sometime everything will be good. That's equivalent to thinking that you have lost 900 chips out of 1000 but you still have hope that you can get back your 1000 from the last remaining 100. That is HOPE. P.P.S. -> In step 4 you can choose to play blind i.e. without looking at your cards = You can meet directly your prospective match without seeing any photo. P.P.P.S. -> Any edits/suggestions are welcome :) 