Why do atheists say something is wrong without providing proof?
Rationalism is a funny kind of tool. It's very good for dealing with experiments: I think the universe is thus-and-such, crunch-crunch-grind, out pops the right answer. Yay. It's not such a good tool for dealing with human beings. People like to think of themselves as rational; they are not. People think of themselves as rational creatures with an emotional side; in practice, their thinking patterns are not all that much more advanced than most mammals, and their reasoning skills are barely adequate to even simple tasks. Even with perfect information, it's practically impossible to convince somebody of something they don't wish to believe. And we're rarely presented with perfect information: "proof" in the mathematical sense is incredibly rare. Even "proof" in the scientific sense is encountered mostly in simplified laboratory circumstances, and real-world levels of evidence are always far lower (and generally justify only crude theories). Still, it's a good tool when used well. Scientists are well-regarded for their skilled use of it. Many (though far from all) atheists derive their nonbelief from a similar kind of process, so much so that "science" and "atheism" are often conflated. (They're not, and shouldn't be, but the conflation isn't completely unjustified.) Even arguments among reasonable people are difficult. Bring in somebody who isn't as well predisposed to rational argument, and you're just utterly boned. Worse: because they're not constrained by reason, they can actually believe themselves to be perfectly governed by reason. That seems paradoxical, but it's just pointing out the difference between "belief" and "knowledge": knowledge is constrained by a (more or less) objective universe, while belief is unconstrained. You can believe contradictions, including the belief that contradictions aren't contradictory. Needless to say, this is very frustrating to those who believe themselves to be rational. Atheists often believe (not always with justification) that they have a superior claim to the term. But even when their claim actually is valid, their time and effort is often wasted: no amount of rationality will trump irrationality. You can believe anything you want, and no power in the universe will ever force you to believe otherwise. If time spent on "proof" is wasted, there's no sense in giving it. You simply write the arguer off as Invincibly Ignorant (to borrow a term used by some logicians), and suffer the consequences of having a valid argument be ignored. This wouldn't necessarily be so bad, if the consequences weren't physical. Religious arguments aren't always abstract. From gay marriage laws to attempts to teach creationism in science classes to terrorism, religious people have tried to enforce their faith on others, and no amount of rationalism will convince them otherwise. 