What are the best ways to fight corruption in India?
Corruption is a social menace and has assumed disproportionate dimensions in our country. Basic reasons why corruption thrives in our country? 1.Lack of education: This point cant be emphasized enough.Vast majority of the populace are simply unaware of various rules and tricked by officials/middlemen.The problem is further compounded in case of government offices which to date remains very much opaque. 2."Chalta hai" attitude: Even the so called educated class don't bother to take the pain to follow the rules.They see no harm in greasing the palm of some official to expedite their work. 3.Absence of a strong culture of transparency: Govt offices,the hotbed of corruption, have always been shrouded in mystery.A layman has no idea of whom to approach,what forms to fill and when moved to the point of distress he becomes willing to pay whatever amount to get his job done. 4.Institutional flaws: Recruitment to the Govt Services ,especially those at the State level, is ridden with corruption.A candidate has to shell out anywhere between a few lakhs to a crore to get a job in the State Public Services.This essentially forces this person to actively scout for bribes to make up for his investment and sets in motion a vicious cycle. 5.Lack of Awareness: People generally remain ignorant on the long term ramifications of bribes on the economy.Most of them are in cash and go untaxed, thereby intensifying the problem of Black money. What measures can be taken to curb this problem? Institutional: 1. Expediting the creation of Lok Ayuktas at the state level and Lok Pal at the centre. 2. As Balaji Viswanathan has mentioned, we need to leverage technology to bring about more transparency and accountability in government offices. 3.Creating an efficient Citizens Charter in all Govt. Departments listing out the scope and ambit of functions undertaken by the Dept and provisions for Grievance redressal. Legal: 1. The Prevention of Corruption (Amendment) Act 2013 is still pending in the Parliament.It can be modified to give greater powers to prosecute corrupt  public servants and to expand the scope of "criminal misconduct". 2.Introducing whistle blower schemes with anonymity provision. 3.Taking steps to ensure greater Citizen participation in Governance by conducting frequent Outreach programs. Social: 1.Must take steps to socially ostracize such convicted officials. 2.Need to institute measures which award clean officials. 3.Revise the school syllabus to educate children about the importance of  Ethics and Integrity in daily life. Thanks for the A2A Madhurima Jakkamsetty 