How is it possible to have a rational and civil discussion about the Israeli Palestinian conflict?
For what it's worth, here are my two cents. Disclaimer: I am an Arab (though not Palestinian) so if my answer shows any bias, please be so kind as to inform me of it. This is what a rational and civilized discussion about the Israeli-Palestinian conflict should EXCLUDE rather than INCLUDE. Note that these exclusions are not meant to limit freedom of speech but rather to introduce the positive background necessary for such a discussion: 1. "You did this first and in retaliation I did that after". That mantra may be suited for the quibbles of my sub-ten year olds' but it doesn't help in this context. 2. "This is my Biblical promised land" or alternatively, "Israel has no right to exist". These kinds of non-starter crazy-man ways of opening a discussion automatically destroy any trace of rationality or comprehension. 3. The words "anti-Semite" or "anti-Muslim" and synonyms thereof. Although these designations may be appropriate in certain circumstances, they have been used all too often to disparage rather than refute what otherwise might have been legitimate arguments. Israeli hawks feel all too free in calling anyone who disagrees with them "anti-Semite" or "self hating Jew", whereas Arab leaders and religious zealots always hide behind the veil of "Western racism against Muslims" to justify any kind of perversion they may be preaching.  Now that the positive background has been set, let's talk about the guiding principles of the discussion: 1. To my fellow Arabs: the Jewish people have been persecuted in horrific ways throughout history, Nazi Germany being just the more recent and most horrific example. This means that Israelis are particularly sensitive about things like erasing Israel from existence etc. since, unlike Arabs, Jewsih Israelis have faced this existential threat of obliteration before. Keep this in mind when talking with your Israeli counterpart and remember that deep in their psyche are the memories of gas chambers and biblical stories of exile and enslavement all the way to ancient Ninenveh. 2. To Israelis: it was not Palestinians nor Arabs who sent your people to gas chambers, so please stop dealing with us as if we were the perpetrators of the Holocaust. Jews were in fact better treated under the Arab caliphate than they were in most other countries that hosted them after the great Exodus of the 2nd century AD: just ask elderly Moroccan Jews who still remember their lives among Arabs and Muslims. 3. Israel has been in a state of war since it came to be and the Palestinians have been homeless, stateless, or both for more than half a century. Each side has paid a great toll in sweat and blood for this conflict. This must END NOW. 4. The Palestinians have a right to a viable state of their own and to live like normal human beings. Israel has a right to security and existence in peace. If these guiding principles are properly internalized, there would be no "pro Israel" or "pro Palestine" attitudes left and an actual discussion based on "facts" and more importantly on the willingness to reach a solution may proceed. The rest, tough as it may be, would be detail. 