Do arranged marriages in India really work?
They used to work well, but don't work so well anymore. People can be short-sighted in choosing a mate, weighing the short-term criteria more heavily (looks, wealth) than long-term criteria (emotional stability, similar value systems, etc.). Arranged marriages safeguard against this by having elders in the family provide long-term bias into the decision. Yet, divorce rates in urban India are soaring (see references below). For example, according to [1], "In 2004-05, Delhi had two or three matrimonial courts. Now there are 17-20". And it's not just that the current generation isn't involving their elders in the decision; most of these are still arranged marriages. Thing is, arranged marriage also requires a certain kind of societal structure in order to work well. Modern society affords both men and women (but especially women) with a huge amount of choice and opportunities (for career, etc.). That puts a strain on marriage - arranged or not - because marriage will always require some amount of self-sacrifice (from both parties) for the other person. If you don't feel strongly enough about wanting to be with your spouse, you will lose sleep over missed opportunities. An arranged marriage makes this phenomenon worse, because perhaps you weren't completely bought into the arranged marriage in the first place. Also, in traditional societies, the extended family was a greater part of your day-to-day life. Even if husband and wife did not get along, there was an extended "social network" to fall back on. The wife could always rely on her in-laws and her children for her emotional/financial well-being, and if she got along with them, it was OK. In today's nuclear family, your spouse is your primary source of well-being, and if you don't get along, you have nowhere else to go. In short, arranged marriages work in a stable society with extended families and limited class mobility (like India 30 years ago). But in today's society, it doesn't work so well. Like much else in life, the ideal way is in the middle, where both elders and bride/groom are all collaborators in this important life decision. References: [1] - Outlook India, March 2012: Making Quick Work Of What Isn’t Working [2] - New York Times, March 2012: For Indian Women, Divorce Is a Raw Deal [3] - BBC News, December 2010: Not so happily ever after as Indian divorce rate doubles [4] - Times of India, October 2012: Nagpur sees 100% rise in divorce rate in a decade [5] - Times of India, January 2008: 2 Divorces for every 5 knots in Mumbai:http://articles.timesofindia.ind... Updated 165w ago • View Upvotes