Do you still think Americans need to own guns following the latest shooting incident in Arizona?
Several of the other answers here are responding to the rhetoric of the question rather than to the substance of it.  As I read it, the question is this: Do Americans need guns?  "Still" doesn't matter; and the details of the question, including data about the pervasiveness of gun ownership or the proximity of guns and children or data on gun-related injuries and accidents doesn't matter, either, at least not to me in terms of answering this question. I believe the answer is yes.  Many Americans do "need" guns.  Still, and just as much as they ever did, if not more. But it's a psychological and emotional need, not the same kind of "need" as having access to clean air and water, electricity, employment, and enough education to read, write, add, subtract, and vote. Once upon a time in the 1970's, there was a popular feminist slogan that went like this:  "A woman needs a man like a fish needs a bicycle."  A woman needs a man like a fish needs a bicycle   That slogan fell out of favor years ago, maybe because people thought it was too militant and aggressive, maybe because some people didn't understand it.  It made me scratch my head the first time I heard it, too.   It was too logical to resonate with respect to an issue like the rights and place of women in society; it was too cold and Spock-like to effectively challenge passionate and deeply held notions about women's roles that were so deeply ingrained, so emotional, and so instinctual as to fire up everyone's conversation at the dinner table (and still be a source of controversy and discussion in daily life).  With respect to gun ownership in America, I don't think the data matters, nor the various arguments for why Americans must or shouldn't have guns.   Arguments about how restrictions are violative of the Bill of Rights saying that these rights are "Fundamental" have always struck me as disingenuous; the guns we have available now are very different from the guns that were available when the Bill of Rights was adopted.  If we apply a fundamental, strict interpretation, we ought to argue that we each have the right to bear muskets, but not Uzis; after all, isn't that all that we know, for sure, that the original authors intended? But that doesn't really matter.   Because, here, logic doesn't matter.  Gun ownership is an emotional issue.  Americans feel they need to own guns because: they can't stand the thought of anyone restricting their rights; they want to feel that they can be in control and defend against any situation; they like to hunt and target-shoot; they live in fear of strangers, of their neighbors, or of their government.Although roughly 60% of the 30% of Americans who own guns hunt (Gun Ownership and Use in America), there are supposedly four times as many federally licensed firearms and ammunition dealers in the US as there are grocery stores.  America’s Gun Economy, By the Numbers | TIME.com  Go figure. I think this kind of data is interesting.  It's not conjecture about the effects of gun ownership on the community or potential impact on the economy and our culture (Data suggest guns do in fact kill people) but rather the kind of data that pays attention to who the people are who own guns, what people who own guns are saying about why they own them, and why they feel they need them.  Gun owners want to use their guns primarily for protection from crime, for hunting and for target practice; according to the Gallup poll from 2005 above, one in three whites (33%) own a gun, while only about one in six nonwhites (18%) do.   It would appear that white people feel very strongly that they need guns, far more so than nonwhite people do; but maybe that's reading too much into the ownership data. A majority of gun owners want protection against crime.  Maybe if we could install CCTV, perimeter defense systems, and security forces all around us, we wouldn't feel we needed as many guns.  I suppose those who particularly want to be able to conceal carry are especially worried about being victimized.  I don't think of those sorts of people as being particularly fearful; but I guess Florida has a lot of them (1.3mm permitted for open/concealed carry in Florida, according to: United States Concealed Carry Statistics) There are lots of alligators and crocodiles in Florida. Ironically enough, violent crime and property crime has been declining and is at all-time lows:  http://www.crimeinamerica.net/20... and  http://www.forbes.com/sites/larr....   Of course, these declines vary dramatically based on geography; some communities crime rates have only gotten worse.  And statistics don't matter when it happens to you.   I don't think most Americans who own guns think that they need to own them as protection against the American government or police forces, but I could be very wrong; I couldn't find any studies or data that looked at that particular rationale.  I wonder how owners who chose that rationale would break along ethnicities or race?  I was surprised but pleased to discover that hunting is super-safe so long as you are not a deer or duck or Dick Cheney's guest.  Just look at this! A person is 14 times more likely to be injured playing volleyball than hunting. A person is 30 times more likely to be injured in cheerleading or baseball than hunting. A person is 34 times more likely to be injured bicycle riding or wrestling than hunting. A person is 38 times more likely to be injured playing soccer than hunting. A person is 50 times more likely to be injured playing basketball than hunting. A person is 127 times more likely to be injured playing tackle football than hunting.  http://www.nssf.org/PDF/research... Perhaps the gun industry can thank gun control legislation for the uptick in sales and interest, making gun ownership seem scarce and increasing its value, making for a burst of popularity.  Sounds like Economics 101 to me: perception of decreasing supply leading to increased demand. So, do Americans need guns?  Logically, Americans need guns as much as fish need bicycles.   Some Americans need firearms because they want to hunt or to sharpen their skills at hitting a target.  Some, however, need guns to intimidate, threaten and frighten away those who might do them or their property harm, even if such threat is more of a perception rather than a reality.  We probably don't need 8 different kinds of laundry detergent in the supermarket aisle, either, but we got those choices too. Maybe for some Americans, owning a gun is like therapy, addressing their issues with fear and control over their lives, but cheaper.  I knew a woman who called the handgun in her family home her "good luck charm".   Personally I prefer jewelry, fortune cookie fortunes and four-leaf clovers, but she felt she needed a totem with a better sight. Updated 16w ago • View Upvotes