Game Theory: How can we move from a rational society to a superrational society? How close are we to the same?
Einstein said the following: "A human being is part of the whole called by us universe, a part limited in time and space. We experience ourselves, our thoughts and feelings as something separate from the rest. A kind of optical delusion of  consciousness. This delusion is a kind of prison for us, restricting us to our personal desires and to affection for a few persons nearest to us. Our task must be to free ourselves from the prison by widening our circle of compassion to embrace all living creatures and the whole of  nature in its beauty. The true value of a human being is determined by the measure and the sense in which they have obtained liberation from  the self. We shall require a substantially new manner of thinking if humanity is to survive." The way we can get to a superrational society is by breaking out of this "optical delusion of consciousness." Players who lack this delusion in the prisoner's dilemma game no longer distinguish between themselves and the other player--instead, they seek to maximize the whole.  If both players are not seeking the greatest gains for themselves and instead seeking the greatest overall payout, you will get a 3/3 outcome every time.  How do we actually get people to break out of the "prison" created by the delusion that we are separate?  That's tricky, and most likely impossible, though perhaps not.  Other answers to this question are basically saying that to break out of concern only for ourselves is to go against human nature.  I agree, though I would note that our nature also includes the capacity for cooperation and compassion. Our brains were forged in the crucible of evolution.  Evolution is, at its core, a competitive game, but one of the reasons for our species' success is that we have evolved the ability to cooperate with each other.  A single human alone in the wilderness is unlikely to survive.  Only by banding together have we been able to control our environment and become the most successful species on the planet.  If we had a more solitary temperament, like tigers or spiders or any number of other animals, we could never have achieved what we've achieved, even with our big fancy brains. Buddhist monks aim to tap into the human capacity for compassion and achieve full liberation from the self.  It's hard for me to know how many of them are successful, but many of them seem to have at least made significant progress.  Do we all need to start living like monks?  We might have to if we wanted to reach a completely superrational society, but we don't need to be so dramatic if all we want is to take some steps in the superrational direction.  What we're talking about here is a cultural shift.  I don't think cultural shifts can be made from the top down.  There's no magic bullet or government program that can make this happen; it will require gradual change in peoples' attitudes over time.  The following are ways I can think of to help accelerate the process, most of which rely on the concept that one should "be the change you wish to see in the world": 1.  Engage in random acts of kindness and encourage others to do the same.  In addition to helping the world at large, you'll find it makes you feel better as well. 2.  Develop technologies that help people connect with each other to share both joys and sorrows.  Our communication technologies are already improving at an exponential rate.  Eventually, we may be wiring our brains together so that we can share experience directly.  We should, however, be careful not to let communication technology supplant real human interaction--there is a strong argument to be made that our improving technology isolates us more than it brings us together. 3.  Practice meditation and encourage others to do the same.  Teaching kids to do this in school (in a secular/non-denominational manner) could help significantly. 4.  Make a commitment to charitable work--sign up to help kids after school or some similar thing; again, this is one of those things where you'll find that giving actually makes you feel better. 