What are all the arguments against gay marriage?
note 2015-03-25: This answer was originally written for the question "What are the best arguments against gay marriage?". It was later redirected to the current "What are all the arguments against gay marriage?" Thus the answer is worded strangely for the question it's now answering. (As an aside, it really annoys me when people redirect questions that are similar but not identical, for this reason.) I am also really interested in this question. As with most users of this site, it's in the "understanding your enemy" sense. So please realize that when I say these things, it's not that I think they're right, it's just that they at least not completely divorced from reality, and thus I think are the "best" arguments against legalizing same-sex marriage. The best, most logical argument I've heard, is that the negative effects are very long term (say, 50+ years) and so the sort of evidence of negative effects of gay marriage that the court is asking for (scientific studies, etc.) do not—cannot—exist yet. An example would be the birth control pill. You would be hard pressed in 1963 to make a case that the birth control pill would have direct negative effects on society. No studies would exist in 1965 showing that the birth control pill led to the breakup of marriages, or unhappier families, or anything. But over the years, as girls grew up in a world where reliable birth control was an option, attitudes to sex changed. It's these changed attitudes that "did the damage" in the long term, not the pill itself. And the changes happened so gradually, and in conjunction with a lot of other things (no-fault divorce laws, etc.) that a study will never be able to prove the damage to society that easily-available, reliable female contraception has caused. Now imagine the same thing with same-sex marriage. (I know, this is straining credibility at this point, but these are the sorts of arguments you see with complete seriousness on places like National Review Online's "The Corner" blog.) It's not that today's gay people getting married will have any direct negative effects. It's that in the long run, as kids grow up knowing that marriage is not solely between female and male, they will respect the institution less, and perhaps won't get married, or won't respect the vows as much once they are married. This is what will do the damage. And just like birth control, it will be impossible to prove that gay marriage is actually what did the damage. Edit 2012-02-07: Here is a paper arguing against same-sex marriage that (in part) makes exactly the case I've outlined above. http://www.nationformarriage.org... From the first page: Several states and countries have redefined marriage as the union of any two persons. Some people argue that nothing so dire has happened: why shouldn’t we continue with genderless marriage, or redefine marriage in our state? Some of the problems detailed in this Backgrounder will take time to fully emerge. That is because marriage connects the generations to one another. Redefining marriage puts incentives into place and sets social processes into motion, whose full impact will take time to appear. It will require a generation, a full thirty years or more, for all the consequences to emerge. It is foolish to draw conclusions from isolated short-term social experiments. But we can already see how redefining marriage, in conjunction with the expansion of anti-discrimination laws,  has expanded the power of the state. Updated 44w ago • View Upvotes