Which programming language should I learn to develop an Android app?
On Android, the open-source operating system, app development is mostly done in Java. You can build Android applications on Windows or Mac, and purchase relatively cheap devices to test your apps on. And as Android continues to dominate the market share, more mobile developers are choosing to get started on Android than iOS. The free introduction to Java programming course on Udacity is for beginners that want to learn Java concepts. Once you’re comfortable with Java, check out the official Android developer site for a comprehensive breakdown of how to create your first Android project. Java Let's start with the confusing part: You can develop software using Java, JavaScript, and Enterprise Java Beans. These are three different systems that are related mainly by the work "Java" in their names. Of the three, Java is the one you'll see in mobile development, so let's start there. Java is an object-oriented programming language developed at Sun Microsystems. It is now owned, along with the rest of Sun Microsystems, by Oracle. It is, by most accounts, one of the most frequently used programming languages around, so the skills are available in many individuals offering their services to enterprises. That's very good news. More good news comes from a performance standpoint. Java is a compiled language that can be run in two different ways: either in a browser window or in a virtual machine that doesn't require a browser. That flexibility tends to mean a lot when it comes to re-using code and updating software. If you're looking at Android as your primary platform you’re almost certainly going to look at Java. If iOS is your main target, you probably won't be doing Java-first development. And if you want to develop a common code base that runs across many different platforms, then Java should certainly be on your list of finalists. HTML5 If you want to build a Web-fronted app for mobile devices, the one near-certainty is HTML5. The eventual standard will make various data types simple to insert, rationalize input parameters, level the browser playing field, account for different screen sizes, and probably freshen your breath and give you lush, manageable hair. Eventually. The problem is that HTML5 is still a proposed standard that is currently supported in a lot of different ways by a lot of different browsers. It’s certainly possible to write HTML5 Web pages now, and many people are doing just that. They just have to know that there might be slight tweaks in the language in months to come and more substantial changes in the way browsers handle HTML5. From a cost and efficiency standpoint HTML5 has the advantage of building on the current version of HTML so the learning curve is much shallower than that for a completely new language. If you can cope with a bit of uncertainty and want to walk the browser-based path, HTML5 is an obvious choice for a primary language. C++ When you need to get down and dirty for apps on platforms like Android and Windows, then C++ can be the answer to your object-oriented dreams. At this point, C++ has been used to develop apps for virtually every purpose on pretty much every platform that exists. Programming skills are widely available and the language is a well-known quantity. It's not trendy or ultra-modern -- it's been around much longer than smartphones -- but for low-level programming it's still the go-to language on platforms that aren't fruit-themed. Java is must and its better if you have some good knowledge of HTML5,  You can implement and develop some native core  functionality or apps using C and C++ android apps using the Android Native Development Kit (NDK), but this is rarely used when some performance critical task are needed to achieve. I have shared some of video tutorials for start learning. Do go through them. Refer Following Links:    1. Android App Development The New Boston Video Tutorials    2. HTML 5 The New Boston Video Tutorials 3.  C++ The New Boston Video Tutorials #HBK says, "Sharing is Caring..!" Thanks for A2A Tundup Namgail 