★How can you learn Mathematics for machine learning?What books, topics, resources are one stop for learning all mathematics necessary to start learning Machine Learning?
Linear Algebra is important in many ways, but you really need to learn some logic.  I don't mean the babiest of baby things that people say is easy because they can understand and track and foretell the end of a mystery novel in a tv series like Foyle's War or CSI or Sherlock Holmes.  I don't mean the intro to logic course in many philosophy departments.  I don't mean the Boolean circuits course you may have taken as a freshman in computer engineering or the simple truth table arguments you did and eventually turned in to graph theory problems in a second semester or second year computer science course called ``Discrete Math''.  I don't mean the simple arguments you went through in your modern algebra course as a senior in a mathematics department.  But all of those can be useful, and are pre-cursors or example generators for a beginning course in Model Theory.  Then you can begin to truly appreciate the NOTION of a THINKING MACHINE, and what it means to model such a monstrosity.  Then you can begin to understand how to develop formal languages for solution of specific problems.  Then you can start understanding why it's really strange to model THINKING as a neural network, although that is not a completely useless way to do it.  (Basically, neurel networks seem to me to be ``pattern recognizers'', roughly, basically using fixed-point iteration in metric spaces to hone in on a pattern or set of patterns of behaviors of inputting agents.  Please note that I said ``roughly''.  This is not intended to be a tutorial on neural networks.)  Of course, it helps to have a notion of what it means to define or model the concept described by the verb ``to learn''.  That, my friends, is the realm of philosophy and pedagogy, but to apply it requires an understanding of the notion of a model, and we are back to my main point:  Take some model theory.  It's not likely to hurt you for more than a semester, and well...  NO PAIN NO GAIN!!    Embed Quote