★What is the difference between statistics and machine learning?
I am answering this one just because I partially disagree with all the previous answers. In short, I believe that Statistics and Machine Learning are essentially equivalent, but are practiced by two different communities, which follow different publishing practices (conferences for ML, journals for Stat) and use different publishing venues (say, JACM vs Ann.Stat), and get hired by different departments (CS/EE vs Stat/Math). Increasingly, the communities are interacting and sharing ideas. Machine learning emphasizes computational aspects and finite-sample properties, Statistics has lots of asymptotics and parametric models. But then, the Boostrap, EM, PCA, were all invented by statisticians, and PAC theory is a ML cornerstone and plenty of papers on this subject are published in stats journals. So that's more of a generic attitude than a clear differentiation. It's fair to believe that the birth of ML has been largely beneficial to Statistics (the emphasis on applications and computation, ensemble methods, Vapnik-Chervonenkis theory), and that ML people are benefiting from a great deal of statistical theory already in place (the theory of Empirical Processes, for example). As a statistician by training, I welcome the fact that computer scientists jolted us out of too much (asymptotic) theory, and into more inventive approaches, as in the early days of Statistics (think Pearson, Fisher, De Finetti, Tukey, not Le Cam or Has'minsky). In its defense, I would add that Statistics also goes well beyond regression, and many concepts map between the two fields: categorical regression is classification, density estimation is unsupervised learning, experimental design, sequential analysis and bandit problems are active learning, bayesian statistics and graphical models are... bayesian statistics and graphical models. There are parts of ML that is not in Statistics however, e.g., autonomous control of robots, decentralized learning, semantic approaches to knowledge representation. And some domain-specific Statistics (Time Series, Generalized Method of Moments) are not covered by ML. But I am under the impression that the most active research areas of both fields overlap to a large degree.    Embed Quote