★Will deep learning make other Machine Learning algorithms obsolete?Every once in a while a new algorithms comes and makes all others (in the same domain) seems kind of obsolete when it comes to the same domain. Will deep learning make that related algorithms (backpropagation NN, GMM, HMM, ...)?
This feels a lot like how Neural Networks were viewed in the late 80s/early 90s. Since they are "universal approximators", many in the field believed that other algorithms would become obsolete. After all, why run a logistic regression when a neural network can do everything a logistic regression can do and more? No more need to try several algorithms. Obviously that wasn't what happened. The first step will be for deep learning to become easy enough for the moderately technical to use. That will only happen once 1) deep learning begins to win more competitions as the "go to" algorithm. Yes it's winning many now, but not routinely. This will peak interest from analysts who care most of all about accuracy. 2) it makes its way out R/Python into mainstream analytics products (SAS Enterprise Miner, IBM SPSS Modeler, Dell STATISTICA, etc.). What makes an algorithms gain mind share is its widespread adoption so no matter what tool you use, it's there. 3) #2 will show up in tool survey like Rexer Analytics Data Mining survey and the KDNuggets tool /algorithm survey. I don't expect this to happen any time soon. The vast majority of people doing predictive modeling are using simple approaches very effectively. Linear and logistic regression are still the mainstay of many organizations and are working fine. They care about interpreting the models more than their accuracy. They have to navigate through the politics of the organization, and new approaches are more difficult to gain approval for. But I think the question runs even deeper, which brings me back to my first point: is one algorithm truly, inherently, completely better than another? I don't think so; I've always found that trying multiple algorithms on problems reveals very interesting differences in the patterns the algorithm picks up well. Algorithms disagree on predictions because they have different ways they view the data. So while I'm tracking the deep learning debate and the direction the community is going, I'm not yet a buyer of the "deep learning only" stock. :)    Embed Quote