★Will deep learning make other Machine Learning algorithms obsolete?Every once in a while a new algorithms comes and makes all others (in the same domain) seems kind of obsolete when it comes to the same domain. Will deep learning make that related algorithms (backpropagation NN, GMM, HMM, ...)?
I am going to be the contrarian here and say yes. I agree with Jacob Steinhardt's comments - there are instances where DL may never provide the strongest predictive power. But I think deep learning is very close to solving supervised learning in the asymptote of training data size, and that's going to push some learning algorithms to near extinction. Empirical results over the past couple of years have shown that deep learning provides the best predictive power when the dataset is large enough. Is that true? Well I don't know of a single example of where it has been beaten in predictive power for a dataset of over 100 million rows in the past year (please comment if you know of one). Even when your training set is not that big, you can use techniques to increase the size of your training set [Sander Dielman's winning solution to the Galaxy Zoo challenge is a great example of this] to get there. As such, I expect models that previously occupied the space of being the best predictors for medium-to-large datasets (say boosted decision trees & random forests) to become highly rare in use. Another reason for why deep learning, or more broadly - machine learning algorithms with connectionist architectures, may render many ML algorithms obsolete, is because they are far from saturated. Can logistic regression be tweaked, say with a novel link function or something, to become the leading learning algorithm for speech recognition? I doubt it. However, it seems highly likely that there will be tricks to train deep neural networks that significantly improve their performance in the next couple of years. Between optimization methods, activation functions, connection architectures and initialization procedures - there has to be some more breakthroughs to be realized. It's easy to be the cynic and say that we are moving through a period of over-hype, similar to the 90s. However unlike the 90s, the current environment is very hostile to vain hype and misinformation. Open competitions in ML on Kaggle or annual competitions like ImageNet motivate people to try whatever works. There's less hysteria from research paper benchmarks that are geared to look good. Finally, if you believe that pattern recognition / supervised learning is almost a solved problem - then it seems likely that deep learning will render other learning algorithms obsolete simply because it got there first. This may seem like a trivial point, but it's worth dwelling on because it's an admission that deep learning may not be that special other than being first past the post. Maybe the best ever face recognition ML algorithm will be some ensemble of SVMs with a kernel no one has thought up before - but it's unlikely to be discovered now because we're close to a near optimal solution and there's diminishing returns to improvement. Deep learning may not be the only solution to pattern recognition or the best solution, but it might be the first. If the community begins to believe this in consensus then, sure, learning algorithms will become obsolete.    Embed Quote