★Why is machine learning not more widely used for medical diagnosis?
I used to scratch my head asking the same question until I had an enlightening conversation with a close friend of mine who works for a large healthcare consulting company. He led me to the realization that a physician's agenda is much different than a machine learning practitioner's agenda, which is much different than a lawmaker's agenda, which is much different than a hospital administrator's agenda. In the spirit of full disclosure, I am a medical doctor with a machine learning background, and I use ML on a daily basis to help other healthcare professionals solve problems. To lay out the problem more concretely, let's divide the healthcare landscape into 3 broad categories: 1) Large institutions, such as universities and private hospitals 2) Solo physicians in private practice, or small groups of physicians, who are trying to resist the trend toward consolidation. 3. Healthcare professionals, such as nurses, physical therapists, and administrators, who are just as critical to a successful practice as physicians are Healthcare professionals have several goals: 1) We want to help our patients live healthier lives. 2. We want to do our work more efficiently. Healthcare professionals often work in high-volume environments and must be perfect, even under time pressure. Electronic medical records are constantly being changed and upgraded, and physicians spend/waste too much time being trained on a moving target. Physicians in larger groups face perpetual pressure to see more patients in less time, while documenting all of their encounters to the T. 3. Cost reduction. This is important whether we're talking about solo practices or large academic institutions. This is also important on a societal level, as it pertains to lack of preventative care and resource utilization. Machine learning promises to help physicians make near-perfect diagnoses, choose the best medications for their patients, predict readmissions, identify patients at high-risk for poor outcomes, and in general improve patients' health while minimizing costs. This is happening at a rapid pace despite the many hurdles, which can be overcome by practitioners and consultants who know the legal, technical, and medical obstacles and the best solutions to those obstacles. In the early infancy of healthcare informatics, before it was even called healthcare informatics, machine learning algorithms such as neural networks and support vector machines were showed off in publications that predicted the likelihood of malignancy or mortality from a disease. One recent publication that illustrates this is Artificial neural networks and prostate cancer-... [Nat Rev Urol. 2013] from a group at the Charite Hospital in Berlin. This is a great paper, and the Charite Hospital has a tradition of strong interdisciplinary work between physicians and computer scientists; I appreciated this quickly while I was rotating there. However, most physicians have never even heard of machine learning, and most ML practitioners don't understand the realities of practicing medicine. Many applications of ML for diagnosis are just toy example of what machine learning can do. The reality is that physicians usually don't need help making diagnoses because they can develop a keen Gestalt appreciation of a patient just by looking at her/him. Even the most sophisticated ML algorithm can't look at a sick child in her mother's arms and decide whether she needs to be emergently intubated or whether she can be discharged with conservative therapy. Physicians synthesize huge amounts of information within milliseconds, often just by "eyeballing" a patient. However, as an ML practitioner, I am very excited about the emerging role of ML in healthcare, and I am a believer in its capacity to transform healthcare for the better. Machine learning can do scutwork for healthcare professionals, leaving them with more time to do the most important part of their work: communicate with patients. Perhaps ML is not being used more for diagnosis because it's more suited to predict readmissions, triage patients, auto-populate order sets, and all the other tasks that can be automated so that healthcare professionals can put their time to better use. Let ML algorithms do what they do best, and let humans do what they do best. One final point I'd like to make pertains to laws governing healthcare data, and the availability of healthcare data in general. HIPAA is a necessary law because healthcare data is sensitive and should be protected. The flipside to this is that ML practitioners have less flexibility to play with data and move it around. Even the largest healthcare consulting company with the fanciest software around is limited by the availability of quality, consistent data, even among the largest institutions. The harvesting and safekeeping of healthcare data is an important niche in the healthcare informatics ecosystem. Once this data is made available to healthcare professionals in secure, HIPAA-compliant databases, then they'll appreciate the manifold applications of machine learning, beyond mere diagnosis.    Embed Quote