★What are the best interview questions to evaluate a machine learning researcher?
I try to ask very basic but fundamental questions to see if they actually understand the math  I would expect everyone to know how to solve Ax=b And to know the difference between a convex and non-convex solution. Finding any reasonable candidate is quite hard, and the real goal is to disqualify people.  This is usually enough to weed out %90 of the posers. Also, there are lots of ways to solve the same problem, and ML is a big field. Keeping it simple and basic is important. At this point, it might be useful to ask about regularization.  It's enough to understand that A^{-1} is ill conditioned; although that would weed out %99 of the candidates, and no one could fill the role.  I generally don't ask questions like "implement logistic regression" unless the job actual involved writing custom solvers since doing this well is hard, and implementing a simple solution is pointless  counterproductive. (I have seen new hires try this and fall flat on their a$$).   I would rather they know how that running NMF will bomb out if you don't seed it properly, how to adjust the cost parameter on liblinear , or just knowing what Newton's method is  ---  Note that the real key to evaluate a PhD level researcher, however, is to determine if they are capable of doing independent research (if the job actually entails this), or if they just did what their advisor told them to do.   Here, one wants to see if they have a broad knowledge of the own field and how creative their PhD research was.  This is not, however, necessarily part of the interview process but more part of the screening process.  When I evaluate a more senior person, especially an older PhD,  I use the old University of Chicago whiteboard method, meaning that anything someone brings up, they had better be able to go to the whiteboard (or chalkboard, in the old days) and work through the math.  This is absolutely critical, because it is necessary to see if you have kept yours math skills up and also to see if think using language or you think using math.   Thinking in math is hard and requires you maintain the skill. you can get more of an idea of what I expect by looking at my blog http://charlesmartin14.wordpress...    Embed Quote