★Why is machine learning used heavily for Google's ad ranking and less for their search ranking?A lot of people I've talked to at Google have told me that the ad ranking system is largely machine learning based, while search ranking is rooted in functions that are written by humans using their intuition (with some components using machine learning). What led to this difference?
From what I gathered while I was there, Amit Singhal, who heads Google's core ranking team, has a philosophical bias against using machine learning in search ranking.  My understanding for the two main reasons behind this philosophy is: In a machine learning system, it's hard to explain and ascertain why a particular search result ranks more highly than another result for a given query.  The explainability of a certain decision can be fairly elusive; most machine learning algorithms tend to be black boxes that at best expose weights and models that can only paint a coarse picture of why a certain decision was made. Even in situations where someone succeeds in identifying the signals that factored into why one result was ranked more highly than other, it's difficult to directly tweak a machine learning-based system to boost the importance of certain signals over others in isolated contexts.  The signals and features that feed into a machine learning system tend to only indirectly affect the output through layers of weights, and this lack of direct control means that even if a human can explain why one web page is better than another for a given query, it can be difficult to embed that human intuition into a system based on machine learning. Rule-based scoring metrics, while still complex, provide a greater opportunity for engineers to directly tweak weights in specific situations.  From Google's dominance in web search, it's fairly clear that the decision to optimize for explainability and control over search result rankings has been successful at allowing the team to iterate and improve rapidly on search ranking quality.  The team launched 450 improvements in 2008 [1], and the number is likely only growing with time. Ads ranking, on the other hand, tends to be much more of an optimization problem where the quality of two ads are much harder to compare and intuit than two web page results.  Whereas web pages are fairly distinctive and can be compared and rated by human evaluators on their relevance and quality for a given query [2], the short three- or four-line ads that appear in web search all look fairly similar to humans.  It might be easy for a human to identify an obviously terrible ad, but it's difficult to compare two reasonable ones: Branding differences, subtle textual cues, and behavioral traits of the user, which are hard for humans to intuit but easy for machines to identify, become much more important.  Moreover, different advertisers have different budgets and different bids, making ad ranking more of a revenue optimization problem than merely a quality optimization problem.  Because humans are less able to understand the decision behind an ads ranking decision that may work well empirically, explainability and control -- both of which are important for search ranking -- become comparatively less useful in ads ranking, and machine learning becomes a much more viable option. -------- [1] http://googleblog.blogspot.com/2... [2] http://googleblog.blogspot.com/2...    Embed Quote