★Natural Language Processing: What startups are hiring engineers with strengths in machine learning/NLP?
My company, ZestCash, is hiring: https://www.zestcash.com/about/jobs Everyone needs credit. We use credit when we buy lunch, make a monthly payment toward our car, or in any of hundreds of other common ways. Here in Hollywood, you can even pay your parking meter with a credit card.  It's just part of life. But it's not a way of life for many Americans. There's an entirely separate credit system for people with bad credit, or no credit. It's called the "alternative financial system" (AFS). The AFS serves people who don't have good relationships with banks. They may have no bank at all, or may have a limited bank relationship that doesn't offer credit. These people are often referred to as "underbanked". To get credit, the underbanked often take out "payday loans". In fact, 30 million people took out payday loans last year.  They borrowed on average $300, and paid back an average of $800. Supposedly, these loans are so expensive because the lenders have to cover their default risk -- the chances that someone won't pay the loan back. Normally, lenders determine who should get loans using a small amount of data bought from a data provider. When this data is missing or negative, the borrower is turned away, or charged very high prices.  But why buy a handful of variables rather than use vast amounts of data provided by the customer, alternative data sources, and the Internet? As it stands today, good people are being denied reasonably priced credit because old world processes don’t take advantage of today’s data-rich environment.  In our world view, all data is credit data, and we should use it all to make better loan decisions. This is why we are hiring rock star ML folks.  If we can make better loan decisions,  we can offer credit at lower than current rates. Underwriting for a general loan -- without a specific purpose and with less historical data -- is harder; these loans have a higher default rate, and hence require higher prices.  But if we can underwrite better, and lower the default rate, we can provide credit at lower costs and build a good business. If you're interested, shoot us a note, we'd love to meet you.    Embed Quote