★What is the beauty of Machine Learning?Why all of a sudden all programmers are interested in Machine Learning?
The main question and question in details are, in fact, two very different questions. It is silly to imply that machine learning (ML) is  beautiful, because the pay in this hot field is relatively high  (obviously, due to high demand for and short supply of ML  professionals). But it is certainly one of the reasons for the increased  interest of various professionals (as well as amateurs) in joining the ML  bandwagon. Even more than pay per se, current high demand and positive  outlook for this sector in terms of future demand, in other words, stability is probably even more important financial and career factor. Other factors that IMHO contribute to the interest to ML are of different nature and are listed below. Returning back to the original question, I think that the beauty of ML lies along the following dimensions, which distribution across people is very much dependent on a particular person's traits and priorities: Mathematics. Being based on and closeness to mathematics, which many consider the most or one of the most beautiful scientific discipline. Computer science (CS) and statistics. Being based on and closeness to CS and statistics, which are challenging, as well as both abstract and, at the same time, practical. Science. ML is an applied scientific discipline and science is beautiful in its logic, rigor (or, sometimes, the lack of) and an excitement of solution or discovery. Computer programming. Being based on and closeness to computer programming, which is an exciting field and occupation (explaining why programming is exciting is beyond the scope of this answer, but I'm sure that my fellow software developers know what I'm talking about). Challenge. ML is not easy and mastering it is quite a challenge. Isn't accepting and overcoming challenge beautiful? Data. In zillion aspects of everyday life, we encounter data in various forms. This makes ML a bridge that connects beautiful abstract and sometimes complex approaches with practicality of real-world data. Curiosity. Serving as a bridge from abstract to practical, it is our curiosity in how ML works and how world works than also make ML beautiful. Impact. ML can be applied on any scale, from small business problems to today's world most pressing and complex challenges. Regardless of the scale, we can see results, which make a positive impact.    Embed Quote