★What are the best blogs about data?Looking for insightful reporting about how businesses are using data, as well as the techie stuff.
Here I 've extracted from okulbilisim/awesome-datascience Wes McKinney - Wes McKinney Blog. Matthew Russell - Mining The Social Web. Greg Reda - Greg Reda Personal Blog Kevin Davenport - Kevin Davenport Personal Blog Julia Evans - Hacker School alumna Hakan Kardas - Personal Web Page Sean J. Taylor - Personal Web Page Drew Conway - Personal Web Page Hilary Mason - Personal Web Page Noah Iliinsky - Personal Blog Matt Harrison - Personal Blog Data Science Renee Documenting my path from "SQL Data Analyst pursuing an Engineering Master's Degree" to "Data Scientist" Vamshi Ambati - AllThings Data Sciene Prash Chan - Tech Blog on Master Data Management And Every Buzz Surrounding It Clare Corthell - The Open Source Data Science Masters Paul Miller Based in the UK and working globally, Cloud of Data's consultancy services help clients understand the implications of taking data and more to the Cloud. Data Science London Data Science London is a non-profit organization dedicated to the free, open, dissemination of data science. We are the largest data science community in Europe. We are more than 3,190 data scientists and data geeks in our community. Peter Skomoroch MACHINE LEARNING, DATA MINING, AND MORE John Myles White Personal Blog Quora Data Science - Data Science Questions and Answers from experts Siah a PhD student at Berkeley Data Science Report MDS, Inc. Helps Build Careers in Data Science, Advanced Analytics, Big Data Architecture, and High Performance Software Engineering Louis Dorard a technology guy with a penchant for the web and for data, big and small Machine Learning Mastery about helping professional programmers to confidently apply machine learning algorithms to address complex problems. Daniel Forsyth - Personal Blog Data Science Weekly - Weekly News Blog Revolution Analytics - Data Science Blog R Bloggers - R Bloggers The Practical Quant Big data Micheal Le Gal a data enthusiast who gets hooked on solving intriguing problems and crafting beautiful stories and visualizations with data. Over the past 5 years, He haas applied statistics to solve problems in government, brain sciences, and most recently, retail. Datascope Anayltics data-driven consulting and design Yet Another Data Blog Yet Another Data Blog Spenczar a data scientist at Twitch. I handle the whole data pipeline, from tracking to model-building to reporting. KD Nuggets Data Mining, Analytics, Big Data, Data, Science not a blog a portal Meta Brown - Personal Blog Data Scientist is building the data scientist culture. WhatSTheBigData is some of, all of, or much more than the above and this blog explores its impact on information technology, the business world, government agencies, and our lives. Mic Farris Focusing on science, datascience, business, technology, and channeling inner geekness! Tevfik Kosar - Magnus Notitia New Data Scientist How a Social Scientist Jumps into the World of Big Data    Embed Quote