★What is the difference between statistics and machine learning?
The extreme members of the two communities are disjoint. Many machine learning researchers will never publish in a statistics journal over the course of their entire career. The vice versa also happens frequently. While the two fields have much overlap in questions of interest, I will instead focus on the extreme examples of research questions thatbelong to one field but not the other.  I feel that this approach addresses the question directly. Statistics, but not machine learning: P-value testing (multiple hypothesis correction, higher criticism, etc) are fundamental to the sciences. This whole area of literature is decidedly in statistics and remains untouched by the machine learning community. In the same frequentist mindset, statisticians care about confidence intervals, while many machine learning researchers are hardly more knowledgeable than lay persons regarding how confidence intervals are defined. Despite the recent Bayesian ascendancy, the traditional frequentist world view is still widely celebrated in various settings. In contrast, the machine learning field today is mostly Bayesian. Machine learning, but not statistics: Machine learning, as a field, is much more receptive of heuristics. Heuristics  intuitively and empirically lead to useful end goals. However, in the grand scheme of things, they may have less merit because they often provide poor foundations upon which to improve in the future. On the other hand, occasionally,  due to  lack of alternatives, heuristic algorithms can be very useful. As an example (amongst many), most of the early (and some of the current) phylogenetic algorithms fall into this category. Due to its CS roots, Machine Learning spends a lot more time carefully proposing complicated algorithms that negotiate intermediate Big-O running times. In contrast, most of the estimators from statistics are either trivially fast, or are primarily only of mathematical, rather than practical interest. Edit: Fixed massive number of spelling errors (I was a little tipsy, and on a phone) and removed my use of the word "algorithm", based on Erik Fair's suggestion.    Embed Quote