★Why is machine learning not more widely used for medical diagnosis?
This is a topic close to my heart as a biomedical engineer, and I've read the answers here carefully and enjoyed all of them, especially Jae Won Joh's very persuasive case study. Previously while an undergraduate at Duke, I worked for about two years developing a prototype device that performs breast biopsy based on real-time 3D ultrasound guidance, and requires no human guidance or intervention. During the course of conceptualization, discussions with surgeons and radiologists, building and design, and rebuttals to (sometimes hostile!) journal peer reviews, I've considered some of these issues at great length, and I would like to share some of my thoughts. The general consensus from the answers so far is that we are a long way from seeing machine learning or any kind of artificial intelligence technique find its way into medical diagnosis, and that the clinical need for such a thing (if a need even exists) is of relatively low priority. Indeed the complexity of Jae Won's clinical example would instantly turn off some engineers as an (as yet) impossible problem. But I would argue that AI techniques have a definite clinical value in relatively simpler problems, particularly those based on imaging, which has become a tremendously successful diagnosis tool in recent years. Imaging at high quality (CT, MRI), high speed (ultrasound) and both (OCT) has begged the question of how we may use image processing and learning techniques, honed to incredible sophistication in the last century and ubiquitous in both industrial and consumer technology, in a clinical scenario. I am proposing that such technology not replace a doctor's experience and expertise, but take care of relatively straightforward yet time-consuming diagnosis tasks, thus freeing up the doctor for more clinically demanding procedures. In the Third World, such technology could go a step further in assisting healthcare professionals, especially when doctors are often scarce and overworked. AI applied to the diagnosis of breast cancer is an incredibly active field in medical imaging and engineering research. The breast being external is logistically convenient for imaging and can provide images of stunning clarity. Current protocol for breast cancer diagnosis involves a mammogram (X-ray) and then an ultrasound; during the latter the radiologist might take a needle core biopsy. Biopsy can be a tricky procedure even for an experienced practitioner, and side-effects such as bleeding and infection are non-trivial. The difficulty is in discerning the lesion on ultrasound (which has low resolution), and then spatially locating and targeting the lesion in the ultrasound's viewing plane using the biopsy needle (which becomes intuitive only after significant practice). These (human) difficulties are almost tailor-made for a (superhuman) machine to overcome. Breast cancer indications for biopsy on X-ray and ultrasound are unambiguous and definitive for 90% of cases, and would be a straightforward recognition problem for machine learning, which has the benefit of millions of high-quality breast images acquired in the past that can be used as training sets. I can name at least one company that has successfully implemented computer-aided diagnosis in partnership with an ultrasound imaging firm; their FDA-approved software can accurately classify and diagnose breast lesions. Groups at Duke, Johns Hopkins and UCSD are working independently on robotic techniques that would easily and repeatably reach these lesions that are so difficult for a fatigued or less experienced clinician, with the help of computer analysis. Such techniques would also be a great asset to groups such as Doctors Without Borders in the developing world, where speed, repeatability and accuracy in the simplest of tissue sampling tasks could have an incredible impact on large communities with limited access to the most basic of healthcare. While we should be fully aware of the difficulty of accurate medical diagnosis and be careful not to trivialize the work of the medical practitioner as a mere decision tree, we should never stop looking for areas where technology could help the patient (and the doctor!). Ironically some of these possibilities are the problems that seem the most 'trivial' because there is nothing we can do about them due to our human limitations. But it is precisely these low-level problems that will be easy fodder for technology. So while we appreciate that the practice of medicine requires the highest levels of human ability, it is important that we do not close our mind to the possibilities of technological aids that could free doctors up for the really hard stuff. But then back to the question - if technology works so well as the doctor's assistant, why aren't we seeing more of it? I think we already are (at least we're already paying for it!), and I believe it is only a matter of time before machine learning comes into widespread clinical use. But the main problem is almost certainly societal acceptance - nobody wants a computer checking them out and deciding they have cancer (just look what happened in A Space Odyssey), and the FDA is thus extremely careful about medical devices, especially those that are invasive, and for good reason. A secondary problem is that only a small percentage of clinicians are interested in (and have any time at all for) collaborations with engineers to develop viable medical technology. As has been previously discussed on Quora, some doctors are not always comfortable and familiar with computers and engineering, and would often prefer their tried-and-tested but admittedly old-school methods that seem more reliable. There is also the impression that engineers oversimplify clinical problems, and produce solutions that are nearly as impossible as the problems themselves. What is needed here is simply more dialog between engineers and clinicians so they can better understand each other's work and concerns. In the US, where medical students do very substantial biomedical research, such a culture is common and celebrated, but in many parts of the world where medical school lacks an R&D component, doctors have consequently very little interest outside of their patients. Quora is fast becoming not only a technology-centric community but also a veritable resource of medical opinion; this is a great place for medical engineering collaborations to conceptualize and take shape. I hope the brilliant computer scientists in our community are not demoralized by the massiveness of the clinical problem, but instead focus on discovering niches where technology could be a valuable asset. I believe it is often the simplest and most trivial clinical questions that seem the most hopelessly insolvable; indeed they are 'trivial' because we have already given up and grown to accept them. But what is impossible to a clinician is almost always something that an engineer has an answer to.    Embed Quote