★What is the beauty of Machine Learning?Why all of a sudden all programmers are interested in Machine Learning?
Why all of a sudden all programmers are interested in Machine Learning?Why did so many people come to CA looking for gold? Bandwagon effect, for most parts. People have heard ML can do this and that, they head Google/FB/Twitter/MSFT etc are using it to approach multiple data-rich/insight-poor problems. They hear of the nth startup that gets funded with just promises and no product, they see a couple of MOOC videos and play with a couple of libraries. Then they see the low barriers (when they use the libraries) to extract something that resembles naive insights from some random ass datasets (twitter feeds, for example. Remember the one where 'MIT whizzes figure out your sexual orientation from FB posts'? lol). It makes them hopeful that they can cash in on the buzz. And that's about it. It's like the same follow-the-flavor-of-the-day that we had with all web frameworks and the 'e-commerce' buzz around the late 90's and the cloud buzz in the mid 00's. What is the beauty of Machine Learning?Nothing. Was javascript beautiful? ML is brute-force statistics. There is no insight, or intuition - it's just tuning expectations and fitting models. There is beauty in the core numerical algorithms and probability models, just your average 2-bit programmers won't ever dive that deep. When you skim for flavors, you don't feel the textures. Flavors of the day fill the need for people to think that they are thinking important thoughts and doing things that matter. It helps them use buzz words like SVMs and autogenerated decision trees and boosted classifiers. The whole trite connection between ML and AGI and robotics also generates snake-oil salesmen that push poorly understood and dangerously naive concepts across to gullible business folks (RT business analytics! harness the power of data! on the cloud!). In other words, humanity is doing what it has always done. Nothing new to see here.    Embed Quote