★Why are there so few machine learning and natural language processing startups?Do PhDs actively avoid starting companies? With so many applications in the research literature and so much progress being made, what is stopping people from starting companies based on these technologies? There seem to be many companies in India and China working in this area but nearly none in Silicon Valley.  Why?
High level answer: Algorithms go where the data is. There's usually a chicken and egg problem. The most significant amount of progress in AI/ML/NLP has been made via the realization that bigger and better data sets are much more important than algorithms in themselves. Enter the Enterprise To make use of any algorithm then, a startup has to find (vast amounts of) data to process. In most cases, this is a challenge that proves insurmountable. However, in the past 5 years or so, there's certainly been an ascendancy of enterprise-focused startups that use these techniques[1]. This is simply because the startups (as well as the algorithms) follow the data and wherever that data is they will go. In general, there is an opportunity where there is an impedance mismatch between people who have the data and the ability to turn that into information. This is certainly the case in the enterprise, where big companies have alot of private information that they do not know how to glean information from. Consume the Consumer Conversely, the most important ML companies in the consumer space are the companies that have the largest amounts of data about consumers (Google, Facebook, LinkedIn, etc). In this area it will continue to be hard to produce the sort of company you are talking about, where the algorithm is essentially the product. This is because due to the immense data sets they possess, the larger companies will continue to make better products much more easily than their competitors. They will also continue to use their datasets and the promise of real productivity to lure the best talent[2] However, if those PhDs you refer to get serious about generating the information/data that they want to process or put serious thought into getting their data from places that are difficult for Google/Facebook to reach then there is a lot of value to be created. With the renaissance of hardware and wearable computing, this is already happening in a quite literal sense[3]. [1] Cloudera, Palantir, etc [2]Ray Kurzweill as well as other luminaries have joined Google recently with the specific aim of working on these sorts of problems [3]Myo, Jawbone, Pebble, etc PhDs aren't necessarily starting these hardware companies, but individuals are.    Embed Quote