★Why is machine learning not more widely used for medical diagnosis?
First and foremost it is a question of input. In anything that can be limited to manageable volume input (like reading cardiograms, perhaps interpretation of blood tests) you can expect major breakthroughs unless artificially blocked. A general process of diagnosis, where a doctor would look at data (say temperature), observe behavior, ask questions (and assess how confident the answers are) and perform examinations, cannot be easily automated due to some inputs being either impossible (feel abdomen) or inconclusive (self-checking can be complicated). I was involved in a medical Expert System attempt in late 80s, and I remember constantly hitting the wall due to the needs to conduct examinations. Another issue that back then multiple options were resolved by guesstimating weights of individual rules. I cannot even start describing how wrong that was. Saying that, hundreds years of medical science were developed presuming "doctor first" pattern, diagnosis that starts with visiting a physician. A serious attempt to "doctor last" pattern, where doctor is visited after questionnaire is completed, electronic records analyzed and some tests are done, can yield interesting results, although by serious I mean "comparable with previous doctor-first" development of medicine" There are human-driven "doctor last" services designed to help people to chose between waiting till morning or going to emergency room. There is a chance that that can be done by a web-based expert system. BTW, at least 3/4 of information in Jae Won Joh answer  can be easily obtained and partially analyzed automatically. the last 1/4 is a problem. Overall: Head-on automation of medical diagnostic process is impossible due to some inputs depending on perception of a qualified and experienced physician. There is an unproven hypothesis that significant medical research and software development can yield services that reduce the need for doctors in easier cases. Development of those services will require easier sourcing of data, through electronic records and widely available not-invented-yet diagnostic equipment (proper iPhone attachment for cardiograms? prick your own finger with a special kit, drop it into an ATM-size machine on the corner and your blood test is added to your health record overnight?) Even then there will be fundamental problem of overcoming political opposition from organizations that frankly speaking want all their members - brilliant, mediocre and outright creepy - to be fully employed and prosperous.    Embed Quote