★Why is machine learning not more widely used for medical diagnosis?
As a soon-to-be doctor, I am optimistic that computer programs could eventually very easily find the correct diagnosis. The question therefore is: Why would we ever use such a system if it ever became available? As sexy and intellectually challenging as the concept of a machine making diagnoses and replacing the doctors is, we live in the real world, full of its real world needs. Unfortunately these needs make the implementing such a system impractical at best. Reasons and examples follow…. The laymen’s concept of the diagnosis and its place in medicine can be deeply flawed. Frankly, I blame House MD for this. Our only job is not diagnosing patients: House’s show is 90% diagnosis, 10% treatment when in the reality is the opposite. Lets take a patient that has been admitted for acute pancreatitis. We know what it is and why it is but that’s not half the battle. To be discharged, the patient’s pain has to be controlled on oral medications, they have to be eating regularly, they have to some sign that their bowels are moving and all this can take upwards a week for a diagnosis that only probably took 15 min to place on the top of the differential and maybe a couple hrs to confirm after waiting for lab results and scans to become available. My point is this - medicine is mostly about treatment and managing treatment. While the correct diagnosis is important, most illnesses are not big zebras and diagnosis is fast. It’s the other stuff that takes time, takes art. Even House-like cases can’t always be solved more quickly or more accurately with a computer. Here’s an example of a real-world mini-House case: Patient presents with excruciating abdominal pain, horrible bloody and mucous-y diarrhea, and dehydration. He has a history of refractory C. difficile infection and IBD. We’ve ruled out other conditions and narrowed it to C. diff or IBD. But which condition was causing all his symptoms? And in this case, it matters because treatment for one could make the other worse (how terribly House!). A computer could not have differentiated between these two conditions because he legitimately had both conditions but which was causing his exacerbated symptoms? A computer couldn’t do better without more information. So we get more information – a biopsy, which turns out takes 5 days to get back results if you perform a biopsy on a Friday. The biopsy results come back inconclusive but in those 5 days of waiting, the pt has not gotten better on treatment for A so we try treatment for B. The point here is that what delayed our decision making was our access to data – the biopsy and the pt not getting better in the 5 days on one treatment. In this case, how could a computer have really helped the situation? Computers don’t work well in an emergency. Doctors begin examining a patient the minute we set eyes on them, no verbal communication necessary. The minute I step into a room, I assess how the patient is doing. Is he in tripod position breathing with all his accessory muscles and gasping for air? Uh oh, impending respiratory failure and suddenly my brain is working even before I can even get close to a computer. Immediately I know that whatever primary condition that’s causing his respiratory distress, I will be prioritizing my treatment of respiratory distress first because that’s what’s going to kill him if I don’t take care of it immediately. I don’t need to ask him questions before I know my next course of action – get that man some O2! I don’t care at that moment that his distress could be secondary pancreatitis or COPD exacerbation or pneumonia. Well I care, but a less than assessing his vitals, his oxygenation, and his ability to ventilate, oxygenate, and protect his airway. A couple physical exam maneuvers and quick orders for tests can be completed within 2 minutes of stepping into that room. At what point am I supposed to call up a computer to analyze the situation? And could a computer assess the situation as fully as I did with my first glance? It is in these emergency situations that clinical judgment of a diagnosis – and what to do therapeutically while waiting for ABG or electrolyte or any other test results - reigns supreme over computer programs. Unfortunately for us humans, achieving this level of efficient thinking is the result of years of practice/experience, which brings me to my next point: All this human “computing” is part of our medical training. Going through differential diagnoses, memorizing diseases, learning how to take comprehensive H&Ps and then focused ones all serve a purpose in training us to be quick thinkers when an emergency presents itself. It’s a process, one we’d lose out on if we delegated all this thinking to machines. Such a system would take too much time to warrant standard implementation. Honestly if we had ample time to run in take full histories and physicals (which can take up to an hr) and then enter it all into a computer at whatever pace the person entering the information decides they will work at and then wait for the computer to sort through the relevant data and cross check it with it’s data-base – oh look 10 new people just came into the ED. Medicine and healthcare are about volume, timing, and getting people the best care most efficiently. A good physician should be able to talk to a patient with an uncomplicated medical condition and examine them in 15 min and come up with a decent and fairly accurate differential. It would take longer to enter full H&Ps into a computer only to get out the same set of differentials. Every patient is unique. This last example is one that illustrates that medicine is essentially about probabilities of associations but they need to be placed in context to each patient. In other words, medicine is more than just science – it’s art. A patient with a history of epilepsy, previously controlled on medication presents renewed onset of epileptic seizures. No recent medications had been made to his anti-epileptic medications but some of his anti-spasmodic medications had been adjusted. His Dilantin level came back within normal limits, not even mildly low. But it was low for where his Dilantin levels normally run. This turned out to be the problem. With his Dilantin levels still within normal limits, I wonder how a computer might have interpreted the data. Diagnosis is not where the majority of medical mistakes are being made. Ok sure, doctors are wrong about diagnoses – yes we can misdiagnose cancers and neurological diseases. But it’s not because we’re stupid and didn’t consider them. Usually, the real disease was already on the list of differential diagnoses just lower on that list or less emergent. Where most of the mistakes are being made are in healthcare communication. (First, mistakes are not the same as complications and the distinction is important. Complications are often the result of calculating and accepting risk-benefit ratios whereas mistakes are the result of errors in action.) Medical mistakes are made at handoffs – when shifts change and the new physicians receive misinformed or incomplete information from the old ones. Mistakes are made when lab results come back abnormal but are not noticed despite the computer saying ABNOMRAL in large red/bold letters, primarily because it is buried under too much other information. In other words, medical mistakes are made in communication. Instead of spending hundreds of hrs and millions of dollars on creating a super-smart computer to come up with diagnoses, we should probably work on fixing those problems first.    Embed Quote