★How do you explain Machine Learning and Data Mining to non Computer Science people?
Disclaimer: I am not an expert but certainly an enthusiast of these two amazing fields. So I am definitely going to answer this because I loved it when I finally understood what Machine Learning meant. I am going to explain this with the help of a story, a really long story. Long gone are the days when computers were naive machines that could not do anything but follow those instructions specified to the letter. Look at a machine (a computer or a computer program, for instance) as a new born who doesn't really have an idea of the problems he would encounter in the real world. Luckily for him, his parents are absolutely thrilled about guiding and helping him out in the initial stages so that he can understand how the world works. They are one hundred percent devoted to this child because this is their first and only child so far. In short, the parents are ready to teach him and he has the capability to learn. The initial year and a half as the kid learns very little that he'd carry forward into his later years as his lifestyle would change entirely. For example, he will not be wearing diapers after a few years or be drinking milk from a feeding bottle. So we'll start tracking his learning process say from year two. Let us assume that all kids have an equal potential and how smart a kid ends up is directly proportional to how well the parents are capable to teach and guide him. Most of the teaching would be based on how well the kid observes the parents which in turn depends on how interesting and observable the parents are. I am going to assume that the kid is completely naive but has all the required potential to grow into a super smart kid who would grow up to ace spelling bees and math Olympiads alike. The kid should start taking his first steps. He notices that his parents are not lying on the floor/bed/cradle all day but are walking around and engaged in activities. The kid finds that more interesting than spending all his time rolling on the floor. So he asks his parents "Mom, dad, how do I do this walking and stuff?" His parents say, "Boy, it is rather complicated. So what you must learn to do first is to stand up." He asks "Sure that sounds easy. But wait, how do I do that?" They say "Your legs are capable of supporting your own weight, so try standing up on your legs like us." The kid says "Sure. Sounds like child's play" (See what I did there?) The parents sit down and decide to watch him after saying all that. But wait, the kid doesn't know what a leg is or a hand is. So he decides to try everything out. He first stretches his hand as they are the first body parts he can see clearly. He tries to lift himself up with his hands. He ends up in a position where nothing happens as his legs are lying flat on the ground. He thinks "Well, that was awkward." So he decides to eliminate his immediate obstacle. The legs. He tries to remove the obstacles completely and starts pulling his legs. That was painful and now his parents on seeing his plight are giving him some words of wisdom. "Not all resources are useless. They just might not be immediately useful." Kid thinks "That must be true because they still have that body part left on them." So he decides to temporarily eliminate the obstacle by making his legs do the same thing as his hands. He ends up in a four legged position. Whilst in the process, he figures out that the legs are stronger than his hands and seem to be more comfortable doing this job that his hands. So he takes the better option of the two and decides to proceed with the task of standing up using his legs. After a few trials, there he is, standing up just like his parents. A machine or a program is similar to this newborn. It is naive but has the capability to learn and luckily, it has an algorithm that is absolutely thrilled to help it out and is completely devoted to this program/ma... (more)Loading...