★I want to learn machine learning. Where should I start?
I just finished a course on Machine Learning and I loved it. The text we used was this one: Machine Learning textbook. (I won't say whether or not there are PDF's around the internet.) I believe it is sort of a quintessential beginners book, or so I've been told. We also used a lot of supplemental texts and hand outs as well, for instance, for Genetic Programming: GP_1_Book and for Reinforcement Learning: Reinforcement Learning: An Introduction. Assuming you have a background in CS: If you want to get your hands dirty right away, I would suggest reading chapter 1 and then chapter 4 of Mitchell (the first book), to get a decent primer on artificial neural networks. (I think ANNs are a fun place to start). Then use the the data sets here: UCI Machine Learning Repository: Data Sets and create a project for yourself. We did letter classification using the artificial characters data set. (They give you the characters as line segments, but it's easier to read them as pixelated images, and if you'd like the altered files I have I'd be happy to send them to you.) I'm not going to lie at first when I started I just used the algorithm straight out of the book and implemented it immediately, but if take some time to understand everything (which I did later), It is awesome and very satisfying. I also have an excellent handout that walks you through multilayer feed forward artificial neural networks you can grab from my Dropbox: https://www.dropbox.com/s/4o51fu... I feel this as with anything else is best done by getting your hands dirty, so I say go for it, here are a few case studies using neural networks that I think you might find interesting and might be helpful as well. A case study of using artificial neural networks for classifying cause of death from verbal autopsy, International Journal of Epidemiology, 2001, 30:515-520. Predicting Students' Academic Performance using Artificial Neural Networks:  A Case Study of an Engineering Course, The Pacific Journal of Science and Technology, Vol. 9, No. 1, May-June 2008, pgs. 72-79. Analysis of Hidden Units in a Layered Network Trained to Classify Sonar Targets, by Gorman and Sejnowski, Neural Networks, Vol. 1, pgs.  75-89, 1988. A case study on using neural networks to perform technical forecasting of forex, Neurocomputing, Vol. 24, pgs. 79-98, 2000. Mangerial applications of neural networks:  The Case of Bank Failure Predictions, Management Sceince, Vol. 38, No. 7, July 1992, pgs. 926-947. I want to add, if you're looking for a slow but mature growth into machine learning, familiarity with basic concepts of computer science (algorithms, data structures, and complexity), mathematical maturity in discrete math, matrix math, and  probability and statistics, are all important for understanding the more complex parts of machine learning you can get into. My answer assumes you have this background already. (Not to say you couldn't do it without all of those things, they just make it much easier.)    Embed Quote