★How does one start writing practical machine learning programs?
Find applications around you that could use machine learning. For example, 1] Consider a firefox plugin that keeps track of the blogs/news sites that user goes to, tries to understand the topics that the user is interested in and alerts the user whenever the blog/news site gets a new update that the user might be interested in. This is an application I thought of since I surf slashdot a lot and instead of going to slashdot to figure out whether some interesting news has come up, I always wondered it would be nice to have a plugin that can alert me about it. 2] Another firefox plugin could be a facebook update collapser. Consider a firefox plugin which operates whenever I login to facebook. I tell it which updates are interesting and which updates are not, over time, it understands which updates I find interesting and which I don't find interesting and simply collapses uninteresting updates (not delete, but just collapse, in case we collapse something the user might find interesting, he can still see it). These are just some simple ideas that I feel like I could use and it involves machine learning to some degree. If one spends enough time, one can find several such daily applications that could use machine learning and just spending enough time building them is a great exercise to practical machine learning. The only downside to such applications is that you won't gain experience building large scale applications since most of these applications are small scale in nature. If you want to get into large scale applications, you can look into [1]. One can look into these datasets and see what interesting things could be built using these datasets. Also, there is [2], where you have large crawl of web pages available. I guess what I am trying to say here is that Machine Learning is a tool and like any tool it has a set of problems where it can help you with. In today's digital world, finding such problems (especially on the web) is not exactly hard :-), one has to just look hard for it. [1] Where can I find large datasets open to the public? [2] http://commoncrawl.org/    Embed Quote