★What are the best graduate schools for studying machine learning?
I have to be perfectly honest here, I'm pretty astonished by the answers here. Yes, machine learning is a big field, and yes your experience will certainly vary by which university you end up at. That said, there are two universities which very, very clearly rise to the top of the pack as far as modern deep machine learning goes. Those are the University of Toronto, and the University of Montreal. I have no affiliation with either university (sadly), but the truth is that these two universities have largely pulled ahead of most, if not all, of the other top universities in the field in deep learning research. NYU, and Stanford are probably the two US universities I would place immediately after uToronto and uMontreal, largely because of their faculty. That said, it really depends on which area of ML you want to study. If you want to look into old-school computer vision (think Haar, Sift, and color thresholding) then a university like CMU or MIT will work excellently for your purposes. That said, most of these approaches are only still relevant in robotics (due to computational bandwidth). If you're interested in speech recognition there are a number of universities doing novel research there, I would again mention CMU, largely because of their CMU sphinx library. That said, this is again an area where a great number of universities have excellent staff available. If you're interested in statistical NLP I would recommend Stanford first and foremost, but statistical NLP is an area where there are again a huge number of excellent universities, Stanford has a large open source project though, which has drawn in a number of very skilled professionals. The short of it is it depends very, very highly on the field of machine learning that you want to study. If you're interested in modern approaches, uMontreal, uToronto, and NYU have excellent staff on board and will allow you to associate with some of the best known minds in the field (Geoffrey Hinton, Yoshua Bengio, and Yann Lecun respectively). There are a number of universities that also offer good programs here though. If you're interested in older, more proven machine learning applications the field is much wider, and most of the universities listed in other answers will provide an excellent education. Not sure if you're interested, but uMontreal and uToronto have almost become feeders into industry research labs (mostly Google). This could be seen as a positive or a negative depending on where you're coming from.    Embed Quote