★Why is machine learning not more widely used for medical diagnosis?
Computer aided diagnosis systems are routinely used in mammography but that is the only current use of CAD. Even there, a recent survey indicates that radiologists have very little trust in the systems and do not rely on their output. Very discouraging. As a bioinformatics researcher and after listening to doctors, the reasons why ML is not more often used in medicine are the following: ML tends to be a "black box". When a classifier gives a diagnosis, it rarely gives reasons for the diagnosis. This makes it untrustworthy or useless to practitioners, who must answer to patients, review boards and courts. If a doctor is asked why he thought the patient had cancer, he must be able to say that such and such symptoms indicate so, not "the SVM said so". Even in the realm of medical imaging, it is not enough to draw a box around a lesion or abnormality -- the system must be able to say why it is abnormal (shape, contrast, location, patient history, etc) and how confident it is. Medical datasets are too fragmented and thin. A good diagnosis generally does not rely on a single datum like one mammogram, but must take into account the patient's history and demographic information. A lesion that is very likely malignant on the mammogram of a 65 year old Chinese smoker from Detroit whose mother had breast cancer, might be very likely benign on the mammogram of a 40 year old black nonsmoker from LA with no family history, for instance. But datasets used to train CAD systems rarely have this depth of information and as a result are suspect. Liability issues are important. US evidence rules require that every piece of evidence used to make a diagnosis be archived. In a medical malpractice case, any missing evidence must be assumed by the jury to be in the doctor's disfavour. That means that if a CAD system is used, its output must be archived, or else it becomes a dagger pointed at the doctor's throat. That includes the lesion indications from a mammogram CAD system -- if a patient comes back suing because her cancer was not detected early and you cannot find the CAD output, the jury must assume that it indicated the lesion and you missed it. In the face of this legal risk, a CAD system must offer a large advantage to be worth it.    Embed Quote