★Is Measure Theory relevant to Machine Learning?
Many of the techniques in machine learning are related to measure theory indirectly. As Venkatesh Rao said, the applications don't really require such sophistication, but it is nice to know. For the most part we are borrowing techniques from statistics which invokes measure theory when referring to probability theory. Recall that the classification problem in machine learning involves constructing hyperplanes to separate various clusters. Many classification problems are ill-posed mathematically, but the few that are well-posed and have some nice features (e.g. I can prove something about them once I set up a measure theoretic framework) include the following: Support Vector Machines — This is a form of Kernel Density Estimation. The theory behind SVMs involves an object known as the 'Reproducing Kernel Hilbert Space' in the machine learning and/or statistics world (it is called the Cameron-Martin Space in mathematics). Suppose that the space we are classifying points in is . In order to specify a reproducing kernel Hilbert Space, one usually specifies a kernel and considers the map . A mathematical consistency that one needs to impose here is that there exists a -finite measure such that [1] Once this is done, we can add in conditions on symmetry and non-negative definiteness to apply Mercer's Theorem to the kernel (as if often done in theoretical papers on the SVM). Mercer's Theorem effectively gives us a trace class kernel, so that eigenvalue problems with respect to this kernel are tractable. Stochastic Gradient Descent — This is commonly used as a tool to estimate the learning rate of a machine. While the theory is not fully developed for this method, when one can prove a theorem, he/she almost certainly needs to invoke the Classical Wiener Space and its canonical Wiener measure (Brownian motion). If is the th iterative step in the process, the goal really is to find some function such that such that we have a stationary stochastic process. If only we always got Ornstein-Ullenbeck processes out of this equation... :( I've probably skipped other 'applications' of measure theory to Machine Learning; however, as long as probability is involved there is always some measure theory lurking behind. The case of the SVM was the only time I've seen someone drag in some functional analysis into machine learning as opposed to just probability theory. [1] There are ways around this restriction (one can weaken it), for instance, by only needing the Kernel to be a Calderón-Zygmund Kernel. However I'm not familiar with the recent machine learning literature and I don't think they consider this case. [2] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mer...    Embed Quote