★Why are there so few machine learning and natural language processing startups?Do PhDs actively avoid starting companies? With so many applications in the research literature and so much progress being made, what is stopping people from starting companies based on these technologies? There seem to be many companies in India and China working in this area but nearly none in Silicon Valley.  Why?
I'm running a team in a medium sized retailer that does some ML. 95% of the work is in getting clean data for the algorithms (including substantially rewriting the shop core codebase we inherited). 5% of the effort is picking the right model, algorithm, logic, etc. And I say 5% loosely. TL;DR: the ML isn't the hard part. It's definitely enormously more pain to get to a point where you can do any ML. The pain point is not the ML, but the data quality. On that point, the hard part is not the IT (sysadmin, DBA tasks...), nor the data munging (querying, figuring out where stuff you need is). It literally is answering the question "is this data correct". An order has processed and will be paid cash on delivery; it will take 2 days to reach the customer. 40% of COD customers default. Does this order count as a valid order for the purpose of your supervised learning? Nobody, and I mean, nobody on the market can answer this question satisfactorily (not this precise one, but the 400 like it that help you get to, for example, an order validity definition or an attribution model for online marketing). The logic already built might sit in a 200MB excel spreadsheet with 40 tabs each containing 30 different formulas (some redefining the same thing), each auto updating from 3 parallel data warehouses, the file manually run by 10 analysts over 6 hours every morning. But the task is not considered important*, so when the company is built, it's given to fresh business degree graduates working in "BI", and the codebase is built by young programmers with no experience rushing through artificial deadlines. So you go upstream to go and fix it, which takes months, and your team, which is presumably competent since they are capable of doing ML, is waiting for the sweet prize of finally using this cleaned data into models that work and produce output for the business. They acquire unbelievable domain knowledge and know the system inside out, and how to work with the other teams involved to mitigate further data disasters. At this point, you get a "Dear sir/madam" from a company that tells you that if only you plugged in clean data into their black box algorithm, out would come the magical solution that beats anything your in-house team is capable of building. You might be the biggest customer yet they have had in your industry, but trust them, one of the interns was at NASA (participating in a side project in cooperation with his university, but that doesn't matter since clients trust brands over demonstrated aptitude). This will be cheap too, just shy of a million all included. Because, you know, NASA. 4 months into the integration, still unable to mould the data into the shape they want for their magic models, you give up and cut the project, several hundred thousand dollars burnt. *Business people, especially without business experience, consider that anything that doesn't impact the bottom line is "not business critical" and should be done as cheaply as you can get away with, preferably without paying much attention. Data, and in some amazing cases, the backend of a shop, fit the bill.    Embed Quote