★How do I learn machine learning?
Machine Learning is a fairly broad area, and the answer to this question is going to depend on what your existing background is, and what you want to learn it for.   If your math is weak, you will probably first want to beef that up a little. There are two goals you need to accomplish to be good at Machine Learning:   Have strong understanding of the math behind ML concepts. Get a lot of hands on experience applying ML in different problem domains.For the first goal, a Math major or at least a math-intensive major will help you a lot. You don't really need anything as advanced as graduate level math training though.   It's most important that you know the basics of probability and statistics well. A lot of learning is Bayesian learning, so make sure you know Bayes' rule very well.    The next most important thing to study is numerical optimization techniques. Almost all the theory of machine learning that I've seen breaks down into some kind of optimization problem. If you're really unfamiliar with numerical optimization, then start by learning about gradient descent. You'll need to be comfortable with Calculus, at the very least being able to do partial derivatives, so if you've forgotten a lot of it then time to refresh.   Plenty of other kinds of math used in machine learning, but if you're starting from scratch, start with my suggestions. Something to keep in mind is that when you learn these mathematical principles, you generally learn them in the context of 1-dimensional or 2-dimensional problems. But as soon as you start looking at ML problems, you're almost always looking at very high dimensional problems. In ML, it is very common to have data with hundreds or even thousands of dimensions! And that makes things very interesting, to say the least. For instance, consider the nearest neighbor problem, where you're trying to find a point that is closest to another point. There are some efficient algorithms for doing it in 2 dimensions, and you may already know one. But once your points are high dimensional, that algorithm is no longer efficient. The fact that having higher dimensional data makes life harder is referred to as the Curse of Dimensionality. A lot of ML is about finding ways around that Curse of Dimensionality, to deal with high dimensional data. But before you even study that, you need to first have a good conceptual understanding of how the math works in low dimensional spaces you can actually visualize. Once you've got the math down, pick up a good textbook or if you prefer take a free online course through a MOOC. I don't have any personal favorites, a lot of the other answers here probably give good recommendations. There are A LOT of buzz words used by ML people, so hopefully a good textbook will help you understand the jargon and give a good overview of different techniques. If you have a strong math background, you should be able to understand the theory behind any ML technique relatively easily. That of course is all just the first goal. The second goal is far harder and more time consuming, and is the real test of how committed you are to machine learning. Just knowing the theory of ML, unfortunately, won't tell you enough to make you an expert at it. You need to get lots of practice running your own experiments, and using ML techniques to solve problems that are of interest to you. If you're someone who likes instant results, then you probably won't have much patience for this. Expect to have code that runs for a very long time -- hours or even days. And when the results come back and they're not good enough, then you have to start all over. And if things are running too slow, then you either have to optimize your code better or get better hardware. If you're learning on your own, you may not have access to better hardware.   Finally, since ML is very broad, you probably want to focus on getting expertise in just one or two techniques. Nobody I know is an expert in all of machine learning. Note: I myself am not an expert in ML, because I don't have enough patience to dedicate to the second goal. This is just what I know based on my limited experience with it.    Embed Quote