★Why is machine learning used heavily for Google's ad ranking and less for their search ranking?A lot of people I've talked to at Google have told me that the ad ranking system is largely machine learning based, while search ranking is rooted in functions that are written by humans using their intuition (with some components using machine learning). What led to this difference?
Part of the answer is legacy, but a bigger part of the answer is the difference in objectives, scope and customers of the two systems. The customer for the ad-system is the advertiser (and by proxy, Google's sales dept).  If the machine-learning system does a poor job, the advertisers are unhappy and Google makes less money. Relatively speaking, this is tolerable to Google. The system has an objective function ($) and machine learning systems can be used when they can work with an objective function to optimize. The total search-space (# of ads) is also much much smaller. The search ranking system has a very subjective goal - user happiness. CTR, query volume etc. are very inexact metrics for this goal, especially on the fringes (i.e. query terms that are low-volume/volatile). While much of the decisioning can be automated, there are still lots of decisions that need human intuition. To tell whether site A better than site B for topic X with limited behavioural data is still a very hard problem. It degenerates into lots of little messy rules and exceptions that tries to impose a fragile structure onto human knowledge, that necessarily needs tweaking. An interesting question is - is the Google search index (and associated semantic structures)  catching up (in size and robustness) to the subset of the corpus of human knowledge that people are interested in and  searching for ? My guess is that right now, the gap is probably growing - i.e. interesting/search-worthy human knowledge is growing faster than Google's index.. Amit Singhal's job is probably getting harder every year. By  extension, there are opportunities for new  search providers to step into the increasing gap with unique offerings. p.s: I used to manage an engineering team for a large search provider (many years ago).    Embed Quote