★How do you explain Machine Learning and Data Mining to non Computer Science people?
Lets be short, sweet and non-bookish. Machine Learning (ML), as the name suggests imply to enable machines/computers to learn (over time) to take decisions. What are those decisions, and how are they taken, forms the core of ML and there is lot of fancy maths to support it. In general, ML is used to perform three types of actions, viz. classification, clustering and prediction. In classification, we normally have abundant 'labelled' data and the scope of our decision space is known a priori. For e.g. if a classifier is exposed to only labelled pictures of cats and dogs and if a new image is shown, it will classify it as one of the category, even if it is a cow. However, it can be useful in many situations where the domain of decisions is pre-set, for e.g. credit card fraud detection - you only want to know if a transaction is legitimate or fraudulent. Clustering deals with cases when you have data but no information about it. Imagine you are shown images but they are not labelled...so it is for the classifier (or you) to form certain clusters or groups based on some notion of similarity.  for e.g. among a set of pictures you may build clusters based on if they are animals (cat, dog, cow) or birds (crow, sparrow) or another set as herbivorous (cow, sparrow) and carnivorous (cat, dog, crow). Here the notion of similarity plays a major role, because we don’t know what we are looking at before-hand. Our brain does this clustering and grouping of objects all the time based on our perceived notions about things and objects. Finally, prediction means to learn from historical data to predict the future or at least the present. Weather forecast, Stock price movement, customer churn rate etc are some examples. However, ML is not magic or rocket science. There is no 'one-fit-all' algorithm as stated by No Free Lunch Theorems. ML algorithms are data dependent, parameters dependent, and objective dependent. However, it is amazing when you start to observe it's connection with the actual decision making of our mind - which we generally take for granted.    Embed Quote