★What are the best graduate schools for studying machine learning?
With the possible exception of CMU (which has a machine learning department), the answer really depends on which professors at each school are currently research active and open to taking on new students.  Most schools only have a handful of professors that work in ML-related areas, so prior reputation of a school is not 100% indicative that you'll find opportunities there.  For example, a school like Stanford is overall extremely strong, but many of its core ML professors are currently very busy with startups (e.g., Coursera). In my opinion, the most important thing in doing a PhD is to have a good fit with your advisor. Roughly speaking, I would say that most of the schools in the top 35 (as ranked by US News) have 8-12 professors actively working in ML-related areas, and 1-4 in core machine learning (i.e., regularly publishing in ICML, NIPS, KDD, etc).  I also wouldn't blindly trust the faculty listings on school websites -- those are usually inflated. CMU is about an order of magnitude bigger with about 8-12 faculty in core ML (the machine learning department at CMU is actually pretty small, so the faculty count is not as ginormous as some might think).  So CMU is more robust to individual faculty leaving or not being research active due to a startup. But there are also more students there interested in ML so that leads to more competition for faculty advising. Currently (ca 2014), some schools at the high end of the 1-4 core ML faculty are Michigan, Berkeley, Stanford (mostly related to vision & NLP), Columbia, UWashington, GA Tech, Toronto, and UCSD.  I would also say that UCLA, UNC, and Rice currently have a clear dearth of ML professors (at least based on my observations at ICML, NIPS, KDD, etc). Finally, keep in mind that different professors work on very different topics, even if it's all under the umbrella of machine learning.  Research universities try to hire professors that are doing both interesting and novel work, so each professor's research profile is unique to some degree.  I hear that Caltech has some interesting professors ;)    Embed Quote