★What is the difference between statistics and machine learning?
From the book Learning From Data - A Short Course: The study of learning has evolved somewhat independently in a number of fields that started historically at different times and in different domains, and these fields have developed different emphases and even different jargons. As a result, learning from data is a diverse subject with many aliases in the scientific literature. The main field dedicated to the subject is called machine learning, a name that distinguishes it from human learning. We briefly mention two other important fields that approach learning from data in their own ways. Statistics shares the basic premise of learning from data, namely the use of a set of observations to uncover an underlying process. In this case, the process is a probability distribution and the observations are sample from that distribution. Because statistics is a mathematical field, emphasis is given to situations where most of the questions can be answered with rigorous proofs. As a result, statistics focuses on somewhat idealized models and analyzes them in great detail. This is the main difference between the statistical approach to learning and how we approach the subject here. We make less restrictive assumptions and deal with  more general models than in statistics. Therefore, we end up with weaker results that are nonetheless broadly applicable. Data mining is a practical field that focuses on finding patterns, correlations, or anomalies in large relational databases. For example, we could be looking at medical records of patients and trying to detect potential fraud. Technically, data mining is the same as learning from data, with more emphasis on data analysis than on prediction. Because databases are usually huge, computational issues are often critical in data mining. Recommender systems, which were illustrated in Section 1.1 [Netflix 1 million prize] with the movie rating example, are also considered part of data mining.    Embed Quote