★I want to learn machine learning. Where should I start?
This really depends on your math training in some sense, ML is very simple if you know have say a sophomore level understanding of calculus, linear algebra, and some good coding skills (i.e. what is a hash, how does memory work etc).  Most of the core ideas and their application have been worked out over the past 10 years, and there is a lot of good open source code available If, however, calculus is mysterious to you, and you have never done anything more than say PHP or Ruby on Rails, you need to go back and learn some basic calculus and a little numerical methods. Many practical methods, like SVMs and Logistic Regression, are simply based on first year multivariate calculus and the solution of constrained optimization via the Lagrange Multiplier (L-M) method, combined with clever stochastic sampling.  Most practical implementations are just using a modified stochastic gradient descent or a simpler stochastic coordinate descent. This is, literally, high school level physics.)  Once you get the L-M method, without all of Boyd's formalism, then just code it up using coordinate descent or gradient descent.  (I would actually avoid books on numerical optimization and Boyd's work-these are way too complicated and specialized.   And no body uses interior point methods..thats his thing really.  Additionally, old school numerical methods are designed for physics and EE problems, where numerical accuracy is important.  ML is all about stochastic sampling and fast, low-precision solutions. At least I am not doing research in nuclear shell theory or quantum chemistry to make better explosives anymore; I just place ads for women's shoes on celebrity blogs. ) Once you get this, you can move on to more complicated, non-linear methods like Hidden Markov Models.  Or try understanding NMF and the ALS solver. There are obviously more advanced things, but I would just start there.  I will write a blog post is that is help and there is a lot of interest.    Embed Quote