How difficult is epigenome sequencing, as compared to genome sequencing?
It's definitely a lot more difficult than sequencing the genome! The most common method to find all the methylated DNA in the genome is called bisulphite (or bisulfite, if you're American) sequencing. The DNA is treated with a chemical (bisulphite) that converts non-methylated C residues, but not methylated C residues, into U residues (which are read as T residues when the DNA's sequenced). However, there are some technical difficulties with this method: You have to make sure the conditions are exactly right so that all the unmethylated Cs are converted, but don't leave the reaction running so long that other bases start converting too. This requires adding controls (pieces of DNA with known methylation status), so you can check that everything that's supposed to convert is converting, and nothing that's not supposed to convert is converting. The conversion reaction is damaging to the DNA, and breaks it up into smaller pieces. This means that with most protocols, you need to start with a HUGE amount of DNA so that enough of it survives the reaction to give you full coverage of the genome in your sequencing results. This means that some particularly rare types of cells can only be sequenced if you pool the cells from multiple individuals together, which isn't ideal - it's much more informative to sequence a single individual. You have to have a matched genome sequence from the same person if you want to ensure you're identifying all the methylation sites; you can't just compare the bisulphite sequences to the reference human genome. Some people's genomes might contain a T base instead of a C, and if you just do bisulphite sequencing you have no way of knowing if the original sequence was a T or an unmethylated C; if you can compare the bisulphite sequences to the non-converted sequences, you can figure this out. There are some newer protocols coming out that need less starting material, but the large number of cells you need if you want to do bisulphite sequencing is still too high for some researchers who work on rare cell types. The other common assay type, chromatin immunoprecipitation followed by sequencing (ChIP-Seq), is even trickier: You need to make sure the antibodies you're using to grab the pieces of chromatin (DNA+histone proteins) that contain a particular histone modification are both specific (bind the right proteins and only the right proteins) and effective (bind strongly enough to pull the associated DNA out of suspension). This requires lots and lots of controls - way more than for genome sequencing. Again, you need huge amounts of starting material to make sure you get enough DNA to sequence. (As with bisulphite sequencing, new protocols are coming out that work with lower cell numbers). ChIP-Seq experiments give you a sense of which regions of the genome are associated with certain types of histone modification. It can be hard to interpret these types of results - where do the regions start and end? There's a lot of debate within the field about how deeply you have to sequence to find the right boundaries of the regions involved (i.e. do you have to sequence the same part of the genome 30 times, or 50 times, or more?). There's also still a lot of debate about the kinds of statistical methods that should be applied to make sure the results are a good reflection of reality.I'm a member of the International Human Epigenome Consortium (IHEC). One of the aims of the consortium is to standardize the methods used to obtain and interpret epigenome sequencing data, and I've quickly learned since joining the consortium in 2012 that this is an incredibly complicated problem. You can find the current standards at Reference Epigenome Standards - the PDFs on the right hand side of the page illustrate exactly how many factors have to be considered. And of course, the standards have to evolve along with the sequencing technology. It's very much a work in progress, and will be for some time. 