Is it possible for a human to generate a truly random sequence mentally?
I think so. You could try something like this: Free-associate an indefinitely large sequence of words (or even digits). "Indefinitely large" means, free-associate some more whenever you need to. Split this sequence into chunks with a pretty big chunk size -- for example, take the first 100 words, then the next 100, then the next 100, etc. Convert each chunk into a single bit (0 or 1), using some sort of highly volatile mapping. For example, you could count the number of vowels in a chunk (let's say you count 139 vowels), and set the output bit to 1 if and only if there is an odd number of vowels. String all of the digits together to make your sequence. The reasons why this might work are: It's hard to screw it up by thinking too much: Unlike the case of simply generating bits by saying them one at a time, this method keeps the human completely in the dark about what bits are being generated. (Perhaps there is a small possibility that you could unconsciously be calculating the vowel count parity with each word you say -- if that became a problem you could easily modify the criteria to be a computable property of the chunk which nevertheless is impossible to keep in your head as you go). This means there can be no bad feedback where the human says "I've said '1' twice now, so I should say '0' to balance things out," which is one thing that leads to predictable bit strings. It's at least uniformly distributed: The distribution of output bits passes the most basic test -- it will be approximately uniform (it is hard to imagine that the oddness/evenness of a chunk's vowel count would not be uniformly distributed). More generally, if there is any unpredictability in what word a person will generate next in a free-association (and I believe there is -- the process is physically deterministic but the brain's overall state is so chaotic that highly accurate prediction is probably impossible), then the larger the chunk size, the greater the "aggregate unpredictability." (this could be put information-theoretically in terms of entropy). Once this unpredictability becomes high enough, it can be harnessed to generate an arbitrary number of bits with no discernable pattern. Updated 140w ago • View Upvotes