What was the purpose of the surveillance drone sequence in Interstellar?
That was the mark of genius - Look at it objectively, even if the Drone wasn't Indian, wouldn't have made much difference to the film, secondly if one edits the scene out of the movie again - doesn't make much difference to the movie - Right? Wrong! The drone sequence tells you the film's central theme in a nutshell -  A drone that was launched during the age of science, before dust came in - still flying - like our protagonist - Coop, his mind, his thoughts still belong to the era when scientific advancement dominated the world, when science didn't mean surrender, but to challenge, question and was all about finding a solution. The drone and Coop both belong to the same era and are destined to fly/move aimless in the present timeline of the movie. When Coop sees the drone he is going to drop his kids to the school - A man busy playing the best parent to his kids - but as soon as he sees the drone, he changes the course and follows it - Follows the science, going away from general parenting to a bigger goal - capture the drone (or capture the destiny that awaits him). Something that would be projected later in a much bigger interstellar level. The Drone is finally captured (right before Coop's son would drive the vehicle off the cliff - in the nick of time), and Coop controls it, brings it down and says he will give a motive to the drone, while his daughter feels he should've let the drone fly, as it wasn't hurting anyone. Rings a bell? Coop was happy being with his kids, though he wasn't fit for the world, though he wasn't hurting anyone - someone finds him and gives him a bigger goal - a social responsibility - a passion that will make him change his path from regular parenting and go for something far bigger and control it, similar to the drone incident. Why is it an Indian Drone? Why can't it be a Czech Drone or a Chinese Drone (Chinese make wont fly for that long for sure), why Indian? Was it just a nod to the Indian Science and its bright future? I don't think so - I might be wrong, and someone might label me a rightwing Hindu here, but I would say it was a nod to Historical Indian Science, our mythology doesn't only deal with Time Dilation theory (Read about Muchukunda, Revati and many such stories), but Vedic theory of Ghost is pretty similar to what Nolan showed in Interstellar. (A Ghost is called Bhoot in Sanskrit, Bhoot means Past as well, an aatman who is trying desperately to go into its past is Bhoot). I felt the theme resonated much better with the Indian Mythic Science and calling that drone Indian was just a nod to that. 