What is the best sequence of quadcopters to build for a beginner hobbyist?
I recently went through building a multirotor from no knowledge to eventually flying one, so I'm going to share that experience. I begun my journey buy buying all the necessary components and building the drone from scratch at my own pace. Although this was a longer path to flying, I did learn a lot along the way. I do recommend this method only because the things you learn will help you with troubleshooting when there is a problem. You will find the most important component of every quadcopter is its Flight Controller and the reason for big price differences. A good flight controller board could mean the difference between flying and not flying, the kind of experience that could put a person off this hobby. I invested in buying both a sophisticated "Arducopter 2.5" from 3Drobotics and the easy to setup "KK2" board from HobbyKing. I've really managed to fly with only the KK2. It truly is the ideal setup for any beginner due to its onboard LCD screen which lets you quickly alter its settings without having to connect it to a PC. This is a massive advantage when you are out in a field. Although the Arducopter board is certainly capable of much more, it needs a fair amount of experience in order to be utilised effectively and for the price of one unit ($240 to $260) you can buy 7 or more KK2 boards ($30 per unit). Even though I don't own one of these, the DJI Naza controller board receives a tonne of positive reviews on the Internet. It too can only be configured via a PC but the parameters and the settings appear less convoluted and easier to understand for a beginner than the Arducopter. Nevertheless, the DJI Naza is said to be very stable during flights and without its GPS add on, it fits roughly within the same price bracket as the Arducopter. Both the KK2 and the Arducopter are built on top of the Atmel/Arduino microcontroller, so in theory are allowed to get under the hood and rearrange the code if you so wish to. The DJI NAZA board is however a proprietary system.  Price of a decent quadcopter will hugely vary depend on how you want to fly. If it's casual flying then many kits worth between $300 to $600 US dollars will suit your needs even though I don't recommend them because the ready to fly kits usually come bundled with useless, non computerised transmitters and unknown receivers. It's also noteworthy that most tutorials on the internet are based on Spektrum, JR or sometimes Futaba transmitters. Having the correct transmitter makes following instructions easy. Personally I would recommend Spektrum transmitters. On the other hand if you want to fly the quadcopter for other purposes such as FPV, arial photography and lifting heavy equipment then the ready to fly kits become fewer around the low price range. For this type of flying you should research the weight that your quadcopter has to carry and customise your quadcopter parts accordingly. The reason is because the quadcopter will need to have a better set of motors that can produce enough thrust for lift and also ESCs that can handle larger current flow at full throttle in order to fly with a heavy load. You may at this point consider a sophisticated flight controller such as the Arducopter since it supports a slew of optional addon hardware that improve its capabilities and autonomy. With this setup you could instruct the quadcopter to visit different waypoints on the map and take photos. Such a setup could end up costing over $1,000 by the time you are finished so do consider from the start what you want to be able to do with your quadcopter. Another expensive component of quadcopter is its frame. You can certainly build your own but a well built frame will protect your investment during mid air problems and crash landings. Full carbon fiber frames are usually recommended and depending on the frame size you could pay somewhere between $80 to $400 for a decent frame. Finally it is always a good idea to invest in buying good quality tools such as a descent soldering iron, hand tools (ie. hex screw wrench/drivers etc.). This will help you put together or fix your quadcopter quickly. 