Does anyone really believe in the evolutionary sequence of algae, fish, bird, mammal, human?
Yes, there are people who believe that sequence, either because they have been misinformed, never studied science or didn't pay attention in class. Before Charles Darwin and Alfred Russell Wallace advanced the theory of evolution by natural selection, there were a number of different evolutionary theories circulating. They typically proposed a linear, progressive sequence of species, and although this concept was overturned by Darwin and Wallace, the idea seems to live on in the cultural memory, and is incorrectly attributed to modern biology. I'd like to describe the history of this persistent, yet false, idea. Great Chain of Being - the deep roots of this idea Since Aristotle, and across cultural boundaries, for thousands of years there was a belief in a Great chain of being (scala naturae) in the natural world. ​Aristotolian scala naturae ​Medieval engraving of a 'scala naturae' showing the 'ladder' concept adopted by early, pre-Darwinian evolutionary theorists. The words on the steps read (in translation): rocks, flame, plants, beasts, humans, heaven, angels, God. The Ladder of Progress - Pre-Darwinian Evolutionary Theories The concept of the scala naturae formed the basis of early theories of evolution, such as those of Jean-Baptiste Lamarck. Scientists who followed this line of thinking referred to a 'ladder of progress'. ​ Jean-Baptiste Lamarck Lamarck believed that very simple new life forms arose routinely through spontaneous generation. Then, according to Lamarck, by using some faculties more than others, these simple life forms would change very slightly and subsequently give birth to life forms that inherited those changes. Therefore, life would gradually progress through a series of different, increasingly complex species.  ​A 19th Century illustration depicting a not-so-modern theory of the descent of man For Lamarck, a fish was less complex than a man because the fish's ancestors had spontaneously appeared at a much later date than the man's ancestors and had therefore not yet progressed as far in their 'complexification'. He believed the fish's line of descendents would become progressively more complex until one day they could become mammals, whereas humans had already progressed beyond being fish. Humans were thus considered higher on the "ladder" than fish, which is where the terms "higher animals" and "lower animals" come from. There are only two aspects of Lamarck's theory that biologists agree with today: life changes (evolves) over many generations, and we are descended from single-celled life. Every other aspect of his theory, including the idea of a linear sequence linking mammals directly to birds or animals directly to algae, the idea that evolution comes from 'use' or 'disuse' determining traits of offspring, and so on, has been shown to be utterly wrong and is rejected by all biologists. Almost all of Lamarck's ideas would be considered pseudoscience today. Not a Ladder, but a Tree - Modern Evolutionary Theory Today, we understand life to have resulted from a branching process. Algae and animals are descended from a common, single-celled ancestor, but not from each other (their ancestors were more like siblings). Birds and mammals are descended from a common ancestor that was descended from a kind of lobed fish, tracing a line of descent back still further to the earliest life on earth. Humans are mammals, and share an early mammalian ancestor with all other mammals. We should recognise that Lamarck was writing at a time when there was far less information available about biology and even chemistry was in its infancy (Lamarck favoured alchemy and rejected modern chemistry). He was part of a scientific community that was casting about for an explanation for the patterns of both diversity and similarity seen in natural life, and his system was an imaginative attempt to find such an explanation. Lamarck's proposal that evolution was a gradual process, rather than one of leaps from species to species, formed the backdrop against which Darwin and Wallace independently developed their theory of evolution based on branching and competition, so science owes him a great debt. We should excuse Lamarck for not understanding the relationships biology understands today because he wrote at a time when nobody understood these relationships yet. However, it is much harder to excuse those who continue, today, to insist there is a ladder of progress, or to pretend that is what modern biology claims. Updated 50w ago • View Upvotes