Why does the Fibonacci sequence repeat in nature?
Have you ever asked yourself why raindrops are spherical, why not a cube, pyramid or any other three-dimensional form? (Raindrops are almost spherical if we neglect the gravity or actually spherical when in space). The answer lies in the fact that for a given volume the surface area of a sphere is less, so the energy due to surface energy is less. The evolution of all things in nature is towards an optimum along  allowed trajectories. Confused? Let me explain. For example let us say there are two cities, A and B. There are two different roads that connect A and B, 1, 2. Let us say 1 is shorter road of the two. If one wishes to travel from A to B he/she prefers 1. If there is some problem with 1, 2 is preferred. Is the shorter road the shortest path? Definitely not. A straight line connecting A and B is the shortest path but unfortunately there is no road on this straight line. There exist paths that are longer than 1 and shorter than 2 but due to same reason they all are futile. All living beings adapt to the changes in the environment and this process continues until such a time where this is achieved. However the dynamics of nature continues to change and so does evolution. Now coming to your question, the Fibonacci series is not a trivial or random series. It embodies mathematical optimality. Consider, for example, the sunflower. Plants want to make best use of sunlight, moisture and nutrients. They don't want to waste space or grow leaves/flowers with insufficient access to light. If the petals of a sunflower are so arranged that it is follows a Fibonacci spiral (the angle at the center of this spiral is called Golden Angle) the petals are less clumped when compared to those arrangements with slightly higher or lower angle. This is an ideal case. There are many factors which may result in slight deviation, like the effect of gravity in the case of raindrops. Here are some pictures I found on Internet that illustrate this. 