What is the most interesting thing people learn from having their DNA sequenced?
My husband, Jay Wacker, and I did 23andMe. I found the results surprisingly fun.  The most interesting things I learned: I have two working copies of alpha-actinin-3 in fast-twitch muscle fiber.  When I was a kid, and even still, I often just start sprinting, especially when I'm happy.  I am a fast sprinter, and instinctively just run sometimes.  It was cool to see I have the gene.  Explains why, even when I'm out of shape, I can jam quickly if I need to. There is a pain sensitivity gene. At one end of the spectrum are people who can easily withstand sensations that most people would find unbearable.  At the other, are people who feel pain much more acutely than normal. I have a normal sensitivity to pain, whereas my husband and daughter have decreased sensitivity.  This is awesome.  It is really great with my daughter. She falls down, and quickly just bounces up.  They are both relatively heat insensitive and don't get too hot or too cold easily.  Again, an awesome trait to have in a baby.  You have a friend who is a real wimp? Give them a break: it may be in their genes!  There is a gene for iris patterns, affecting eye color saturation.  Generally I thought of eyes as:  brown, green, or blue.  However, after we had our daughter, I couldn't pin down her eye color.  Were they grey, hazel, dark green?  After getting back the results, we learned that there is also a gene for saturation & the colored portion of the eye surrounding the pupil.  Our daughter has less pronounced iris crypts, making her eye color less color saturated.   Bradley Cooper?  I'm thinking more pronounced crypts. ​      (photo credit:  CinemaBlend.com) My daughter and I are resistant to infection by the most common strain of norovirus.  Norovirus resistance is highly heritable. If you have two copies of the A version of this SNP, you lack a functioning FUT2 gene and are most likely resistant to the virus.  Perhaps it's time for us to take a cruise.  My husband, sadly, is susceptible to the infection.  However, he has that increased pain tolerance, so he can handle it! Updated 48w ago • View Upvotes