What is sequence alignment?
Sequence alignment is a subfield of stringology. The term stringology is a popular nickname for string algorithms. Usually text and string have the same meaning and they are the basic types to carry information. Thus the improvement of stringology will benefit many other fields. Subfields of stringology include string matching, pattern matching, periodicities, data structure, text compression and sequence alignment. The related studies of sequence alignment include spelling correction, bitext word alignment, file comparison (diff), and amino acid sequences comparison. The early studies of sequence alignment are originated to spelling correction. In 1957, researchers started to study engineering problems including spelling checkers for bitmap images of cursive writing and finding records in databases in spite of incorrect entries. These problems are basically consisting of two parts: Scanning strings and extracting words, and Comparing the extracted words against a known list of correctly spelled words (i.e., the dictionary). The first part is the essential part of compiler developments, and has been studied for years at that time, since the first compiler was written by Grace Hopper, in 1952, for the A-0 System language. The second part can be modeled as string alignment or string matching respect to different constraints. In 1961, Les Earnest, who headed the research on developing the first spell checker that accessed a list of 10,000 acceptable words. In February 1971, Ralph Gorin created the first true spelling checker program for general English text: Spell for the DEC PDP-10 at Stanford University's Artificial Intelligence Laboratory. Gorin made the first spelling corrector by searching the word list for plausible correct spellings heuristically. His idea is to search the words that differ by a single letter or adjacent letter transpositions and presenting them to the user. At that time this problem did not formulated in terms of mathematics by computer scientists yet. In 1970, Needleman et al. considered the problem to search for similarities in the amino acid sequence of two proteins. They formulated the problem mathematically and named their model as global alignment. They proposed an algorithm, a.k.a. Needleman--Wunsch algorithm, of global alignment by using dynamic programming. The time complexity of dynamic programming based approach is $O(N^2)$. Later Wagner et al. considered the string comparison problem in a more general way. They unified all related problems by the model of string-to-string correction. The possible applications of the string-to-string correction problem are the problems of automatic spelling correction and determining the longest subsequence of characters common to two strings. In genome science, the BLAST, which is developed in 1990, is the most well known sequence alignment tool; it is elected as one of the milestones of DNA technology by editors of the Nature Genetics. However, to catch up the throughput of sequencing technologies, many alignment tools have been developed in the last a few years. Each new sequencing technology has its own features and advantages. The developers of new sequence alignment tools must take them into consideration. E.g., the short sequence length of Illumina, SOLiD and Helicos reads, the di-base encoding of SOLiD reads. 