Why do many car gears are designed in different order and not in sequence one after the other?
Let me brief out certain basic mechanisms and basic keyterms related to gear changing mechanism to explain your query -   Gear - Gear is as you can see in the picture below is nothing but a metal disc or teeth on its circumference.     ​ ​  Now on rotating the smallest gear will rotate the mid one which will finally derive the largest one through sequential meshing of teeth. Now the question would be why we need gears at all ? The answer is power provided by engine is constant but we manipulate it accordingly which one is your prefference SPEED or FORCE with which tires push ahead (in technical terms we call it TORQUE ).  Consider you have to climb a mountain and in other case you have to ride through plain ground then in former case you do not need high speed but surely require high force which wheels will apply on ground to push your vehicle ahead whereas in case of plain ground all one needs is high speed to travel fast and ordinary force from tires is enough to push ahead. Therefore during various situations we apply different gears i.e. from 1st to 4th or 5th where 1st gear provides you large force but small speed range whereas last one comes with least force but maximum speed. Remember riding a gear bicycle in childhood or even now where you will shift gears ( to the maximum -the gear with smallest diameter ) to increase your speed    ​ Also have a look at the picture below  explaining how gears are changed in cars - ​  now there are two motions associated with this gear changing arm ie you move it front or backward which as a result changes the relative position of meshing gear i.e. at different times different gears are in contact. In second type of motion you move the arm sideways and then again front or back which is again for obtaining different gear ratio. For better understanding look at the picture given below- ​ Assuming that engine of your car rotates the shaft in WHITE colour then with the help of gear changing arm we shift different gears at different locations to mesh with different gears to obtain required speed is to force ration. Now question would be still in your mind as why gears can not be in sequence as 1 , 2, 3, 4... so the answer is assuming you must have understood the complexicity of working of gears and gear box , designers try to optimise the space available to make all possible gear ratio available in a compact space in parellel configuration instead of arranging them in sequence which would require significant amount of space as shown in picture above and also excess of material . Here reducing the cost of manufacturing and space required is more important than comfort for passenger to change gears with closed eyes one by one. Someone has also written one of the another fact behind this that is it would take lesser amount of time for you to shift from one gear to another however we never shift directly from 1st to 3rd/4th gear to avoid jerks and damage to gear box. One of the person has also mentioned correctly that during initial days of designing configuration of gear changing direction some designers found the most optimised way that is H configuration but now days companies are coming up with even better configurations as well automatic transmission methods instead of manual one. There is also another correct fact about it which i just read In other answers that is sequential gears would make it tough to look again and again at which position you are. Infact there would be too many explainations behind this adaptation as systems are evolved or modified for number of reasons to become more and more efficient. 