Is there an order/sequence for wearing makeup?
There is a proper sequence for doing make up, just like there is a proper way to cook a dish. But just like any other process, you might switch steps, skip it, combine it, and basically just do whatever goes well with you, as long as it serves the purpose. Every cosmetic serves a purpose, just like you use baking powder before you put the whole dough into the oven, not after it. But some ingredients might come more handy like the pepper, you can add it right when you stir-fry, or maybe add it as a dressing by the end of the cooking. It depends. You don't put your whole eye make up, blush, and lipstick and then decide to put the liquid foundation on top of it, right? Because it doesn't serve the purpose! Yet you can put on some mascara and then decide to put eyeliner in between the lashes (yes, some people enjoy doing this), because you evaluate that the whole eyes don't open-up enough. I would list some basic purpose of common cosmetics for a guidelines: Face toner: first use before you start to "decorate" your whole face, to clean up the canvas. Unless, you want to redo a certain part on going process. Moisturizer : Used before putting up make up because this was supposed to pamper and moist your bare skin. Putting it after make up might not be the smartest thing to do because it will messed up your make up construction and not giving the optimal benefit since your skin is basically already "covered up". Face primer: The liquid one used before the foundation, to set up your pore skin so the foundation would be grasped better in hours of wearing make up. Some people would use the spray one after the whole make up too, for the same purpose: to get a fix grasp of the whole make up that has been done. Foundation/BB/CC Cream: Wear it before any color. There is a reason why it is called "foundation", mate. Concealer: the purpose of this cosmetic is to conceal or correcting your certain spot of discolor regarding the whole face. Some might use it before foundation and some after it, it really depends on which one will grasp better since it usually add no different color than the face skin base (because the purpose is to toned down any dark circle, pimple scars, etc) --and you need to understand how does it work with your foundation. Powder: the purpose is to set the foundation OR the whole make up. Like, making a layer that make sure everything underneath it won't move or wear off easily. Some might use it right after the foundation, some after the whole make up in certain part that needs to be "secured", and the other both. Eye make up, contouring, blush, and lipstick, even your eyebrow make up can be done in any sequence that you like. Believe me. As long as it serves the purpose. This is the coloring part of make up, so you basically can do anyway you like with your drawing paper/canvas (face). Even with the mascara-eyeliner case. Except wearing mascara before the eyeliner can be tricky for some people (because your lashes already "fatten up straight") Hope that helps! 