What are the advantages/disadvantages of using Protein Alignment vs Nucleotide Alignment?
Often in biology we want to compare related or homologous proteins of two or more organisms to see how closely related they are or to search for highly conserved amino acid residues that might suggest an important structural or functional role. Other times we want to compare a protein of interest to similar proteins in a database to predict a function based on the functions of its evolutionarily related homologs. Of course it will depend on what you want to get out of your alignment, but for a variety of reasons protein alignment is almost always preferable to DNA alignment. 1. Redundant codons mean ~1/3 of DNA mutations often don't matter. DNA alignment doesn't take into account the redundancy of amino acid codons. All six of these three base pair sequences code for serine: TCT, TCC, TCA, TCG, AGT, AGC, but in a DNA sequence alignment a three nucleotide mutation from TCA to AGT (a silent mutation that has no impact on the protein sequence) would score less than a single nucleotide mutation from TCA to TAA (a Ser-Stop codon mutation that would vastly alter the protein. There is rarely significant evolutionary pressure to prevent a silent mutation in a protein sequence, so the mutation shouldn't count much against the protein homology score. 2. A smaller sized alphabet requires more matches. DNA sequences are made with an alphabet of four nucleotides while most proteins have twenty. It is easier to achieve statistically significant alignment by comparing a larger alphabet of characters because you are much less likely to get a match by chance. 3. The DNA database is cluttered with non-coding sequences. DNA databases contain much more than just sequences coding for proteins (in fact, only ~1.5% of the human genome codes for proteins). If you're trying to align two protein sequences, it makes more sense to limit your alignment to proteins rather than scanning the entire genome. This is especially important when searching for short sequences that might align with non-coding regions of the DNA by chance. 4. Not all amino acid mutations are equally harmful to the protein structure. DNA alignment doesn't take into account the more similar structures of some amino acids to others and the similar functional role they have in the protein. Isoleucine and valine have similar structures, both have hydrophobic side chains and differ only by the addition of an extra carbon on isoleucine. A mutation from one to the other is not as likely to substantially change the protein structure as some other mutations would, but a DNA sequence alignment will treat this mutation the same as any other. In a protein sequence alignment, instead of giving no points for a Ile-Val mutation, a BLOSUM matrix (or similar) is used to assign likelihoods to every possibly amino acid substitution, also taking into account the relative frequencies of the two amino acids. Pairs of structurally or functionally similar amino acids are assigned higher substitution scores indicating a higher likelihood that the mutation would occur in two homologous (or evolutionarily related) proteins than can be accounted for by chance alone. (See BLOSUM62 matrix below) Since not all important functional regions in the DNA sequence code for proteins there are some situations where you can only use DNA sequence alignment. To compare regions in the DNA that code for functional RNA molecules rather than proteins or regions that serve as binding sites for transcription factors, there is no protein sequence to work with. Nonetheless, when you have a choice between alignment of a DNA gene or its corresponding protein, it is almost always better to narrow down the possible homologs with a protein alignment, and then use DNA alignment to compare the remaining sequences if an alignment is useful (as in Ian York's answer about quantifying genetic drift). More information on sequence alignment here: http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/book... Updated 198w ago • View Upvotes