What are the advantages/disadvantages of using Protein Alignment vs Nucleotide Alignment?
By studying sequence homology, analogy and paralogy potential you'd gain insights into interesting aspects of of the conservation or lack thereof. That can help us with activities such as classification and clustering of families (Rfam and Pfam), annotations (functional and structural), database searches, and many others. While similarity between sequences is interesting but also are so the differences. Think about isoforms and single nucleotide polymorphisms. Another third field of utility for sequence alignment is the mapping of NGS reads in order to compare between conditions for instance where genomic and proteomics changes are hypothesized to result. To have a feel for my answer to your question let me briefly compare protein alignment to that of structural non coding RNAs. The later being a specific species in the convoluted nucleotide world of high notoriety for lack of sequence conservation. In proteins an alignment is straightforward, the algorithms performance is very satisfactory and the threshold for calling proteins homologous is somewhat relaxed compared to structural RNAs. This is because proteins mutations at the primary sequence level are more conservative compared to that of the RNAs. Slight mutational changes to a single amino acid in a protein sequence can be all there's necessary for the mark between health and disease. An example of haemoglobin in anaemia is a classic one. So to to call two or more proteins homologous, similar or identical we look into their alignment and similarity score. A threshold of 35% is enough for homology in this case. The non coding RNAs on the other hand are very prone to changing their primary sequences much quicker and while some ncRNAs may look to have totally different sequences they may still be part of the same family. The structure of related RNAs is particularly less variable despite this. The conservation of the sequence happens at the Dinucleotide level where if the ncRNAs have folding potential two distant nucleotides exhibit base complementarity and that means they can fold back into each other with the nucleotides enclosed in between protruding to form stems or hairpinp that the ncRNAs poke and attach to its targets with. So for the ncRNA integrity a mutation in one of the dinucleotides may mean that its base pair few bases away can vary in order to compensate for the change because the RNA needs this to preserve its folding potential. Hence algorithms that one uses for protein alignment and phylogeny analysis may not be totally handy for aligning seemingly distinct yet structurally related ncRNAs. Covariance models are used to perform RNA consensus sequence finding since they consider the covariation of two distant nucleotides together. That way if many RNAs in the alignment exhibited a similar pattern of covariation they maybe classified as related. It's also suggested that a similarity threshold of not lower than 60% between two ncRNAs is also necessary for such classifications to be genuine. 