What is the most interesting thing people learn from having their DNA sequenced?
I have not been sequenced, but I have been genotyped by 23andMe. I plan to get sequenced some day, but even with genotyping data I learned quite a lot.  Here are the most interesting things I learned. 1) I'm 0.3% subsaharan African. I'm blonde and look very european but it turns out I have a small amount of African Ancestry.  I would have never guessed this.  My family records all indicated that I was descended entirely from a Pennsylvania German stock but some where along the way there was mixing with an African ancestor.  Considering the percentage, it is about 8-9 generations ago, or around the time the US revolution.  Since all historical records place my ancestors in the US or US colonies during this time, this most likely means one of my ancestors was a slave or freed slave.  Considering the taboos against interracial relationships at the time I find this very interesting. I also convinced my extended family to get genotyped via 23andMe and was able to trace this ancestry to my maternal grandmother who is 1.3% subsaharan African.  None of us ever knew this. We all look 100% caucasian. Below you can see my African ancestry and my grandma's African ancestry in purple. Justin's Chromosomes and their ancestry Grandma's Chromosomes and their ancestry.  2) I am a carrier for 3 recessive alleles. I had always learned in my courses that most people are carriers for at least one recessive allele but I found it very interesting to discover what I was a carrier for.  One of these mutations is also linked to lung disease in heterozygote carriers IF they smoke or are exposed to airborne toxins.  This makes me glad I don't smoke or live in LA or Beijing and also makes me pretty sure I will never move to a place where air pollution is that bad because i know I am at a higher risk. There were several other interesting health results I got but these are the two I personally found most interesting. 