Why does the Fibonacci sequence repeat in nature?
Part of your confusion might be alleviated by the comforting thought that there are many number series that don't show up in Dan Brown novels, and thus don't get so much publicity. Its popularity is arbitrary, but the sequence itself is not. Fibonacci first developed his sequence after considering how many rabbits there would be in a field if they never died, they mated once a month, they had one male and one female offspring each month, and all their offspring mated with each other. You can see already why this sequence might arise spontaneously from a natural process. The golden ratio is somewhat overrated, and used to explain a lot of things it shouldn't*, but it undeniably shows up in nature, particularly plants! Some lovely Fibonacci spirals here! Well, that's weird. As far as I know, plants can't count. What's going on? Why is Fibonacci showing up here? Isn't it just some random, totally arbitrary series of numbers from math class? You might as well ask, "What's so special about tetrahedrons? Isn't 109° such an arbitrary number?" But if you find out the principles behind the molecule's shape -- electron repulsion -- you realize that given the constraints, there's no other way for methane to be. It's likely that a similar rule explains the appearance of Fibonacci in plants. I highly recommend Vi Hart's video below (skip to 2:29 if you're really impatient) because stop-motion animation is particularly good at explaining this concept. Buds form around the circumference of the meristem at angles that optimize growth, which often, but not always, stabilize at phi. "All that these plant bits are doing is growing where there's the most room for them. The rest happens automathically. It's not weird that all these plants show Fibonacci numbers. It would be weird if they didn't. It had to be this way... This pattern is not just useful, not just beautiful, it's inevitable." "This is why science and mathematics is so much fun! You discover things that seem impossible to be true and then get to figure out why it's impossible for them not to be true." *People sometimes get very silly about "The Golden Ratio" and say all kinds of untrue things about the Pyramids and the Parthenon and even the Apple logo. That's a topic for another Quora question (Does the Apple logo really adhere to the golden ratio?), though! 