Why do many car gears are designed in different order and not in sequence one after the other?
There are some answers here that go into unnecessary detail and some that don't answer the question at all. I'm going to try and clear that up and explain it as simply as possible. Most modern cars have what is known as a Synchronized transmission. This means that at any given time, all the gears in your gearbox are rotating together or "synchronously". ​ This is a typical representation of a 4-speed manual gearbox. Before I start explaining, I'm going to use the word Spline (mechanical) a lot. This simply means that the parts I'm talking about are connected and capable of transferring torque. The Grey/Gray shaft represents the input shaft. The Orange gear on the far left is directly connected to the engine. This is splined with the Grey gears on the Grey shaft. The gears on this shaft are fixed to the shaft and rotate with the shaft. The Yellow shaft represents the output shaft. This shaft contains gears which are connected using bearings. This means that the gears on the output shaft are free to rotate and not splined (except for the yellow one; that is for the reverse gear, but don't pay any attention to that right now). The circular things on the output (yellow) shaft that are Pink and Cyan in colour either consist of a synchromesh and/or dog clutch. These two devices spline the gears which are free to rotate and make the entire gearbox spin at that gear ratio. The Blue, Magenta and Green shafts are used to control the dog clutches and reverse gear. When you move your gear stick, these gear selector rods either move forward or backward, thereby engaging or disengaging a certain gear. This design is used because it's simple and efficient. Having a transmission set up in this way is probably the best way to transmit power from the engine to the wheels in a cost effective manner with today's technology. Automatic transmissions are far too complicated and CVT's just aren't as reliable. I know I may face criticism on that front, but I won't get into that because it's outside of the scope of this question. Now that we've established that having a gearbox set up like this is probably the best way to transfer power, we have to get to how we're going to shift gears. Here's how the transmission works. When the gear stick is in the middle, none of the dog clutches/synchromeshes are connected to any of the gears. All of the gears on the output (yellow) shaft will rotate without the output shaft rotating. This is because these gears are mounted on bearings. When the gear stick is moved into first, the cyan dog clutch is moved towards the first gear and the entire gearbox starts to rotate with that gear ratio. The input and output are now splined. ​ To engage second gear, the gear stick is moved back, and the dog clutch now makes the entire gear box rotate with the second gear's gear ratio. ​ To engage the third gear, the pink dog clutch has to be engaged. ​ Similarly, the fourth gear is engaged by moving the magenta selector rod the other way. ​ The pictorial representation I've been using doesn't show a fifth gear and doesn't include a dog clutch for reverse gear. This is how a gearbox with a fifth gear would usually look. ​ I hope that I've explained that clearly enough. If you still haven't understood, you can refer to the excellent video below, or feel free to ask me any questions. Okay, hopefully that's been cleared up. Now to the actual question. Why are gear sticks arranged in a "H" shape? Simple. Because the dog clutch can only move in two directions! Forward or backward. That's it. The gear stick moves the cyan selector rod when you're in first and second gear, it moves the magenta selector rod when you're in third and fourth gear. Since these selector rods are right next to each other, you get an "H" shape. The gear selectors would be arranged like so: ​ (The position of reverse gear varies from manufacturer to manufacturer, but this is the general configuration.) But can you have a gearbox where gears are arranged in order? Yes, Indeed you can. Sequential manual transmissions use just this. The gears can only be shifted in order, and it is impossible to skip gears. Sequential transmissions are used in motorbikes and in motorsports like Rallying. Instead of having selector rods, sequential transmissions have what is known as a ratcheting drum that move the dog clutch or synchromesh by using groves cut into the drum. They aren't used in normal commercial vehicles because they're complicated and expensive and are best suited for smaller engines like in motorbikes. ​ Working of a sequential gearbox: Source of images: Wikipedia, How Stuff Works-Auto Source of videos: YouTube 