Does anyone really believe in the evolutionary sequence of algae, fish, bird, mammal, human?
Well firstly you got the sequence wrong. Secondly there is no sequence. Thirdly, you make a big mistake which I will get to at the end. Let's start with the Precambrian Era. For simplicity let's skip the origin of life and go straight to the Precambrian Era, the earliest era in Earth's history. Around 600 mya (million years ago), we see the earliest examples of multicellular life, as shown in the picture above. This was the era of the earliest flatworms and jellyfish and sponges. Other strange creatures called Ediacarans existed. All of these are grouped under Eukaryotes, living things with cells with a nucleus. Fish are not descended from algae. They are the product of an event called the Cambrian Explosion. The Cambrian Explosion was evolution at its finest. Ice ages, plate tectonics, and mass extinctions pushed the Ediacarans and Eukaryotes to their limits. The Cambrian Explosion was the result of mass extinctions, killing off species that didn't have the adaptations and diversity to survive. The few that did emerged in a new world where they dominated, and variations of their species evolved into more species, diverging and after about 13 million years we begin the Paleozoic Era, the Cambrian Period, and the beginnings of life as we know it. Now take a look at this fellow here: This is a tunicate. Tunicates are invertebrate chordates, which is kind of ironic. Invertebrate chordates don't have vertebrae, but are chordates. They have the notochord, the rigid rod-like structure that stretches across their backs, but no bone like a vertebrate. The term vertebrate is kind of misleading. Instead of invertebrates and vertebrates we should be classifying animals as chordates and non-chordates.  Here are some more examples of invertebrate chordates: the Sea Squirt the Lancelet Tunicate larvae It is these invertebrate chordates that gave rise to modern fish. Now did you say bird, then mammal? That order is wrong. Mammals came long before birds, not to mention you skipped reptiles and amphibians. I'll skip amphibians and go to reptiles evolving into mammals and birds. Tell me whether this creature is mammalian or reptilian, just by looking at the skeleton: Or this one: Or this: Maybe even this one: In order the species above are Moschops, Dimetrodon, Dicynodon, and Scutosaurus, all living during the Permian Period. None of these are mammalian. They are all reptiles, grouped under mammal-like reptiles. They gave rise to modern mammals. They were most likely warm-blooded, which reptiles today are not, and thus are the ancestors of both dinosaurs and mammals. This is Thrinaxodon, the biggest transition between mammals and reptiles. As far as we know, mammal-like reptiles are the warm-blooded reptiles who gave rise to mammals. Birds are more controversial. Archaeopteryx is no longer considered the earliest bird but there's no doubt birds are descended from dinosaurs. In fact, they are so close, birds are dinosaurs. So now let's look at the third thing you got wrong. you draw a line between humans and mammals. We are mammals. We have not diverged from mammals so much we no longer fit the criteria for them (milk and fur). In this era, the Cenozoic, mammals, specifically placental mammals, are most well adapted to survive. Until something changes, maybe the position of the plates or the climate, placental mammals will continue to dominate. Conclusion: It's better to look at evolution as a web or tree, branching off in infinite directions depending on conditions, not a sequence. Sources: Precambrian Time, Earth History Information, Prehistoric Facts -- National Geographic The Cambrian Period http://www.glencoe.com/sec/scien... Introduction to the Synapsida Meet Your Great, Great, Great Grandma - A Tiny, Tree-Dwelling Triassic Shrew The origin of birds Page on missouri.edu New Insights into Non-Avian Dinosaur Reproduction and Their Evolutionary and Ecological Implications: Linking Fossil Evidence to Allometries of Extant Close Relatives Updated 5w ago • View Upvotes • Not for Reproduction