Does anyone really believe in the evolutionary sequence of algae, fish, bird, mammal, human?
The evolution of life on Earth is NOT a sequence, it is a tree, a very, very bushy tree (see image below, for a simplified tree). That "sequence" the OP posted is incorrect. This video, narrated masterfully by the great David Attenborough, explains it much better than any of us can in words, with beautiful visuals, and in HD, for the technology enthusiasts among us: The current view is that all life on Earth evolved from one common ancestor, instead of evolving multiple times (a perfectly valid hypothesis). Darwin had hypothesized this, but knew he had no proof, as DNA was not known back then. The discovery of DNA as the genetic material and the ability to make quite precise phylogenetic trees based on DNA sequence data alone, supported the hypothesis of common descent. But like everything in science, it is our duty to challenge hypothesis and put them to the test, and this was recently done by doing statistical analyses using the amino acid  sequences in 23 universally conserved proteins from 12 taxa from the 3 major  divisions of life (eukaryotes, bacteria and archaea) and modeling different trees and calculating the chances that the similitude in protein sequence occurred by chance, from multiple ancestors, or from a universal common ancestor. The model predicts that descent from a universal common ancestor is at least 10^2,860 times more probable than the closest competing hypothesis! That is a big number. Here is the link to the Scientific American article: The Proof Is in the Proteins: Test Supports Universal Common Ancestor for All Life And here is the link to the original Nature article. It may be behind a paywall, but if you have access, I highly recommend it as it clearly explains how this type of hypothesis is tested. Of note, in science, we revise our hypotheses and our models in light of new data. To this date, it really makes sense to support that there was a universal common ancestor; in the future, it is possible that some other ancestor that gave rise to a small branch of the tree of life that we have not characterized yet, could come to light, and then, we will revise the model. 