Why were complex numbers invented?  Were they invented to explain a physical phenomenon or do they really "exist"
Suppose, you only accept the existence of Natural numbers like 0, 1, 2, 3 etc.. Now you can't really go any far unless you define how to combine them in various operations. So you define four binary operations on them namely addition, subtraction, multiplication and division. You will observe that the collection of natural numbers are not closed under these operations i.e for some natural numbers these operations may not result in numbers which are included in the collection of natural numbers. For example 2 with 3 will be closed under addition and multiplication but not under subtraction and division. You are therefore compelled to define negative numbers and fractions so that your binary operations remain consistent always. So you get what you call Rationals which include integers and fractions. Now when one tries to solve an algebraic equation like [math]x*x-2=0[/math] we again see that the collection of numbers we have defined so far is not sufficient. We have to extend the number system still more. So we define a new class of numbers called irrationals so that this extended collection of numbers (Reals) is closed under any algebraic operations. But soon we observe that even this extended system of numbers is still not sufficient for all kind of algebraic operations. For example if you want to solve the equation [math]x*x + 1 = 0[/math] again you have to extend your number system still more. You have to define again a new class of numbers called imaginary numbers. This still extended numbers system is called Complex numbers. If you think that this process is never ending and we have to extend the number system more and more for consistency, you are wrong. There is the famous fundamental theorem of algebra which says that all algebraic equations, no matter how complicated, must have complex roots. So you are finished with numbers. There are no additional numbers left. Imaginary numbers are introduced because they are inevitable. They are integral part of number system. Mathematical concepts are abstract concepts and they don't require any physical justification. But modern physics can not be done without complex numbers. The state of a physical system is represented by a vector in a complex vector space (Hilbert space). One can't do quantum theory without complex numbers. Even classical physics takes advantage of complex numbers heavily although it is not essential. Life of  an electrical engineer will be difficult (but not impossible) without complex numbers. 