How can you prove negative numbers exist?
A good way is to use something that already exists to create something functionally the same. So let's only work with the natural numbers starting from 0. First, turn every natural number n into a function that adds n to any other number. That is, 7 because the function 7(x) = x + 7. Instead of having $7 we say that you have $7 in transit that are waiting to be given to someone. These 'function numbers' are exactly equivalent to the ordinary numbers: you can add, multiply, subtract, etc. them as usual. +(4,7) is the function that maps x to (x + 4) + 7, which is also the function that maps x to x + 11. So +(4,7) = 11. Second, observe that subtraction isn't always well-defined, but you can do something similar. Define -7 as the function -7(x) = x - 7 if x >= 7, or 0 otherwise. So when you get handed a $500 fine from the government, we treat that as -500 income that is in transit ready to hit your bank account as soon as they find the money. But if you don't have enough money, they'll lessen the fine to however much you have. Third, observe that these 'negative numbers' I've created behave almost like the real ones in the limit of infinite money. That is, somebody like the Federal Reserve could take a penalty or fine of trillions of dollars, so negative numbers up to trillions of dollars would exist. Fourth, if you never actually apply these function numbers to a starting number and merely chain them together, then they are equivalent to the integers. In this new system, nobody has any apples: 7 apples means "You're owed 7 apples that will arrive when we get around to delivering them" and -7 apples means "You owe me 7 apples that will arrive whenever you take them". And as long as nobody ever goes to the bank and asks to have their apples delivered in cash, the system can function with infinitely high or low positive or negative numbers. If you ask for a negative balance, the bank will simply decline and may just fine you even more. If you ask for a positive balance greater than their reserves, the bank might  decline. The function numbers are a model of the integers constructed using the natural numbers and functions. There's a history in logic of logicians creating models of all sorts of weird things in terms of simpler constructs that they can understand. Once you have a model, you can prove the consistency of the new system in terms of the old(I think you could prove that negative numbers don't give a contradiction as long as natural numbers and functions don't). Here's a homework question: Imagine somebody doesn't believe that arbitrarily large positive numbers exist. Maybe 1 million apples is too big for the human mind to comprehend. Can you use a variant of the above argument to construct a model that convinces the skeptic who only believes in numbers from 0 to 1 million that the number 2 million exists and can be useful to them? 