What are the most profound jokes ever?
First-year students at Medical School were receiving their first anatomy class with a real dead human body. They all gathered around the surgery table with the body covered with a white sheet. The professor started the class by telling them, 'In medicine, it is necessary to have two important qualities as a doctor. The first is that you not be disgusted by anything involving the human body.' For an example, the Professor pulled back the sheet, stuck his finger in the butt of the corpse, withdrew it and sucked his finger. 'Go ahead and do the same thing' he told his students. The students freaked out, hesitated for several minutes, but eventually took turns sticking a finger in the butt of the dead body and sucking on it. When everyone had finished, the Professor looked at them and told them, 'The second most important quality is observation. I stuck in my middle finger and sucked on my index finger. Now learn to pay attention.' Update 2014-05-09: Turns out this is based on Arthur Conan Doyle's professor from medical school in Edinburgh, Joseph Bell. Bell also became the inspiration for Sherlock Holmes. In the essay 'The Original of Sherlock Holmes' (pdf), Harold Emery Jones writes, with far more eloquence than above: All Edinburgh medical students remember Joseph Bell—Joe Bell—as they called him. Always alert, always up and doing, nothing ever escaped that keen eye of his. He read both patients and students like so many open books. His diagnosis was almost never at fault.    'This, gentlemen' announced [Professor Bell], 'contains a very potent drug. To the taste it is intensely bitter. It is most offensive to the sense of smell. But I want you to test it by smell and taste; and, as I don’t ask anything of my students which I wouldn't be willing to do myself, I will taste it before passing it round' Here he dipped his finger in the liquid, and placed it in his mouth. The tumbler was passed round. With wry and sour faces the students followed the Professor’s lead. One after another tasted the liquid; varied and amusing were the grimaces made. The tumbler, having gone the round, was returned to the Professor.    'Gentlemen,' said he, with a laugh, 'I am deeply grieved to find that not one of you has developed this power of perception, which I so often speak about; for if you watched me closely, you would have found that, while I placed my forefinger in the medicine, it was the middle finger which found its way into my mouth' Thanks, Steve Caplin, for the info! Updated 90w ago • View Upvotes