Should interracial pairing be encouraged in order to eliminate all vestiges of what we call race?
Short answer:  I agree with the answers of most people who said that we should not interfere with people in love and agree even if its a black-white couple or its a white-white couple. Leave them be! It should not be enforced, but encouraged; not for the purposes of genetics but for the purpose of encouraging freedom of choice, love, and reducing racism and promoting inter-racial unity* and understanding. In the context of India, I would just add that a lot of "handsome" and "hot" Indian actors are offspring of inter-racial couples. (This is only one probable advantage, not saying it should be the only reason for allowing such pairings) John Abraham (actor) (another Syrian Christian, with Parsi descent) Katrina Kaif (Half British) Other examples: Kareena Kapoor Khan, Dia Mirza (German descent), Celina Jaitly, Ayesha Takia (British origin), Esha Deol and her sister, Malaika Arora Khan and Amrita Arora, Soha and Saif Ali Khan, Abhishek Bachchan,  Dino Morea ( Italian Origin) , Zayed Khan (half-Parsi), Aftab Shivdasani (half-  Iranian), Salman Khan and his brothers. Essentially with the exception of Shah Rukh Khan everyone who dominate the industry is a product of inter racial breeding. But people here unfortunately fail to realise that or probably don't care. Long Answer: (I am sorry my answer is long, but considering its the celebration of the Independence of my country in a few days, I owe it some apt respect. As usual, brace for negativity!) I was always a big fan of interracial pairing. My parents, not so much. I remember this time when I was 13 and my parents and I visited my father's friend (we are Syrian Orthodox** Christians and so is he) who was married to a German Muslim convert, and with my parents' interests in mind I asked him "Could I marry your (Syrian Orthodox) daughter?" While they laughed, I kept a puzzled yet serious face, because it seemed like a feasible compromise to me at the time. Before you call all of us Indians brown(or other Asians for that matter), you should know that we are like a 100 shades of brown and each shade is a different race in our eyes. Its like a race within a race. We are big on arranged marriages here. You know how that goes? Same race+caste+religion+region("status") and as close to each other in genes as possible, till it doesn't cross that line of what is considered gross in that community. For some, gross is marrying second cousins, others its only first cousins, some others its just siblings. Consequently there is a portion of India that still marries first cousins and even uncle to  niece. The stigma here is generally against  any other kind of marriages, including marriages to another religion, another region, or another "caste".  A brown man marrying a  brown woman could still be inter-something. If any foreigner has come to India and praised its "Unity in Diversity" he will know that its all bull faeces, if he ever joins any arranged marriage coupling discussion. You will soon realise that races/religions/communities are all just getting along. This is not unity, its a compromise! A good example would be a African origin family and a European origin family living next to each other; they smile, greet and help each other out, but don't let their children play together. The result of all this is that, indulging in inter-anything marriages can result in a) violent conflict between families, religions and even villages b) murders c) social (and familial) ostracization. And what happens to all those who encourage such pairing? Option c) if not option b) depending on the degree of violence in your region. Urban India sees few of such problems, and successful marriages here help bringing people of such psuedo-races close to each other. Thanks for the A2A, James Hollomon. Sorry for the unnecessary detail. *Unity: Read the long answer. **Syrian Orthodox: A sizeable chunk of non-catholic Christians in India belong to Syrian Orthodox churches. Yet, we are like, 0.2-0.3% of the Indian population. That is almost the number of Native Americans (registered as one-race) left in the USA! Luckily, we are all in tucked into one corner of the country, so we still manage arranged marriages. 