Should interracial pairing be encouraged in order to eliminate all vestiges of what we call race?
I think that the question is somewhat mis-guided, though well-meaning. The reason is that inheritance is actually discrete, not blending, as Darwin originally thought. There seems to be no scientific support for the idea that genetic variation in a sexually reproducing species like Homo sapiens, or Drosophila melanogaster, between so-called races, is any greater than that between sub-populations that are grouped within a given race, when one looks at measures of heterozygosity at various random coding locations in the human or fruit fly genome. The case is actually quite the opposite. There seems to be more genetic variation within "races" than there is between them. Richard Lewontin made a classic study of this exact question in the early 1970's, using what seems to me to be a quite reasonable definition of genetic diversity. Let me quote from his conclusions, and let me first immediately add a link to his paper, entitled; "The Apportionment of Human Diversity". Page on philbio.org "The results are quite remarkable. The mean proportion of the total species diversity that is contained within populations is 85.4%, with a maximum of 99.7% for the Xm gene, and a minimum of 63,6% for Duffy. Less than 15% of all human diversity is accounted for by differences between human groups! Moreover, the difference between populations within a race accounts for an additional 8.3%, so that only 6.3% is accounted for by racial classification." "It is clear that our perception of relatively large differences between human races and subgroups, as compared to the variation within these groups, is indeed a biased perception and that, based on randomly chosen genetic differences, human races and populations are remarkably similar to each other, with the largest part by far of human variation being accounted for by the differences between individuals." In short: race is a social construct based on easily identifiable morphological features, such as skin color, which is mentioned in the question, and facial features. Race makes only a slight contribution to overall human genetic diversity. To quote Lewontin once again: "Human racial classification is of no social value and is positively destructive of social and human relations. Since such racial classification is now seen to be of virtually no genetic or taxonomic significance either, no justification is to be offered for its continuance." In short: I agree with Lewontin and I suggest that we all should stop worrying about "races" and whether people are brown or white or black or yellow or red, and just let all people marry those whom they wish to marry. Updated 77w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by James Hollomon