Why were complex numbers invented?  Were they invented to explain a physical phenomenon or do they really "exist"
If you start working with certain concepts over the real numbers, you'll notice various rather bizarre dichotomies.  For instance, you can diagonalize some matrices, but the best you can do in general is get them into 2x2 blocks along the diagonal [1].  A polynomial of degree n can have at most n real roots, but could have none.  However, if n is odd, there must be at least one root, no matter what. If you keep doing math, you'll keep running into these situations.  Passing from the real numbers to their algebraic closure, the complex numbers, clarifies what's going on in each of these situations.  Without them, it would be hard to know that there weren't other possibilities in the situations above that we simply hadn't come across yet. Further, since they replace all these "maybe this, maybe that" statements with "definitely this" statements, they make it a whole lot easier to do math.  If you're solving differential equations, you learn that exponential functions and trig functions are two perspectives on the same larger phenomenon, which is not something you could possibly understand if you were working over the reals -- you'd see the theory of linear ODEs as a horrible jumble of special cases rather than as a simple, coherent theory that you could apply to other things. One of the problems with answering a question like this is that it's sort of equivalent to something like "Why do we need the letter r?"  If you try hard enough, you can probably communicate anything you need without using any one particular letter, but it would take a lot of extra work to do so and the whole time you'd probably be missing the big picture. As to whether they exist, a complex number is essentially the same thing as an irreducible polynomial over the real numbers [2].  If you agree that polynomials exist (which you should if you're not crazy) and that real numbers exist (which is actually debatable), then you should agree that complex numbers exist.  In fact, since your question is whether imaginary numbers exist, then you should agree that they do so long as you believe that integers exist [3], which is again actually debatable [4].  But if you believe in numbers you should believe in imaginary numbers. [1] I'm assuming that you're putting some condition on the matrices here that prevents them from having non-trivial Jordan blocks.  Having non-trivial Jordan blocks means you can't diagonalize a matrix, but that's a completely different phenomenon.  Basically I'm omitting it from the sentence above because I can't figure out a way to insert it into that sentence without making it unreadable. [2] Technically, irreducible polynomials over the reals correspond to either (1) a real number or (2) a conjugate pair of non-real complex numbers. [3] Because then rationals exist, and then the algebraic closure of the rationals exists, and that has i in it. [4] A minuscule number of important mathematicians like Doron Zeilberger believe that, since human experience is finite, working with arbitrarily large numbers is ridiculous, and that we should just agree that there is some "largest number" and be done with it.  (This is most likely a gross oversimplification of his position, for which I apologize.)  In this case, talking about the integers or rational numbers, or anything infinite whatsoever, is a fool's errand.  This has the advantage of avoiding all the frightening consequences of modern logic, and also possibly the advantage of being a correct description of reality, but it also makes lots of math pretty hard to do, which is why a lot of mathematicians reject it. 