What is the interview for B.Math and B.Stat at ISI like?
Well, I gave my B. Math. interview the day before yesterday, that is, in June 2015.  The atmosphere is very cool outside the building, as the entire campus is FULL of trees.  I was quite nervous.  Only 17 out of the 25 students turned up that day, making me the last guy in line.  Even though my interview was scheduled at 1:45, it was 5:30 by the time I went in -- the average time per interview was about 30-45 minutes.   All the people there were silent for the first hour or so, and then started talking with their parents/guardians for the next hour.  Cross-talking started only after another hour.  One girl went in and came out in ten minutes, and she had replied to all the questions that were put to her properly (or so she said).  The guy before me was in for twenty minutes.  While walking towards the room I asked him how it went and he said that it went well because they asked him questions from his favourite topic (P&C).   I went in.  They made me sit, and asked me general questions like where are you from, how did you get to know about ISI and all that.  Even though there were about 7-8 people on the board, only two interacted with me, and only one asked me questions.  When he asked me what I liked in Mathematics, and I replied 'anything'.  I just blurted that out, don't know if that might have any negative impact.   He directed me to the board and made me write an equation: x^4 - 4x^3 + ax^2 + bx + 1 = 0.  He also gave me that all the roots are positive, and that a & b are real numbers.  He asked me to prove that all the roots are equal.  I did so after about ten seconds of looking at the board (using AM-GM).   He then made me write an expression on the board: (p+q)C2 - pC2 - qC2, and asked me to give its value without actually computing anything.  I was looking at it again for ten seconds and explained it out, choosing one from p and one from q, and gave the answer - pC1 * qC1, and he prompted "which is pq".  I said yes.  He then said that the interview was over.  This entire process took me a little under five minutes.   This either means that I am selected or I am screwed.  I just hope that it is the former. 