Can you name some small, helpful "lifehacks" that soldiers use?
It was a long time ago (about 45 years) but I remember some little things: I would use liquid floor wax on my boots after brush polishing them. It really made them shine. About every third time I'd scrub them in the sink to remove the wax so it didn't build up and crack. I always got high marks for my "spit shined boots". Field stripping cigarettes. I quite smoking decades ago but was a heavy smoker in the military. We weren't supposed to smoke in some areas, like on the flight line or the perimeter, but on graveyard nobody would be around so we'd cup it in our hands and puff away. When we finished a cigarette, we'd rub it between thumb and finger to scatter the tobacco, then stick the filter in our pocket to dispose of later. Filters also made decent ear plugs. I never jungle styled my magazines and I never fully loaded a magazine. A newer magazine with a strong spring might cause the gun to jam on auto, or so we feared. And taping the mags might allow ammo to fall out if the lower mag had weak "lips". And if you've seen soldiers tap the magazine against their helmet before use, that's to make sure the rounds are lose and don't stick together or jam. You've probably heard about using condoms on the rifle barrel to keep out moisture. To reduce moisture inside the barrel, we simply shouldered the M-16 butt up, so the barrel was pointed downward. Never look directly at a location at night for very long. If you do, you'll see movement even if there isn't any. Use peripheral vision. I always wore a P38 can opener on my dog tag chain. I had this fear of being down to one can of C-rats and it not having one.  Also, our C-rations were OLD. I remember in training when they'd toss us a cardboard container with a half dozen or so, we pass them out, then before anyone turned them over to the dated side, put up bets on who had the oldest can. It wasn't unusual for the winner to be a can that was over 20 years old. The oldest I recall was 1943. When the winner opened it, it was just a small shriveled up piece of something. I never zipped up my flak vest. I'd just snap the overlay flap that concealed the zipper, for fear if I got hit they might not be able to get the zipper to work to get it off me. And it was hot enough already. From survival training I remember not to eat snow as a substitute to water; it will lead to dehydration. The body will burn up more moisture keeping your temperature up than the snow replaces. Iodine will purify water, though it won't taste good. Purification tablets also make it taste, which is why a lot of guys mixed kool aide in their canteens to offset the taste. In an evasion situation, you can't beat the dogs, but you can beat the handler. If you have enough lead, crawl through thick bushes, circle trees, make erratic paths and crisscross your own trail.  The dog will begin to circle and drag the handler through the bushes or back along the way they've just come, which will frustrate the handler. Dogs are looking for approval from their master and can sense the frustrate, which will translate to "I'm doing something wrong. Maybe this isn't the scent he wants me to follow!" or something else in canine reasoning. Position your watch face to the inside of the arm. It reflects light. I think now they issue a cover with a flap for watches, not sure. But back in the day, you wore what the BX carried. Dip match heads in wax or put nail polish on them. It will keep them from getting wet and soggy. 