Can you name some small, helpful "lifehacks" that soldiers use?
Thanks for the A2A Mag Lights:  Take the lens cap off your little Mag Light flashlight exposing the light bulb.  Use the wrist strap to loop it over a bar or branch.  The light will stay on until you put the cap back on.  Makes for a great lamp in your tent. Handy wipes: While camping bring single use handy wipes or a travel package that seals air tight.  The new versions are biodegradable and are a lot easier on the skin then the toilet paper provided at camp sites.  Also there is almost no chance of contamination if its sealed. Cotton balls:  Take a small jar of Vaseline, handful of cotton balls and a zip lock bag.  Mix the cotton balls and Vaseline together.  Over night the cotton balls will be ready to use to start a campfire.  The petroleum will hold the flame long enough for you to get your camp fire going. Packing: Best for backing packing and traveling for vacation.  Take all the clothes that you are OK with being wrinkled.  Pack each group of items in a zip lock bag or create individual bags with a complete set of cloths.  Remove all the air from each bag.  This will help use the space in your bag more efficiently and keep everything dry if a bottle of hair spray explodes in your luggage during a flight.  When hiking it also helps to stack your cloths, so that your hiking pack stays high on your back or shoulders and not dragging your center of gravity down behind you. Binder clips:  Binder clips have saved my sanity more then once.  Binder clips can keep trail books or maps in order and from flying away in high winds while hiking.  I used them for paper work when I was in the field.  The loops are perfect for hanging on my gear so the papers stayed off the muddy ground and prevented me from forgetting my paper work someplace.  Also great for securing tent flaps. Learn local language: When over seas its nice to know the typical words like "Hello" and "Good morning".  I suggest learning words like "May I use your restroom", I'm lost.  Can you help me", or "Excuse me".  When I was traveling through the Philippines I realized those phrases where crucial.  When you got to go, learning how to ask to use a restroom is the last thing you want to fumble with. First Aid: Now this next tip is only for extreme emergency.  When dealing with a open wound and a doctor or hospital is unavailable.  Use powered sugar or sugar paste to cover the wound.  Bacteria can not exist in a pure sugar environment. Using sugar paste to heal postoperative wounds Speaking and knife hands:  One thing most former military guys are good at, is communicating simple concepts.  Or projecting ones voice.  Learn how to speak from your diaphragm and think about the instructions you are giving.  Ask yourself; if I didn't know anything about whats going to happen would I understand the instructions.  Speak with your hands to focus your audience attention on you.  What some Marines call knife hands.  ​ Update: (Added two hacks and edited for more clarity and grammar) Night vision.  No I am not talking about NVG (Night Vision Goggles).  In darkness the human eye compensates for lack of light by opening up the pupil allowing for more ambient light to enter, thus allowing you to see your environment in the dark.  When a sudden light source appears the human eye will make the pupil small as quickly as possible, unfortunately not fast enough in most cases.  With the pupil fully opened you are temporally blinded.  We are taught to close your shooting eye when this event occurs, allowing only one eye to be blinded and the other eye ready for darkness.  At home when I go from a dark room to a bright room and into a dark room again, I do this little trick and keeps me from running into things in the dark that the kids have left behind.  It doesn't give me perfect night vision but its better then stubbing my toe or stepping on a metallic toy car that was obviously made by a sadist.  Bent on world domination by injuring the feet of fathers, in the middle of the night, around the world. Leadership and being lead.  This one is a major part of the military psyche and used in everyday life.  If you have had any military leadership experience you will understand to be a good leader you need to understand what it's like to be led.  Many leaders in the the civilian world do not understand it and fail many times trying earn the respect of the people that work for them.  How is this a life hack?  I use this in many group situations all the time.  In any group task, activity or event, you are likely to encounter 3 types of people, those who want to be the leader, those who want to be led and those that are natural leaders.  The life hack is to know which one fits for you and accept your role.  For me I don't think I am a good leader in a laboratory environment or scavenger hunt but I tend to take charge in a emergency or calming a hostile situation.  A natural leader will normally take charge if no one else will, even if they know nothing of the goal or process. Updated 8w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Edward Brumley