What are some books that expand your mind?Please also add some details on the book and why you think it's mind-expanding.
Reading is fun. Reading is powerful. And reading has served me so  well that I’d say it contributes to the majority of the successes I’ve  experienced in my life — both personally and professionally. The rest of  it comes from taking consistent and deliberate action on the things  I’ve picked up from the books I read. Today, I’m going to present 10 mind expanding books to read in a  lifetime. Bear in mind, I’m not saying you should take a lifetime to  read them. The more of them you read, the more benefits you’ll gain from  the books, and thus, the more mind expanding ideas you’ll be able to  apply directly to your life. #1. Outliers by Malcolm Gladwell This is a book about success and how there’s a lot more to it than being smart and working hard. Maybe you’ve heard of Gladwell’s famous 10,000 hour rule and how it relates to success – but even then – there’s still so much more to learn about how successful people became so successful in the first place. Outliers is a  must-read title if you’re looking to expand your mind about the  subtleties and nuances that contributed to the success of icons like  Bill Gates and Steve Jobs. #2. Cosmos by Carl Sagan This is one of those books that you read, and then just sit there and think. Cosmos is one of the most mind expanding books on this list because it  implores you to think about our place in the universe, and the fact that  even though we’ve come so far as a species, we’ve still got so much  more to learn about ourselves and our future. #3. Meditations by Marcus Aurelius This book was written over 1800 years ago. Guess what? The powerful  principles written way back then remain just as applicable today, as  they did back in the 2nd century. Just read this quote and you’ll  understand what I mean: “For how could we do what justice requires if we  are distracted by things that don’t matter, if we are naive, gullible,  inconstant?” He’s got to be referring to our texting and driving  problem, right? #4. The China Study by Thomas Campbell If you’re interested in learning about the single most comprehensive  book about nutrition conducted to date, then this is the book you need  to read. The research behind this book, and its health and weight-loss  implications will do more than expand your mind, it’ll downright  surprise you (and maybe even scare you) into embracing a healthier way  of life. #5. How To Win Friends and Influence People by Dale Carnegie This is the original book on emotional intelligence.  Way before social scientists had the case studies to back up the  efficacy of human relations, as well as its impact on the way we live  and the way we work, Dale Carnegie had tried and tested his methods of  positive influence enough times to know their effectiveness. Over 100  million copies later, the methods have proven themselves by withstanding  the test of time. #6. Flow by Mihaly Csikszentmihalyi You know that feeling you get when you’re doing what you love. It’s  almost as if time just came to halt? As if five hours felt like five  minutes? As if everything you were doing just felt right? As if you were  doing what you’re meant to do? That’s called a “flow” state. If you’re  looking to get more of it in your life, then you should get this book right about now. #7. The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People by Stephen Covey You’ve surely heard of this classic. However, do you know what makes  it so mind expanding? The fact that it’s based on principles adds  credibility. Principles don’t change. They’re timeless. Each of the  habits laid out in this book are designed to act as individual  prescriptions for effectiveness in all four dimensions of human nature:  physically, mentally, emotionally, and even spiritually. #8. Never Eat Alone by Keith Ferrazzi Are you interested in getting ahead and getting the edge in life, without having to sacrifice your integrity to do it? If yes, then this is your book. Never Eat Alone is a classic book on connecting with others. It’s a must-read for anyone living in the current connection economy. #9. The Power of Habit by Charles Duhigg The interesting thing about habits is that once we develop them, they  go totally unnoticed in our day-to-day activities. For example: you  probably don’t think about how many simultaneous actions go into  reversing your car out of the garage and into the street safely and  smoothly. You just do it. That’s a habit. However, so is smoking. The Power of Habit teaches you how to be deliberate about building better habits that serve you both in life and in business. #10. The Alchemist by Paulo Coelho This book will do more than expand your mind, it’ll downright  transform your life… but only if you let it. Learn about the power and  wisdom that comes with listening to your heart, recognizing opportunity,  and following your dreams in this metaphor-laden masterpiece by Paulo  Coelho. Which book will you read first? Now that you’ve got this list of 10 mind expanding books to read in a  lifetime there’s only one question left: Which one do you read first?  Should you go out and get all of them immediately? Should you read them  all at once? Or should you take a lifetime to read them? So many  options. So little time. Ultimately, it’s totally your decision what you  do with this list and how you apply it to your life and career.  However, if I may, here’s what I would suggest you consider as you get  started. Subscribe to a book summary site, like GetFlashNotes Book Summaries to get the key takeaways from the books on this list. If you’d prefer to read an entire book, I would highly suggest that  you read just ONE book at a time. Sometimes, when we see something new  and exciting, we have a tendency to want to do/learn/read it all at  once. As we all know, this is nearly impossible to do without stressing  ourselves out. So, choose a book and commit to reading it from start to  finish. If you’re in a rush, try Audio books, or Audio summaries. Finally, if you’re in a super rush, check out some YouTube video book summaries, like this one. ###LIVE LIKE YOU GIVE  A DAMN, ~ Dean Bokhari Join 18,000+ members of the Meaningful Movement Listen on iTunes CONNECT WITH DEAN BOKHARI: Subscribe to updates (it's free) Subscribe to the podcast on iTunes Twitter: @deanbokhari FacebookGET SCIENCE-BACKED ANSWERS TO YOUR SELF-IMPROVEMENT QUESTIONS: Get your self-improvement questions answered on the podcast.Email: questions [at] deanbokhari.com     POPULAR ARTICLES + PODCAST EPISODES:     12 Powerful Mini Habits To Practice Each Day       Self-Talk       Respond Rather Than React       Habit Ramps - The Secret To Starting Habits That Stick       Your Brain on Bread (Plus: Book Summary on Grain Brain by David Perlmutter, MD)       Constraints = Freedom RECOMMENDED READS: Check it out --> Self-Talk Check it out --> Habit Ramps - The Secret To Starting Habits That Stick Check it out --> Respond Rather Than React LISTEN TO DEAN BOKHARI'S MEANINGFUL SHOW Check it out --> on iTunes Check it out --> at MeaningfulHQ Updated 9 Oct • View Upvotes