What are some books that expand your mind?Please also add some details on the book and why you think it's mind-expanding.
A History of Knowledge: Past, Present, and Future by Charles Van Doren. 1992 This book does a great job of setting the stage for how modern ideas about science, technology and government developed. It doesn't cover every single great idea or insight, obviously, but it touches on the most important ones in terms of science, philosophy, political thought and war. You begin to see how interrelated ideas are - even ones from different topics like science and politics - and you also get a sense that ideas take hold slowly. Knowledge is just as much about culture as it is about objective fact. What ideas are allowed to percolate relate consequently to how ready the societies are to receive them. You realize that many modern ideas, not all, are just a deeper version of what the Ancient Greeks had originally thought. EDIT I loved this book but in retrospect, I wish it would have delved even deeper into the core ideas of the Greeks and into the foundation of scientific method - more on Descartes. These are the core beliefs which Western society is based on and I thought he could have left room at the end to delve deeper. With that being said, the last chapter was fascinating and for reasons that surprised me. It is a chapter on his thoughts of the future and because it was written in 1992, it's interesting to see how often on target his message is. He does worry about AI a lot but as we know now, this is not as far-fetched as I would have thought maybe even 5 years ago. I wanted to skip this chapter because what could he predict about the future, but this was one of the more interesting chapters of any book I've read. I am happy I decided to read it. He gives a lot of ink to computers and who would have thought even 20+ years later, that the West is completely dependent on silicon to survive. Even before the end of the 90's, I thought we could get away without computers being so involved in our every day life. I couldn't have been more naive in that thought. Updated 10 Oct • View Upvotes