What are the pros and cons of using Amazon Redshift?
Pros: It's affordable to start: Note that I am not saying that it is affordable, period. Redshift can get expensive if you shove all your data into it, and your data is growing fast. Plus, at the end of the day, your largest cost is your personnel. That said, compared to its on-premises and appliances-based alternatives, Redshift is incredibly cheap to start with at $0.25 per hour or $180 per month. It is already "there" on AWS: Increasingly, businesses are running their software infrastructure on AWS: EC2 for servers, S3 for long-term storage, RDS for transactional DBs...and Redshift for structured analytics. The cost of data transport - or the benefit of data "locality" - matters a lot when you are choosing databases. As S3 becomes the de facto destination for cloud storage, the fact Redshift is (virtually) co-located with S3 and can access (properly formatted) S3 data with a single COPY Command is a huge boon to data engineering productivity It's mostly PostgreSQL: Redshift has a different query execution engine based on ParAccel, but in terms of the interface, it looks like Postgres, which means it has rich connectivity via both JDBC and ODBC and hence Business Intelligence tools.Cons: Compute and Storage are tied together: Increasingly, compute-storage independence is desired for analytic processing because you don't know when you want to start analyzing data, and to have all these CPUs unused is wasted. See this video by MediaMath on this topic: Distkey/Sortkey required for optimal performance: Not 100% sure if I can say this is a con, but you need to have a solid understanding of Distkey/Sortkey and properly set them on your tables to have optimal performance. Beware that only one Distkey can be set per table, which means that you need to think carefully and anticipate future workloads. You can set multiple Sortkeys, but again, you need to decide whether you want to do interleaving keys or compound keys and understand the tradeoffs. In short, it's not for kids =) Loading data can be tricky: Most of the time, you load data into Redshift using the feature rich COPY command. However, there is a lot of nuances around how COPY command works and you need to master it so that you load new data into Redshift efficiently (Check out our Redshift COPY Command Guide to get some ideas) All in all, Redshift is a great tool, but like all great tools, it is not perfect. Use it wisely! 