What are some books that expand your mind?Please also add some details on the book and why you think it's mind-expanding.
Thinking, Fast and Slow - Daniel Kahneman THIS IS A MUST READ. Seriously. The knowledge in this book is just so valuable. How Daniel explains the psychological aspects of our behaviors is just so detailed and to every single behavior that you will not have realized unless you studied psychology. Even if you did study psychology I bet there are so many more experiments and cases brought up by Daniel in this book. This book is just mind blowing on how complacent we are with our decisions and never looking at things from a different perspective. Daniel also relates psychology and economics in this book to a level that is easily understandable. Everything from regression, fallacy, priming, and so much more is covered in a jam packed super tiny letters 450 pages. This is a very very heavy read, but one that is worth reading. Tattoos on the Heart: The Power of Boundless Compassion - Gregory Boyle This book makes me want to love better. PERIOD.  Tattoos On The Heart is about Homeboy Industries, a gang intervention program, located in the gang capital of the world; Boyle Heights, Los Angeles, California. But it is not a story about gangs. It is written by a Jesuit Priest, Gregory Boyle, who has traveled to many places in the world, as a missionary; but it is not a story about religion. It has received the California Peace Prize and numerous humanitarian awards ; but it is not a story about rewards for worthy behavior. What it is about is compassion, learning, growing, falling, stumbling, getting up, moving on and moving beyond. It is about hope. From 10 year old Lula, we learn about the importance of hearing our name, of being known. From Matteo and Julian, we learn to dissolve the illusion of separateness. From Fabian we learn that by latching onto the singularity of love, it doesn't melt who we are, but who we are not. Story after inspiring story we learn, we grow, we stumble, we fall, we get up, we move on-together. Ultimately, these stories, and this book, are about transformation; for the reader and the subject, because in the end, we are truly more alike than unalike. Creative Visualization: Use the Power of Your Imagination to Create What You Want in Your Life - Shakti Gawain I *really* can't recommend this book highly enough - especially if you are looking for something to expand your mind.  I think this is a good book to read every few years, and even just keep as a reference book. I recently re-read it over the holidays -- which was a wonderful time to because of the natural instinct to VISUALIZE the new year and this new decade! A very positive, simple, straightforward guide on setting intentions, goals and realizing what you truly want ~ or maybe DON'T want. As the name suggests, Creative Visualization uses meditation and visualization techniques to help change unhealthy negative thought processes into more positive loving messages. Essentially, these methods are used to clear away blockages and uncover beliefs or ways of thinking that are limiting the individual. Affirmations are then used to replace negative beliefs with more positive ones. Possibilities are then opened up and manifestation of dreams can then be attained.   TRULY. The Compound Effect: Jumpstart Your Income, Your Life, Your Success - Darren Hardy This book was awesome! I have always tried to consider the "why" behind things I'm doing in life, and this principle is at the core of Hardy's book. It was a very easy read with lots of applications (both direct invitations from the author and indirect inspirations from the stories and suggestions). And we aren't just talking about how to be more successful in a job or make more money, but how to have a more meaningful relationship with a loved one, how to get over bad habits, and a lot of really applicable stuff to everyday life. I love how the simplest ideas can have such a profound effect. This book is full of simple tips, but the implications of them are profound. After reading this book I have found that I am much more mindful of what I am "compounding" in my life, and it has changed my life in remarkable ways. Stiff: The Curious Lives of Human Cadavers - Mary Roach You wouldn't think that a book about dead bodies would be mind-expanding.  You certainly wouldn't think it would be funny.  Surprise! I usually don't laugh out loud when I read books, but this book had several passages that had me giggling. Also, I don't get, "Grossed out," very often, but I had to put this book down once while I was reading and eating lunch. This book has so many interesting tidbits on what happens to our bodies after we die. I was amazed and fascinated by the history and current research being done on human cadavers. My parents, much to their children's objections decided long ago to be cremated when the times comes. I felt squeamish about this for years, but after reading this book I have completely changed my thinking on the matter. This book had me thinking about things I hadn't given much thought to before. What happens when your body is donated to science? The chapters on human crash test dummies was dare I say inspiring? Where does the soul reside? The author was witty and sensitive and by the end of the book I felt like we were friends who went on a journey together. If you're looking for some fiction to read that is mind expanding, sometimes even mind-blowing, these are some of my faves (in no particular order): The Fifth Sacred Thing  by Starhawk The Book Thief by Markus Zusak Snow Crash by Neal Stephenson The Help by Kathryn Stockett All the Light We Cannot See by Anthony Doerr The Eight by Katherine Neville A Prayer for Owen Meany  by John Irving Sarah's Key  by Tatiana de Rosnay Updated 16 Apr • View Upvotes