What are some books that expand your mind?Please also add some details on the book and why you think it's mind-expanding.
Reinventing Discovery: The New Era of Networked Science by Michael Nielsen Outsmarting IQ: The Emerging Science of Learnable Intelligence by David Perkins Ungifted by Scott Barry Kaufman Average is Over by Tyler Cowen Friendfluence by Carlin Flora Consilience: The Unity of Knowledge by Edward O. Wilson The Selfish Gene: 30th Anniversary Edition--with a new Introduction by the Author by Richard Dawkins Heaven in a Chip: Fuzzy Visions of Society and Science in the Digital Age by Bart Kosko The Blank Slate: The Modern Denial of Human Nature by Steven Pinker The Wealth of Networks: How Social Production Transforms Markets and Freedom by Yochai Benkler DARWIN'S DANGEROUS IDEA: EVOLUTION AND THE MEANINGS OF LIFE by Daniel C. Dennett The Executive Brain: Frontal Lobes and the Civilized Mind by Elkhonon Goldberg Curious Minds: How a Child Becomes a Scientist by John Brockman Why Smart People Can Be So Stupid by Robert J. Sternberg The Quark and the Jaguar: Adventures in the Simple and the Complex by Murray Gell-Mann Origin of Wealth: Evolution, Complexity, and the Radical Remaking of Economics by Eric D. Beinhocker The Myth of the Rational Voter: Why Democracies Choose Bad Policies by Bryan Douglas Caplan The Stuff of Thought: Language as a Window into Human Nature by Steven Pinker The Black Swan: The Impact of the Highly Improbable by Nassim Nicholas Taleb Catching Fire: How Cooking Made Us Human by Richard W. Wrangham Create Your Own Economy: The Path to Prosperity in a Disordered World by Tyler Cowen Rare Earth: Why Complex Life Is Uncommon in the Universe by Peter Douglas Ward Crowdsourcing: Why the Power of the Crowd Is Driving the Future of Business by Jeff Howe Super Crunchers: Why Thinking-by-Numbers Is the New Way to Be Smart by Ian Ayres Predictably Irrational, Revised and Expanded Edition: The Hidden Forces That Shape Our Decisions by Dan Ariely The Upside of Irrationality: The Unexpected Benefits of Defying Logic by Dan Ariely Teaching As a Subversive Activity by Neil Postman Origins of Genius by Dean Simonton Mind wars: brain research and national defense‎ by Jonathan Moreno Spent: Sex, Evolution, and Consumer Behavior‎ by Geoffrey Miller Rapt: Attention and the Focused Life‎ by Winifred Gallagher Snoop: What Your Stuff Says About You‎ by Sam Gosling Figments of reality: the evolution of the curious mind‎ by Ian Stewart The Structure of Scientific Revolutions by Thomas Kuhn The 10,000 Year Explosion by Gregory Cochran The World is Flat by Thomas Friedman Historical Grand Unification Books Guns, Germs, and Steel by Jared Diamond Why the West Rules--for Now: The Patterns of History, and What They Reveal About the Future by Ian Morris (thanks to Kaiser Kuo for recommendation) A Farewell to Alms by Gregory Clark Also, Razib Khan of Gene Expression has many more book recommendations for particularly deep macrohistorical books (http://www.razib.com/books and http://www.gnxp.com - though a recent change screwed up the formatting on gnxp.com so you have to scroll to the bottom for these books) Somewhat More Technical Books The Agile Mind How to Find a Habitable Planet by James Kasting Scientific Genius by Dean Simonton The Extended Phenotype by Richard Dawkins URLs for many of the books above here: http://www.amazon.com/lm/R3L83OI... and http://books.google.com/books?ui... . Latter link is to my Google Books library, which has *a lot* more. All the World Question Center books by John Brockman (also free at edge.org ) Links of them: http://books.google.com/books?id... http://books.google.com/books?id... http://books.google.com/books?id... http://books.google.com/books?id... http://books.google.com/books?id... Updated 2 Sep • View Upvotes