What are some books that expand your mind?Please also add some details on the book and why you think it's mind-expanding.
Here are some of my favorite mind-expanding books. Nonfiction 1. Carl Sagan's Demon-Haunted World is my #1 favorite nonfiction book and one I always recommend. It changed the course of my interests and eventually led to me writing my own book. I think this is the book that would most change the world for the better if every human were to read it. 2. Along similar lines, but much less polite and pointed specifically at religion, Christopher Hitchens's God is Not Great is an astounding piece of polemic. Any religious person who can not come up with their own rebuttals to this book is living a lie. I just finished listening to this audiobook today, actually, and though I was already an atheist, it feels like I had been in an earthquake or prize fight and now need to recover. 3. Columbine is a fascinating work of reporting, the largest takeaway from which may be just how distorted everything we hear from the media is. If they got EVERY aspect of this story wrong, which is what the book puts forth, what else do we think we know that is wrong? 4. Just Food challenges every food trend today. It makes the compelling case that local food is bad, organic food is bad, and GMO foods are good. (Don't worry, it's actually a little more nuanced than that.) I wholeheartedly agree with this, and after reading this book you may too, but good luck convincing anyone else. 5. I added I Am Malala because this list wasn't heart-breaking enough yet. Read the book and then look at the photo of her and her father on the back cover and try not to get tears in your eyes. Every line of this book brings to mind the very best and very worst of humanity simultaneously. 6. The Secret Peace is my own book, published in 2010. It posits progress: the world is getting inevitably better. The book references thousands of sources to make this difficult-to-swallow claim. You can read the first chapter for free on Amazon: http://www.amazon.com/The-Secret.... 7. Steven Pinker's The Better Angels of Our Nature is like the Violence chapter from my book, expanded to 700 in-depth but riveting pages. Yes, violence is declining: surprisingly, right now is the most peaceful the world has ever been, by far. Fiction 8. I debated whether I preferred Anna Karenina or War and Peace, but Anna left me with more insight into the human condition and more joy while reading it (maybe because I read it first). If the point of novels is to place you into the mind of other peple and help you realize we are all the same, this is the epitome of that lofty goal. 9. House of Leaves is the scariest thing I have ever read (or for that matter seen in a movie either). A wonderfully haunting story that is also one of the most creative books I've ever seen. 10. I love graphic novels and have hundreds, but "mind-expanding" doesn't apply to most of them. Chris Ware's Building Stories, though, gives equal insight into both the human condition and artistic creativity. Update I recently read three books that I would have included on this list. Why We Drive is an excellent examination of just how sick and twisted the concept of cars are. The Power Broker is an enormous undertaking, but reveals the secret reasons behind the structure of everything in our lives. Men Explain Things To Me is an excellent collection of feminist essays. Each of these books really challenge your preconceived notions and conventional wisdom. Updated 6 Aug • View Upvotes