How was your IIM interview experience?Please do mention your profile, which gives an idea about your past academic records and likewise.
SHORT VERSION: Break up of the different interviews. (Note: More colorful and uniformly distributed charts imply a more well-balanced interview) LONG VERSION: IIM - Ahmedabad The most well-balanced one. I was asked questions related to my application form, mathematics, logical reasoning, technical aspects of my education (Computer Science), a few HR questions (my background, hobbies et al). I remember feeling like a juggler, trying to answer "how viruses work" and then jumping to pen down the equation of an ellipse and then trying to explain "how to race 25 horses, 5 at a time, in the least number of races and determine the top 3" and then finally trying to reason out with them why "The Valley of Fear" was my favorite Sherlock Holmes novel. Also, the panelists were very warm and they made me feel real comfortable (it was my first interview). They did not fret on the superficial (and unimportant) aspects of my personality - I remember wishing them "Good Afternoon" at 10 in the morning and bumping my way into the door while nervously walking out. IIM - Bangalore The one where I knew I would not make it through. There were no questions other than, "Why is your GPA so low?". And when I answered it, "Why should we waste a seat on you when there is the risk that you might not do so good in academics in your post-grad too?". And then the final one, the one to rule them all, "Oh, so you want to be an entrepreneur? Then why do you want to come to IIMB if not for the placements?"** IIM - Calcutta The rapid fire one. I was asked around 30 technical questions in a span of 25 minutes. The panelists did not bother to correct me if (and when) I went wrong. They just kept asking more questions. I felt like those 2 could have been replaced by a pen and a blank sheet of paper. IIM - Lucknow Again, one of the best ones. I felt really comfortable and was asked a variety of questions for the 1st 15 minutes. The next 10 or so were spent analyzing my stand and the views I expressed during the preceding group discussion. The discussion was a very stimulating and pleasant one. IIM - Kozhikode The shortest one. (Lasted around 4-5 minutes) Interviewer: Do you have shortlists from A, B and C? Me: Yes Sir. Interviewer: From all of them? Me: Yes Sir. Interviewer: So, if you got a call from IIM-A and IIM-K, which would you choose? Me (being stupidly honest): IIM-A sir. *Followed by my reasoning for the same* Interviewer (with a look that betrayed hurt of the highest degree): You can leave now, the interview's over. ** I somehow controlled my urge to slap the guy and walked out after thanking him politely for his "valuable" time and feedback. Updated 21 Jun • View Upvotes