How was your IIM interview experience?Please do mention your profile, which gives an idea about your past academic records and likewise.
IIM Ahmedabad! 10/12/grad: 89/70.5/68 CAT 2014: 99.62 Work ex: 0 Since I was a non engineer but more importantly a student of economics,  I was told that I would mostly be asked simple academic questions. I just didn't have to say something stupid. About the interview. In one word: Grilling! Duration: 35-40 minutes Two panelists. P1 a 30 something guy probably an alumnus and P2 looked like a senior professor . P1: So you did your graduation in economics. *looks at his tablet and asks the following question* What is the difference between Fiscal and Monetory policy? A very easy question. I answer it. He then asks about economic policies of the new NDA government. I answer it as well. P2: (Interrupting me) starts asking me many difficult follow up questions. I answer them to the best of my knowledge but he keeps interrupting me. (I maintain my composure. I realize that he must be an econ professor) P2: Do you know about so and so research paper? Me: Sorry sir, I don't know :) P2: It was written by Joseph Stiglitz... Me: Sir, I have read his books (trying to get some footing in the interview.) P2: (ignores what I said completely and again starts shooting difficult questions on macroeconomics, econometrics and sampling. I try to answer as many as possible but he keeps interrupting me every time. By the end of it the questions got four to five sentences long which I couldn't even comprehend.) By now the blood must have drained off my face (honestly I don't know. I tried to keep smiling.) P2: What do you do in your free time? Me: (Finally thinking I might get some footing in the interview.) Sir I like to read, contribute to http://quora.com and watch football. I stay composed though. P2: What is quora. (I tell him) P2: (Looking at P1) Look at him how eager he looks to answers questions now as if he is on http://quora.com (Both laugh) P2: Symbiosis International University, why did you study in a private university? (Answering his own question) Your 12th score is low that's why. (Smirks) Tell me are teachers good in your college? Me: Yes sir, they are good. (I still manage to smile.) P1: Okay, we are done with you Suyash. Thank you and have a toffee. I thanked them and picked an alpenliebe. Once out I poped it in my mouth, told others it was great (fake grin) and cursed my self for being so stupid. Verdict: Got in :D P.S. I refrained from listing down all the questions. I  have listed them down in the comments section. P.P.S. And since people have even gone to the extent of asking my category, I belong to general category. Updated 25 May • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Aditya Jahagirdar and Gopal Partani