How was your IIM interview experience?Please do mention your profile, which gives an idea about your past academic records and likewise.
Academic Profile: 92/87/8.3 (ICSE aggregate/ISC aggregate/B.Tech CSE from HBTI Kanpur) 20 months Work-Ex as Software Engineer with Samsung R&D Bangalore Now here's a detailed version of my IIM Lucknow Interview experience : Date    : 11 Feb 2015 Venue : Bangalore WAT & GD Topic : There are multiple ways to go wrong but only one to go right!   Now coming to the interview. I was slotted at number 3. So there was an anxious wait of around 30 minutes after WAT & GD. At sharp 3 pm I was called in. Two spectacled guys (G1,G2) in the Interview panel. Aged around 45-50. G2 held the door for me to enter. I greeted G1 and after his permission, I settled in a pretty uncomfortable chair. *should have taken the wallet out of my back pocket* By the time G2 could settle , G1 sprung into action : G1 (in Hinglish) : Toh Sengar jee , kahan se aap hain? Me : Sir, Kanpur. G1 : What is your father's occupation? Me: Sir, My Father is a Senior Personnel Officer *HR Department* in UPRVUNL Panki Power House in Kanpur. G1 : Ok, So your father is in a transferable job? Me: Yes Sir! G1 : How long have you been staying in Kanpur? Me : 19 years G1 : Government Transferable job and fir bhi itne time ek hi place me?? Me : Hmm..Yes! *lucky* G2 : Ok let's start with why you want to do with MBA? Me : *had a beaten up conservative answer prepared* interested in getting to know the business side of organisation, great opportunity to learn and interact with the best minds in the country. The exposure. Interest in economics as a discipline as well. Blah-Blah. G1 : Any experience with management? Me : President of Quiz Club in college so organised quizzes. Core team member of Tech Fest. G2 : You said interest in Economics. But I see You have poor marks in your Engineering Economics subject in 3rd year? Me: Sir I did not study hard. Sometimes marks are not proportional to the interest in a subject. *G2 frowns* G1 : Ehh..Ok Suyash. How long have you been with Samsung Bangalore? Me : Sir exactly 19 months to this date. G1 : That's precise of you!! Acha Tell me about your work in Samsung. Me : Told them about my work as Software Engineer for Samsung Mobile Browser team. Working on graphics domain while focusing on memory optimization and touch performance. I helped commercialized Samsung flagship products as well as Low End models. Told about my Open source contributions for the Chromium Project. G1: There are other Samsung R&D Centres in India too,right? Me: Yes Sir in Noida and Delhi. G1 : What is the hierarchy in your workplace? Me : SE -> Sr. SE -> Lead Engineer -> Technical Lead .... G1 : (stopping in between) Who do you report to? Me : Technical Manager G1: What is the language you use while coding in your project? Me : Primarily C++. Sometimes Java is needed. G1: Ok, What is Garbage Collection? *I was taken off guard. Was not expecting this! Mumbled gibberish for 10 seconds* Me: Sir,it is a feature that is not present in C and C++ by default. It is in Java. *G1 raises brows* *Cursing myself at this moment. What the heck man! Not getting a term I have known for more than 5 years* Then suddenly I remembered Memory management. Told them it is a MM scheme for freeing memory associated with unused objects in the program. G1 did not seem satisfied with the answer! G1 : Ok how are random numbers generated? Is there any function for it? Me: I told them rand(). G1 presenting me with a whiteboard and marker asked me to explain a bit. I wrote the function. Function will return an integer value between 0 and RAND_MAX which is defined in Standard Library. G1 : How is this function internally implemented? Me : I am not entirely sure Sir but it uses some kind of seed value to generate series of numbers. G1 : Can you expand on this further? *I pondered for few seconds* G1 : Ok leave it. Tell me some practical application of random numbers? Me : Lottery, Tambola. G1: Do these randomly generated numbers follow normal distribution? Me : *After thinking for a bit* I am not sure. Random generation may not lead to a normal distribution. G1 : Can you tell me the probability density function of Normal Distribution? Me : Wrote the Mean-Standard Deviation laden function *after struggling with denominator of exponent*. G1 : Ok. So this random numbers of yours. Will they follow Binomial and Poisson distribution? Me : *I vaguely remembered anything of them* Don't know Sir! G1 : Have you used this rand() function in Excel? Is there one? Me : Sir I guess there is one but I have not used it. All this while G2 was observing me with folded hands. G1: Ok enough of this! Tell me what happens when I heat a metal? Me: Thermal Expansion. G1 : Now suppose. There is a metal washer ring. If we heat from outside what will happen to the internal diameter? Me : After thinking I said  it will increase. The outer diameter will increase more than the inner. *Tea comes in. Did not offer me :(* G1 : Ok! If there is a helium balloon in a car what will happen to the balloon when the car accelerates ? Me: Sir this is case of Inertia principle, When the car accelerates, the air inside the car moves towards the back of the car due to inertia. This sets up a difference in pressure with higher pressure at the back, providing sufficient force on the helium balloon to push it forward in the car. G2 awakening after a sip of tea. G2: Any interests or hobbies you have? Me : Sports and movies. * Excitement. This is what I wanted. My territory!!* G2 : Which sports? Me :  Football,Tennis, Cricket. In fact was the Captain of my School Table Tennis team. G2: What is Federation Cup in Tennis? Me: Women's equivalent of Davis Cup G2 : Hopman Cup? Me : Mixed Team event played in memory of Harry Hopman in Perth every year. As I was gathering serious momentum G2 left to take a call! I was left with G1. G1 : Ok you know the etymology of Eskimo? Me : I know who they are but I don't know the etymology. G1 : Who owns Greenland? Me: Denmark *in a split second* G1 (smiling) : Ye toh quiz wala question ho gaya Ok so tell me why manhole covers are round? Me : I had seen this question before on Interview puzzle websites but I could not quite remember the reason. I said something related to them being cost effective. G1 said No. Then I guessed probably because round ones are easier to roll. It was again dismissed as it was a one time use-case. He urged me to think more but I could not answer. G1 : Ok so you know 4th Normal Form in DBMS? Me: *I did not even remember the 2NF* I had no interest in this subject Sir. G1: But isme toh tumhare 85 marks hain? Me : As I said before sir sometimes marks are not proportional to interest in subject. G1 started laughing. G1 : So kisme interest tha? Me: Web Technology and Data Structures. G1 : Implement Stack using Array Me : Implemented. *kept pestering me for being slow. Tried to effect my concentration by saying random things.Taunted by saying : Lagta hai College me padhai nahi kari.* G2 came back and said : What's up G1. G1  : Arey Sir ab aap kuch puchiye. G2 : OK Suyash. Yesterday Delhi Election results came out. What message you would like to give to Narendra Modi and Kiran Bedi. Me : Narendra Modi cannot escape from the promises he has made before and after the LS win. I would like him to work more and that result to be seen rather than rallies and photo-ops. G2 (cutting me in between) :Yar Photo-ops ka zamaana hai! Lagataar news me bane rehna padta hai. Your thinking is too one dimensional. Before I could explain G1: Suyash you seem to be an arrogant person. Me : No Sir I am not. In fact my friends and colleagues have often complimented me on my humility. G1 : How often you lie? Me: Sometimes. G1 : Biggest lie you have told your parents? Me: In October  I went on a trip with my friends for 3 days without informing my parents as I knew they would not allow me to go on one. They would have told me to study for CAT. I told them I was in Bangalore studying. G2  : Other calls? Me : C,K,S,XL etc G2  : Any questions? Me : No Sir. *I had thought of asking 1-2 questions but I was completely drained* They offered me toffee to which I first said No. Then on second time of asking I took 1. Offered me sandwich which I politely declined. Kept asking me again and again. I finally took one when they said *itni hum dono thodi khayenge*. They asked me to have some chutney too which I again politely declined. Sensing my apparent discomfort they spared me. I took leave of them saying Good Day. Was blank for few moments trying to reflect on what had transpired in the last 20 minutes (Yes it was only 20. It seems more while writing about it and will surely seem more reading). Final Verdict : CONVERTED Interviews are pretty unpredictable. Box of chocolates they are as Forrest Gump would say. Sometimes you prepare well and are also  in a great frame of mind but still interview goes bust. But few pointers : Know yourself,your profession,your interests,your graduation stuff inside out. Connect as many dots as possible. The age old adage  : *Prepare for the worst, Hope for the Best*. Updated 27 Jun • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Chandresh Kakliya