How was your IIM interview experience?Please do mention your profile, which gives an idea about your past academic records and likewise.
CAT 2013 - 99.86. BLACK. X, XII-95+. 1 year work ex. Here's my interview experience at IIM-B. I have written about this instead of the A one as I personally felt this was the more interesting one despite converting A and being wait-listed here. One of the exciting portions during the interview day is the mini-talk you potentially have with the candidate who has just finished their interview. Your mind is racing and anticipating when the door would open and hoping for some clues and insights about the interviewers. In my case, there was a hot girl looking even more striking due to her sharp clothes. She came out looking so bubbly and filled with enthusiasm (like Ranbir Kapoor just kissed her or something) and animatedly recounted how awesome her interview experience was and how chilled out the atmosphere was. I felt some relief flow through me and started thanking my stars.                               <representative image of the bubbly girl> Imagine, then, to my surprise what I walked into. (Caution : Long post; Spicier parts towards the end; skip to there if you don't have much time or need some tips/fun stuff).   Setting:- 3 people(most likely professors), all in their mid forties to mid fifties; a lady with mysterious smile (LADY,L) , a slightly older gentleman with calm pose and relatively elegant demeanor (P1), an older and  more bald guy with a menacing grin(P2). They were seated quite far from each other in a fairly large room (I guess a classroom /large office converted for interview purposes. This made it quite awkward as I couldn't focus on all 3 of them simultaneously and at-most 2 would be in your FOV at any time. <Representative panel. They were a little older, sat much wider apart and looked a little bit more relaxed and menacing at the same time> Overall they gave a vibe of being excited about each candidate as if they are going to have a feast or are going to be entertained. Positive or Negative? Only time would tell. Lady (L) - Good afternoon Anmol. Your tie is out of place. ME - (Startled and looked down reflexively. It really wasn't, perhaps only a bit from her angle.) L- Haha, relax, it's not that bad. I am playing with you. ME- (With relief) Haha, Good afternoon Maam. (Turning to others,) Good afternoon sir's. (They were looking at my files). P2 - Tell a bit about yourself, not the prepared version. ME - (Told, mostly the same things mish-mashed and changed a few adjectives here and there. ) P1- So you did your undergrad from IIT KGP. Tell us about your time there. ME- Told. Overall conveyed that it was a mixed bag and that I spent most of my time in the library. P2- Do you like watching movies? Did you watch a lot at IIT. ME- I watch occasionally, with stretches  of heavy doses and then periods of abstinence. P2- Which is your favorite movie? ME- Dark Knight. P2,P1-(blank faces) P1- Any Bollywood movies say from the 80s. ME-You are asking the wrong person sir, that's not really not my area. P1- What's you area then? Are you trying to impress us by projecting a studious image? ME- No sir, I just don't enjoy staring at the screen for so long. (Then told I am passionate about technology and finance). L - Ok what has been the most radical technological change in the last century? ME- There have been many, but if I were to pick one. It would be the cell phone and more specifically the smartphone. L-Why? ME- I think the smartphone has become the most ubiquitous and pervasive piece of technology. It has disrupted many verticals including music, entertainment and communication. It has created new economies like appstore , 3rd party services. P2- Wait, what do you mean disrupted? ME- It has radically changed the field. P2- Isn't disruptive a negative word. ME- No, it means.....(with some after-thought) It probably is ... (more confusion ensues...). I don't really know what it exactly means. What I wanted to convey was that it was revolutionary in those industries. P2-(not very satisfied)....OK. L- Did the smartphone phenomenon create any harmful effects? ME- Yes privacy and security are areas which are compromised and need some work on. (Some discussion ensued on how these can be tackled, GPS supported by a non-removable battery, tracking technologies). P1- What is number of digits credit card and Aadhar card? ME- Told. P2- What do those digits signify? ME - Sir, I know for credit card they don't mean much apart from an algorithm which can be used to check whether a card number is valid. I don't know precisely for Aadhar card, but it has some digits denoting your geographical location. This is a guess though. P1-( Explained about hidden digits and some other details.) P2- So, if I know your credit card number, I can buy stuff off you? ME- No sir, you would need to know my CVV and expiry as well. P2- What are they? ME- Nice try sir. (He laughs with a toothy grin) L- You said you are interested in finance. How come? ME- Explained that I have stocks in Maruti and have been following them and picking up some terminology on the side. (Some back and forth grilling happened on their current value, EPS, P/E etc and why Maruti and no other automobile manufacturer. I gave fairly satisfactory answers).                                                <spicy/fun part begins> P1- What are you hobbies. ME- I like reading, jogging and cooking. L- (Laughs hysterically and becomes really excited and animated at this point). Are you a good cook. ME- I like to think so. L- Haha, what do you cook well? ME- (I give some items)... P2- Why does spinach turn black when cooking in open vessel? ME - (blank face). I can give a speculation sir. Is it due to cooking in open air causes some reaction(oxidation) in the Iron rich spinach causing it to go dark? In closed vessel it's mostly water vapor and not oxygen and hence oxidation wouldn't occur. They - (Nod approvingly but with Poker faces. I decide, wisely, to stop speaking. <The real reason is due to Oxalic acid>). P2 (this guy is out to get me, I decide)- You are from Orissa. What is the favourite food item there? Have you heard of "Pakhala" ? ME-(taken aback,woah)- Yes, of course sir, I have eaten it myself many times. P2- Do you know why it's so popular? ME- Can I make an educated guess sir? P2- Haven't you been doing that all this while?(grins) ME-(Sheepishly). I think it's because in the older times, when there was no refrigerator, 'Pakhala' was a good way of storing and consuming left over rice later on. Also it has some medicinal benefits and cools the body. P2- (with a satisfied expression) Very good, very good. ME-(feeling happier and satisfied now; more energetic by the minute) L- You have any questions for us? ME- I ask about their entrepreneurship support programme. They-(explain, and it concludes).                                                              --- You leave with an energy high if it goes reasonably well. I came out feeling bubbly and energetic as well; then I transmitted the baton to the next interviewee ;). Tips:- Be calm; you are good enough, else you wouldn't be there. Try to pinch in some humor if you can pull it off well (or totally suck at it). Don't beat around the bush; they are too smart and experienced to see through it immediately and it sets of an undesirable flag.                                                                                                           DON'T DO THIS Updated 6 May • View Upvotes • Not for Reproduction