Studies and Studying: What are the most effective methods for studying?
Originally Answered: What are the best study methods?Ivy league grad who got an A- or so average (70% of my classes were curved to a B-) with an average of maybe 10 hours of studying a week and maybe 20 hours a week before exams.  So arguably, my study habits are effective given my outcome, the curve, and the relatively low level of work I put in. 1). Create frameworks of understanding -- try to be able to understand 'why' a set of facts is presented to you the way they are. 2). No flash cards unless it's clearly a rote memorization problem -- flash cards greatly impair developing understanding.  The only people I ever saw use flash cards were mentally mediocre B-students. 3). If your school lets your bring 'cheat sheets' like many do, really cram those sheets -- I'm talking size 3 font squinting shit.  Bring a magnifying glass if you have to. 4). TEST YOURSELF -- this is by far the most important part.  'Do I really understand the material?'  Try to find as many questions on the subject matter as possible and try to answer them.  By self-testing, you will understand where the gaps are.  It is critical you find and complete as many test questions as possible. 5). [Edit]: Read others' notes / share notes / try to acquire old test materials from students taking the course the prior semester (as long as it's considered 'ethical', obviously it is the onus of the professor not to re-use materials from the previous semester).  It is critical you understand how the professor thinks, so you won't be taken aback if they have screwball questions (very frequent, especially in the Ivy League where they test for real understanding, not fact regurgitation). For example, I had a very weird statistics professor once who actually had, as a correct answer "They don't know, it's probably a guess" which is the least-compelling-sounding correct answer you could ever ask for.  While I got the question correct, I felt absolutely horrible bubbling in that Scantron, and had I known that he had 'weird' multiple choice answers, I probably wouldn't have wasted many minutes agonizing over my answer. 6). Study early -- I never crammed, nor did I ever really 'study hard'.  I just read a little bit each day and kept on top of the material, making sure I really understood every lecture by the next lecture.  This process is SO MUCH more time efficient than cramming at the end.  You internalize a lot more, and it barely feels like you're working:  you're just asking yourself questions and going along until you find the answer.  Plus, lectures build on each other.  Failing to understand material typically leads to a snowballing failure. 7). [Edit] Go to professor and TA office hours -- Make sure you understand what other students' points of confusion are.  Sometimes, they will catch issues that you haven't thought of (usually, office hours students are hopeless, but some of them are pretty sharp). "If X is Y, then why isn't Z equal to X?"  sort of questions from other students typically found small gaps in understanding. 8). Work your ass off during exam time -- I may only have studied 20-30 hours a week during exams, but that's because I have a very good memory, and am reasonably good at logic.  The final question you should ask yourself is: "Am I the master of my domain?"  If you cannot say 'Yes' two days before the hammer falls, get back to work. Updated 1 Oct 2014 • View Upvotes