How was your IIM interview experience?Please do mention your profile, which gives an idea about your past academic records and likewise.
My IIM Ahmedabad interview experience. There were 2 panelists (P1 and P2). I entered the room, greeted both of them, and sat down. P1: We see you have a very good academic record (*I'm a 9 pointer*). Why do you want to leave Computer Science? Me: *Gave my reasons for wanting to do an MBA. Also mentioned that I've done an internship at London Business School* P2: Oh, what was the internship about? Me: *Told them about the project* P2: Great! So what all other projects have you done? Me: *Told them about my other internships and course projects* P1: Ok, enough of academics. How do you pass your free time? Me: I'm a regular badminton player. I've represented IITK in many sporting events across the country and won many medals for the institute. P1: Oh, so did you also go for this Inter-IIT thing? Me: Yes, sir! We won the silver medal at the Inter-IIT sports meet in Guwahati. P1: And what happened at IIT Bombay this year? Me: I couldn't go for that Meet, sir! Because I was interning at London Business School during that time. However, IITK won the gold medal there. P1: Oh yes, right!   P2: Any other hobbies? Me: I'm an avid book reader. I love reading fiction novels during my spare time. P2: Oh, any favourite books? Me: Yes. This might sound childish but I am a big fan of the Harry Potter series. When I was in London, I went to all the landmarks that have been depicted in the book. I enjoyed my trip even more because of the connection. I also went to the King's Cross Station where they have cleared some space for Platform 9 and three quarters. It was a lot of fun. *Both P1 and P2 laughed* P2: Nice, nice! Any other favourite novel? Me: Yes, I also like the Kite Runner by Khaled Hosseini. It depicts the father-son bond and relationship extremely beautifully. I'm also a fan of the Lord of the Rings trilogy. P1: So since you mention emotions, relationships and fantasies, do you think the current world is becoming more and more devoid of emotions? Everyone is glued to their gadgets. You're from Computer Science. Don't you think technology is doing more harm than good. Me: No Sir, I don't think technology is doing more harm than good. I feel the problem that you mentioned can be solved by promoting more outdoor activities, both at school and college level. P2: But don't you think people these days don't interact much with each other? If this goes on, 100 years down the line, do you think the humans will become like robots, devoid of all emotions? Me: I agree with you sir. However, I again feel that if the students interact more with each other during their school and college life, this negative effect of excess technology can be prevented. For example, IITK has a compulsory sport activity in the first year for all students. This kind of initiative should be taken by all colleges across the country. P1: What do you think is the role of Computer Science graduates these days in the progress of the nation? Me: Sir, I think that India needs more and more Computer Science students these days. There is a massive boom in e-commerce and other technology related areas. With the present government's Digital India Initiative, there is an ever increasing need for Computer Science in the country. P2: What is the Digital India Initiative? Me: Sir, Digital India is an initiative to connect the whole country. Basically, wherever you are, you can be connected to your files and work. This can be achieved through cloud computing. Nowadays, a lot of companies also have started similar initiatives named Internet of Things. P1: Give some examples of cloud computing. Me: *starts explaining technical details about cloud computing* P1: No,no! Tell me how cloud computing can be used. Me: Oh, it can be used using Amazon or Google cloud services. There are many others as well. P2: OK. You can go now. Take a cookie. *I take a cookie from the cookie bowl* P1: Take a toffee as well. *I hesitate, then take the toffee as well. Both P1 and P2 laugh.* P2: Take a cashew too! Me: *with a cookie in one hand and a toffee in other.* No thanks sir. I'm good. Verdict: Converted! Also converted B,C,L and K. :) Updated 27 May • View Upvotes