What is the first little bit of math that made you realize that math is beautiful?
I don't know why no one has mentioned TRIGONOMETRY ! Here is how it started for me. I was probably in fourth grade when my elder brother who was four years elder than me told me how his maths teacher had taught him to measure the height if a building and a tree using a thread, ruler and a protractor. I was really amazed. Later my father told me that there is something called trigonometry that we can use to measure large distances, even of that sun or moon using simple gadgets like telescopes, rulers and sextants(device for measuring angle). This really fascinated me (the involvement of other planets in the discussion somehow made it more interesting). However, I found it pretty unbelievable. Few years later when I stumbled onto trigonometry as my coursework, this was my most favorite topic. I immediately completed the chapters and went about to make my own sextant and telescope to practice my favorite problem. I started measuring trees, building and even speed of airplanes flying over my house. Yet some years later I stumbled on this problem in the first chapter of "Fundamentals of Physics" by Resnick Halliday Walker. It is one of the most beautiful book ever written and my all time favorite. There is this problem in the first chapter. Measure the Earth's Radius with a Nothing but a Stopwatch and Meter stick! Is it possible to measure the earth's radius -- armed only with a stopwatch?  Yes!  The answer will be only approximate, but that's a lot better than nothing. The basic idea is to look at a sunrise or sunset (or moonrise or moonset) in a very particular manner: For a sunrise (or moonrise)   Stand and face the eastern horizon.     As soon as you see the top limb of the Sun (or Moon)           appear above the horizon, start the stopwatch.   Lie down, quickly.   Continue to watch the eastern horizon.  The Sun (or Moon)           should -- for a brief time -- have disappeared below   the horizon.   As soon as the Sun (or Moon) appears again, stop the           stopwatch.   For a sunset (or moonset)   Lie down and face the western horizon.     As soon as you see the top limb of the Sun (or Moon)           disappear below the horizon, start the stopwatch.   Stand up, quickly.   Continue to watch the western horizon.  The Sun (or Moon)           should -- for a brief time -- have reappeared above   the horizon.   As soon as the Sun (or Moon) disappears again, stop the           stopwatch.   The time it takes for the Sun (or Moon) to re-appear (or re-disappear) is related to the angle through which the Earth has rotated between (dis)appearances. If you can measure the time accurately, you can calculate the angle accurately. Use the following proportion:     time between disappearances       angle through which Earth rotates     ---------------------------   =   ---------------------------------          one entire day                         360 degrees Okay, now what -- how can knowing the angle by which the Earth rotates help you to calculate the Earth's radius? Consider the following. Big Sam and Little Sam stand side-by-side to watch a sunrise. Big Sam is six feet tall, Little Sam is only three feet tall. Which one sees the sun first? Click on the figure below to find out... Big Sam will see the Sun rise first, because his head will peek above the Earth's shadow first.  Little Sam will have to wait for the Earth to rotate a bit farther in order for his head to rise above the shadow. Exactly the same effect occurs when you watch a sunrise: there will be one particular moment when you are standing and  just able to see light from the Sun. If you quickly lie down, so that your head is effectively at ground level, then the Earth will have to rotate an extra amount to bring you into the light: If you know that angle theta,  and you know your height H, you can use a little trigonometry  to calculate the radius of the Earth R. Now here is the derivation: At that time this was my favorite derivation. r = radius of earth h = height of person t = time measured in stopwatch Ө = center angle From Pythagoras theorem, Since 't' is the measured time between standing and couching sunset, and since there is 86400 sec/day (complete diurnal cycle), hence t / 86400 = Ө / (2*pi) Combining both equations, we get , r = K * (h / t^2), where K = (1/2) * (86400 / pi^2) = 378 X 10^6. The idea that a method as simple as simple as this can calculate something as big as the radius of earth gave me chills and great excitement. 