How was your IIM interview experience?Please do mention your profile, which gives an idea about your past academic records and likewise.
Here is my interview experience with IIM Bangalore. Before answering that let me brief you on my  profile when I was going for the interview to understand the background and motive behind the questions that were asked. Profile: NIT Calicut, batch of 2005-09: Computer Science (Gold Medalist) Experience: 35 months: Game developer at Zynga (11m), Senior Member Technical at D.E. Shaw & Co. (24) CAT Percentile: 96.8% (Never prepared seriously) General Category Here goes the D-Day experience: Essay Writing: This was around sharing opinion about the oxymoronic business and social responsibility (which many companies are trying to use just because there is a mandatory CSR budget imposed) - I explained this on the lines of Milton Friedman's view "The business of business is business". I was no writer, never had I used a pen for 1 hour straight for writing essays or articles after my school days (I needn't say much about my written communication, the post itself will start apologising by the time it reaches the end - pardon me for that). But I practised a lot on how to write crisp sentences and answers in bullet points (am much better at structuring that way). Thanks to TIME institute where they promised to arrange for a faculty who would review my essay daily over mail. Okay, so I would say it was a 7/10 effort from my side. THE INTERVIEW: Panelists: An economics professor, A BGS (Business, Government and Society) professor and a strategy professor. Using P for panelists and M for myself P1: A Gamer! Interesting! XX L p.a. package, interesting! A Gold Medalist interesting! Why the hell are you here? P2: Hardly 10% of the companies on campus pay more than what you are already earning. That too in gaming industry.. which is fun! M: I try to speak after P2 but wasn't allowed to.. P3: Asks me some random Economic funda application... and then asks the rhetoric question: Isn't this boring? M: Kind of! :) P3: This is what we teach here. We really don't understand why you want to do MBA! Some gap. Finally I get a chance to speak up! There was always a dilemma in terms of the reason I wanted to pursue MBA - that was entrepreneurship and what my friend (ex-IIMB) had asked me to say. He wanted me to mention consulting as the reason for doing MBA as that suits my profile and entrepreneurship is a reason that 50% of the students give and aren't able to defend. My brain trying to convince my heart. I thought for a moment and said... M: I want to be an entrepreneur (the heart wins) P1, P2, P3: (Wicked Smile - as if speaking in their minds :Another Bakra!) P1: How will an MBA help? M: I gave some gyan... P2: We teach how to calculate risk - and entrepreneurship is all about taking risks and not measuring them! M: I again try giving some gyan... no one's convinced P1: Gives some examples.. "if you have to learn swimming, do you go into the pool or read books!" M: I again try to defend.. (the brain laughing on my heart... for choosing entrepreneurship over consulting) P1: Some more remarks.. P2: I again try to keep keep my points ... a little bit of a heated discussion.. P1: Most successful entrepreneurs are college dropouts.. or non MBA. Even Zynga CEO (Mark Pincus) M: Gotcha.. They were wrong here.. He was an MBA and a serial entrepreneur.. I felt a lot comfortable because this time I had facts and they were wrong.. a small ray of hope! 45 min passed, I was asked to leave... and we discussed nothing but the answer to the question: Why MBA? I lost all hope! My percentile was low (~97). I gave myself a 7/10 for the written round.. and this interview was like a cherry on the top. Time passed, the results came... and guess what! I WASN'T SELECTED! I went to US for a 6 month project and was enjoying the trip. And one fine day, a letter hits my mailbox saying - "Congratulations for making it to IIM Bangalore. Report by 8am tomorrow for registrations!". If I adjust for timezone difference (given I was reading this in US) -- the mail asked me to come back and register by evening 8pm). I tried calling the PGP office but no one replied.. (obviously it was midnight when I was done with reading the mail). Finally, someone picked up the phone at 8pm EST. I spoke to the person on the other side and informed about the whole matter.. and I got the following response - "We do not have any provision or possible deadline extension.. registrations are done only till 10am today! Sorry!" I was working for Zynga. I was on a 6 months project in US. I called the PGP office and this is the response I got... NIGHTMARE!!!! Given that my profile contains PGP, IIM Bangalore so not hard to guess that I finally joined the batch (a story that I am saving for some other time).. but yes, it was fun, exciting and unexpected for all this to happen. What I want to say people who are reading this is -- "Be assertive! Always believe in yourself. Give the answer you are comfortable with and not what the interviewers are comfortable with! If I had asnwered consulting, may be I wouldn't have been able to defend that for a grilling 45 minutes!" Finally I did join a consulting company, but as you can see.. I am an entrepreneur now (Founder - Your D.O.S.T ) .. a bold step I have taken (yet again!) to leave a high paying job to start a company". Fingers crossed. Too early to say whether it was a good decision or not.. but yes! I am happy! I don't have any regrets! And this is what I want my life to be -- A NO-REGRET Journey." --------------------------------------------------------- PART 2 (posted on June 15th) Thank you everyone for an amazing response. Never thought my random experience could get such traction. Apologies for the delay in completing the second part of the answer as to how I made it to IIM Bangalore despite all the hurdles..... Recap: ... so an aspirant with 96.8 percentile (General category), who kept on defending the answer to "Why MBA?" for the entire 45min duration completed his interview and left the room. I wasn't too confident about my chances of making it through the interview round so I thought of getting back to work  (I was on a 20 day leave at my firm to prepare for the interview process). Things were going great and I was chosen for the transition of the new game from US. I packed my bags and went to California on June 1st for a 4-6 month project. The three interesting days of my life Day 1: It was 16th June 2014. Just like any other day, we were sitting in the office cafeteria trying to plan our day (i mean planning things like where we will eat in the afternoon, where to visit in the evening etc). We finally finished our not-so-serious planning discussion and went to our desks. I cleared off all my official mails and started checking the personal ones. To my surprise there was a mail from PGP Admissions - Indian Institute of Management, Bangalore. I started reading that and it said, I had been offered admission to the college. To my knowledge, the IIMB shortlist was out a month back and I thought it was for some other course (may be FPM or something). I called a batchmate (from NIT Calicut) who had made it to IIMB (this is how i knew the results came out a month back). He picked up the phone in the middle of night (timezone difference) and yelled at me. After a minute of continuous yelling I got a chance to speak - "I got an admission letter from PGP - IIMB what does that mean?". There was an awkward silence after that before the call got disconnected. I wasn't sure if he slept again or was shocked. Thanks to Google I was able to get an assurance that the mail wasn't fake and was for the right department. I went on to read the mail, "Please report by 16th June, 10am for registrations."  (Sigh) If I adjust for timezone difference, it meant they were asking me to report at a location 10,000 miles away in less than 10 hours. I wasn't sure how to react. I couldn't talk to my colleagues for obvious reasons and I couldn't even call up anyone in IIMB as it was night time here. I somehow managed to spend the next 5 hours waiting for the Indian clocks to strike 8am (that's when the PGP office opens). I called the PGP office twice, no response. They picked up the third time. I spoke to the person on the other side explaining him the entire story to hear the response, "Sorry, we can't do anything about it. Try next year!" All my dreams shatter. I spoke to my friend who was in the second year at IIMB and he said admissions is completely handles by the authority, students can't do much. He advised me to speak to the PGP chairman. I called up the office again and somehow convinced them to make me speak to the PGP chair. A ray of hope! I was informed that the chair would be available only post 11am as he has the key note at 10am with the new batch (my batch). Feeling helpless, I called my dad and explained the whole situation. A distant relative of ours is in the education ministry, my dad said he will ask the person to intervene. It shouldn't be an issue. The second ray of hope! It was around 10:30pm (11am IST) and I called up the PGP office. I was told that the PGP chair has been consulted but he can't do anything regarding this. I somehow cribbed and cried but managed to convince them to make me speak to the PGP chair at least once. They said I can call up post lunch (at 3pm). Back to the ministry contact, I called up my dad to check up on that. We were informed that the IIMs do not fall under their purview in terms of the admissions etc so they don't have any say there. A helpless soul sitting by his phone, parents consoling to try next year, unable to speak to anyone, unable to sleep or eat was sitting alone at 1am waiting for that last ray of hope when he MIGHT get a chance to speak to the PGP chair. It was 2:30am and I called the PGP office and requested them to connect me to the PGP chair. They transferred the call. I got the same first response - "Sorry, we don't have provision for late admission. Please try again next year." I kept on pleading, requesting, crying to accept my proposal of late admission. I requested them to allow for online transfer of fee and scanned documents so that they are assured of a seat not being wasted in case I don't join. Luckily I was carrying my original documents (thought of applying to some companies on my business trip - a different story). I heard the voice on the other side - "Okay, we will allow you admission if you can come back in 4 days." SUCCESS! Finally I was able to cross the first hurdle. I called my dad and informed him about the same. He asked me, "... but you have a 1 month notice period right?" I had forgotten the other logistical constraints amidst this confusion - I was in US (its a 24 hr journey at least, 1 month notice period etc. etc.). I Skyped my manager - "What time will you reach office tomorrow, need to speak to you." I went on to sleep for whatever 3 hours were left. My phone buzzed, my manager replied back at 4am in the morning with "Okay, lets talk in the morning. I will come to you guest house and we can walk to office from there." Day 2: I woke up in the morning, feeling very positive about the remaining hurdles/ constraints. My manager arrived, we started walking towards the office. He asked me to tell what I had pinged for the previous night. I couldn't understand how to start. I really liked my team and my manager has been very helpful all through my 1 yr stint at Zynga. I gathered some strength and said, "I have been offered admission by IIM Bangalore." A pregnant pause! My manager realising the awkward silence asked me if I have thought through the entire thing and wants to go. I said Yes and he acknowledged it. Wow! That easy! I never thought it would be so simple. Ohh, wait the main point is pending. I added, "I need to reach back in 3 days." Okay.... A long pause here. I could see the uncomfort on my manager's face too. He assured he will try to do his best. Given the complexity and coordination issue with the HR in India and US, the day almost passed. I called up my manager in the evening asking him to at least book my ticket and the process to happen in parallel. He agreed and helped expedite that on the condition that I will have to pay personal for that. I spoke to the travel agent who informed me that there was only 1 ticket available on a flight the day after next. The cost was 1,50,000/- I finally managed to book the ticket. This gave me confidence that I was going back (have not yet been relieved of my job and no discussion regarding notice period yet). Day 3: I discussed with my manger and he somehow helped me convince the HR for a shorter notice period (I mean - no notice period) and the pending formalities to be completed once am back to Bangalore. A couple of exit interviews, a small farewell by my team made my day. I was lucky that I was about to start a project so there wasn't much of knowledge transfer required and on top of that am really grateful to my manager who helped me steer through the entire process. I left office early as I had to pack my stuff. Finally, I boarded the flight to Bangalore (via Hong Kong). There was transit at the Hong Kong airport. I called my room mates to keep the door open as the flight will land late at night (and explained them the whole story). I needed to report at IIMB the next morning for registration. The flight got delayed so I slept at the Bangalore airport itself for a couple of hours before starting for college. I entered college and was going towards the hostel to keep my luggage when I met a PGP2 (senior) who asked if I was a PGP1 (first yr). He pointed me to go to a field, wasn't sure if MBA colleges also have ragging. I dragged the lugged to the field and there were PGP2s all around throwing water at us. I couldn't understand what was happening. Apparently, it was "Dunking" - a tradition that is followed in MBA colleges on the last day of orientation program where the PGP2s throw water on you and a lot of other things. Believe me, words can't explain that. Finally, the three day experience comes to an end. I somehow managed to cross all hurdles and got admission to the batch of 2012. The happiness when I look back at those 3 sleepless days make me smile. They finally paid off. Patience was the key. I didn't give up! There were times when I had hit a roadblock. To me personally, it helps when I think the other way around - what will happen if this doesn't succeed. Nothing! That helps me keep going. Forget about the risk.. think what will happen worst case. But give your best shot and be patient. Sorry for the long post. I hope it interests and motivates a few. As Anupam Kher says, "Life mein kuch bhi ho sakta hai..". DON'T GIVE UP! Updated 16 Jun • View Upvotes