What is graph density?For context please read Andy Johns' answer to : What are some examples of great new-user experience flows on the web?
Imagine a graph where every person on a network like Facebook represents a node on that graph. The user's friendships are expressed as shared edges on the graph. A user has increasing graph density when the ratio of potential edges (i.e. friendships the user could have) increases relative to the finite number of potential edges. You can visualize what a social graph might look like in an image like this (via Wikipedia) The nodes on the graph may represent people/interests/things. The green lines indicate connections between those nodes on the graph so from this image we can discern that people can share an edge on a graph with other people (e.g. user A is friends with user B) or an edge can be shared between people and objects/things (e.g. user A likes Coca Cola). From an academic perspective graph density would be defined as the ratio of the number of edges and the number of possible edges. If I'm a user of a service like Facebook where they compute 100 possible edges for me to form yet I only have 5 edges then I have a relatively low graph density. By increasing the number of edges you increase the graph density and all sorts of benefits emerge from this increase in density. Graph density in reference to this question about great signup pages: What are some examples of great new-user experience flows on the web? --> ideally you build a signup process that attempts to increase a user's graph density as quickly as possible with as much relevancy as possible. In Facebook terms that means getting as many friends for a new user as quickly as possible. As you increase the rate of friending (i.e. graph density) you can assume an increase in overall user engagement/participation with your product. Here is an excerpt from an interview with Mark Zuckerberg written on TechCrunch: "One of the key parts of operations is a ‘growth team,’ which is a centralized team Facebook set up to help its users stay connected an engaged. For example, Zuck said that through this team, the company found that members need to have at least ten friends to have enough content in the news feed to come back to the site. So Facebook reengineered the whole flow of the site when someone signs in to focus on having people find other people to connect with, so that people can get connected with friends (and meet that minimum) right away. Zuckerberg said that the company has exported this idea to another startups, including Dropbox. “Once you have a product that you are happy with, you the need to centralize things to continue growth.” You can find the full text of the article here for reference: http://techcrunch.com/2011/10/30... Suffice it to say that graph density is the "secret sauce" that Facebook essentially made popular. Other services rely on graph density to drive growth and engagement (e.g. email, instant messaging) so you can't say that Facebook created the notion of graph density. It existed well before that. But you could argue that Facebook leveraged it's power better than any other web service ever created. 