How was your IIM interview experience?Please do mention your profile, which gives an idea about your past academic records and likewise.
Before I go ahead with my interview experience, a couple of points. 1. This happened more than a year ago. I may have forgotten the duller parts of the conversation. It is still pretty long. 2. I believed and still believe that I suck at interviews. 3. Background: CAT 2013: 99.89. B.E. Civil Engineering. #The IIM A Interview (The one which I did not want to end) *This was my 2nd interview. The first was for IIM K in which I got screwed by not being able to answer 6.5 questions out of 8 asked. Almost all were technical Civil Engineering questions* The WAT was on a journey that changed your outlook towards life and a case on automobile industry. Wrote about meeting a few migrant labourers from north India on a train journey and speaking to them about their lives (was going home on a general ticket and there wasn’t space enough to get some decent sleep). Panel consisted of two professors from Production and Quantitave Methods area. To make it simple let us call them P1 and P2, P1 being the senior Professor. After the initial greetings, P2 offers me a sandwich or something. *Politely refused* P1: Tell me about yourself Me: *Trying to blurt out a factual answer* P1 stops me midway. P1: You graduated in 2013 and you have no work experience. Why is it so? Me: I tried preparing for the Civil Service Examination for some time. Then dropped it. P1: Why? Me: *Prepared answer on why I felt I would not be able to clear it and the issues surrounding the exam making it difficult for one to focus on it* P1: Or you thought it is just one year out of 74? You Keralites live that long, don’t you? *Laughs* Me: No sir, that’s not the reason. But yes, life expectancy is kind of high back home. P1: Why are social indicators like this and literacy high in Kerala? Me: * Thanking in my mind Amartya Sen and Jean Dreze for their articles on the Op Ed page of The Hindu and my Dad for making me read newspapers from the age of 7* Various factors including the unique character of Kerala society, the forward looking character of the Travancore royalty at various times, the role played by various caste and religious organisations and of course EMS Namboodiripad’s Communist government. P1: You mean the role played by the Church in providing healthcare and education? Me: *In no mood to let go of the topic* * Explained the competing and collaborative nature of the contribution of the Church, SNDP, NSS, MES etc towards the improvement of quality of life in Kerala with my own fundae about why Caste/religious organisations should engage in constructive work rather than improving their bargaining power* P1: You are from Kasaragod. Where is it and tell me about the place? Me: *Explained the location*. There are positives as well as negatives about my place. P1: Start with the positives. Me: Melting pot for multiple cultures. Sapthabasha Sanghama Bhoomi as we call it. We have native speakers of 7 different languages. Among negatives, it is the smuggling capital of India. P1 and P2 look up surprised *Explained about how lot of smuggling takes place through my district, how people from Kasaragod have been caught smuggling in gold from various airports across the country and about the infamous Kasaragod Embassy* P1: *Question on currency printing and black money that I don’t recollect. P1: Kerala is a multi-religious state. Is it a good thing or a bad thing? Me: Definitely a good thing. *Random fundae on how the competitive nature of different business communities is good for local business followed by desperate attempts to connect it to the earlier answer* P1: Can we ask something to do with your academics? Me: Preferably no. *For a change that worked* *Thanking my stars, wait I am supposedto be agnostic* P2: Ok. What is your opinion about the communists? Me: They got a lot of things right but their economics is flawed. P2: Other than Kerala, which other state has a CPI(M) presence? Me: *probably with Steyn’s expression on seeing Mohammed Hafeez take guard* West Bengal and Tripura. Except in Tripura, they are losing the plot everywhere. P2: Why? Me: Disconnect from the people. *Gave random Kerala example*. Even in West Bengal, the new leadership under Buddhadeb Bhattacharya didn’t have the connect that Jyoti Basu had. P2: *cutting me* In Bengal there were other more important reasons…. Me: *Sensing a Bengali feel about P2* Yes, maybe… P2:  Evaluate UPA 2 Me: *Trying to come up with a politically correct answer hurting no one* P2: Be frank. Me: If you want my personal opinion….. P1: You can’t give someone else’s opinion. Me: They could have done much better…. P2: Why didn’t they? They didn’t even have the baggage of the Left to oppose them from inside unlike UPA 1... Me: But they had these family businesses camouflaged as political parties to hurt them from inside. Moreover to an extent, UPA 2 is paying for the sins of UPA 1…. *gets stopped* P2: In your WAT you had written about migrant labourers who have to work away from home and able to go home just once a year. How can we solve that problem? Me: *Started with some stuff on improvement of education in BIMARU states* P2: No no… Wait, I’ll give you a clue. It is already implemented in China Me: High Speed Railway *Smirking* P2: You mean Maglev? Me: *4 years of college comes to some use finally* No sir. High speed trains using conventional tracks. *Explained the technical difference between the two.* Even the Shanghai to Shanghai Maglev route is not making operating profits. *Later on found out I was wrong*.  They are already working on the survey for HSR through the route I mentioned in my WAT. (Thiruvananthapuram to Kasaragod/Mangalore) P1: Do you know of any other routes which are under consideration? Me: Yes sir, Mumbai- Ahmedabad. And I have a feeling that is the first one to be ready. P1: *With a smile* Oh, What is so special about Ahmedabad other than IIM Ahmedabad? Me: * Smiled back. Everyone in the room had the same reason in mind. Decided to be politically correct again* P1: That will be all. Take a toffee. *It is over already. For the first time in an interview, felt good about the people on the other side* Edit 1: Not the entire story but the best part of other interviews IIM Bangalore: *I had mentioned quizzing among my hobbies and interests* B1: So you claim to be a quizzer? Some voice inside my head: Do something to pre-empt him from asking difficult business and economics questions. Me: Yes sir, I have done a fair bit of quizzing. But I am more into conducting quizzes than participating. * Hoping he falls for the bait* B1: Oh. What are the most important qualities that one needs to conduct quizzes? Me: The ability to create questions rather than copy them. It is the ability to create questions from the strangest of sources. Say you are reading a book and you find something interesting, convert it into a question. Real talent lies in preparing “un google able” questions. B1: Ok. Ask us a good question. That voice in my head: Connect it to business somehow. B1: Don’t give the answer. We would like to see how good we are. Me: This is from a book I read recently. B1: Go on. Me: This was sold in India initially in India as an allopathic medicine but in the early 1980s, the company that owned the brand came up against a wall due to the chemists’ and pharmacists’ demand for higher margins. Someone in the organisation got a brain wave and found that all ingredients could be attributed to Ayurveda and so they changed the registration to make it an ayurvedic medicine which meant they could sell it anywhere, not just medical shops. One among the other 2 professors very casually answered me. Edit 2: IIM Calcutta (My only 8 AM interview) *Right at the start of the interview* C1: Hi Dhanraj, how are you feeling today? Me: Feeling good Sir. C1: Why not bad? Me: I have no reason to feel bad today. The professors smile. C2 about to ask another question. C1 stops him. C1: Why are you not feeling very good? Me: I woke up a bit too early by my standards Sir. C1: And that is? Me: 5.30 sir. C1: That’s early for you? At my age you will wake up at 4 AM and sleep at 10. Me: Yes sir. My Dad does the same thing *That was a good start but I blunder by saying am not finance enthu and getting one of the math problems wrong* Final Verdict: IIM A converted. IIM B waitlisted and then converted. IIM C & K- Rejected. Updated 15 May • View Upvotes • Not for Reproduction