Studies and Studying: What are the most effective methods for studying?
Originally Answered: What are some great study tips, for those who feel they do not study properly?Thanks for the A2A! I'm really glad I was asked this question. I had to relearn how to study recently, and it was quite the wild ride. Somehow, I managed to get through high school and college without ever studying properly. I drank caffeine like it was water and crammed with the best of them (them being other procrastinators), but I mostly passed classes from sheer luck. Ultimately, I graduated college with two degrees and a nonexistent work ethic. I experienced a drastic turnaround these past few months because I came to the realization that if I wanted to accomplish anything in life--be it grad school, a dream career, or my writing ambitions--I would have to relearn what it means to work. So I've been studying what it means to study. Here are my tips/strategies. 1) Mnemonic devices. This is a pattern of letters, ideas, or associations that assist you in remembering something. It can be a song, a rhyme, an acronym, anything...and these are particularly helpful in memorizing large amounts of information. Your brain is much more likely to remember your material if you make a connection to something you already know/something easier to memorize. Example: The planets--"My Very Excited Mother Just Served Us Nine Pies". (Mercury, Venus, Earth, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, Neptune, Pluto) 2) Emotion. Your brain is much more likely to remember material if you apply emotion to it, particularly positive ones. Relate your material to things you find funny or things you love. I remember plenty of information by contextualizing/relating it to hilarious facts or to my favorite movies/books/music. Example: I always remember that the founding-of-Rome myth starts with the twins, Remus and Romulus, adopted and succored by a mother wolf because "Remus" is the name of the werewolf professor Remus Lupin in Harry Potter. Additionally, his last name is from the word "lupine", which means wolfish. His name is basically Wolfy McWolf. 2.5) Sensation. This is related to the previous tip, but apply sensations as well. Think of beautiful sights, delicious tastes, soft touches and apply those to your material. Emotion and sensation are often very interwoven, but it's proven that sensation can specifically help you remember more. You can also try using "real" sensation, though don't depend solely on this. Example: In one study, students that chewed bubblegum while they studied and then again while they took the test scored better overall/remembered more. Their brains associated the taste of bubblegum with their material and it was easier for them to bring back that information. 3) Mind palace. If you watch Sherlock, you probably have the gist of the idea. It's scientifically proven that if you visualize your memory as some kind of structure you know well--like the house you grew up in--and use that as "storage", your mind will remember much more of what you're memorizing. That's because, as humans, our spatial memory is very strong. So to do this, imagine putting your material away in your shelves or taping it to your bedroom wall as you're memorizing it. 4) Write. Writing the material down, even if you're just rewriting what you're reading, will help cement it in your mind more than just reading the material over and over. Keep doing it until you can write all of it without looking at the original source material once. That's essentially what you'll be expected to do for the test anyway. 5) For difficult, complex concepts, get in the habit of explaining what you're learning to someone who doesn't understand (if no one's available, just lecture to your reflection). If you can simplify it in a way that anyone could understand regardless of expertise, then you understand the material. 6) For the best rote learning, a memorization technique based on repetition, get in the habit of "lecturing" as if you're a teacher to a class of young students. Like the previous tip, your brain learns/remembers more if you not only can reinterpret the material simply enough but if you can repeat and teach it to someone else. As you lecture, you're basically teaching yourself. This teaching technique especially works when paired with mnemonic devices--don't just teach "your class" the exact definition, but the quirky devices you use to remember it. That will help cement them for you, as well. 7) FLASHCARDS. The holy grail of all study habits. Some people hate them, some people love them, but they're one of the most common study techniques for a reason. Coupled with any from the above list and they work miracles. 8) Movement. Get up at least twice every hour and walk around for 5 minutes. Sitting for too long can negatively impact your memory (and stamina). Ideally, you should study for 25 minutes and take a 5 minute break, and every 4 of these you should take a longer 15-30 minute break. This is called the Pomodoro Technique if you want to look it up. 9) Eat right, Exercise, Get a Good Night's Sleep, and Quit Multitasking. These aren't often said because they're overall lifestyle habits, but all of these have a huge impact on your memory and studying. Your brain is directly affected by the nutrition you do or don't get, the oxygenated blood you do or don't send its way, the sleep it needs to restore itself and review that day's information, and the attention you give to your work. All of these also affect your stress levels, which can have a significant effect on memory. I can't emphasize enough how important sleep is for your brain. I pulled all-nighters in college and thought nothing of it. However, the neuroplasticity of your brain (ie. your brain growth) is reliant on sleep and so sleep directly affects learning and memory. SLEEP IS SO IMPORTANT, NOT GETTING ENOUGH SLEEP CAN ACTUALLY PERMANENTLY DAMAGE YOUR MEMORY. (Don't freak out yet, since that kind of chronic lack of sleep takes years. But yes, you can have permanent brain damage from not sleeping enough). Hope I helped, but if you want additional information, check the links out: College Study Tips, Study Skills, Guides and Strategies Memory Techniques, Memorization Tips, How To Improve Memory 