Studies and Studying: What are the most effective methods for studying?
Originally Answered: What are the best study methods?Simply put, REPETITION IS THE MOTHER OF ALL LEARNING … The more you go over something using the right “methods”, you will master your topic better. Note that I said “methods” – no one method is the best, depending on which subject you are learning. Below is something I wrote for students on preparing for exams. I have edited it to answer the question asked. THE MIND IS A POWERFUL TOOL Psychologists like David Waitley say the mind is a powerful thing. (Thank God for that.) When you set your mind on achieving something and are ready to pay the price for it, your psyche affects your body and it adjusts itself to go where you want to go. Adopt that mindset. Aim to do well in whatever you are studying. Do not leave anything to chance.  STUDY WITH PEN AND PAPER Most of us do not have photographic memory and therefore we have to study with pen and paper. Attempting to memorise details from notes is not as effective as writing brief notes on a piece of paper - or in another notebook used solely for revision.   SUMMARISE NOTES Summarise chunks of notes into bits that you can easily remember. In summarising you are applying a number of skills: reading, comprehending, analysing, re-organising and writing. The more skills that you apply, the better your mind will retain facts. That skill is useful in subjects like Language, History, Social Science and Biology where a lot of reading is required.   DRAW DIAGRAMS Draw diagrams to summarise concepts also, as “a picture paints a thousand words”. In Science, a good diagram can summarise the concepts of photosynthesis or water cycle and impress the concepts in your mind. Try colouring what you draw. An expert said the brain remembers diagrams better in colour.   FOR MATHS, PHYSICS, ENGINEERING In subjects that involve a lot of calculations like mathematics, physics, chemistry, accounting, economics and engineering, you must do as many exercises – possibly spend one hour a day for each of them. My Indian Grade 12 Maths teacher gave me the secret to mastering Maths. She said: “If you continue the one hour of practice every day, when exam time comes, your hand will already be solving the problem even before you are conscious of what you are doing.”              She told us to spend one hour a day on Maths. When I first heard that I was shocked because I was used to spending twenty minutes or less, depending on my mood. I could spend more than one hour reading books, but not doing Maths. That little tip helped me … it worked wonders and pulled up my marks in other subjects in Science that required a lot of Maths skills.  If you want to be really on top of what you are doing, consider spending more than one hour a day on Maths. (But note that you must not rob yourself of the time you should be giving to other subjects too.)   FOR MUSIC AND SPORTS In these two areas, “Repetition is the mother of all learning” is the key. Those who master skills in Music or a Sport usually spend more time refining skills than their other course or team mates. There is no substitute for more practice. Additional point: Special techniques as learned from and guided by coaches/masters will also greatly advance the learner. Learning a special technique can help a learner reach his/her goals faster. IN WORKING WITH BOOKS, QUIETNESS AND OTHER BITS For most academic subjects which require revising from textbooks, find a desk to work on - not your bed. Be prepared ... if you have to shower and shave to be mentally alert, do those. And find a quiet place to do your studies e.g. in the library. And, do not study with your headphones on with your favourite song playing ... that will distract you. Updated 2 Jan 2014 • View Upvotes