Why don't more young professionals buy into a Wine Clubs? What is appealing/unappealing about a wine subscription?Wine clubs are designed to provide customers with a series of wine bottles on a monthly or quarterly basis that they would otherwise have to find and purchase on their own.
First and foremost, the market is incredibly saturated.  Not only does each winery have its own club (or three), so do most independent wine shops, mega-chains, social groups, and online stores.  I haven't checked my alumni spam lately but chances are there's a Princeton Club of the Bay Area wine club too.  It's like branded credit cards. Given that, why don't people ally themselves with a single local winery?  A few thoughts: There are far more wineries than before, and much more wine knowledge.  With so many choices, why chain yourself to just one seller? Many if not most high-end wineries are now part of international companies.  It doesn't feel special anymore to sign up with Winery X, knowing that it's the same company that sells half the liquor at Safeway In most of America you can find Bevmo, some great independent wine shops, or order online.  You don't need that extra service level of a trustworthy local winery. Young professionals, being more cosmopolitan, are less likely to develop instant brand loyalty with one company when they know there are hundreds more out there.  They're circumspect.  I think older people, raised in a more local business climate, are more ready to tell a trusted merchant - I trust you, just take care of it. Wine prices in America are out of control.  Even with a weak dollar / strong Euro, and in the middle of a recession, decent California wine is expensive and you can get better stuff in the $10-20 range from Europe.  Back in the 90s, I signed up for multiple wine clubs that would sell me half a case of great stuff every two months for $12 a bottle.  Today, it's 3 bottles for $80, plus shipping. The winery experience that led people to fall in love with wine is mostly gone.  It used to be you would hang around the office, a guy named Bob would serve you wine he made himself, treat you to a wild boar sandwich he had smoked out back, and you'd sign up for his club, packed by his family members, with a handwritten Christmas card every year.  And this wasn't just any Bob, this might be the guy who fist introduced Merlot to America or something.  Today wine tasting rooms are corporate profit centers, run by professionals.  It just doesn't inspire the same kind of romantic connection, or loyalty, to sign up for a corporate promotion. 