How was your IIM interview experience?Please do mention your profile, which gives an idea about your past academic records and likewise.
This is for IIM Lucknow. I have been thinking to pen down this story for quite some time, especially after I converted, after an interview so horrible, I didn't even bother to wait for the results and was preparing myself for IIM K, where Interview had went much smoother.   A message from a friend told me results were out and I checked it because I had nothing better to do.   Here goes my interview experience.   Before even the process started, I realized I had forgotten to bring originals of my class 10th mark sheet. There starts the panic. I called up the coordinator and she asked to tell the interviewers. She was like my result will be withheld mostly and I will have to visit the college later on, but shouldn’t be a deciding factor.   I was shit scared. (And my girl had asked me to double check, which I didn’t obviously and it was lying on the bed blissfully, so my only way of getting it on time was also gone. She is the one who keeps track of my things. Now I know why.  :P.)   The WAT and the GD topic was ‘Being honest and poor Or Being dishonest and Rich’. With the kind of prep I had done for the WAT, I was surprised to find myself actually writing a good piece ( Obviously, that’s my perception), with the only issue being I was unable to finish it up and one of the most important ideas that I had was left unfinished. No issues, I will kill it in the GD, was what I thought at that time.   I never believed in starting a GD and never really do the same. An over eager lady from the group started the discussion about how honesty is the best policy and all. Another lady from the group joined her and trust me when I say this, I started feeling like sitting in those Moral Science Classes where my only concern used to be: Sleep. Not this time I thought and was about to start demolishing these two ladies in as civilized way as possible when one gentleman started, ‘I agree with her on this and to add more…….’. And I thought, ok, 8 people in a group, even if I enter 4th, that shouldn’t be an issue. And this time I succeeded, analyzing everything the three poor souls have said before, why extremes might not be a good idea and why being dishonest and rich is actually not only good for oneself, but at society at large. The whole GD changed track and everyone started nodding to what I was saying, including those two ladies. Other two souls came up with Ambani example and I asked one of the gentlemen to speak. That was the only time the whole group realized he was there. I concluded the discussion with everyone following me. And I was like, nailed it. Little did I know at that point, I was going to be slaughtered in the next 45 minutes or so.   I was the first one to be interviewed and was called by a prof who looked normal. And one more, the one who walked me through hell, was sitting inside, smiling, waiting for me to come.   I handed my folders to the person who walked me into the room and he was deeply engrossed into it. Like for the next half an hour, with sharing of few certificates and  a few of my articles with the other guy in between. Let me call him Pw and the other professor, the sitting one as Ps.   Ps: Abhishek, you are very selfish. (Even before I was able to sit down)   Me: Giving a puzzled look, Why sir?   Ps: You will be leaving your bank, which is providing you such a good opportunity in such a short time. They have spent so much on you. This is definition of Selfishness. Well, I am working as an Assistant Manager with SBI and he picked on that. To talk of non IT profile. Me: Gave him the answer I had prepared. Talked about risk to reward ratio, better profile, moving ahead with career plans and all.   Ps: Oh, all that is fine. I see you are from Arunachal Pradesh. And did your engineering from NIT Srinagar. How will you manage in Lucknow, there are no mountains and no anti national movement here.   Me: What the heck? No Anti national movement?I was shocked, but kept smiling and told him about how I had been to lucknow and actually like the place. And that I have lived at delhi, ncr and am currently living in a rural place in Maharashtra, so Lucknow should be fine.   Ps: But weather is tough na. You belong to a poor family and switched from a higher paying IT job to lower paying gvt. Job. That’s what YOU people do. You are not fit for IIM. How will you pay the 10 Lac fee here?   Me: Again, what the F***. Told him about importance of dreams, how I want to move ahead with finance as my career, tried bringing in my CFA scholarship, told him about Loan and how my parents actually support me in my decisions, even if they are unable to pay off my fees. Also, told him how I would add to the diversity of the class, being from a place most of the students don’t even know about.   Ps: Why do people from Kashmir want a different nation?   Me: Gave him the gyaan. He looked satisfied. The only time during the whole interview!   Pw: Sir, see he has done certifications in Micro Economics and Financial Markets. Bless coursera, was what I thought at that time. So, Pw did go through my folders. I was hoping he will read my articles, the print outs of which I had kept there.   Ps: Oh, so you have done something apart from wasting your four years at an Page on nit.so, tell me what is elasticity.   Me: Told   Ps: Give me mathematical equation. Write the equation for it.   Me: Done   Ps: Everything you are doing is wrong. You don’t know anything. You just did those courses because they are free. You will not study at L also.   Me: Was very tempted to say L is not free. Controlled the urge somehow. Sir, I am sure I am correct here.   Ps: Means I am wrong?   Me: Not saying that, but I am correct with the explanations here. Kicked myself for saying this   Ps: Ok. What are the maximum and minimum value of x + 1/x   Me: Min 2, max infinity.   Ps: Even when x is negative?   Me: Realized my mistake. Sorry sir, what I said holds only if X is positive. So, for real number, it can range from negative infinity to positive infinity.   Ps: Yaar tujhe kuch nahi aata, bas faik raha hai yaha. ( You are just saying, you don’t know anything)   Pw: So, Facebook acquiring Whatsapp is a bad idea? Me: Relieved. Yes sir, the accounts and the current cash flow simply doesn’t add up to 19 billion valuation. Plus, the move seems to be out of fear and insecurities of Facebook more than fair valuation. This is sheer waste of share holders’ money   Pw: You are quoting from this article.   Me: Sir, I wrote this article. J   Pw: Good. He looks through some other articles and picks one where I had discussed about Gold Imports and current account deficit. Nods all the time and says you seem to be a good writer on economics.   Me: Thanks sir   Ps: What is CAD?   Me: Explained. I explained Trade deficit there. He picked me on this. Ps: What is Trade deficit?.   Me: Realizing my mistake. Started explaining…... Ps: Bakwas kar rahe ho. Kuch nahi aata tumhe. Muh utha kea a gaye ho.   This was the point I stopped smiling for a fraction of a second and then composed myself. I knew I was being slaughtered. The interview switched to hindi at this point.   Ps: Complex numbers ka real life use batao.   Me: There are uses in Engineering, but….   Ps: Real life puch raha bhai   Me: Sorry Sir, I don’t know.   Ps: How many exchanges are there in India?   Me: I am not sure, but 22..   Ps: Sure nahi hai to don’t say it   Pw: Difference between Money Market and Capital Market?   Me: Eyes lit up. Explained. High point of my interview. Pw: Chalo ye to aata hai   Ps: Covered call aata hai?   Me: Yes sir, explained with Pay off Diagrams.   Ps: Ok. But not totally correct.   Ps: What is the rank of Maharashtra, area wise amongst all states?   Me: Said I am not sure, but before he could say anything, started guess estimating and arrived at at 5-7.   Ps: You are estimating, exact batao.   Me: Sorry sir, I don’t know.   Ps: What do you know?   Pw: Rank of Maharashtra, population?   Me: Again, estimated.   Ps: You will not be able to perform at L.   Me: Why Sir?   Ps: See your grad marks.   Me: I assure you I will work as hard as it takes to be the top student there, not just top 5 or top 10.   Pw and Ps both laughing.   Ps: Jao yaar, you are good for nothing.   Me staring at the toffees. They didn’t offer any. I shamelessly told them have a nice day sirs and got out of the room.   PS: I must have missed at least 10 questions where I answered, Sorry sir, I don’t know. And even though I was smiling, I was shitting inside.   And amidst all these, they never asked or even looked at any one of the original certis.   Verdict: Converted in the first list.   My two cents: I have no idea how the process works, but guess remaining calm, answering questions which you know and letting go of others might be the key.    Or I am just guessing. :D Updated 3 May 2014 • View Upvotes