How was your IIM interview experience?Please do mention your profile, which gives an idea about your past academic records and likewise.
IIM Ahmedabad interview for PGP 2015-17. This was the first interview of my entire career. Interview was smooth and no stress or cross-questioning. Bio: Undergraduate (Electrical Engineering), IIT Delhi. Hometown: Hyderabad Date of Interview: 1st March, 2015 Location: IIFT Delhi Time: Noon session Panel 2 and 8th person (the last one) to be interviewed. It was 5:10PM that I was called in. Me patiently waiting for that moment, entered the room and greeted the panelists P1(I think he is the prof in the age group of 60+) and P2( He was young, might be an alumnus, of age around 35 years). P1: Before we start why don't you just give a brief introduction about yourself? Me: Gave a brief introduction about my acads, extra curriculars, interests and all. *P1 in the meantime goes through my application form* P1: So Nayan, you come from Telangana. Why was the bifurcation done? Reasons behind it? Me: As I follow current affairs and knew in detail, I gave every reason and sequence of incidents from 1953 to 2014. *Both the panelists were convinced* P1: So do you support the bifurcation? Me: As such I don't have any opinion, but my father supports it. P1: Then what were you doing during the agitation that was going on in Telangana. Me: Sir I was preparing for JEE. *P2 grins* P2: You are an electrical engineer? Me: Yes sir, electrical engineer with major in VLSI. P2: What is VLSI? Me: Very Large Scale Integration sir. *I was expecting them to shoot questions related to VLSI* P1: What all other courses you have done other than VLSI? Me: Sir, other than that in our first two years we get exposed to core courses of electrical engineering like communication, power... *The instant I said power, both the panelists became active and started rapid fire on me* P2: Which supply do we get to our homes? AC/DC. *Me thinking what a silly question* Me: AC P1: Is DC used anywhere? Me: Yes sir, for very short distance transmission. P1: What is the total generating capacity of India? Me: Around 230GW. P2: What is the deficit then? *Fuck this is not given in wikipedia page anywhere* Me: Sir, still more than 20k villages are not electrified, so we can't estimate the deficit. (Trying to cover up) P2: There would be some figure, do you know it? Me: No sir. P1: Tell me how a diesel generator works? Me: Explained it. P1: How much are the transmission losses? Me: Not more than 10% sir. (Didn't know the exact figure). P1: But I have read in a newspaper article that transmission losses in Delhi are about 70%. * I was like why the hell are they transmitting? Didn't know what to say. I didn't believe* Me: It's impossible sir. P1: There can be theft, right? Me: Technically it can't be more than 10% sir, if theft is there then it can go upto 100% sir. P1: Arvind Kejriwal hires you to reduce these losses, then what will you do? Me: Sir, it's something to do with the help of police. P1: But police is not in the hands of Kejriwal. *For an instant I felt I have dug up my own grave, but somehow a solution struck my mind* Me: Sir, I will divide Delhi into sub-units and put up meter for each sub-unit. Whichever sub-unit records high losses, I will deduct the connection to that sub-unit. *P1 seemed to be convinced* P2: Who won the Nobel Prize in physics last time? Me: Sir, they were three Japanese scientists with typical Japanese names which I don't remember but I do know their contribution i.e Blue LED invention. P2: What is it? How is it useful? etc. Me: Explained in detail. P2: (Pointing his finger upwards) which LED is this? Me: Sir, it is not an LED. It is a CFL. *P2 smiles* P1: You are from IIT, so you might have been placed somewhere? Me: Sir, actually I didn't sit for the placements. P1: So what are your plans then? Me: I want to pursue a career in management and climb up the corporate ladder soon and become a successful CEO. P1: So you are a swimmer? Me: Yes sir, I have also represented IIT Delhi at the Inter-IIT Sports Meet for water-polo sport. *Me expecting them to shoot questions on water-polo but again disappointed* P1: Which stroke are you in? Me: Sir, I do breast stroke and free style. P1: Which is the fastest stroke? Me: Sir, it's freestyle. P2: What all other calls do you have? Me: Sir, I have interview for IIMB on 9th March and IIMC on 11th March. P2: So what is your preference? Me: Sir, obviously it would be A which is the top institute in our country. P2: But Bangalore is near to your home? Then why not bangalore? Me: Sir, I have been in Delhi for the past four years and it is not a problem for me. P2: What if the same question is asked to you in IIMB interview? Me: Sir, I hope they won't ask this question. *P1 and P2 both of them smile* P2: What if they ask you? Me: Then I have to answer Bangalore sir. *P1 looks at P2* P2: We are done Nayan. Take a toffee or cookie. *About to take a cookie* P2: As you are the last person to be interviewed, take both. Me: Took both of them and left. It was around 20mins interview. Result: Converted A,B and C. Joining A. Tips: Keep it simple and do know about everything that you say and that you mention on the application.   P.S: I might have missed few questions but written to the maximum extent which I could recollect. 