Studies and Studying: What are the most effective methods for studying?
Originally Answered: How can one study most effectively?Always work against the Clock Each time you study, clearly specify the work you intend to complete and set yourself a given period of time in which to complete it. Don't become a "clockwatcher" - they sit in the room quite happily, just so long as they spend sufficient time "at the books" You must learn to work against the clock. By specifying clearly what work is to be completed, and by what time, you should provide the necessary motivation to complete a worthwhile session. Goal Setting Keep a notebook and write down just a few things that you feel you could achieve this week - something important but not too difficult. Perhaps there is a verb or two that could be learnt; perhaps you could watch a video of the novel you are studying; or maybe something as simple as learning four French words a night (you will be amazed at how quickly it can build up!) Never set yourself things that you feel you can't do. Goals must be very specific. Don't set goals like "I'm going to improve at Maths". It could be "I'm going to improve my Maths mark by 4% by the next test." Don't say, "I'm going to do more study" - be specific - how much? and when exactly? By writing down simple tasks, and by setting a completion date, you will be amazed at how you stop just drifting from one day to the next. There is also a real sense of achievement when you work your way down the list. Buy yourself a "goals notebook" and use each page for one week. Set a small number of goals for the first few weeks so that you get the satisfaction of completing them, you can always increase the number as you go on. Every Sunday, check what you have achieved. You are not limited to school topics. You could set personal fitness goals, skills goals, behaviour goals - anything at all! Once you do this you stop drifting and start achieving! All goals should be "SMART" S pecific (not something vague) M easurable A chievable R ecorded (written down) T imed (have a time limit) 