What is the first little bit of math that made you realize that math is beautiful?
It wasn't really a piece of math. It was a book. Simon Singh's Fermat's Enigma: Before reading this book, I had been good at math. I was able to quickly grasp concepts, particularly in algebra. But I had never really thought of mathematics as a viable occupation. I did it, and thought it was fun, because I was good at it, and got to show off my "incredible talents" of high school geometry to my classmates, inflating my much-too-large ego to the point where I was so full of hot air that, according to convection, I should have started floating. My image of mathematics, like many around that age, was that mathematicians sat around all day doing whatever type of problem I was doing that year, but really hard: I thought they did difficult arithmetic in elementary school, difficult algebra in middle school, difficult geometry in 9th grade. Then I picked up this book at the local library. I work there, you see, and during and after work I would pick up books that caught my eye while I was putting books back on the shelves. One day, I discovered the mathematics section (around 510 with the Dewey Decimal System). I took out a few books, and then one week found Simon Singh's. I think what caught my eye was the subtitle: "The Epic Quest to Solve the World's Greatest Mathematical Problem". With that many superlatives, how could a 14-year-old resist? I took it home and began reading it that day. I believe I finished it the next, or maybe the day after that. I had never seen math in that light before. Apart from Singh's brilliant writing, there were also examples of mathematics which I had never heard nor imagined before: Diophantine equations, elliptic curves, modular arithmetic, etc. And although I know the content was very layman-friendly and not extremely in depth, it was, I believe the book that perhaps changed my life the most- and I've read many, many books in my life. The beauty of mathematics was revealed to me that day, and the power. It was unfathomable to me that someone could cry about a math problem, yet Andrew Wiles (rightfully) did. My eyes were opened to a hidden world, a mathematical world unknown to the plebeian masses (obviously my ego was still present). Sure, I didn't know anything about the inner workings of math, or really any math at all. But I began to think about becoming a mathematician. I longed to have discovery just like Andrew Wiles's, to feel the euphoria at having done something, created something- no matter how insignificant to the "real world". I reveled in the abstractness of math, its power, its beauty. I began to read more math books, began to research how to learn math on my own online, I found Math Stackexchange and MIT OpenCourseWare. With the help of a teacher and some administrators, I was able to take Algebra 2 over the summer and part of Calculus over the next. I purchased a few books on combinatorics, number theory, and mathematical problem solving. I read, I absorbed, I fell in love. I was now sure that I wanted to be a mathematician. I'm still only a junior in high school at the moment, but I cannot wait to learn more about mathematics, and will be doing an independent study next year. I know I still won't be doing meaningful work for many years, and I know that there are those who have started on this path much, much sooner than I, but all I care about is that I am on this path, and that the destination is out there somewhere, always ahead of me. At a time when many people my age are struggling to discover themselves, I have a rock- I have mathematics. So I would like to thank Mr. Singh for sending me on this journey, albeit unknowingly. Without him I think I would still be lost. I still have a huge ego, but with the massive world of math ahead of me it's easy to forget. Sorry to everyone for my rather long-winded and not very enlightening (first!) post, as I didn't really mention a specific piece of math, but I have been holding this in for a while, and it felt good to release it on a couple unfortunate people. Also sorry to any experienced mathematicians or "math people" if my post contains any inaccuracies or blatant newbie fallacies. I think I'll stop here. 