Which college is better dit dehradun or bit deoghar?
Before answering the question I would suggest something. "Colleges are not bad, colleges are made better by you guys." I am giving you a Instance , IIT Bombay, IIT madras,IIT Delhi,IIT kanpur (these are among some of the good colleges I listed there are more but I am just giving an example; don't take otherwise) have a reputation due to their name !! Absolutely NO. These places are known for their good students which give some innovative inputs to our country.Some great minds who are working continuously. So the story is the people residing in the college make the good environment and then the name and fame of the college Increases. Thus placements become good. Hence, it become the attraction to some of the good students. Lastly, the graph of the college increases monotonically. So, it totally depends upon the student and environment in the college. Lastly, the most important point is that the continuous graph of any college should increase or there should be a  steady progress . Example -  Suppose one year many comapnies visisted the college but next year a few of them visisted. So this is not good for the valuation of any college. There should be a steady pace in the growth of the college. Example - IIIT Hyderabad in a very small time grown so fast that we can not really imagine. When I was in DIT(20111-2015), the mode of admission was AIEEE Rank. So, good students came and hence placement was good. At that time, I can say BIT Deoghar was equivalent to DIT Dehardun. But nowadays, It became University , so good students don't want to come in a University until it is so renowned like BIT Meshra, BITS Pilani etc.   Some of the benefits in DIT - Atmosphere is awesome. During admission time weather is so good that people used to say "ARE YAR KAHA AA GAYE , AB TO YAHI PADHNA HAI".(Though I was not befooled by this but due to my father I took the admission but the decision was not bad!!).Actually, It is raining season. It is covered of mountains. Those you like mountains for them this place is heaven. Nearby, MUSSOORIE is there , there you can have some fun. Most importantly, in winter it is full of ice. The beauty is when you woke up in the morning and you see through the window ; mountains laden with ice. Oh! great feeling . It seems that nature is calling you into her lap. Apart from this, there are lots of benefits relating to your health. Placement wise not bad. If you are sincere you will be placed in the worst company of the world i.e. INFOSYS :P CS Department is good.(Sorry at that time it was good but can't comment on present scenario). Some of the faculties that were good at that time was "Sandeep Chaursiya", "Amendra Tripati"," Mukul Tiwari"," Anuj Yadav" and some more. Mechanical department is also good. Faculties are good laboratory is awesome. And placement wise good.Some of the benefits in BIT Deoghar- BIT Deoghar, BIT Patna are the extensions of the BIT Mesra. This will give you inital exposure. Campus placement is also good. Good faculties are there. Environment is also good. PS:  Bhai naam bikhta hai. EDIT : In the present scenario, I would say BIT Deoghar is far far better than DIT Dehradun. 