Studies and Studying: What are the most effective methods for studying?
Originally Answered: Which are the best techniques or methods to study?Like many other "best way to X" questions, the answer is not universal to every individual. I was a terrible high school student with a 1.6 GPA. When I started college after several years of aimlessly floating around, I really wanted to do well. I had to learn how to learn, study, memorize, and take notes, etc. Fortunately, most subjects were easy for me and I have a natural gift for reading and comprehension. Yet math and chemistry still made my head spin. Lucky for me, one of my professors pushed Multiple Intelligence tests and info on us. I learned how to study the things that weren't naturally easy for me by playing to my strengths in visual learning. I used flash cards and watched videos. My other strength style was intra-personal, doing better in solitary reflection than in groups. That explained a lot about why I had struggled earlier in life. I had a hard time really learning information from lectures in a classroom. Too many people around were distracting to my brain. I still went to class but knew I needed to review and read lessons on my own to retain information. For example, I basically ignored the math lessons in class but went home and read the math book in private. I also got video lectures to watch in private. I started getting A's in math and even got the only A in my entire chemistry class. In addition to my own experience of learning to learn, my son is ADHD and dyslexic. I won't get into that whole struggle but it sealed the deal on my belief in Multiple Intelligence theory. In school, typical learners are smart because the curriculum is taught in the style that fits them. Everybody that doesn't fit feels stupid. Granted this is not the teachers' fault. It is more difficult to teach a bodily/kinesthetic learner in a classroom of 30. So the answer to your question is to find out what naturally jives with you. Take some multiple intelligence tests. Find your style and then research the best way it can be applied to the subject you need to learn. 