Studies and Studying: What are the most effective methods for studying?
Originally Answered: What are the best study methods?One of the best things I did for myself as a student was buy How to Become a Straight-A Student: The Unconventional Strategies Real College Students Use to Score High While Studying Less - Kindle edition by Cal Newport. Reference Kindle eBooks @ Amazon.com. I have always been pretty good in school. Math and science come easily to me, and I like to read. So, school has been a breeze for the most part. But, my situation has dramatically changed in the last year or two. Right now, I'm a junior in high school. I live in the state of Iowa, where many high schools offer Post-Secondary Enrollment Offer (PSEO) classes. These, essentially, are classes that count for both high school credit and college credit at a local community college. My high school has a system where they'll pay for up to 23 credits of classes that I want to take per year, under the condition that if it was offered on my high school's campus then I had to take it their instead of at the community college. Otherwise, I essentially have carte blanche to take whatever classes I want to at this community college. So, being an overly driven sophomore, I decided that I want the get an AS from this community college concurrently with getting my high school diploma. Long story short, I decided that I should get a math AS which I would then use to transfer into a computer science program I was interested in attending. And now, we're at the present. I'm in my second semester of my junior year of high school, which is also the second semester of my freshman year of college. This arrangement has presented me with some challenges, to be frank. Since last August, I've been enrolled in between 4 and 6 full time high school classes which meet 1 hour per day M-F and collectively generated 1-2 hours of homework per night. During the fall semester I was also enrolled in 16 credit hours of classes at the community college, including calculus, ethics, philosophy, economics, and one or two other classes. These had much more variable times, but gave me on average just over three hours of class per day and a collective ~2 more hours of homework per night. This semester is much that same situation, but I'm taking 19 credit hours instead of 16. (For those keeping count, yes, that is more than 23 credit hours this year. I had to pay for everything after the 23 hours. It's been well worth it, in my opinion.) Without some of the tools that I got from the book I mentioned above, I don't believe I would have been nearly as successful as I am. Right now, I'm sitting at a 4.0 GPA at the community college and 3.962 at my high school. That book taught me how to take notes, how to study, how to organize my hectic life, and much more. That was all stuff that I probably could have figured out on my own, but because I bought that book I didn't have to. I'm aware that this answer is mostly personal anecdote, but I strongly suggest that anyone who isn't completely 100% on top of their life skim the sample of this book and see if it helps them. I know that it's helped me. 