Assuming a straight graph, if the current growth of atheism in the West continues, versus the decline in practicing Christian believers, how long until the religion as we know it is wiped out?By the Christian religion as we know it I mean Sunday church attendance, an influence on law, being listed as the majority religion in national censuses, that sort of thing. Having said that I'd be interested to know if anyone thinks it will ever go the way of the ancient religions and disappear entirely as a serious faith, given over to the increase of scientific discovery.
Depends on the slope of the graph. I would like to believe that as science explains every known phenomenon, and the literacy rate increases, religion will decline.  I would think that roughly 80% of population born from now on will be Atheists pretty early.   I initially estimated it to be 50 but this link Poll shows atheism on the rise in the U.S. shows that nearly 60% identify themselves as Atheists. If we progress with such an assumption, we can safely assume that a good 80-90% of their kids will also be atheists. Important thing to consider understand that % of atheism increases rapidly as a growth rate of 0.9% means each year, there are fewer theists than before(based on the assumption that the % of theists is higher among elderly, and they account for most deaths). In 30 years, 10 % of current theistic population would convert to atheist/agnostics.( based on bad experiences, common sense, disillusionment, discontent). In 30 years the population will also increase by 30% of what it is now, given current rate of growth of USA. Since birth rate of US is 16/1000 and death rate is 7/1000, we will have roughly 4% born in these 30 years Now we come to the question you asked. At this rate, we will have 47% of population born in next 30 years, of which a good 80% of population are atheists/agnostics. Let's make it 50% for convenience. Of the remaining people, a good 60% are already atheists. Put together we are approaching 70% atheists. The theists still form sizable minority but the number favor atheists in longer run. So another 40 years from now, with most conservatives gone, you will have an open field and the laws and rules will start to reflect that. PS: growth rate,birth rate death rate are rough assumptions. YMMV. I personally think we will see this in 20 years as most conservatives retire from active politics and a new generation takes over. Cheers :) 