How can I earn money online part-time?I want a part-time genuine sites from which I can earn money.
This is something which my college professor had suggested: ONLINE STOCK TRADING Steps: 1)You need to create an account on one of the trading websites. 2) Choose any material stock which you wish to trade: A good knowledge of the market scenario, stock prices and possible fluctuations can help you here. 3) Buy a particular stock: Consider, for example, you buy Zinc. Note that you can only buy it in tonnes(or other specific quanta) and the stock price will be given per that unit of weight. One ton of zinc may cost you Rs. 1.3 lacs. There is a catch however. You need not have that kind of money for it, since you are only trading. You will be charged a nominal amount however [maybe Rs. 1000-1500 for some 25 tons (I do not know the exact pricing but it is definitely profitable)] since you are borrowing stock. 4) Assess fluctuations in the price of your purchased stock: There will be a continuous graph of the Price vs Time. 5) Look for a increase in the stock price: The increase may not be very significant but would be sufficient for a marginal profit. For example, the price at 12 pm on the day you purchased was Rs.1,30,000 per unit. The price 3 days later at 5 pm became Rs. 1,30,080 per unit. 6) Sell the stock:Consider you bought 25 tons and sold all of it. So your sale was Rs. 25 x 80= Rs. 2000. So now, the profit? You paid Rs.1500 for borrowing 25 tons of Zinc and sold it for Rs. 2000. Net Profit= Rs. (2000-1500)= Rs. 500 All this with no hassle of capital, warehousing, logistics, bureaucracy, etc. You become richer with just a few clicks of your mouse. Also, you get to apply the concepts of economics, market knowledge and other aspects of business. With time, you will become a professional and earn significant amounts of money. You just need to spend a few hours every week (maybe 6-7 hours) and earn around Rs. 8000-10000 monthly, or even more than that. Also, there are websites available for practicing Online Stock Trading with no money involved at all and just a simulation. So, you can become a professional first and then start playing with money. (Please Note: All the figures in this answer are a vague approximation of actual amounts. However, my professor has done this regularly and earned decent profits.) Hope this helps!! 