How was your IIM interview experience?Please do mention your profile, which gives an idea about your past academic records and likewise.
* ....... * implies what I was thinking/doing. Profile: CAT percentile: 99.66 8 months work experience in ZS Associates (A Marketing consultancy) B.Tech in Chemical Engg. from IIT (BHU) Varanasi; Graduated in 2014 with CGPA 8.46 XII: 91.2 X: 89.8 IIM Calcutta interview: Plus points: Good Profile Weak points: 1) Percentile - slightly low for an institute like IIMC                        2) GEM - tough competition                        3) WAT - went just average So, here we go: Three professors in the panel. One of them moves out (he gets a call on his cell) as soon as I enter the room. Lets call the two remaining profs P1 and P2 (Both male). P1: Have a seat. Me: Yes. *I quietly sit on the chair without saying good morning* P1: So Abhilash, tell me about yourself? Me: *I never thought they may ask this; so didn't really prepare for it, but had some idea on how to answer* I spill out my name, father's service, academic qualifications, summer interns, work experience etc (all general stuffs). *I didn't want to say anything about "why MBA"; well to be honest, I didn't want them to ask me about it, so I skip anything related to this while answering the question* P2: *intrigued* Only this much? Will you say anything about what you want to do in future? Me: *I now know I am screwed, because now the interview will proceed in a direction in which I am not comfortable* I blabber something about remaining in 'Marketing' field. P2: *gave a puzzled look* Ok Abhilash, so tell me what to do about this India China border dispute? Me: *What a relief.. I was so thankful that he didn't grill me on my last answer* Sir, we should discuss this matter in the high level meets P1: Talks are going on for 50 yrs, did anything happen? Me: No Sir, but we should be a little tough in our stance P2: Are you hinting on war? Me: No sir, that's not even possible; both are nuclear powers P2: Then? Me: I am just suggesting this should be the top priority when we hold high level talks rather than this being one of many agendas of the meet P1: Abhilash, tell me one thing, why are there so many people from ZS Associates here for the interview? Me: I give them an answer (obviously without saying anything critical about the company) P1: asks a question related to pharma sector (since clients of ZS are primarily in the pharma sector) Me: I give them an answer. He is not satisfied, asks again, I answer again He is not satisfied, asks again, I answer again He is not satisfied, asks again, I answer again *Finally, some sense of acceptance of my answer* P1: Whats your take on smart city? What do you think constitutes a smart city? Me: I told them about a) digital infrastructure, b) providing services digitally and c) digital literacy For next 15 secs, both of them smile (or laugh) on my answer. Then, P2: Do u really think that's even possible? Me: *Meanwhile, I was thinking about what wrong did I say* I then said few things which came to my mind at that time on how to make the above three things possible. P1: Anything else? Me: *I thought for about 10 secs* Sir, city planning is also important for a smart city P1: What do you mean? Me: I told them about planning societies, roads, effective use of rain water etc etc *God knows what happened to me* P1: Give me an example Me: Gurgaon Then I quickly change my answer to Chandigarh citing that there is too much traffic problem in Gurgaon P1: So, Chandigarh is a smart city? Me: From what I have heard about it, yes, its smart. P1: No, tell me a smart city where you have been? Me: Greater Noida P1: So, Greater Noida, according to you is smart city? Me: *with a heavy sigh* Yes (It was very difficult to say 'Yes', especially because of their expression at that time)   P1: (to P2) You want to ask anything? P2: Yes, so Abhilash, what opinion do you have on industrialization? Or what do you think about the land acquisition bill? Me: *At this moment, I go crazy; do you people have anything to ask except opinions? I desperately want the third prof to come in, but he doesn't. I wanted them to ask about my Chemical Engg. or my Hobbies or my Work Experience or even my General Knowledge or fucking anything, but alas!!* *I somehow regain my composure* I started, "For important public projects like Delhi Metro, yes we can take land from farmers P1 suddenly stops me in between.. P1: *disgusting look* Who are you to take a farmer's land? Me: *facepalm* I then talked about providing them adequate compensation etc. (I will skip the grilling which happened after the compensations I mentioned) *At this point, I was more or less sure that I have blown it* Then I finished my previous answer and said that just for the name sake of industrialization, we should not focus our attention too much on infrastructure and displace people from their lands. (In the process, criticized the Yamuna Expressway saying that the cons overpower the pros in its case) P2: Then, according to you, we should not construct more expressways? Me: No sir, I didnt mean that. I told them about how 5000 small villages were cleared and how farmers were displaced from their lands; and in favor, we only have a meagre traffic there. So, looking at the bigger picture, probably it was not a very brilliant project. P1: So, you are saying that we should go ahead with public projects and not private projects? Me: Not exactly P1: Whatever P2: shakes his head signalling that he is done P1: does the same as P2 Me: exhales P1: seems you are heaving a sigh of relief Me: *obviously startled thinking that he noticed* No Sir, that's nothing. I am okay. P1: offers candies Me: *I was still in shock after he noticed my exhale* I refuse the candy. *I don't know what was I thinking that time and why did i refuse the candy. I just wanted to get out* Me: Comes out, change my whatsapp status to "blown it". Walk dejectedly towards my home thinking about my chances to convert IIML. FINAL VERDICT: Well, I can't tell you how happy I was... 