Studies and Studying: What are the most effective methods for studying?
Originally Answered: What are some of the best studying techniques?There are many methods out there but here are some that works for me:   1. Use Metaphors/Analogies  - Its a good idea to use metaphors/analogies to understand difficult concepts. This is also handy for recalling concepts that you find hard to retain. Everything can be described as a Metaphor. It might take some time to come up with one but if you stick with it, you will do yourself a world of good.   2. Draw stuff - I'm not gonna get into the theory behind how this works but its known that using a combination of text and diagrams enhances your learning. You will find this presented to you in every Head First series book.  So instead of writing paragraphs of text I tend to draw them in say boxes, circles etc. and connect them to together to give me a mind-map of view of a concept. There are many other ways to go about doing this..     3. The 5 year old method - The idea is to take concepts you find difficult to understnd and attempt to explain it like you would do to a 5 year old.What this means is you are forced to break the concept into smaller bits using simple words until you completely understand whats going on. From there onwards you reconstruct it.   4. Teach - If you can confidently teach someone and they can understand it, it is a sign that you are reaching a level of mastery. So strive to teach!   4. Everything is a Question - When taking notes I find it highly effective to phrase the title in the form of a question (and yes always give a title to the text to your notes). So instead of just writing about say 'Inheritance in Object Oriented Programming' and jamming eveything into a parapgrah I would break it into questions such as 'What does inheritance solve in OOP'? or 'Why is inheritance necessary in OOP?'  and other questions like 'What conditions need to be met to implement inheritance'? etc. Having questions gives you sharper focus and makes you think. And it also  makes it a lot easier to power study (skim through, refer to certain portions of your notes etc.)     5. Multiple Sources - Sometimes its not enough to know 'just enough'. You might not completely understand a topic or concept.You may understand some of it but not enough to say confidently teach. In order to get around this I usually read/view/talk to multiple sources. Remember: one author may explain something better than another. Its vital to refer to different sources to strengthen your understanding.     6. Support Circle - You will never be great at something until you work with people who are better than you. In order to get better you need to surround yourself with better. One of My favourite quotes is 'birds of a feather flock together, pigeons and eagles don't hang together' - What this essentially mean is in order for you to improve your skill you need to seek support from people who do it better than you. You should study their habits and absorb as much as you can, then apply it. Updated 1 Jan 2013 • View Upvotes