How was your IIM interview experience?Please do mention your profile, which gives an idea about your past academic records and likewise.
There is no doubt that my IIM interview processes were very enjoyable! My B.Tech. from IIT Delhi completed in 1993. I have been writing CAT since 1992 (24 years in a row now!). I appeared for various GD/PI processes in the 1992-94 exam cycles, and here's a quick review of what happened. Although these are old experiences, a lot of elements haven't changed through the years. IIM Ahmedabad Case Study / interview: The Case Study discussion was in around a rectangular table, 8 candidates and 2 examiners (both in kurta pyjama!), and the topic of the half page case given was "Moral dilemma being faced by a certain company in a particular situation". The discussion went on for 20 minutes with great participation from every one. Then we were asked to write a summary of the case on the same page. The marking was being done on a page with some complicated structure that scared me! In the interview, they asked me Why did you write the particular summary? Explain What are the problems with Indian economy? What is L-P-G ? Boon or bane? Why MBA after engineering?  ( ! ) Strengths and weaknesses - explain What exactly is a CEO? (lot of discussion) Some questions on logic and maths Where do you see yourself after X years Result - Selected! IIM Bangalore GD / interview: The group discussion was around a long rectangular table, with 12 candidates and 3 cheerful examiners, and the topic given to us was "Is arranged marriage better than love marriage?"  I smiled as I was to get married in an arranged manner to my love in the coming years! The GD went on for 20 minutes with great participation from every one. A couple of guys were quiet throughout, and the examiners asked them to speak up. In the interview, they asked me Why MBA after Engineering?  (this hasn't changed in 25 yrs now) Why IIM Bangalore, and not some place else? What are the various inventory management models you know? (My engineering was in Manufacturing Sciences) What is buffer stock  management? (and a lot of related questions) Which is the latest Hindi movie you've seen? (I said Parinda) What was the message from that movie? (I replied violence never pays) Result - Selected! IIM Calcutta GD / interview: The group discussion was in a circle, with no table, 10 candidates and 3 very cooperative examiners, and the topic given to us was "India of my dreams". The GD went on for 15 minutes with great participation from every one. In the interview, they asked me What are your interests? (My reply : guitar, weight-lifting, and stock markets) The rest of the interview was on stock markets! Tonnes of questions What is underwriting of shares? Why is it done? What are convertible shares? What are debentures? What is gestation period? Why MBA after engineering?  (save me God!) Result - Selected! IIM Lucknow GD / interview: The group discussion was in a circle, with no table, 12 candidates and 2 extremely morose examiners, and the topic given to us was "Liberalisation of the Indian economy - boon or bane?". The GD went on for 20 minutes with participation from every one. In the interview, they asked me Where do you work? (My reply : I have started my education firm, and teach for MBA entrance exams - he was shocked to hear it!) Why are you wearing a suit? Are you too formal? The rest of the interview was on career goals & education What is special about literacy in Kerala? What is the association of medicine manufacturers called? How can we improve the state of education in India? Suggestions. Why MBA after engineering?  (not again!) Result - Selected! Here's a link to a recent and useful session on WAT/PI where I have practically demonstrated the approach of tackling an essay. Will be useful.   For any help, stay in touch! Updated 31 Oct • View Upvotes