How was your IIM interview experience?Please do mention your profile, which gives an idea about your past academic records and likewise.
A long detailed experience for IIM Lucknow. GD and WAT topic: Highly intelligent students have difficult time at B-schools.  My profile: A general, male, engineer from IIT Roorkee with following acads: 10-89(Maharashtra board) 12-71(Maharashtra board) B.Tech- 6.653(Metallurgy IIT Roorkee 2013) Two guys.(G1, G2). G1 comes out and calls me.We get in. He asks me to take a seat. G1: So you are Jain?(Mentioned on the form) Me: Yes sir. G1: You should be getting into business. Me: It would have worked well if I had a family business but we don't have it. G1: Where are you from? Me: Jalgaon. Sir.(It's in Maharashtra) G1: Any way related to Jain irrigation there? Me: No sir G1: Just the same religion? Me:Yes sir. G1: How is the company? Me: It's a huge company. It was established around 1950(wiki says 1989) by around 8 people, Bhavarlal Jain being prominent. I don't know the exact numbers but it is worth around 10000 crore. G1: It is about drip irrigation na? Me: yes sir. It is basically into drip irrigation, sprinkler parts and agriculture related things. G1: So you took a drop? Me:  told them about the problem I had at Career Point. They wanted me to join in April but I had college till May. Then they started delaying the joining. I had interview at Fiitjee on Nov 16 but the date clashed with CAT. I chose CAT. Finally I am joining Fiitjee on Feb 8. Now even Allen wants me. G2: What do you think of CAT coaching? Me: Sir I don't think you can teach a graduate student class tenth maths. As far as PC, PJ vocabulary is concerned, I still haven't found out what should be done. The advice I have got is improve your reading. But I haven't found that advice very useful. Waiter brings tea for the panelists(2 cups). They offer me. I decline politely. G2: How was your CAT? Me: This year there was a change in the pattern of the paper. Last year we had 70 min for each section with 30 question each. This year it changed to 170 minutes with 50 questions each. Till last year I was worried a lot about VA section. This year I had 50 questions in QA DI and 16 in LR. I had targeted these questions. I attempted all 66 and just 16 out of 34 in VA. I focused on LR more because it is my bread and butter of section 2. G2: You think CAT can be gamed? Me: Sir my job was to strategize the paper. G2: Seems like you got a good percentile. Me: It's okay sir. I have actually written an answer for this on Quora.(I had carried a print out of Chandresh Kakliya's answer to Why don't students make their way to top 3 IIM's inspite of getting 99.5 percentile and above? in my file.)Most people don't understand CAT is an elimination test and not a selection test. I showed him the answer script. G1 takes his time and reads it. G1: So you write on Quora and PagalGuy? Me:Mostly on Quora. I have written over 500 answers there. This year I have developed a genuine hobby. G1: What's the difference in both? Me: PG is a very small niche. It's mostly about MBA, Bank exams. On Quora you can talk about almost anything. G1: You haven't done the analysis for L. Me: Sir your cutoff is not as transparent as AC. So I could not make back calculations. Waiter comes back with samosas(2 plates). Waiter serves them. G2 doesn't eat and offers me. This time I accept the plate and take a bite. We again resume to the interview. G1: What do you think of Narendra Modi? Me: He is good but what people don't understand is it's a BJP government and not NaMo's. G1: It's like a one man show. Me: Yes sir. We are a parliamentary democracy not a presidential. It's not good for our democracy.When we had elections they were telling vote for Modi but we are actually voting BJP and not just Modi. G1: Is he a good marketer? Me: Yes sir. He is excellent at it. He came in the power mostly because people wanted to overthrow Congress and there was no other stronger opposition. G2: What can be done to reduce corruption? Me: Sir we are ethically a very poor nation. We learn corruption since we are 10. From bribing a policemen to the top level. Recently we had Srinivasan case. We have corruption at all the levels. What we need to understand is the importance of ethics. Even before a law is made, people understand how to bend it. G2: Tell me some business news? Me: Recent news is about Spicejet crisis. Sensex touched 29000. G2: Is it good for Sensex to touch 29k? Me: Share market is running on hope at present. Like the time when BJP came into power. It rose so high. G1: What other calls do you have? Me: Sir A, FMS(will come),L, XL G1: Is that your priority order? Me: No, Sir. G1: What will you choose if you get A and L? Me: A. G1: What should Lucknow do to be number 1? Me: It will take time sir. G1: How much you needed to get into IIMB?(pointing to my acads 89,71,6.6) Me: I don't think I have a chance in this life. G1: What do they need? Me: Assuming you are a GEM, you need atleast 90,90,80 there. Otherwise they won't even talk to you. G1: What do you think of their criteria? Me: Sir it is made by highly qualified professors. They believe if one has been good throughout life, he would be good at institute as well. They value consistency. G1: Your class 12 score(71) seems low in Maharashtra board. Me: Yes sir. It should have been 80+. G1: 89 is good. What happened then 6.6? Me: At the end of second year I knew sir, I wasn't going to be a metallurgist for sure. G1 giggles G1: What specialization will you choose once you get in? Me: I am going in with open mind. Let's see which ever suits me. G1: What in case you get in all 3(L,FMS,XLRI). Then what would you choose? Me: Sir I haven't asked that question to myself yet. Let me see the offer letters first, then I will think. G1: No. You have to make a decision right now. Make it objective like you have done for that answer. Me: That answer was written after some research Sir. I haven't done the research for this yet. G1: What data do you need? Me: Sir FMS has got ROI but no campus.  I would like data on infrastructure. G1: IIML has the best campus in all IIMs about 200 acres better than XLRI and FMS. Me: Placement stats. IIML doesn't share placement report. I will have to look at the Inside IIM report. G1: Placement is important? Me: Yes sir. I don't believe when people say they don't care for placement. I would be spending 20k on EMI after college. It is important. Me: Other parameter is XLRI has no reservation. But it's fees are too high. L is around 12 lakhs including every thing. Batch size is another parametre. G1: What about academic rigor? Me: Sir it's going to be tough everywhere. I have friends at all these institutes and all have the same thing to say. For the first three months, I won't get time to eat or sleep. G1: What do you come with then? Me: XL goes to third place. Between FMS and IIML, I choose L over FMS. G1: Why? ROI is very good at FMS. Me: Sir when I look 10 years down the line, it won't matter much. G1: Where do you see FMS and IIML 10 years down the line? Me: I don't even know what is going to happen to me after 2 months.(All have a laugh). It's difficult for me to say. G1: Thank you Chandresh. That will be all. I start walking. G1: Take your samosa with you. I get out. I am talking to the next guy. G1 (Goes to washroom but sees us talking) G1 to the next guy: Don't worry we are not asking the same questions. I giggle. The guy next to me gets defensive. G1: Are you going to write the interview experience on Quora/ PG? Me: Only if I get in. G1: Not in the other case? Me: No Sir. Verdict: Converted Experience is mostly memory based. Might have missed few points. Also, I am pleased to inform that admissions to FMS are currently open and registrations close on Nov 15, 2015. For any queries join Log into Facebook | Facebook group. Updated 30 Oct • View Upvotes