Studies and Studying: What are the most effective methods for studying?
Originally Answered: What are the best study methods?There are hundreds of techniques for increasing your effectiveness in studying. Here is a free ebook outlining over 170 techniques you can use right now: Accelerated Learning The Ultimate Guide - 170+ Study Tips Overall: Alignment Essentially you need alignment between these four domains: Environment & Resources Community Body Mind Environment & Resources Find a place with no (or few) distractions. Be honest with yourself. Does internet access or a phone keep you from focusing on your studies? If so, then put it out of reach, turn it off, and get it away from you. Be comfortable and make sure to have all the resources you need around you. Gather your study equipment before you start so you don't have to get up unnecessarily. If there are many other people around you, then try listening to music without many words. Here is a youtube mix of study music that works for me. It's pretty varied so browse through to see what fits you: Study Music (Instrumentals) Use earbuds to block out external sounds but don't play the music too loud or it will distract you as well. Community It's good to have people around you who you can ask questions. But often times people are more distracting than helpful. If you know what you need to do, then best to study in an area where people won't bother you. Write down any questions you have and then take those questions to someone who can help you. This way you can use your time with this expert or peer to be focused. Body You need to have good energy to focus. Notice when your cognitive peak is and try to do most of your work then. By working with your natural rhythms, you'll be able to get more done is less time. Glucose is also important. Eat about 1/2 of a banana every 20-30 minutes while studying to keep your blood sugar at an ideal rate. Too much or not enough glucose will make you groggy. So 1/2 banana is a good amount to keep you rolling. Your brain uses glucose for energy. When it's gone you can't focus without high levels of will-power. Also, regular exercise like walks increases your ability to remember. Research suggests that 150 minutes of aerobic exercise (even walking or any activity that gets your heart pumping at 10% faster than it's resting rate is ideal). Mind There are a ton of techniques here. Check that article out above regarding accelerated learning for me. Here is the best tip though: Practice recalling things you want to remember. That is ask yourself: what did I just learn?. Do this while reading, after class, at the end of the day, or before starting a new study session. The more you practice recalling what you've just learned, the more you'll be able to remember. If you can't remember something, then go back and look it up, but not before trying to bring it up from memory alone. This is difficult but this struggle is like lifting a weight and it makes your brain stronger. Conclusions If you have any specific questions for your situation, feel free to Ask Me Anything 