Studies and Studying: What are the most effective methods for studying?
This is a very long answer, but for those of you who are interested, you will find it very useful. Tips for regular studies: Start early: Don't open your books on the day before/the week before examination. This is a very wrong practice. Please start early, so that you can not only learn the subject thoroughly well enough but you will also be successful in the examination than everyone around you.  To get good at any particular subject it requires a great deal of practice and patience, hence if you aren't starting early, I'm afraid that you will not be able to learn much or you will not be able to learn anything at all. Emphasize on learning the subject from the basics and ground up: If you pick up any subject, please try focusing on learning the subject, not just reading and not paying attention to stuff which are not important for the examination point of view. (At times it is important to focus on examinations, but then again one should focus on examinations only when the exams are approaching; else one should really try learning and understanding the subject to the best of their abilities) Write: Majority of the resources that we use for studies and studying are books. Books contain a lot of textual matter. Hence it is not possible to understand/absorb a large magnitude of textual matter by just by devoting a lot of time reading and studying the books. This will make the learning process dull, monotonous and uninteresting. So, write. Start by reading the chapter/content, amidst reading make use of a highlighter or a pencil to underline stuff that you haven't understood. Once done completely, this time don't just read, rather improvise, focus and try to learn by studying. Most of the subjects are understood this way. Once you finish studying, open a notebook (a new one), write the entire gist of the chapter in whatever way you have understood in not more than 20 bullet-points consisting of 3 lines each. Next, refer the textbook once again and compare the accuracy of your written points with the textual content. Try and make it more accurate and precise. Keep doing this and you will see 40% of the problem is solved. Rehearse and Revise: The information (especially textual) which is stored in our brain is quite volatile and it is lost if we don't revise it regularly. So first "rehearse". As soon as you are done with point 2 and point 3 of this particular answer, you have to rehearse, as in, you have to explain the chapter including its concepts and theory in detail to yourself loud and clear, it is like teaching yourself the same chapter again and again. After that "revise". By revise, I mean, every fortnightly revisit all the bullet points that you had written, repeat the act of "rehearsing" as explained above twice and finally have a read through the original chapter from the book. If you want to remember stuff for a long term basis, you may have to resort to this technique. Repeat: All subjects are different, hence every subject has to be handled quite differently, and every subject has to be repeated, revisited and practised time and again not on a fortnightly basis but once in two-three months (I am talking about the entire subject here). In simple words by repeat I mean "Rehearsal and Revision" of the entire subject periodically (once in two-three months). Use mnemonics, flowcharts and pictorial representations:Conceptual learning can be really easy and fun if we start using mnemonics (examples ILATE in integral calculus, PEMDAS and BODMAS in arithmetic, EMZA in electrical engineering etc.). The key is try relating the stuff that you have learnt to real life/daily life examples and situations so that you are able to retain it in your memory very easily. Use flowcharts for classification of events/techniques/methods/machines/substances etc. Draw your own pictures and diagrams depicting the matter that you have studied because it is easy to remember pictures and visually stimulating stuff. Diagrams, definitions, proofs, axioms, formulae and theorems:Pay attention to all these. They carry a lot of weigh and information that you should know. This is highly applicable to science and engineering students. I will give an example: F=14πε0q1q2r2. So here you should know what each symbol means, their SI units, the expression signifies which law, who stated that law etc. So pay attention and learn all the definitions, diagrams, proofs, axioms, formulae and theorems properly. Intuitiveness and Doubts: Don't be hesitant to ask for help and clarify your doubts. Ask questions, lots of them (but never with the intention of whether the teacher knows his/her stuff or not). The more you ask, the more you learn, know and grow. So, you might as well start asking questions now. Importance of regularity, discipline and quality time: I will explain this point in three sentences. So first, discipline yourself, make studies, reading and learning a daily habit and a part and parcel of your life and execute it each day with enthusiasm at least until the purpose for which you are studying is resolved completely. Next quality time, it is not the number of hours that you put in counts, but the number of hours that count are wherein you have immersed yourself in studies completely, have paid undivided attention, ruthlessly focused and had single pointed concentration towards learning. Lastly, I don't say study 8 hours today, take break for two days and then again study 8 hours. No. This doesn't work-out. Spend only two hours in quality-studying and learning but do it every single day, I repeat; every single day no matter what. Never live by excuses. Importance of sports, physical exercise, adequate sleep and a notification free life: Since the world is technologically evolving, I see kids glued to their tablets, mobile phones, laptops and video games every time. Sports and physical activity have taken a complete back-seat. Hence, go out in the sun play cricket, football, volleyball, basketball or swim regularly. Get off your beds by 6 AM and get running and sprinting, perform stretching, improve your bodily flexibility and get some exercise everyday. Exercise and sports are important for making us more determined, resilient and imbibing discipline in our lives. Please get adequate rest and sleep 6 to 7 hours everyday as sleep deprivation is harmful and lethal. Lack of sleep reduces your mental abilities, makes you dull, reduces your physical vigour, induces weakness and tiredness, lowers your immune system and makes you vulnerable to illnesses and deteriorates your vision. So please do take adequate rest, being a nocturnal person or a night person is complete hogwash. Please be frugal to the maximum extent as far as the usage of mobile phones, social networking websites and laptops are concerned. Notifications can wait. Please spend at least two hours a day away from technology in solitude. You need it. Trust me. Importance of proper diet: Don't binge, stop the intake of junk food and aerated soft drinks as they are of absolutely no good. Last but not the least, start your day with preparation and end your day with preparation. 