Studies and Studying: What are the most effective methods for studying?
Originally Answered: What are some great studying tips?I've answered similar questions before) (Joanna Jast's answer to How should I study for exams (high school)?) 1. Look at the material you need to cover; list the topics/chapters etc. - how much do you need to cover? 2. How much time do you have? 3. Estimate how much time you would need to cover each of the topics 4. Spread it roughly over the time you have, blocking out time for testing your knowledge: 5. Your study time should involve: - learning (usually this is reading textbooks, and making notes if you haven;t done that yet; if you have, you can start with revisions/reading of your notes); do not read your textbooks from back to back, be smart how you do it; also make smart notes, preparing for revisions: How to read a textbook How to take notes? Try learning through connection with prior knowledge rather just simply memorising: Fast and forever - an unauthorised guide to quickly learning and remembering anything anywhere - re-learning (revisions) - of your notes, doing sample problems, doing more practice problems *spaced repetition and engaging emotions helps: 4 essential elements of effective learning - testing your knowledge - depending on the format of your exam, this would be: practicing answering questions orally, in writing, or doing old tests - doing mock exams - practicing old exam questions under exam-like conditions (timing, stress, sitting at a desk etc.) 6. Make sure you sleep well, exercise regularly (at least 3x week, 30 minutes of aerobic exercise) and eat 'brain food' (low GI carbs, omega 3&6 acids, antioxidants) Joanna Jast's answer to Studies and Studying: What are the most effective methods for studying? Here are a few of my favourite ones: 1. I never read the whole textbook - just go over the contents and then scan-read the chapter; focusing on more detail only on stuff that is relevant Fast and forever - an unauthorised guide to quickly learning and remembering anything anywhere 2. If I have an idea (e.g. questions, list of key concepts, etc) what I need to cover, I start with it and cover exactly what's needed (and no more, unless I am interested) 3. Always read the question/instructions a few times to make sure I understand the assignment 4. Always plan my assignments/answers, written and oral, to make sure I covered all the points 5. I take notes in a way that a) help me organise knowledge b) help me remember it c) help me revise (btw, I use outline method): How to take notes 6. I have a study routine - aligned with my cognitive peak, my favourite time of day and having the house to myself (yes, I like getting up at 5am!) 