Studies and Studying: What are the most effective methods for studying?
Originally Answered: What are some of the best studying techniques?Thank you for asking me to answer this question.  So.... here it goes - Study Habits and Techniques for Studying   Studying begins when a student first reads the material.  Therefore, practice these active reading strategies to engage your child with the text as he is reading it.  The more a student interacts with the material, the more likely he is to remember it.   1.    Before reading, look at titles, headlines, and pictures.  Most people already know this strategy, yet few people use it regularly.  It only takes a student a few minutes to get a general overview of the chapter, but this tool can be invaluable in sorting main ideas from details.   2.    Read a paragraph in its entirety before highlighting or taking notes. If the student is highlighting in the book, ask him to highlight 2 or 3 details that support the bolded headlines.  Writing a few key words on the side of the paragraph will help jog his memory when reviewing the information for a test.  Another way to remember what was read is by taking notes either in a notebook or on the computer or even orally explaining it out loud to someone.   3.    Keep track of questions for a later time.  If the student has a question while reading, encourage him to draw a large question mark over it or by using a post it note so that he can ask a teacher or research it on his own at a later time.   4.    Follow through.  Continue with each paragraph until the assignment is completed.  The student may complain that this takes longer than just reading, but will soon learns that this process saves him studying time before an exam.      It is also imperative for the disorganized student to keep up with homework and daily assignments.  If he stays current with his work, he will be more likely to notice material that he is missing or recognize questions he has about the subject matter.  This makes studying for a test more systematic and orderly.    Studying for a Test: 1.    Study in advance.  Always start studying for a test FIVE days in advance and for a quiz – THREE days in advance.  When the student starts far enough ahead of time to prepare for an exam, he has the time to see what material is missing or confusing.  2.    Schedule study time daily.  Schedule your student’s studying time on a daily calendar and write down what will be studied each night.  Stick to the plan!  Do not write the words “study” in the assignment book. Specify exactly which amount of material needs to be covered each night. Plan to finish studying all the material at least TWO days before the test, so that the night before the test can be devoted to problem areas and a general review.  3.    Make a study guide. As the student puts together a study guide, he also is putting small chunks of information systematically into his brain.  An auditory or kinesthetic learner can talk out loud as he creates his study guide.   4.    Put together a study group.  For older students, it is a good idea to study the information with others.  It gives students the opportunity to make sure each student understands the material and has studied in a comprehensive manner.  Students can quiz each other on information and create outlines for possible essay questions.  5.    Think positively!  Try to imagine yourself getting an A+ on the exam.  Imagine getting questions you know the answers to, expressing yourself clearly and concisely, and feeling good about yourself and your performance.  Think about how good you will feel inside when the test is over and all your preparation has paid off. 