Is it normal for weather to repeat daily patterns?Centre of an average size island.
It is normal for certain aspects of the weather to repeat on a daily basis, such that the day's weather will be relatively similar to the few days on either side of it. Weather is driven by energy, specifically, heat, and its movements and effects. Each day, the earth rotates. Each day you have the same cycle. The sun rises in the sky, bringing light. The light from the sun heats the ground, which, on becoming warmer than the air, radiates heat to the air near the earth's surface. As the sun rises higher into the sky, the sun's rays come in more directly, bringing in more energy and heating the ground up more. This reaches a peak around midday, before the sun declines in the sky, the rays coming in at a shallower angle and thus bringing in less energy, resulting in less heating. As the sun goes down, the warm ground continues to radiate heat to the air, but without being replenished by sunlight. As a result of this, the temperature fluctuates in a sinusoidal type of variation, once per day. There is generally a temperature minimum in the middle of the night. The temperature rises from the minimum somewhere before sunrise, and rises as the sun rises and ascends, reaches a peak at mid-day, cools gently through the afternoon, more after dark, and then back to a minimum in the middle of the night. So if you have a continuous electronic temperature measurement in one place over a long time, and you continually graph this, you will see the graph going, for the most part, smoothly up and down on a daily basis. There will be a strong daily signal of fluctuation. This is overlaid over a slower, more gradual annual variation. This is because, unless you are at the equator, the length of the day, and thus the overall amount of solar energy dumped into the local system each day, will vary. For example, where I live in Montreal, the day light lasts for around 19 hours in late June (max at summer solstice), and something like 10 hours in late December (minimum at winter solstice). This intersects with, and is related to, the angle of the earth's inclination and the fact that the light not only lasts a shorter time in the winter, but also comes in at a shallower angle, delivering less light straight into the earth's surface. This day to day change in day length is more gradual in summer and winter, near the peaks and troughs of the annual curve, and more rapid in the spring and fall, with fastest rate f change near the inflection points at the spring and autumn equinox. Of course, weather doesn't follow perfectly some smooth curve driven solely by the annual and daily cycles of the sun's light. There is also the movement of air currents and water vapor laterally and vertically around the atmosphere. Clouds may be blown in from another area, bringing rain, or cooling the temperature from what it was the day before due to blocking of some light from reaching the earth's surface. Warm or cold air currents coming in will shift the local temperature higher or lower. As air masses of different temperatures meet and mix, turbulence can appear in the boundaries, leading to less stable weather. Humidity in the air will affect how much heat the air can hold and our perception of temperature. And then there are the interactions of the sunlight with water. Water doesn't just absorb light and re-radiate heat to the air like the ground. It can also evaporate water, forming clouds. The weather is a mix of all these effects and others I'm probably forgetting. As a result, you get relatively smooth trends on an annual and daily basis overlaid with more chaotic fluctuations on a weekly, daily, and hourly basis due to influences from farther away locations. That's weather. The general trends of how the annual curves of temperature and other weather variables periodically vary on an annual and seasonal basis are relatively stable in a given place. These trends are what we call climate. Though, as we know, this too will shift and vary over time thanks to both natural reasons (Milankovitch cycles of changes in shape of earth's orbit, and tilt of earth, position of sun in its orbit around the galaxy center, changes in sun's output and activity, volcanic activity, meteor impacts) and human (greenhouse gases). 