What are some of the most counterintuitive mathematical results?Like cantor's results on infinities, the rearrangement theorem in analysis
The Monty Hall problem. This is my favorite perplexing question. Due to how many people are fooled by the statistical math involved. [most of this copied from the Wikipedia article as there is no need to duplicate it's content independently myself.] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mon... "Ask Marilyn" column in Parade magazine in 1990 (vos Savant 1990): Suppose you're on a game show, and you're given the choice of three doors: Behind one door is a car; behind the others, goats. You pick a door, say No. 1 [but the door is not opened], and the host, who knows what's behind the doors, opens another door, say No. 3, which has a goat. He then says to you, "Do you want to pick door No. 2?" Is it to your advantage to switch your choice? The extended version of the scenario which includes assumptions generally found in the above example but not explicitly stated. Suppose you're on a game show and you're given the choice of three doors [and will win what is behind the chosen door]. Behind one door is a car; behind the others, goats [unwanted booby prizes]. The car and the goats were placed randomly behind the doors before the show. The rules of the game show are as follows: After you have chosen a door, the door remains closed for the time being. The game show host, Monty Hall, who knows what is behind the doors, now has to open one of the two remaining doors, and the door he opens must have a goat behind it. If both remaining doors have goats behind them, he chooses one [uniformly] at random. After Monty Hall opens a door with a goat, he will ask you to decide whether you want to stay with your first choice or to switch to the last remaining door.   Imagine that you chose Door 1 and the host opens Door 3, which has a goat. He then asks you "Do you want to switch to Door Number 2?" Is it to your advantage to change your choice? —Krauss and Wang 2003:10 The answer seems to defy all reasonable logic and assumption but it is always in your best interest to change doors. Sources of confusion When first presented with the Monty Hall problem an overwhelming majority of people assume that each door has an equal probability and conclude that switching does not matter (Mueser and Granberg, 1999). Out of 228 subjects in one study, only 13% chose to switch (Granberg and Brown, 1995:713). In her book The Power of Logical Thinking, vos Savant (1996:15) quotes cognitive psychologistMassimo Piattelli-Palmarini as saying "... no other statistical puzzle comes so close to fooling all the people all the time" and "that even Nobel physicists systematically give the wrong answer, and that they insist on it, and they are ready to berate in print those who propose the right answer." Interestingly, pigeons make mistakes and learn from mistakes, and experiments, Herbranson and Schroeder, 2010, show that they rapidly learn to always switch, unlike humans. Why the solution is to change doors... Vos Savant's response was that the contestant should always switch to the other door. If the car is initially equally likely to be behind each door, a player who picks Door 1 and doesn't switch has a 1 in 3 chance of winning the car while a player who picks Door 1 and does switch has a 2 in 3 chance of winning. The host has removed an incorrect option from the unchosen doors, so contestants who switch double their chances of winning the car. The math that supports the facts. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mon... formatting of the math got funky due to Quora's implementation of latex... Click the link to see. Thus, if the player initially selects Door 1, and the host opens Door 3, the probability of winning by switching is Simulations also confirm that changing is in your best interest. Here we can see a simulation of 30 separate instances and the modeling of wins from the first choice and wins via changing. In each the car is placed randomly and the doors are chosen randomly. By switching you improve your odds of winning from 1 in 3 the initial conditions to 2 in 3 reducing the possible choices. If you stay with your first choice you ignore the new information and gain no benefit from the change in circumstances. Comment by Nick  Wright The best way to get your mind around it is: 1.  You pick one of 100 doors (car behind 1, goats behind 99) 2.  The host eliminates 98 other doors, leaving just two (one with a goat, one with the car) 3.  You obviously switch doors because it is very unlikely the door you picked had the car to begin with, and thus very likely the car is behind the last door the host left for you. Turns out changing is still preferable as you reduce the number of doors from 100 to 3. Updated 28 Aug 2014 • View Upvotes