How was your IIM interview experience?Please do mention your profile, which gives an idea about your past academic records and likewise.
My IIM A Interview experience: Time and location: 8 AM, The Orchid, Mumbai The setting: I fly to Mumbai from Ahmedabad, reach at 10 PM the night before. Got calls from all 3 IIMs but this is the first, so start ripping off the labels from the new suit, create a folder of the documents and realize at 12:30 AM that I can't tie a tie. Go to the reception of the hotel I am staying in, 2 of the 3 receptionists can't tie a tie either. The third, a girl, finally ties a double windsor knot and I am good to go. The interview: Last in line among 8 people. A guy from IIT Delhi who has 2 years of work ex is going to go before me, looks really anxious. In twenty minutes his interview is done and he exits - 'Bahot le li. All the best!'. Soon my name is called. Two people are sitting at the center of a huge room, and the third person who called my name is sitting at a totally different corner of the room. I assume he is reading gestures/body language.   I instantly recognize of the interviewers as the Director of IIMA himself, Prof. Ashish Nanda. He has godlike-calmness on his face. Something that reminded me of one of my favourite professors at IIT, Prof. DV Pai. The other interviewer also seems friendly and is a professor of finance at IIMA (as I find out later). Prof. Nanda: I really liked your essay on MNREGA (thats a good start i think). But I couldn't understand what this line means. Me: (wrote that essay in 15 minutes before the interview and i don't even remember what i wrote, give a sloppy explanation) Prof. Nanda: Argue logically. (At this point it seems everything is going to go downhill) Me: Sir could you please read out the entire line to me. (He obliges to my request. I connect every point to the other, this time being very careful, realistic and a bit imaginative simultaneously, he seems to be nodding) Prof. Nanda: Good! I am extremely pleased with the second essay you wrote on your favourite film - Chak De India, and what you message you picked from it. You are a good critique of India's sports system. Now quickly tell me 3 ways in which you'll improve the system were you appointed to control it. Me: (I realize any sloppy statement is going to get one more 'argue logically'. Cut through the noise, bring out the best suggestions I could think of) Sir 1 ... 2... and 3. Tax cricket and give the money to other sports. Prof Nanda: Explain 3. If cricket is popular, you tax it! And give the money to sports that people are not interested to watch! Me: Sir, isn't this what happens in India too? The rich and (financially) successful pay tax for the welfare of the not so fortunate/hard working? (He was looking for the exact same answer, nods in approval) Prof. Nanda: You have an interesting combination of internships. Tell us more about them. Me: (Tell them about what work I did, what interested me, why I did it.) Prof. Nanda: I see you interned at Goldman Sachs. Who is the CEO? Me: (Told, also added a line why I did an intern there, talked about 2008 subprime mortgage crisis, even though I wasn't asked why, this causes a problem now) Prof. Nanda: Thats not what happened in 2008. (OMG, I have no knowledge about finance if he asks something specific!) But assume what you said indeed happened. What was the impact of GS on the crisis in that case? Me: (Try to come up with a genuine logical answer. Couldn't. This is the first question I can't answer and it will be the only question I couldn't answer to the satisfaction of the committee) Prof. Nanda: Okay nevermind. (Smiles) -------- Both ask a few more questions that I can't recollect from memory now----- Second Prof: Tell me what you learnt from those internships. Me: Told Second Prof: I see you are from Pune. Tell me two social activists from Pune and their work. Me: (For the first time in life, middle school history comes to use. Told. Spot on answers) Second Prof: Tell me cultural contribution of Pune. Me: Told. (My mom is a music fan, tell them about Pt. Bhimsen Joshi) Second Prof: Good! Prof. Nanda: I am done. (Looks towards the other prof) Second Prof (smiles): Do you like to stay in Ahmedabad, now that you have completed 4 years at IIT Gandhinagar? (Ahmedabad-Gandhinagar are twin cities, separated by 15 kms) Me: Yes Sir, I absolutely love it here. Both Profs: Okay thank you! It was nice talking to you. Take a toffee. Actually you can take as many as you like, since you are the last one on the list. Me: (Takes one toffee. Then takes one more) Thank you! It was indeed a pleasure to be interviewed by stalwarts like you. Result: Converted! :) I attended IIMB (converted) and IIMC (did not convert) interviews too, but with all due respect, the question quality and type and the expected answers and the treatment I received from the IIMA interview committee was at least 50 times better than the other two.   Some people can inspire you in 25 minutes, and Prof. Nanda is one of them.. 