How was your IIM interview experience?Please do mention your profile, which gives an idea about your past academic records and likewise.
Went for interviews to IIMs A and C. Here are the experiences: A The interview was very light hearted. There was no grilling at all. Total time: 25- 30 minutes Panelists were 2 profs. P1: Hey, good morning! Have some cookies. Me: Thank you, but I have had breakfast. P2: So, where do you work right now, and what's your role there? Me: Told them. They got to know that my work involves some statistics and product development. P2: So, tell us how does your company's product work exactly? Me: I can't go into details, because it's confidential..... P1: Yes of course! Don't bother telling. But can you explain the algorithm you use? Me: Explained the algorithm. A part of the algorithm involved a probability equation. I wrote the equation with the wrong notation. P1 spent 5 minutes trying to make me realise that. Finally, when I realised... Me: Sorry Sir. My bad. Wrote the correct equation. They questioned a bit more on the statistical aspects of my work. P1: Why did you choose to work in a field different from your grad stream (Mechanical Engg.)? Me: From my internship experiences during college, I preferred a job like my current work (digital marketing) rather than core industry. Although, I was selected in a core company too during campus placements. An interesting point is there too I was selected for a marketing profile. P1: So, you are good at marketing? Me: I don't know. But others seem to think so. P1: I guess we will find out now. P2: So, where are you from? Me: I am from Bombay but currently working in Bangalore. P2: What's the difference between the two cities? Me: Told them whatever came to my mind, weather, night life, pub culture, work culture, etc. P2: Ok. Do you know Maharashtra just had Vidhan Sabha elections? Why did BJP and Shiv Sena split? I explained the political context of it all. P2 kept on questioning every word I said. Finally, he seemed satisfied. P1: (The inevitable question) So, I see here you have a very low CGPA in college (7.1). Why is that? Me: Honest answer is I did not focus on my studies. P1: Still, you must know something. Me: Only basics. P2: Can I ask you a question from your grad subjects? Me: Yes, but I may not be able to answer. P2: Asks some question. Me: Thinking for a moment. Sir, as I said, I didn't focus on my studies. So, I won't be able to answer this question. They then asked about my hobbies, etc. Finally as I was about to leave, P1 offers me cookies again, and keeps on insisting. And I keep on refusing. Verdict: Converted. Someone later told me if they offer you cookies you are selected :P C This one involved a bit of grilling. Panelists were 2 male profs(M1 & M2) and a lady prof(L). The two male profs were the ones asking all the questions, while the lady only kept on making some sarcastic comments in between(probably some pressure tactic) M2: Have you discussed with other candidates before you what kind of a panel we are? Me:No. M1: Why not? That's a poor strategy. Isn't knowing more about an upcoming challenge always beneficial? Me: Yes, but in this case it could also have had a negative impact. If they say that you are strict, that makes me nervous. If they say you are jovial, that makes me complacent. This could also be a tactic by other candidates to misdirect me. So, it's better not to know. M1: Hmm, that's seems fair. L: Yes, your reply was great.(Sarcasm) M1 and M2 then asked me general questions about my hometown, work projects, etc. That part went well, and they seemed impressed - especially M2 - with the technical jargon I used. L: So why does your email id have these numbers in it? Let me guess. She guessed whether it was my birthday, lucky number, etc. all the while smiling in a way that made me a bit nervous. Finally told her what those digits mean. They then moved on to my hobbies. I had mentioned trekking and reading thought provoking novels. L asked what did I mean by thought provoking, and then mentioned a few novels which she insisted I should have read. Somehow the conversation moved to firing employees. M1: Consider this example. There is a train coming and there are 5 people on the tracks. You control a switch that can change tracks, but there is a single person on the alternate track. Will you save 5 people, or that 1 person? Me: That's a really difficult question. Without additional data, I would go with killing the one person as more lives will be saved. M2: What if that one person is your friend? In a professioanl context, what if that one person directly reports to you and you have to fire him, otherwise the company will suffer by retaining him? Me: While a very difficult task, I would fire him. Though I would try to find what are the problems he is causing and whether they are rectifiable in a short term. If yes, I would let the company suffer on a short term, assuming that correcting his behaviour will benefit the organization and him in the longer run. Otherwise, I would fire him. They seemed somewhat satisfied by the reply. M2: So, you have studied Mechanical Engineering in college? Me: Yes, and I am very poor at it. M2 stares shocked at me for a moment, then starts laughing uncontrollably. M1 joins him and L smiles. After a minute of laughter, M2: That's good. I like that. It's called preventive marketing. M1: Ok, so what can you tell me about the GST? Me: Completely blank. Nothing. I am not aware of it sir. M1 lookes visible shocked. M1: You don't read or see the news? Me: I do, but this is a topic I am not aware of.(Although, it was a topic I should have been aware of.) M1: Do you know about the Scottish independence movement? Me: Yes. Explained the few details I knew. M1: Name the 2 Scottish political parties that were for and against independence. Me: I don't know sir. All this while, L was doing something on her phone, completely indifferent to the interview. M1: So can I ask you about the budget?(The budget was announced just 2 days before the interview) Me: Yes. L: You have to. After all, how many times can you say "I don't know"? Smiles. I smile back(nervously though). I then explained a few features of the budget. M1 seemed just satisfied. M2: Can you tell me about the ISIS situation in Iraq? Me: Explained the crisis. The conversation moved to which Muslim sect(Shia/Sunni) is in majority in which country. They asked for about 7-8 countries including India, Pakistan, Iran, Iraq, etc. L: Do you really know this or are you bluffing? Me: I really know this. If my answers were wrong, you would have caught me in the first 1-2 questions. That's it. Interview done. Verdict: Converted. 