How was your IIM interview experience?Please do mention your profile, which gives an idea about your past academic records and likewise.
Cat 2013-98.67(99.9 and 71.09) no calls Cat 2014-99.7(99.38 and 99.10) calls from A,C,L,K,I Profile : 10- 88.27 (matriculation) 12- 90.2 (CBSE) Btech + Mtech (mining engineering)- IIT kharagpur Feb 3rd,9.00 am IIM Lucknow interview      Wat topic- Should evaluation of students by teachers be made mandatory in colleges? Panelist- a lady who was quite nice and a man who grilled me   The gd went good,as my gd group had few minutes to interact luckily before the wat/gd started.  My interview started with tell me about yourself.I went on with the details of schools i studied at and the various sports at each level and ended up saying I want to pursue a career in sports mgmnt.From this stage it was all about my decision to do sports mgmnt and my justification of how mba will help me out Q. Is there even any scope for this field,u just counted urself just 8 the leagues happening in india? A.Sir before 2007 there was not even a single league and in matter of years we have 8. Its a booming industry and the best time to enter thhis field. Q. Who is jahangir khan? A. He's the Pakistan squash champion of the 90's. Q. What is the weight of squash ball? A. 23-25g Q.Between a squash ball and football which will bounce harder? Depends on the state of the quash ball.The squash ball needs to get heated up before it gets bouncing. Q.who is the goal keper of India? A.I don't know Q.Over A and L which one will u choose? A.*after trying to be diplomatic,when I was pushed to answer* I will choose A as I idolise Harsha bhogle. Result- converted Feb 18,IIM Calcutta Wat topic- what are cause,effect and damges to person and society because of lifestyle disorder. Panel-3 men,very sarcastic I had some unusual qns about aap ,reason for more Telugu population in kharagpur and some questions on my work. Q.I see so much of sports in your profile.. A.Yes sir,its my passion and infact I want to pursue a career in sport mgmnt Q.How is IIMC going to help you in sports mgmnt,we don't teach sports mgmnt? A.Sports like any other field is business and it has huge potential. I want learn business in wider scope so that i can business in a more holistic sense and whatever knowledge i gain can be applied in this field too. Q.Why IIMC ? A. I liked the concept of the IIM premier league creating a IPL like scenario. By this point one of the panelist tried to interrupt but the person who asked this question defended me by saying yeah the auction and managing all will help me. Thee second person to go after me in the interview was a colleague also  from the same college.There were questions about me to him in the interview and they had asked him to answer the questions that they would have asked me in the interview. Result- converted Mar 8,IIMA interview  I just managed to reach there on dot at 1.30 pm. Awt topic- Fortification of wheat in folic acid as a means to prevent neural defects in new born babies.A proposal to make it compulsory.Few details were given and we asked to discuss points favour and against the proposal.And what points that should me made in the proposal to make it stronger. Panel- a foreigner who was a lady and polite gentleman It started with tell me about yourself and I told him about my sports mgmnt straight away.I had to reason but it was not long. Immediately after that the lady asked me about my awt on the valid and most crucial point I had made which till that point every one had missed. Q. Do you have prior knowledge of this case,how did u manage to come up with this point? A.Mam,its mentioned in the paragraph. It says that its effective only during the first month of pregnancy and intake any time before or after is of no use.But also there is a chance of discovering preganancy later than a month in which case the we lose the chance to reduce the chance of occurence of neural defects. They looked into the case and nodded approval. Q.What will be the difficulties in implementing this in Indian context?Fortification of wheat is implemented in majority of countries A.Firstly wheat is not the staple food in south India and also the cost,taste factor comes into picture Q.Let's say ur implementing it in a state where wheat is the staple food,Punjab what will be the issue?Cost taste everything won't be an issue,leave them aside A.I could not come upp anything at the moment Q.Try we will give you some time.But seeing my blank face they decided to end it there. Q.You see the roof above.How many squares are there in it. A.Sir its 4*2 a square. So its 8+3=11 Q.what n*m condition,how many squares? A. I could end up with the solution after working on it forsometime. It was n*m + (n-1)*(m-1)+(n-2)(m-2) and so on unless one of them become zero Q.What about n*n then,what will be the solution u get? A.its the sum of squares of first n natural No's which is n(n+1)(2n+1)/6 By this time the lady told she is done with the interview and she asked him if he had anything to ask. Q.Yeah I have one last QN to ask.Let's say you are the organiser of a sporting event of 16 teams.8 teams are good and remaining are minnows like in worldcup.How will u organise matches in such a way that every match is engaging and competitive.We dont want a one sided australia vs scotland match,then there is not going to be any audience intereat Its a knockout tourney.How will schedule it? A. Sir 16 teams are there,so I will have to have 15 matches. I will divide the tournament into two phase. In the initial phase the bottom 10 will compete against each other to get top 2 slots and by which they qualify to the next phase. The 2nd phase will have the top six teams,according to the rankings and the two qualifiers. By this way we eliminate the chances of one sided matches and also are giving chance for the minnows to prove themselves. I knew I would convert A the moment I left the interview. It was the best interview I had attended and was upbeat about my chances. Result- converted Updated 26 May • View Upvotes