How was your IIM interview experience?Please do mention your profile, which gives an idea about your past academic records and likewise.
IIM Shillong Interview Experience (26.02.2015) CAT - 99.01%ile GEM X/XII/Grad - 90.2/82.4/71.5 No Work Ex. at time of PI (2014 Graduate) 1.  About myself, what questions being discussed outside etc. answered 2. Who was Chittaranjan? ( I am from Chittaranjan, West Bengal) answered 3. What was his specific contribution to the freedom struggle? I didn't remember 4. Name 10 freedom fighters. answered 5. Name 10 Bengali freedom fighters. answered 6. What poetry do you write? whatever inspires me, eg. mythology, history etc 7. Can you recite one? had in my phone, asked permission to read from there, they said go on, I did. they seemed impressed. 8. Was Ram truly Purushottam? yes 9. If yes, was his treatment of Sita just? "Unjust w.r.t Sita, but just w.r.t prevailing social norms" 10. What books do you read? answered 11. What is the message of Harry Potter? "Love is the most potent magic" 12. Have you read Pather Dabi? I hadn't. 13. Who wrote Chander Pahar? answered 14. What did he do? answered "He was an author? (quizzical expression with a wince)". Panel smiled. 15. Are you writing a novel? told about my sci-fi superhero graphic novel 16. What is diode, triac and LED? Partially correct answer 17. Explain use of Ohm's Law Explained 18. Explain transformer action Explained 19. Give formula for Induction motor efficiency. had forgotten, told him the parameters, but not convincing enough. 20. Why do transformers buzz? explained 21. About corona discharge. explained 22. How will get from Chittaranjan to Shillong? answered 23. Why the name Seven Sisters? Answered but made 2 little mistakes.. one in dates and one in another thing 24. Any river project in India?Told about Jal Marg Vikas.... but did not remember any river linking project details 25. About PM's SAARC meet and agenda there. Explained in detail 26. Have you considered civil services? realized it was a variant of 'Why MBA' and answered convincingly. "I want to start up my own comic-book publishing company. Now, I know about the 'comic book', but I don't know about the 'publishing co.' I have quite a few stories to tell, but I don't want to sell them off to another publisher. I NEED to have my own publishing house. Now, I am young and I can afford to invest 2 years of my life in top-quality management education. The stories will still be there but I would have turned into someone capable of running a successful business, selling a product that I truly love and believe in." (I am still not sure if I was saying the last part sincerely. I guess I will find out in 3-4 years.) 27. rank in class? - said "last I checked, 22" Verdict : Selected Updated 13 Nov • View Upvotes