Studies and Studying: What are the most effective methods for studying?
Originally Answered: What are some of the best studying techniques?I have found several techniques that worked very well for me. Do the exercises before reading the material This is the big one. Most people read the textbook or attend a lecture, and then try to do the exercises afterwards. I find it's much more effective to try the exercises first. Typically one of two things happen: You come up with an answer. If this isn't the same answer you find in the textbook, then working out why they are different will probably give you important insights into the problem. You don't come up with an answer. The problems you couldn't solve will now be stewing in the back of your mind. The material that covers these topics will seem really interesting when it gets covered and the solutions to the problems will jump out. If you can't get traction on a problem quickly then move onto the next one. Just attempt the problem for long enough to get the key issues into your subconscious, and then move onto the next one. Intuitively you might expect that doing the exercises first would take more time, but that isn't what I found. By making a quick attempt at the questions, you get them nestled into your subconscious, which means that you will likely solve them more quickly after learning the material. Don't accept boredom If you are bored then you aren't learning and you need to change something. Never accept boredom. Boredom is your brain's way of telling you you are doing something wrong. If material is boring because you don't understand it, go back and learn whatever you needed to understand first. If you are reading a bad book, find a better book that covers the same material. If you are in a lecture from a bad lecturer, try to find a better source to learn from. Make sure someone is taking notes of what is covered, and occupy your time in the classroom reading something you'll learn from (don't be too obvious though). If the subject seems inherently boring, then learn more about how what you are learning can be usefully applied to solve important problems. If it can't then maybe you should be studying something else. If you are trying to study and didn't try the exercises first, then that's probably why you are bored - go do that. Don't cram for tests If you are going to do well in a test then you need to be relaxed. In the days before a test you should do nothing more stressful than a couple of hours gently reviewing your notes to assure yourself you know your stuff. Go for a walk. Eat ice cream. Listen to music. Sleep. [An exception can possibly be made for tests that require lots of memorizing but little intelligent thought.] Have a backup plan If you care too much about doing well in a test, then you will get stressed and do worse in it. Always have a backup plan for what you will do if you fail, and develop that plan enough that you can imagine it is something you would want to do. That way, if you are part way through the exam, and you think "I'm failing", you'll just think "that's not so bad really", you'll stay calm, and you'll ace it. Updated 22 Oct 2012 • View Upvotes