What are analytic functions?I am a high school student. As I was reading the wiki page of the Riemann's zeta function, I found that it has been proved that (1−s)ζ(s)  is analytic. I also read that analytic functions are rather "nice" as they have really "nice" properties. What is so special about them? Why do number theorists want to find more and more analytic functions?
"Analytic functions" are functions that are locally representable as a power series. They behave quite differently in the real and complex case. The answer given by Anon describes the real case, but the modified zeta function you mention in your answer is actually a complex function (the letter s  is often used to denote a complex variable, particularly in number theoretic contexts). Complex analytic functions are the heart and soul of complex analysis. They are defined, quite simply, as complex functions of a complex variable which possess a derivative, at least in a certain region of the complex plane. The incredible insight is that "having a derivative" in the complex context is a rare and unique property with far-reaching consequences. There's a lot you can say about a function when you know it's analytic, since there are "relatively few" analytic functions. They are very special. For example, if you know the value of an analytic function along any closed curve, you also know its value at any point inside the area enclosed by the curve. This should seem quite shocking: if you consider the real case, for example a real-valued function of two real variables, there's absolutely nothing you can say about the values inside a region given the values on the boundary of that region - not even if the function is continuous, differentiable once or differentiable a million times. Functions that pop up "naturally" in the course of mathematical investigations, for example in number theory, are sometimes analytic in a certain region, but not necessarily throughout the complex plane. In those cases, it was discovered that it is immensely fruitful to "complete" the function by piecing together extensions of it that are defined, and are analytic, in larger and larger regions. This again may seem strange: if I give you a very smooth and well-behaved real function of a real variable define in some interval, there's any number of ways to "extend it" to a still-smooth function on a larger interval. But analytic functions, you see, are extremely rigid and special; if there's any way at all to push the boundary of definition beyond the original domain, there's just one way of doing it. Number theorists like to encode number-theoretic data in a single function, such as a generating function or a Dirichlet series. This is a very clever idea: you take infinitely many numbers that have some useful meaning (like primes, or squares, or the number of objects of certain kind) and pack them into a single function. It then seems reasonable to believe that understanding the function will teach us something new about our original problem. This happened many times, and is believed to happen in many cases where it's not yet actually proven. Few things excite a number theorist more that finding an analytic continuation, and a corresponding functional equation, for the function they are investigating. In a way, enormous parts of modern number theory can be seen as instances of this general idea. Riemann's original memoir on prime numbers and the zeta function was of this nature, and it opened up the entire world of analyti number theory. Subsequent discoveries by Dirichlet, Hasse, Hecke, Weil and many others pushed those ideas further and further into some of the deepest and most beautiful areas of modem mathematics. Updated 14 Jan • View Upvotes