Will the social graph continue this path of consolidation over Facebook, or will it reverse its course and be fragmented over a few different social networks?
In the short term, yes, Facebook has consolidated the social graph.  In the long term, the graph will either be decentralized as services more seamlessly incorporate social data from multiple sources, or else completely shared and interoperable like the DNS. It kind of depends what you mean by social graph.  A simple global collection of nodes (individuals) and branches (friendships) for everyone in the world needs a single authoritative version that is current and relatively complete.  If you included connections from Myspace, much less Friendster or AOL, there's a lot of junk that dilutes the integrity of the network - people who are no longer friends, people who never were, fictitious people, anonymous flirt-buddies, spammers, scammers, dogs, rock bands, avatars, whatever.  Best stick with Facebook even if that slightly diminishes the total number of valid connections.  Facebook thereby becomes a silo, a monopolistic provider, lending the graph out to people but jealously guarding its position as the source everyone turns to.   That fits with the "Facebook is a social utility" position Mark Zuckerberg used to advocate.  But he doesn't say that anymore.  Why? Taking a trip back a few decades, and a few years into the future of computing if not now, a real "social graph" is not the world's store of monolithic friend relationships.  Social graphs originated as graphs in the pen and ink sense, things that anthropologists and immunologists would jot down in their field notes, observing which monkey groomed the hair of another, or which villager would go to which elder for a blessing.  It's a transient diagram of a social relationship web, filtered through the lens of a particular purpose like studying education, or loyalty, or how a virus spreads.  What's real are the relationships themselves, and what comes out of them, not the way of representing them, although online social networking systems do blur the line between virtual representation and the thing itself, because they facilitate interactions based on their internal graphs. Anyway, some key observations about social connections, and a more robust type of graph.  They are: Two-way (I might like you more than you like me) Transient (I like you tonight) Frequency-based (I like you about once a week, but that's as much as I can take) Situational (I like you for social purposes, but only if nobody else is watching) Context-dependent (I like your insights on popular music, but not so much about investment recommendaitons) Medium or activity-dependent (I'll like you when playing around on Pinterest, but I will not give you my phone number) Implicit (I won't say I like you, but you and I have been extending a lot of text messages and showing up at the same bar) .... among other things.  A robust social network application that needs to measure influence, predict behavior, facilitate choices, and so on, should look at all this data across all of the data sources it has, not just the on-off switch of whether two people happen to be Facebook friends.  As long as Facebook has a lot of activity and stores a lot of connections, it is a good conduit for this info.  But it is not the only source, as the complete social graph is a distillation of the sum total of human online and offline interactions, status, and social relationships.  If the format of social interactions can be normalized and encoded in usable format, either the applications themselves or some intermediary layer can aggregate all of the relevant connections and create a more complete layer. You see a little of this in action, at a rudimentary level, when applications let you incorporate your address book, gmail account, etc., in addition to your Facebook connections. 