Mathematical Fallacies: How does one explain the “π = 4” proof regarding a square reduced to a circle?
In the sense in which a circle is the limit of those orthogonal-line approximations, length is not a continuous function of curves: the length of the limit of approximate curves need not be the limit of the lengths of the approximate curves. You can see this even more clearly if you forget circles and just imagine "staircase" approximations to a diagonal line; for example, the diagonal of a unit square. The diagonal line has length 2  √   , while any staircase from its start to end has length 2  (1 from horizontal movement + 1 from vertical movement), even though such staircases can be made arbitrarily close to the diagonal line, in some sense. Or imagine someone making N  hops of height 1/N  feet. As N  gets large, the path they take becomes closer and closer to just staying put on the ground (which has arclength 0). However, in each of these hopping approximations, the arclength travelled is 2 feet (as the hops' ascents cumulatively take up 1 foot, and the same for the hops' descents). Thus, it flatly is not true in general that one can calculate the length of a curve by calculating the length of a series of approximations to that curve (at least, not in the sense of approximations to a curve being used here). The problem is, just knowing an arc stays within some tiny region puts no bound at all on its length; an approximation could bounce around as much as necessary to use up arbitrarily much arclength while staying arbitrarily close to a curve of interest. [For what it's worth, there is a non-Euclidean notion of arclength under which staircase approximations DO give the correct length (so long as the staircases one uses never move in a different direction along some coordinate axis from the original curve); this occurs when one uses the so-called "Manhattan metric" rather than the "Pythagorean metric" (in the Manhattan metric, the length of a vector is defined to be the sum of the absolute values of its coordinates, rather than the square root of the sum of the squares of its coordinates). But this still doesn't make length a continuous function of curves, as the hopping example above would demonstrate.] 