Maxima and minima application problems are difficult. I got stuck on how to begin. What should be the approach and line of thinking to be followed?
Since you din't mention exactly which kind of questions you are having issue with, I'll go ahead and assume that you're having issue with Maxima and Minima problems in general. It could be because you know there are some steps to follow and do not have a clear idea on why they are there. Pardon me, if that is not the case. Now, I'm by no means an expert on these matters but I'll try to explain it in simple terms from as much as I can remember from my school days. It's been a while, so don't take all of this on face value, instead just take the below as a starting point and research it until you feel comfortable with the idea. So here goes and this is going to be a long one: Why are we interested in finding out Maxima and Minima? Maxima and Minima problems are often called optimization problems. That's because optimization is exactly what these are used for. For instance, say a juice manufacturer wants to make a 1 litre bottle with square base. But the company wants that the dimensions of the box be such that it has the minimum surface area. That way, they don't have to spend more than required amount on the label to cover the bottle. To solve these kinds of practical issues, maxima and minima can be very useful. How do we find out Maxima and Minima? Maxima and Minima are based on derivatives. All you need to understand about derivatives at this point is that 1st order derivative [i.e. f'(x)] of a function [f(x)] gives the slope of the function's graph. That isn't too difficult, is it? dydx   is nothing but change in Y-axis divided by change in X-axis, which is what we call "slope". Vaguely related side note you need not read in the first read: We see the same thing while learning about lines. Remember the formula m = y/x where m stands for slope of the line? Again in Trigonometry, tan(θ) = Opposite side/adjacent side. Isn't this the same as y/x? So tan(θ) also gives slope.Basically all are interconnected or slope m = y/x = tan(θ) = f'(x) Don't just swallow the above. Search around to know when to use which formula. Now, for a continuous graph like the below one, this slope keeps changing. Some times the graph is going up (or positive slope since change in Y-axis is positive) and some times the graph is going down (or negative slope since change in Y-axis is negative). So any point where the slope changes from +ve  →  0 →  -ve, is a place where the function could have the maximum value, correct? Similarly, if slope goes from -ve to 0 to +ve, that could be the minimum value point, right? In short, one thing is for sure, maximum and minimum values (if they exist at all - we'll get to it later) will be always be at the points where slope is zero. And this is precisely why we first take the 1st order derivative or f'(x) of the given function f(x) and then equate it to zero. In the above picture, black curve is the function and purple curve is the graph of its derivative. Marked with red are points where derivative is zero and function values are either local maximum or minimum. I missed to mark the last point near 2 where derivative is zero. Solving for f'(x)=0 will give you some values for x. The number of values you'll get depends on the function, obviously. All these values for x are points where there would either be getting the maximum or minimum values. Very much related side note you need not read in the first read: It shouldn't be assumed that the slope equal to zero automatically means a maxima or minima point. As shown below, slope can be zero without the function having a maximum or minimum value. That is called a saddle point or inflection point. So now you have a possible list of points which could be either a maxima or a minima or a saddle point and we're half way through in finding them. So yay!! With all these points in hand, how do you figure out which point is maxima and which is minima? In math problems, all you will have is a function and it's not practical to draw a graph of the function every time to see how the slope is going. Besides, most functions are very very difficult to plot in a graph. Also some minima point can have a even lower value than other minima point. That is where second derivative and concept of concavity comes into picture. It's a bit too long to explain and prove here. Moreover, it's very well explained in this link and this link as well. By using the above two differentiation, you can narrow down at exactly which point, say A, the function has the highest or lowest values. Once you get the exact point, you just need to pass that point to the function to the find the value. That is, you just need to find f(a). I hope the above theory helps. The only way to get better at this is to do as many problems as you can. Happy Solving! :) 