★What are the best supervised learning algorithms for sentiment analysis in text?I want to do text analysis to determine whether a news item is positive or negative for a given subject. What are the best supervised learning algorithms for this?
SVM can be the best classifier but it can get complex if your data is too large and  you have to work a bit to scale it up. As you have only two classes here I believe you can make it simple by using a simple binary linear classifier If you are okay with compromising a bit on accuracy then naive bayes is the one for you. One important fact most of the people ignore while working on classification algos is that they concentrate too much on the algo that they dont put the same emphasis on data. Any classification algo is as good as the data it receives. I would say running a simple algo on more spphisticated data is always better than running a complex algo on simple data. Actually using a complex algo also  limits the scale of your data to an extent because of resource limitations. When I say more sophisticated data I mean adding more features to the data and asking classifier to learn those features. For example instead of giving reviews which are labelled as just good or bad and asking classifier to train on this data, if we give  rating also along with the reviews it will help it a lot for the classifier to train the model better as they can give better weight to the words/topics in the training data according to their ratings.Rating is just one random feature I mentioned but you can think more on adding features like adding user profile if you have that data, length of the review and number of persons who liked that review etc... Also make sure that the data is as accurate as possible. For example if some one wants to classify a movie rotten tomatoes movies data might be better than imdb data as imdb data has lots of noise. I dont have much idea on where you can get proper finance data for training. Bottom line the algo can be a simple linear regression or a compouned linear regression  or a complex SVM or a naive bayes or decision tree but dont decide everything just on the algo. Take data into consideration also along with the algo. If everything else is constant and you dont have issues with scaling up then I would go with the SVM. Let me know if you have any more questions :)    Embed Quote