★What are the best supervised learning algorithms for sentiment analysis in text?I want to do text analysis to determine whether a news item is positive or negative for a given subject. What are the best supervised learning algorithms for this?
I did some work on sentiment analysis recently and achieved very good results with a Naive Bayes model. It is quite a simple probabilistic model which requires you to just store counts of words and n-grams in hash tables. Consider the count (or presence) of each word as a separate feature. The feature space will then consist of the total number of distinct words in the training set. It is very fast to train and avoids the complexity of an SVM like convex optimization theory, and has a slightly better accuracy than SVM. But directly using any learning model on a simple bag of features might not lead to a very accurate model. Here are some pre and post processing steps I used which helped a lot in improving accuracy. Negation handling is quite important in sentiment analysis, A word/phrase followed by a "not" or any other term that negates the meaning of what follows should be handled appropriately. A technique that works well is treating negated terms by adding a prefix like "not_" to the actual word and then using the counts. Another technique that works is updating the counts of negated terms in the opposite class  Using individual words will not be enough to capture information about sentiment. Word n-grams or a sequence of n consecutive words are a very useful addition to the feature space as they can be used to capture combinations of adjectives with other parts of speech. Adding n-grams will add a lot of spurious and noisy features and they need to be eliminated by doing some feature selection. This can be done by measuring the mutual information of individual features with the training set and selecting the top few thousand features. There is a lot of sentiment data available in the form of movie reviews (IMDb data). Using the above techniques a 90% classification accuracy is possible on movie reviews, though the accuracy could be lower for news articles as they will not be as opinionated as reviews..    Embed Quote