★Can supervised learning be used to determine if someone's writing/art is more creative than the writing/art of most people?
It is possible, but it comes down to two problems: The learned classifier mirrors the source of the classifications A machine learning algorithm only learns what it is taught, so the real question is: who will label the data and decide what's creative and what isn't? Are you going to pick a single expert (say Robert Hughes)? Then you are going to learn what Robert Hughes thinks is creative. Are you going to do it based on a panel of experts, or on Metacritic labels? Then you'll be learning what a panel or Metacritic think of as creative. If you're looking for "absolute truth" of creativity, this won't get you that. What features define creativity? You are going to have to characterize the art in some way to feed it to a classifier, and the thing is that art is not self-contained -- what matters for art is the context in which it developed. It's not just the pixels of an image, or the words on the page. What features are important? For example, if it's a painting, you need to represent not only the image itself, but the historical context it was in (e.g. let's take Pollock's Number 11, 1952 (painting) -- also known as Blue Poles): This is one of the world's most expensive paintings. But if you just looked at the content, it's not like there's something particularly unique about the pixels. It is everything to do with the state of art in 1952, and a rejection of traditional notions of creativity. So you're going to have to model historicity of the art as well. So what features matter there? The year the painting was released? The time since the last paradigm shift? The city the artist was from? Let's take another example: Magritte's The Treachery of Images Generally, this is considered a great artwork. Is it a particularly great drawing of a pipe? Not really. It's that it was a reaction to the times in which it was drawn. Here's the nub of the problem, then: if creativity is about breaking the rules, you not only have to characterize the artwork, but the rules it breaks as well. And that's pretty hard to do.    Embed Quote