★University of California, Berkeley: Why don't US colleges implement a supervision learning style like the one at Oxford/Cambridge?It seems that using personal supervision/tutorial teaching style will benefit the student so much. It can be very personal and can be very rigorous at the same time so that the student will learn the topics really well. For more explanation about supervision teaching style just click this link: Supervision system
The supervision system depends on a higher level of autonomy and independence. For the student, this means that they have to "learn to learn", structuring their week of study leading up to the tutorial to make the best of it. For the supervisor or tutor it means that they have to be prepared to answer any question, at any level surrounding their topic. I would suggest that most post-docs and professors are typically more focused on a particular research specialty and find this very difficult initially. The tutor ultimately finds themselves in the position of (perhaps a little embarrassingly) a guru rather than just reading through a syllabus.  The student learns to be independent, articulate and able to defend their written work verbally. It also means that there's nowhere to hide if they don't understand some aspects of a topic and remedial action can be taken against any weakness. It happens that in Oxford and Cambridge lectures are not compulsory as indicated in other responses to this question - it is not the nature of the Universities to make them so. The university experience is aimed at teaching maturity and good judgement rather than just cramming in information, so students can decide whether they are going to attend a lecture. Another reason why the supervision and tutorial system is less popular is that it does not fit closely with a highly accountable fashion. The tutor uses experience and judgement rather than counting marks against a sheet - so if there is any disagreement it is problematic. If a student is of exceptionally high ability (say you are teaching a young Feynman) in the tutorial system you can easily throw in some of the latest research problems in the field, and fundamental ones in the field, to up the challenge. Really smart students love this stuff, but it can't really work if you are then assessing their answers against a scoresheet. So the tutorial system works well if the relationship is of mentor/mentoree, but under regimes where the student is paying substantial sums to get a good degree rather than being in receipt of a scholarship of some type students tend to regard themselves as customers and the staff as vendors leading to an expectation of being spoon fed and challenging staff judgement.    Embed Quote