★What is the definition of "Network Security"?
Very hard to define given how broad it is. Here's my take, and I had the help of some seasoned NetSec professionals. It's originally published here: Network Security: A 3 Part Process Network Security is an  organization’s strategy and provisions for ensuring the security of its  assets and of all network traffic. Network security is manifested in an  implementation of security policy,  hardware, and software. For the purposes of this discussion, the  following approach is adopted in an effort to view network security in  its entirety: Policy Enforcement Auditing Policy The IT Security Policy is  the principle document for network security. Its goal is to outline the  rules for ensuring the security of organizational assets. Employees  today utilize several tools and applications to conduct business  productively. Policy that is driven from the organization’s culture  supports these routines and focuses on the safe enablement of these  tools to its employees. The enforcement and auditing procedures for any  regulatory compliance an organization is required to meet must be mapped  out in the policy as well. Enforcement Most definitions of network security are narrowed to the enforcement  mechanism. Enforcement concerns analyzing all network traffic flows and  should aim to preserve the confidentiality, integrity, and availability  of all systems and information on the network. These three principles  compose the CIA triad: Confidentiality - involves the protection of assets from unauthorized entities Integrity - ensuring the modification of assets is handled in a specified and authorized manner Availability - a state of the system in which authorized users have continuous access to said assets.Strong enforcement strives to provide CIA to network traffic flows.  This begins with a classification of traffic flows by application, user,  and content. As the vehicle for content, all applications must first be  identified by the firewall regardless of port, protocol, evasive  tactic, or SSL. Proper application identification allows for full  visibility of the content it carries. Policy management can be  simplified by identifying applications and mapping their use to a user  identity while inspecting the content at all times for the preservation  of CIA. The concept of defense in depth is observed as a best practice in  network security, prescribing for the network to be secured in layers.  These layers apply an assortment of security controls to sift out  threats trying to enter the network: Access control Identification Authentication Malware detection Encryption File type filtering URL filtering Content filteringThese layers are built through the deployment of firewalls, intrusion prevention systems (IPS), and antivirus components. Among the components for enforcement,  the firewall (an access control mechanism) is the foundation of network  security. Additional services for layering network security to implement a  defense in depth strategy have been incorporated to the traditional  model as add-on components. Intrusion prevention systems (IPS) and antivirus, for example, are effective tools for scanning content and preventing malware attacks.  However, organizations must be cautious of the complexity and cost that  additional components add to its network security posture, and more  importantly, not depend on these additional components to do the core  job of the firewall. Auditing The auditing process of network security requires checking back on  enforcement measures to determine how well they have aligned with the  security policy. Auditing encourages continuous improvement by requiring  organizations to reflect on the implementation of their policy on a  consistent basis. This gives organizations the opportunity to adjust  their policy and enforcement strategy in areas of evolving need.    Embed Quote