★Network Security: What is PGP?please explain me in simple terms that what the PGP is? and how it works? Thanks!
PGP stands for Pretty Good Privacy. It is a computer program for sending confidential data in a secure manner. Suppose Alice wants to send a file to Bob. She wants none other than Bob to read it (confidentiality). Also, Bob must be able to check that it was Alice who sent the file (authentication) and no modifications have happened to the file while in transit (integrity). They can use PGP for this purpose. Some basic funda of asymmetric key encryption first. Everyone has a public key and a private key. The private key is kept secret and never revealed to anyone at all. The public key is shown to everyone. Any data encrypted with one of the keys can only be decrypted with the other key. What happens in a general scenario where Alice wants to sign a file and send it to Bob: Alice computes a hash of the file and encrypts the hash using her own private key. This makes the signature. The signature and the public key certificate from the certificate authority are attached with data. This process is called digital signing. Alice generates a random key. Then she encrypts the signed data using a symmetric encryption algorithm such as AES with the generated key. She requests for Bob's public key, receives it and uses it to encrypt the key she used to encrypt the data. Alice sends it over to Bob. Bob decrypts the encrypted key using his own private key. The key he so obtains is used to decrypt the data itself. Now he has the signed file. To verify the signature, he requests for Alice's public key and uses it to decrypt the hash. He computes the hash himself. If the computed hash matches the one he decrypted from the message, the signature is valid. The image from Wikipedia makes the system clear. With signing, the data in the above image is actually digitally signed data. Digital signing is illustrated in the following Wikipedia image Now about the assurances: Confidentiality: The random key used to encrypt the data is itself encrypted with Bob's public key. Since Bob is the only person who has the corresponding private key, only he can decrypt the key and then decrypt & read the data Authentication: Alice encrypted the hash using her own private key. So the hash can only be decrypted using Alice's public key. If someone else encrypted it using some other private key, it won't match the computed hash when it is decrypted with Alice's public key. The certificate authority assures Bob that what he sees as Alice's public key actually does belong to Alice Integrity: If the encrypted data is changed, the hash will change and it won't match. Thus if there is any change to the data, the signature verification will fail. Check these out for details Pretty Good Privacy Digital signature    Embed Quote