★What makes the Bitcoin network secure?
There's lots of great content in the links provided in the other answers, and you should definitely review those. I'm going to summarize some of the points in my answer below. What does a secure network mean? When you're talking about security in respect to Bitcoin (and its surrounding network), you need to accomplish the following goals: Coins cannot be double spent Balances of who owns which coins must be accurate It is very difficult to "steal" someone's coins using a network attack Preventing Double Spends The network's main innovation in preventing a double spend is the distributed ledger (the blockchain.) By broadcasting all transactions to all nodes and waiting for those nodes to confirm a certain number of times, you're allowing the network to self-police. It might be easy to compromise a single node, but it'd be difficult to compromise enough nodes and have them all allow a double spend. This is where you hear fears of a "51% attack" - in theory, if you had 51% of the computing power that verifies transactions, you could allow double spends. Maintaining Balances A key part of Bitcoin's security relies on the concept of hash functions. A hash function will take a unique input, and from that input produce a unique output. If I ran the number 1 through a fictional hash function, it would always produce something like FFTA9. The Blockchain uses this to secure transactions. A group of these transactions are wrapped into a block, and the hash of those transactions is broadcast. If someone wanted to remove a transaction or insert a fake one, they'd somehow have to find a way to do that while outputting the same hash. While in theory this could be possible, it is extremely unlikely and would require more computing power than exists today. Stealing Coins The network broadcasts public addresses, which are derived from hashing a public key (that pairs with a single private key.)  Only people with the private key can "sign" for coins to be spent, so if you wanted to get someone's coins, you'd need to get the private key from the public data. In most cases, this is impossible: each transaction uses random values to hide this. However, you might've heard of some attacks where it WAS possible to decode the private key. If you use a weak random number source, with enough data, you could get the private key for a given public key. That's why a major initiate in the Bitcoin community is to use standards-backed, open source and audited libraries for your cryptography and randomness. With the proper libraries, it becomes mathematically infeasible to steal someone's private key.    Embed Quote