★What's the difference between network security and content security?Furthermore, how do different components of enterprise security fit in? I'm confused about branches such as application security, endpoint security, cloud security, mobile security, and wireless security. Any help would be greatly appreciated, and I am not an expert by any means (so please answer as if you're talking to a 5 year old). Thanks!
All those various types of security fit into enterprise security in the same way that the things they secure fit into enterprise IT.   It's confusing because these terms represent different layers of security much like the things they secure are different layers in an enterprise application which all work together / overlap depending on the layer. Network security protects the information that has left your computer and is moving towards your friend's computer (5 year old language :-) ).   It prevents the information from being intercepted or modified within the network.  It also prevents someone else on the network from pretending to be you and adding foreign data to yours (man-in-the-middle attack) Wireless security is a type of network security that is used by wireless networks.  It is made out off security settings (capabilities) using standard protocols in wireless components (routers, access points). Endpoint security is about securing the data at the place the data enters and leaves the network.  In addition to network security it also includes physical security  (who is allowed to touch the device) and user access security (who is allowed to log into the device). Cloud security is endpoint security specialized for a cloud environment and includes security to prevent your program and data from being seen by other applications using the cloud.  This is no different in concept than the types of security used in any multi-user system (Unix, Z/OS) Mobile security is a type of endpoint security specialized for mobile devices (smart phones, tablets).  The specialization includes allowing the device to move around and not have to continually ask the user for credentials yet still be safe if the device is snatched from the original owner. Application security relies on all these types of security and typically doesn't pay too much attention to them.  In addition, application security defines what functions of the application different people are allowed to use (role based security) and what data in the application different people are allowed to see.    Embed Quote