★What's the difference between network security and content security?Furthermore, how do different components of enterprise security fit in? I'm confused about branches such as application security, endpoint security, cloud security, mobile security, and wireless security. Any help would be greatly appreciated, and I am not an expert by any means (so please answer as if you're talking to a 5 year old). Thanks!
This is a fair question and I will answer based, on your 5 year old request. What Is Network Security? In answering the question What is network security?, I can explain that network security refers to any activities designed to protect your network. Specifically, these activities protect the usability, reliability, integrity, and safety of your network and data. Effective network security targets a variety of threats and stops them from entering or spreading on your network. What Is Network Security and How Does It Protect You? After asking What is network security?, you should ask, What are the threats to my network? Many network security threats today are spread over the Internet. The most common include: Viruses, worms, and Trojan horses Spyware and adware Zero-day attacks, also called zero-hour attacks Hacker attacks Denial of service attacks Data interception and theft Identity theft How Does Network Security Work? To understand What is network security?, it helps to understand that no single solution protects you from a variety of threats. You need multiple layers of security. If one fails, others still stand. Network security is accomplished through hardware and software. The software must be constantly updated and managed to protect you from emerging threats. A network security system usually consists of many components. Ideally, all components work together, which minimizes maintenance and improves security. Network security components often include: Anti-virus and anti-spyware Firewall, to block unauthorized access to your network Intrusion prevention systems (IPS), to identify fast-spreading threats, such as zero-day or zero-hour attacks Virtual Private Networks (VPNs), to provide secure remote access What Is Content Security? Content Security means different things to different organizations. For enterprises, it's often about confidentiality and legal concerns. For the media and publishers, it's about making sure content - or intellectual property - isn't stolen or illegally reproduced. When digital files or text can be transferred with the click of a button, or posted on a new site with a simple copy and paste, age old concerns about copyright go into overdrive. Content security has come a long way since the first days of Napster, when college kids started trading music files like baseball cards. What is the difference between the two? Network Security is simply the protection of the computer and the network, whereas Content Security is the protection of the information which is on that network. Here is the answer for your other queries. Application Security: Application security encompasses measures taken throughout the code's life-cycle to prevent gaps in the security policy of an application or the underlying system (vulnerabilities) through flaws in the design, development, deployment, upgrade, or maintenance of the application. Endpoint Security: Endpoint security is an approach to network protection that requires each computing device on a corporate network to comply with certain standards before network access is granted. Cloud Security: Cloud computing security or, more simply, cloud security is an evolving sub-domain of computer security, network security, and, more broadly, information security. It refers to a broad set of policies, technologies, and controls deployed to protect data, applications, and the associated infrastructure of cloud computing. Mobile Security: Mobile security is the protection of smartphones, tablets, laptops and other portable computing devices, and the networks they connect to, from threats and vulnerabilities associated with wireless computing. Mobile security is also known as wireless security. Wireless Security: Wireless security is the prevention of unauthorized access or damage to computers using wireless networks.    Embed Quote