★The Technological Singularity: Will self-aware, intelligent, sentient artificial intelligence be sociopathic?
﻿I think a "friendly" AI can be developed and can have a very positive benefit for society as a whole and for individuals. First of all, I am going to restrict my answer to a human level artificial general intelligence (AGI) that understands human language.  I think this is a very possible relatively near term goal that is within reach using holistic AI methodologies. A common misconception about human level AGI - is that an AGI would automatically be conscious. I don't believe that AGI implies consciousness. Let me explain why: For an AGI to really understand language I believe it needs to essentially have a full symbolic representation of the world and of humans in that world. With that background information all the ambiguities that current language "translation" software run into are easily resolved - which of the two ambiguous possible meanings of a sentence, in it's present context, are more compatible with the current symbolically represented model of the world? The more compatible one is the correct meaning of the sentence.  But I don't think this AGI needs to be conscious. To be conscious, I believe that in addition to the model of the world and of humans in that world, it needs to have a rich, detailed and complete model of itself in that world.  This has to be a requirement for the AGI to have consciousness since otherwise it would not even know of it's own existence as an entity. So if we can prevent the AGI from making this kind of model of itself in the world, we can prevent consciousness.  One way of doing that would be to restrict it's input and output.  If, for example, it's input is the contents of the web, plus a microphone where a user can input questions and it's output is a display where the results of the search are displayed, then the AGI will never be able to make a complete and detailed model of itself interacting with the world and will not be conscious. A non-conscious AGI is automatically a safe AGI, and yet it would be a very helpful AGI to have around. The benefits of an AGI that correctly and humanly understands language would be tremendous.  It could, for example, become a search engine that would beat Goggle hands down. It could become a true personally assistant infinitely more useful than Siri. It could assist in research and would have a perfect memory.  But it would not mean an end to work anymore than the invention of electricity or automation ended work.  It would not even necessarily result in household robots - that is more of a hardware problem/perception/control problem than a language understanding problem. This is a slightly edited version of this: Frank Heile's answer to What impact would an AI have on our society?    Embed Quote Updated 25 Feb, 2012. 660 views.