Would artificial intelligence machines be interested in religion?
We developed religion because our mind is wired in a way that makes it to always be looking for patterns and to suppose reasons to everything, and we gather these traits by evolution processes. The pattern matching skill grew trough the time across our race because it's precisely the adaptative trait that made us able to overcome, gradually, most threats around us. That what made us to become the dominant animal species on the planet, then it's obvious that it's a pretty good evolutive feature. The research of cause resisted to evolution because looking for a cause to a sign and reacting following the assumption that it's the case could save lives. It's, by the way, a kind of pattern recognition. Furthermore, binding phenomenons to potential causes would, more or less often depending on the level of information available about it, lead to : A good guess. The supposed cause is indeed responsible for the phenomenon. A bad guess. The phenomenon was caused by something else. A bad guess from the begining. The phenomenon had no design. A talk about design because the advantage of such a way of thinking lies in the ability to react to invisible entities, such as... predators. Attributing something to the actions of a lurking predator allow you to elaborate scenarii which include it, to pick the better and to perform it. If that something was effectively caused by something, and if that something was indeed a threat, running away saved you. If it was the wind or whatever, you ran away for nothing, but the difference here is that neither of both cases would have killed you. Had you assumed that it was the wind and if it was actually a predator you would surely have died. That's why when people became better at noticing patterns, or at imagining them, they began to face things that they didn't know where they came from, but that couldn't came from anything they knew. So they attributed them to superior creature, able to do such things. These were spirits, monsters, gods, demons, whatever. And people believed in them because these superstitions would be useful if the creatures were real. And alost harmless if not. Why take the risk ? If we don't make our robots that way, it's very unlikely that they develop such a superstitious behaviour. But they are very likely to understand that we made them by rationaly means, anyway.    Embed Quote 