★The Technological Singularity: Will self-aware, intelligent, sentient artificial intelligence be sociopathic?
If we were to create a sociopathic robot, then we should call customer support right away, and they should be able to send someone in to fix it. Nothing behaves beyond its architecture, and a well mannered, fun loving, good willed robot would outsell a psycho by a long shot. [*disclaimer: My answer is from the perspective of an engineer. In what proceeds, by "architect" I mean builder, and by "soul" I mean a sense of presence, no more or no less. This is part of my effort to reclaim these words from non-science.] What it boils down to is this: Any architecture can be produced by a sufficient architect. Any architecture can be created in the image of an existing one. The architect gets to decide.  The common pitfall: Certainty generates intellection. Uncertainty generates imagination. If we don't know how something works, we see into it things that are not there. This is our imagination at work, not our intellection. Engineering is built on certainty. The person who built it will know exactly what they built. This will be no different with AI robots. Most of the sci-fi discussion about AI is imaginary, because the technology isn't here yet. But if Intel were to develop an AI chip, it would be because all those mysteries have been solved. With engineering comes answers. AI will arrive when these questions have been answered. In the end, if we reach a level where our architecture can no longer tell us apart, then robots, or whatever they will be called, will be indistinguishable, and hence real. We would probably just call them humans -- maybe 2nd generation humans. And if sociopathic 2nd gen humans exist, hopefully they'll iron out the kinks by 3 or 4G. Of course, with one exception... They were designed to kill you in the first place. More to Consider From a technical and causal perspective, some things to consider: AI is completely fake, as of yet. There is nothing out there so far that does anything other than run code that merely simulates some known intelligent act. But we can see personality even in dead teddy bears, so there should be no confusion about just us imagining things for fun or for fear versus there actually being a soul behind those glassy blue blinking eyes. Let's assume we get to the point of self-evolving artificial beings. Like anything that evolves, only what is there can evolve. So in the seed lies the specifications for that being. Assuming that this seed is our creation, then the architect has full control over these specs. The universe seen and experienced by some life form is very much an illusion at all levels -- perceptually, cognitively, and spiritually. In our case they are the product of our intellectual capacity, biological architecture, and intuition that something is missing, respectively. It is not just us that has architecture. Our whole experience and the paradigm of the world we see ourselves in -- the configuration we are situated in -- is also a brilliant piece of architecture, and it is encoded in every one of us. Life too is mostly, if not completely, fake -- in the sense that we too are beings with specs derived from seeds built by some creative process, experiencing what we perceive to be a universe that exists without us. Let us assume the creative process or architect for us was evolution. The architect  is the only thing that separates our classification of intelligence as genuine from that which we perceive as artificial. We know enough at this point to know that what we don't know is what a soul is, and if a soul will make a difference. We also are unable to architect biology. We can only manipulate it. But all this is saying is we are far from sufficient architects. If we were sufficient, we would have all the answers. We await the arrival of the architect.    Embed Quote Updated 20 Mar, 2012. 465 views.