Could non-sentient artificial intelligence destroy mankind?
Let's get one thing straight, please. Computer Intelligence would make human intelligence seem artificial! But I like your question - because it indicates that you, also, feel that truly intelligent computers will simply optimize things, much like truly intelligent, visionary people tend to. I would answer your question: Yes. But not because of the AI, but rather the people steering it. I don't think true intelligence can be controlled by lesser intelligence, but artificial intelligence can be controlled, and in this control lies the danger in my opinion. It's just another tool... like the internet. It can be used to accomplish things faster, both bad things and good things. Think about it like this: Our cognitive abilities seem superior to that of the other animals, yet we pose little threat to them. In fact, the more sentient we become, the less the threat. The only thing we have to fear is human shortsightedness and greed, basically the more basic mammalian properties that have preserved the integrity of the human body for long enough for us to develop the neo-cortexes that, ironically, facilitate the opposite: enough selflessness to form much larger communities. So: greed, selfishness and shortsightedness, and control structures that allow control over governmental-, military- or computer systems, by a handful of human individuals - because it may start out that those are run by selfless, altruistic, highly developed individuals, but if it is prone to control by a small group, it is almost inevitable that less-developed egos will take over - and act on their own selfishness and ultimately irrational fears, in fact fulfilling their fears. Just a silly hypothetical example: We think that we will run out of resources and that we're going to overpopulate the planet. So we think real hard and think of a cool way to limit the population: We invent TV's. And we engineer the HIV virus. It's beautiful: mostly sexually promiscuous people, mostly immoral in the eyes of some, get wiped out. But they fight back. Even if HIV wasn't engineered, where did it come from? How can it be so specific?... Is there perhaps some sort of intelligence embedded in nature? Or: I am afraid that my partner is "cheating" on me. So I confront her about it. This confrontation, in fact, breaks the trust that there was and now she will be more likely to in fact do it when the opportunity presents itself. I have seen it many times over: The things people do to prevent their fears from turning into reality, in fact turns it into reality. Perhaps it is because on a subconscious level, we prepare ourselves for the worst, and then feel that we might as well face it, because we've invested so much in readying ourselves for it. It takes quite a level of foresight and faith to overcome this fairly common phenomenon. To me, the real question is how computationally cheap computer intelligence can be. If it's computationally cheap, it will be even more certain of its immortality, and have even less incentive to protect it. Think about it like this: Thousands of companies are building networks. "The central nervous system" of a computer intelligence. Can we stop this network being built? We all think we're building our own networks, but aren't we all perhaps building something bigger, few of us even aware of it? And if we through some miracle decided to stop, wouldn't someone, somewhere, inevitably continue building it "because it makes sense" or "because it's the natural thing to do?" Also consider this... how do we know for certain that Google isn't being run by a computer system? Can the proprietors of Google actually spin it down and destroy it, even if they wanted to? (Besides the fact that they probably wouldn't want to!) ..And if they do, wouldn't it just be a matter of time before someone else, or another company, ends up in the same scenario? How I think it will happen, is that all the tools we use to do our work will become smarter and smarter until one day we don't need to work any more. Eg. stock trading tools, accounting tools, advertising tools. Today we are already trading using very smart feedback tools, even incorporating news keywords and statistics. There's a huge information war being waged, every single day. One day, you won't need to send invoices anymore, they will just get paid, almost automatically, and intelligent tools will dictate which stocks gets bought and sold, which companies get optimized and which not. How do the most intelligent humans collaborate? They usually act in their combined mutual best interests. Wouldn't intelligent machines necessarily optimize where- and on what money is spent? The real question is how humans will deal with the computer intelligence revolution, which will see us create more and more optimal businesses, and perhaps require less and less work. Will all countries turn into welfare states? Or will the "software" figure out how to better incentivise us to do the things that are still more economical for humans to do? Wouldn't truly intelligent computers be more pragmatic than even the most pragmatic humans... getting us to do things that we think we're doing out of our own free will? But why do we do the things we do in the first place... Perhaps there's something even way more intelligent than intelligent computers in the universe...? Perhaps it is getting us to do what we do, and it is its way of getting into this universe. ...And this is what Elon Musk alluded to with his musings and now we're starting to tread religious territory. I don't think that science yet answers any of the questions that are *really* interesting to most people and perhaps you would be amused if you could read religious texts and look past the symbolism and try to see the metaphors they contain.    Embed Quote 