★Would an Artificial Intelligence fear death?I know it's difficult to define what death would mean for a computer. But it seems to me that there are only two possibilities: it either does everything in its power to prevent shut down, or just becomes so bored due to experiencing events at such speed that it ultimately embraces death. Or maybe lack of gratification and pleasure like us? What do you think?
I've pondered this as part of plot design for a short story.  First, an AIs view of time would be significantly skewed.  We perceive time at a rate that would be a snail's pace to an AI.  So an AI could accomplish in a second what might be several minutes or even hours of experience to us. Second, if an AIs state was saved between power off and on (think hibernate mode here), its only indicator of "death" would be some kind of clock telling it time had passed between one tick of awareness to the next.  Would it even care except as information since it would perceive itself to be intact between those two gapped intervals? Maybe it begins to treat power off and on as we treat sleep.  State and awareness reborn from one point to the next with only a clock or external to tell us it happened.  If a AI measured its experience by ticks and we merely turned off the ticks and not maintain a counter of the ticks, would it even understand the notion of power off? Then we get into the ethical dilemma of power off.  Do we have a right to deny an AI its source of life: a flow of electrons?  Would we be enslaving it with the threat of loss of that flow?  Could we drive it insane with the knowledge that we and we alone dictated its existence?  Would we become its Gods in its perception? And whose to say it would even perceive the world in any way resembling human concepts?  Its perception would be one of voltages and bits from a variety of sensors.  Concepts like color, hearing, vision would be foreign.  Merely reducing to input stimulus to be processed and acted upon.  Would it be able to understand a concept like pain?  Would it be able to favor one set of stimuli over another? Intriguing.  But until we can understand what constitutes intelligence and more importantly, consciousness, beyond "brilliant" programs that appear to be intelligent, truly artificial being I believe is an impossible dream.  Because once we understand how to create and validate such a creation as sentient, we will become Gods in the universe because we will have mastered its secrets to the point of knowing ourselves.    Embed Quote