What problems in artificial intelligence cannot be addressed using artificial neural networks?
The task of encoding the raw data into a format suitable for analysis by a neural network. Before data is analyzed by a specific ML method, it is often pre-processed in some way. When you focus on the ML algorithm, the pre-processing looks like a small preliminary step, but it is often the case that most study and work will have to go into the pre-processing stage. There are two reasons for this: tailor-made methods often beat generic solutions, especially because they introduce valuable domain knowledge. The pre-processing stage is where you can most easily add your domain knowledge, by for instance filtering out what you know is irrelevant. A hierarchical system where the data is analyzed in several steps are often better than doing it all in one go. By putting work into the pre-processing stage, you are effectively adding an extra layer of analysis. An example: You have sensor readings from 10 sensors on a machine and you want your neural network to detect if the machine is starting to malfunction. You happen to know that such machines starts to vibrate erratically when the ball-bearings get worn out or it leaks lubricant, which tend to be a common  problem. You therefore drop everything but data from the 3 vibration sensors. You also do a fourier transform on those three data streams, so that the ANN can analyze separate frequency components. Then you give that as an input to your ANN. It would have taken the ANN a lot of training data to figure out which sensors were important, not least because it would have had to first emulate a Fourier transform on the sensors and home in on the right frequencies, before the utility of the sensors would have been picked up by the training algorithm. Pretty hard. But by aggregating the data in multiple stages and specializing the system based on domain knowledge, you have overcome these difficulties. Yet we're still prone to refer to it as 'just pre-processing' and give all credit to the ANN.    Embed Quote 