What is spiritual enlightenment for artificial intelligence?
Enlightenment is seeing through the illusion of self and the emptiness of all concepts.  What is left after self is gone is simply raw experience or consciousness itself.  So, in the case of machines, there are some problems with this.  First, why would a machine have a sense of self?  I could see an autonomous robot having a sense of self as a way to conceptualize inner vs outer, but why would a cloud of computers have a sense of self since there would be little utility in an inner vs outer distinction? Now, assuming you did have an AI with a sense of self, spiritual enlightenment for it would be the same as humans - realizing the emptiness of all concepts, especially "self".  One way this might occur is for the AI to realize that pointers in its working memory that point to deeper concepts only *imply* full meaning, but until that full meaning is retrieved, the concept is not complete.  This is the same way our thoughts work.  We assume that we know what a "house" is, but this is merely an assumption, it isn't until later moments that we can conjure up more details to create our definition of a house. Another aspect is, assuming that the AI is based on something like deep belief networks, it would know the difference between incoming data and its existing neural network.  In humans, prior to enlightenment, we think that a box that we are seeing is the same as the word "box" in our head.  After enlightenment we see that the word "box" is just the word "box" and the (illusory) object in front of us is just an experience of colors. The question is, what would be left for that AI?  For humans, what is left is simply consciousness or present experience (which can include thoughts). What is AI besides a machine for creating meaning?  Perhaps for a machine, whats left would be the processing itself or the data input stream as it goes flying by. Really, the best thing would be to not give machines a sense of self in the first place.  Selves are really overrated and cause a lot of damage.    Embed Quote 