Will artificial intelligence render human music makers as useless?
I think it's true in the trivial sense that solving the hard AI problem would give you a tool for quantifying what "good music" is (or at least, what kind of music would appeal to people). If you can make a computer that's equal to a human, the you can make a computer that's "better" than a human since computers scale in ways that humans don't. (There are those that claim that humans have something that computers can't ever have, but I consider this superstitious horsecrap, a self-serving attempt to justify their specialness, for which the evidence ranges from "nonexistent" to "laughable". Even if it's true, their justifications for it are worthless, and no value has ever come from their research.) That's not actually what this article is about, though. It's not talking about the hard problem of AI, whose solution is nowhere in sight. They're talking about "AI-assisted" music, a term so vague that there's no real answer to the question. The "hard AI problem" has a kinda-sorta well-defined answer in the Turing test. It's not great, but it's rigorous enough to know that we're nowhere near, and that when we've gotten close enough to it that the problems matter, we'll be able to define it much more clearly. (We're nowhere near it, recent internet blather notwithstanding. #ifuckinghatesciencewriters) This is an even worse defined problem. Every time we systematize some problem previously considered AI, it stops being AI. Chess used to be an AI problem, but now that it's solved, it isn't. Lots of things that we used to require human brains for, from reading street signs to tuning voices, can now be done with computers. So that answer is "no" in the same vacuous sense: until we've solved the hard AI problem, nobody will say for sure that a robot musician will ever really be making great music. Here's a much more concrete question: will computers be able to compose music that people like well enough to buy? Yeah, sure. They're effectively already doing it. Modern pop songs require only the barest of human input. We can characterize basic hooks and styles and computers can easily generate catchy tunes. The stuff cranked out to accompany TV shows could practically be boxed up. It's still not as good as human beings, but at this point the entire music industry is so fragmented that it's becoming hard to consider the point of putting much effort into it. We don't all have to be listening to the same music. And since human beings want to make music, and will do it for free, it's cheaper to get humans to do it. They make far, far music than anybody can listen to. The more interesting problem is actually on the other side. Develop an algorithm that will go through Soundcloud and identify the stuff that you might like. That's not making music, but it's serving the crucial goal of getting you music you want. The humans will continue to crank it out cheaper than the robots could. You just need to sort through it.    Embed Quote 