★How do I get started in Artificial Intelligence?
With due respect to all who have suggested various AI books and Machine Learning classes: Step one is to understand what matters in AI. And (kind of appropriately) what matters most is Understanding. And Understanding starts with "What Matters". This sounds convoluted, amusing, or tautological but it really isn't. Let me explain. Most AI research today is misguided; they have been trying to solve the wrong problem for sixty-five years to the tune of a million man-years. Solving the right problem is much easier and we should be done in about five years. This is a very good time to get into AI research... as long as you avoid almost everything that has been done in AI research to date, since very little of that actually contributes to finding the correct solution. Step one is to realize that the human mind is not scientific. It is a result of evolution and excels at finding quick-and-dirty solutions to incompletely specified problems in almost zero time. Almost everything we do on a daily basis is done this way; this is what we use our brains for, and this is what an AI would have to be able to do. It's called "Intuitive Understanding". Step two is to realize that Understanding requires the ability to know "What Matters". What is relevant, and what is irrelevant to the situation at hand. The core unsolved problem in AI is to find a problem domain independent measure of "Saliency" - to know whether something matters or not. Several algorithms for domain-independent saliencey are currently being evaluated by researchers in this area and some are showing some promise. This corner of AI research is where the action is. Step three is to realize that the answers to most questions in the AI domain can be pruned to a manageable size by considering Epistemological Limitations. As an example of a statement in Epistemology, consider "You can only learn that which you already almost know". This simple truth, expressed by Prof. Patrick Winston (MIT) around 1980 forms the basis of what today is known as "Deep Learning" which has become the greatest advance in AI in the past 20 years. Epistemology holds the hints for many more advances like this. You just need to let go of the old Reductionist AI kind of thinking. Which is hard, since most of everybody's education has been focused on learning how to do Reduction. "The greatest surprise to AI researchers is that they have to create systems that jump to conclusions on scant evidence" -- Me, in several talks. Logical reasoning is slow and our brains spend only about 0.001% of its cycles on this mode of thinking. In contrast, Intuitive Understanding is fast and is used for everything from sequencing our leg muscles as we are walking across the floor to language generation and understanding to enjoying a symphony. AI research to date has been focusing on this 0.001% of the brain's operations, neglecting the 99.999% that the brain spends on the Intuitive Understanding part. In "Thinking Fast and Slow" Daniel Kahneman discusses these two modes of thinking in some detail. So in order to get started in AI you need to understand that Understanding is more important than Reasoning, that most of the AI books and methods discuss the smaller part - Reasoning - and that you need to learn everything you can about methods that can be used to implement Understanding. They are implemented using certain kinds of Machine Learning techniques which are all based on Unsupervised learning. They are called Model Free Methods. The easiest path in is to watch the talk I gave at Stanford on May 17 2014 : Dual Process Theory and then to read my introduction to "Reduction" - the process of simplifying our Rich Reality to models (and partial models) an AI could use: Page on syntience.com and then to peruse the other materials at Syntience Technology Resources on the Web If you understand what matters in AI then you will be able to ignore well over 90% of all AI textbooks and similar materials and focus on the few things that matter. Like Saliency, Understanding, and Epistemology. Once you reach that point, you need to know a programming language. Any old language will do; the problems you need to solve do not require anything fancly like Lisp or Haskell. C or Java will do just fine.    Embed Quote Updated 6 Jan. 14,326 views. Asked to answer by Anonymous and Tushant Jha.