★What are basic artificial intelligence projects for beginners?Some basic projects other than pac-man, 8 queen puzzle etc
Do everything people on EDX, Coursera and Udacity  are doing! But if you want a more structured approach with more classical topics, here's a suggestion of where to start: 1 - Build little TCP\IP server. You want a simple server which:       a - Has a database of rules of the form IF (this [==|!=|>|<] that) THEN APPLY TAG #RULE_SPECIFIC_TAG (you want to expand the rules in a way that you can have multiple conditions linked by OR, AND and XOR connectors);       b - Receives JSON data from a connection and checks which rules applies to which object;       c - Return the objects with the proper tags;       d - Has a foolproof user interface to enter rules. This interface is completely independent of the JSON in\out interface. Assume users are both dumb and afraid of computers. 2 - Grab your favorite dataset from Kaggle. Use Association rule learning to sort the data into interesting categories. Do not use Decision trees nor Classification rules, because usually it is more interesting to have overlapping categories that automated classification. 3 - Import the association rules produced into the server you produced earlier. Now you have a Expert System with a "statistical Inference engine". The company I worked in the past used this system to do credit and medical fraud detection, both in real time and batch mode, and I once configured it to detect fraud on municipal accounts. The system was pretty much what I described, except that with XML and an awful load of data entry methods. And the produced rules were analysed by statisticians and business guys to make sense of them - a very good rule was often scraped because we though it was Overfitting the data. Also, fine tuning and trial and error with the rule generation algorithm often produced gold nuggets - rules with a small support but huge lift, which could be used to detect failures in business processes and niches where business could be improved. Other suggestion is try your hand at the Idris programming language.    Embed Quote