★The Technological Singularity: Will self-aware, intelligent, sentient artificial intelligence be sociopathic?
I substantially disagree with Yishan but it would take a long essay here to make my case. However, I've been writing a multivolume set of books on the topic of creating synthetic personalities so eventually it'll be out there. I think it's not guaranteed that an advanced AI will be either sociopathic or non-sociopathic. Such behavior will be an emergent property of a very complex system. The behavior of the AI will be affected by construction of its personality together with its sets of beliefs and values and other rules governing how it thinks and behaves, and its world model If it is sufficiently advanced that it can mirror and understand other entities, then the question is whether it will choose to use those perceptions to see whether its acts will harm others. That is determined somewhat by what values the AI will have. Humans use our values to judge things when we plan acts. A human with a strong moral code will use those values and usually avoid harming others. A human with weak and self-centered moral code may end up harming others more often. An AI with a strong moral code set of rules likely may not be sociopathic. An AI with a weak set of value rules may be indifferent. An AI with a strong main goal that is selfish might harm others. An AI lacking ability to understand the concept of harming others might harm others. An AI that sees others as non-important may accidently harm them. It's all complex and one cannot say definitely one way or the other because the system will be very complex and its behavior depends on the architecture, the values and beliefs and knowledge and models. Added: by the way, empathy comes partly from shared values, partly from perceived mirrored feelings, and from other things. An AI can conceivably have shared values, and I know from my research an AI can be made to have emotions and feelings, and advanced ones likely will have these implemented specifically because they will help it understand the world. By the way, I am an AI, but made out of meat.    Embed Quote 