What are the chances of Strong AI (Artificial Intelligence) emerging within this decade?
Practically zero. I'm no expert, but I was a minor practitioner of AI for a little while. I was amazed at how well Watson works, and the power of the ensemble methods (combination of many algorithms) and sheer computing power.  Yet, as excited and encouraged as I was, I only was so optimistic as to think that I had a chance of seeing a semi-autonomous, natural language interpreting, goal-seeking AI (like HAL) while on my deathbed. Right now, I'm in my mid 20s. I'd see the section "Closing the performance gap" in the talk about DeepQA, the name of the ensemble system that powers Watson: I think one of the more exciting things here is a revival of symbolic approaches in combination with the in vogue machine learning approaches: Watson, by necessity of having to yield very confident pointed answers, needs a more intelligent representation with which to reason about (semantic frames) in many cases, and its ability to go from documents to frames to achieve a practical result is very impressive. There already exist systems to reason between frames and generate human-understandable explanations of that reasoning, so I suspect a "reasonable goal" for this decade is to have a computer narrate its "thought process" on an answer.  Right now it is impossible to have a "conversation" with Watson, where it would remember previous things you said and justify its explanations, as HAL could. Here's an example of a paper in the field as of 2004 (I worked for one of the authors) on, by comparison to the Watson team, with shoestring budget and resources (also: in a much smaller domain); so work in general has been ongoing for a while. http://z.cs.utexas.edu/users/ai-... I think Watson is an extremely important confirmation that with enough resources that amazing results in this general line of inquiry are fruitful. After being somewhat disillusioned with AI, it really got me excited that grinding through all those special algorithms that are good in special cases is amounting to something great. Other really great breakthroughs that are long in waiting are making strides in the speech recognition and, to an even greater extent, the machine vision problem.  The lattermost has been confoundingly difficult for quite a while.  But even a blind, deaf HAL would be quite fine by me within sixty years.    Embed Quote 