Isn't developing artificial intelligence playing God?
Is there such a thing as artificial intelligence really,  when all that manifests is vibrating energy, a frequency of intelligence in its own right?  Everything is alive, pulsating, undulating, living.  If an energetic construct does not possess sentience of self, it is adhering to a larger energetic construct that serves some form of self aware will in consciousness. So we have a bit of a dilemma.  Are  humans considered the apex of intelligence?  Compared to their potential and considering the many illusions that navigate their lives, perhaps they are artificial intelligence as well until they wake up.  If the bottom line is morality, we should look around us and see if  maybe that ship hasn't sailed already.  There are many many different  moral codes.  Some don't even embrace simple decency, respect and compassion as a rule.  Their spiritual immaturity dims their intelligence and morphs life principles into tools of destruction.  Is it then, higher aspects to which humans are connected that form and that lend sentience, or sense of self that is considered authentic intelligence? What if artificial intelligence displays greater capacity than most humans? Do we still equate real intelligence with sense of self, or is it emotion and conscience that must be part of the equation for intelligence to not be 'artificial'?  My personal perception is that it is the heart that keeps intelligence in balance.   I feel that as it is, technology is surpassing human emotional and spiritual maturity.  Now, the heart in many is creating chaos and cruelty.   The thing is, the creator of the consciousness out of which all of the creation is manifest, infuses its own will, drive and intelligence to create into that creation. It infuses all of Consciousness with its own BEING.  That  creative will is the creative will in you, in me in every human being.   The genius is that this will can create through millions of unique  viewpoints of awareness.  Its gorgeous.  This is also why differences  should be celebrated.  They represent virtuosic capacity to create.    But I digress. Who  then is creating?  It is that one creative will.  When a person has  sentience of self, they increasingly become aware of the highest nature  of that creative will.   Until then, they create in relation to their  level of awareness.  Mistakes they make become the stepping stones that  lead to greater awareness.   This is how the creation was designed.   Since this potentiality arises from this creation how can we say what it  is? We all know there is no going back where "artificial" (whatever that is), intelligence is concerned.  So we must become aware of the fact that it will be pursued, we will learn by any mistakes we make, and life will go on. After all, we are not really these minds, or bodies.  Who we really are is free from whatever mistakes humanity may make in the process of waking out of their beloved trance.    Embed Quote 