★How do I get started in Artificial Intelligence?
Build stuff. Side projects. Lots of side projects. Realize getting a job in AI will probably not happen unless you know the right people (which means an Ivy league .. more specifically Silicon Valley, education). Python has a great community, but the future of that language for AI is a bit uncertain. C too. Scala has a lot of mindshare now but it too has problems. My point is don't get dogmatic about programming language choice... and a decent understanding of a functional language is necessary. Be an expert in one small thing. For me it is linguistics and logic. It's what I studied in school. These days AI is built up of domain experts (statistics, hardware, distributed systems, linguistics, image processing, physics, programming languages, robotics, logic, math, neuroscience, etc... ) who have proficiency in subfields related to their expertise. This profile will help carve out the kind of problems you can get involved in (self-driving cars, facial recognition, recommendation systems, talking toasters, Siri, voice recognition systems, machine translation, language generation, etc...). Figure out your expertise (what you can contribute... even an art history education is relevant to the right kind of problems) and then learn as much as you can about the subfields that directly relate to your area of expertise... and then focus on a specific problem. It is too easy to be overwhelmed and try to solve all the problems... this will just lead to daydreaming. You need a concrete problem to show real work... and this is not sexy or interesting in general, but it's the only way to actually be involved in AI. Then build more stuff. do more side projects. I know many people who, including myself, spent years tinkering with side projects, reading and studying, keeping up with various fields, but not actually doing it as a dayjob... then finally getting to apply it. Last but not least, be rigorous in your honesty about expectations for AI. Be honest with yourself and with people you want to build AI stuff for. Artificial Intelligence has suffered from a grand expectations and hubris many times over its current and historical progress.    Embed Quote 