Which human skills will increase in value over the next century as artificial intelligence changes the global economy?
While there are many definitions of "creativity" floating around, this sums it up: "Creativity is a phenomenon whereby something new and valuable is created." Well, we've had that automated for a long time. We write software that critiques our work; optimizes other software we've written--as is the case with compilers.  These compilers are most often better at low level optimization than humans. We write software that writes other software; VHDL/Verilog programs turn high level code and concepts into the microscopic map of the trillions of transistors that go into our microchips. From "Automate This" by Christopher Steiner: Those who imagine art, innovations, words, novel strategies for companies, products that change the world--their jobs have often been considered outside the reach of algorithms.  These professions and their perches hold high esteem, good salaries, and a sense, for those who occupy them, of freedom and mobility within the workforce.  Some call these people the creative class, some call them post-college educated, and some just call them smart people. Smart people assume that this creeping revolution of bot workers can't touch them.  The notion is that algorithms can't innovate, that a bot can't create.  We're now learning, however, that these are dangerous assumptions. ... Creativity is thought of as something so incorporeal that it can hardly be taught, let alone left for a machine to carry out. ... But there now exist algorithms, including one with a human name--Annie--that can produce music as daring and original as the works of masters like Brahms, Bach, and Mozart, and as popular and catchy as the tunes playing inside a big-box store. Everything is an algorithm of some form--all it needs is a way to be quantified. But back to the question, ultimately the human skills that will increase in value over the next century are likely going to be a litany of ones we've never heard of.  They haven't been invented yet by people who might not even be born. The one human process that is time immemorial is our ability to think critically and reason, which leads to skills that can be learned, mastered and used.    Embed Quote 