What is the ultimate goal of Artificial Intelligence?
While people here have talked of "strong AI" and exceeding human intelligence (Turing test), there is also another perspective, which is that the goal of AI is to build a Rational agent. The reason why people sometimes don't really want to define AI in terms of human intelligence is because, frankly, humans are not intelligent. They can't handle evidence, they keep making errors of logic and so on and so forth. Being more human-like is also often not really a quantifiable goal : a better goal is to be optimal in what you do, where "optimal" is defined as maximizing your utility given whatever you know. Let me now talk of where AI started and how it is going Initial attempts involved trying to make the computer follow logic, verify proofs, play Chess and tic-tac-toe, things like that. As it turns out, playing games and following logic, which is somewhat hard for us humans, is actually very easy to do for a computer. As an example, it is almost trivial to code up a sudoku solver that runs in a few seconds, while I take a few minutes to solve Sudoku myself. The conclusion was, to quote Minsky (one of the early greats in the field) backin 1977: “Our first foray into Artificial Intelligence was a program that did a credible job of solving problems in college calculus. Armed with that success, we tackled high school algebra; we found, to our surprise, that it was much harder. Attempts at grade school arithmetic provide problems of current research interest. An exploration of the child’s world of blocks proved insurmountable, except under the most rigidly constrained circumstances. It finally dawned on us that the overwhelming majority of what we call intelligence is developed by the end of the first year of life.” As such the biggest problems in the field are those that "three year olds can do": things like walk, sense, see, pick up language and grammar, grasp and manipulate unseen objects, recognize what it is seeing and so forth. This has been one big departure from the early days, what is now called "classical AI". This is not to say that classical AI is gone; it is just not the only thing now. A second major breakthrough was the advent of statistics and machine learning. There is no way you could overestimate the impact of statistics. Statistics and probability allowed us to handle uncertainty, and many, if not all, fields of AI were  (I think I can safely say) revolutionized by its impact. And notwithstanding many remarks I have seen, the impact was great enough to yield very practical systems, something that old school AI couldn't really do. Almost everything from your cell phone camera to your Netflix account to even perhaps aspects of Quora itself are probably driven by machine learning. And how close are we to the true goal, building a rational agent? Far away, but we are making measured, quantifiable progress. We no longer make blatant claims of grandeur; the AI winter has mellowed us somewhat :). We might not have a full-fledged robotic human-like agent anytime soon, but it won't be a stretch to say that you will soon be interacting with AI's every day of your life, if not already.    Embed Quote Updated 13 Dec, 2012. 4,901 views.