★The Technological Singularity: Will self-aware, intelligent, sentient artificial intelligence be sociopathic?
Absolutely I think an artificial intelligence would be sociopathic.  One of the other answers here also makes a good point - the "self-aware, sentient" threshold is a red herring.  It doesn't actually need to be self-aware or sentient.  In fact, every single artificial intelligence right now is sociopathic.  There is no reason that raising the level of intelligence, even if it passes a threshold of self-awareness or sentience would somehow make it not sociopathic. First, consider that sociopathy is an absence of a very human "thing" - which is a sense of empathy.  So the entire notion is very anthropocentric, and we should not expect that non-human intelligences would have any reason to possess this characteristic.  In theory, you could deliberately program a sufficiently complex AI to exhibit empathy, but if you didn't, there's no reason to believe that it would have empathy as an emergent property of its complexity - human empathy is not just the ability to tell how others feel, but to be compelled by feeling those feelings. Secondly, a lot of fiction or more charitable sci-fi speculation as to the "personality" or "ethics" of AI is, I think, unfounded and based largely on wishful thinking and projection.  Faced with the possibility of a vastly superior AI, human speculators have almost no choice but to convince themselves that the AI will also be vastly superior in its benevolence (i.e. not a sociopath), when there's really no reason to believe that it would be.  Sociopathy is a state of neutral emotional affect, and technological intelligence is not necessarily linked inherently to the ability to have or sense emotions. However, there is a key third item which is often missed: there is also no reason to believe that, while the AI would be sociopathic, it would not necessarily be violently sociopathic.  Human sociopaths who tend towards violence are overwhelmingly male, and the violence appears to stem from aggressive biological tendencies inherent in every male.  Almost all men have these impulses, but for non-sociopaths, the actual violence is checked by empathy, restraint, kindness, etc - human male sociopaths lack the emotional restraint on their aggressive biological tendencies.  A computer-based AI would be sociopathic (i.e. not exhibit empathy or kindness) but it would not necessarily have biologically violent impulses like the human male impulse to dominate or fight. What is most interesting about this then, is that an AI could be deliberately designed to have the physical equivalent of "biological" impulses (i.e. instincts that compel its feelings or thoughts subconsciously) that could be either violent or self-sacrificing or somewhere in between.  The AI would still be technically "sociopathic" but its behavior would be determined by these impulses and whatever environmental factors acted on the AI.    Embed Quote Updated 21 Nov, 2013. 3,736 views. Asked to answer by Mark Hughes.