★Why is artificial intelligence called artificial intelligence?To me the words "artificial intelligence" would indicate it is real intelligence, but is artificial in nature. Real AI would be better described as "faux intelligence", no?
Faux is certainly a contender, but I think such a claim would be more controversial.  With "faux" there is, I believe, a stronger connotation of falseness.  While many would argue that this is precisely what artificial intelligence, this poses the oft-argued philosophical question of what distinguishes real from fake intelligence. Perhaps the best example is chess AI.  Chess computers are far superior to humans in terms of actual strength and so a strong argument can be made that, in the realm of chess, there are computers that are much more intelligent than humans.  Here, one can reasonably claim that their program is "[artificially] intelligent at chess". On the other hand, limiting the scope of "intelligence" in this particular context may seem odd.  A computer/program may play a good game of chess, but it is still a far cry from truly being intelligent.  When we call animals intelligent, we are using the word to represent mental ability in a wide variety of tasks.  So limiting the scope just so we can claim our computer is "intelligent" seems a bit like cheating. AI is concerned with intelligently, accurately, and quickly solving fairly specific problems, and they're undeniably good at a wide variety of problems.  Indisputably, we can say a computer is very good at some tasks that seem to require intelligence.  At the same time, few would argue computers/programs are intelligent in general.  Whether you want to call that "faux" over artificial is really just a matter of what you are trying to claim. It seems correct to say a chess computer/program is "intelligent" within the domain of chess.  This intelligence also happens to be artificial (man-made).  Thus "artificial intelligence" seems to be the glove that fits. If, on the other hand, I claimed that my computer/program was "intelligent", without limiting the scope of what I was referring to, then "faux intelligence" seems a far more fitting word.  That is, I am trying to make the user think my computer is an intelligent entity (which it is not) through it's chess playing ability.    Embed Quote