Will artificial intelligence render human music makers as useless?
Let's break down the issues into a few parts. 1. How hard is music making as an AI problem? As far as I can tell, AI is making progress, especially in the realm of machine learning. AI is on its way towards achieving facial recognition. Music making is a pretty difficult AI task. At the moment we have machines solving learning problems, classification problems, detection problems. Music making is something that requires you to first learn by listening to music, then transform the music you learn into scores, and then learn the rules or the organizational principles that go into the scores, then master the skills of composition and music production, and then be able to emote. Furthermore there is the age old conundrum of art: which is more significant, the artist's ability to create, or the listener's ability to interpret the music and transform it into an emotional experience? I think both processes are equally complicated. Music making is an activity which requires almost all of our cognitive functions. It is equally demanding on our intellect and our emotions. It's a pretty tough task. Personally I feel that we will be solving a lot of simpler AI problems before we get to music composition. Music making is a design problem, and that seems to be one of the hardest AI problems to solve. Music is about the metaphor, and after the metaphor, the metaphor behind the metaphor. How are you going to learn all that? The easy part, the relatively easy part is throwing a set of rules at a computer, randomising something, and making something that sounds, on the surface, and within the first five seconds, similar to real music. Afte a while, you find out there's no composition, there's no grand design to the music. 2. How well do we understand music? In a way, I'm not actually sure we understand it that well. Put it this way, if everybody understands music well, everybody would be a great composer on the level of a JS Bach. Sometimes I wonder about this knowledge that the greats have - how come it is so difficult to communicate this knowledge? Everybody listens to Bach. Nobody has equalled Bach. The upshot? If we're so bad at learning music from JS Bach, how do we expect to teach music to computers? 3. Do you need to be human to make music? No. We all love listening to birds. And that's why I asked that question I asked earlier - is music making an activity on the part of the maker, or is it an activity on part of the active listener? We enjoy the music of birds because we have the power to interpret it imaginatively. 4. What impact will AI have on the music industry? Roland Trimmel in his article thinks that the answer is yes. I'm a little skeptical. It depends on whether the AI level will reach the level of a human. If the answer is "no", then it will not be much more than a novelty. Whichever part of the process AI succeeds in achieving will have an impact. Perhaps AI will produce great backup singers, and great music producers, then they will revolutionise music making. We already know what it's like when non-humans make music. We get inspired by sounds of nature, so the robots can play the function of the sounds of nature and inspire us. In a way this has already happened, what with Stockhausen and his experiments with tape. 5. What impact do humans have on the music industry? Let's put it this way. There hasn't always been a uniform or even monotone increase in the quality of music over the years. I suspect that at the moment we are going through a lull period. We talk about the greats like Chopin and Beethoven, hundreds of years have passed and we haven't produced a second Beethoven. Human beings, with their creativity, have been the ones who have changed music, and at the moment, this looks set to continue. But even the humans can't be changing the landscape all the time. The most complex and challenging music by humans will never get popular anyway. So even if a computer manages to surpass a human being in musical intelligence, it won't necessarily make music that changes the world. 6. What impact does the internet have on the music industry? It's mostly negative. Video didn't kill the radio star, the internet did. Because of rampant piracy, it's been almost impossible except for a few people with means to make music. Technology is not necessarily a boon. We basically automated the means of music distribution with the internet over the last 20 years and put it in the hands of the people and what happened? It killed the music industry. So I'm not really looking forward to our automating the production of music. 7. Is there a scarcity of music or is there a glut of music? Both. We're living in an age where there has been more music available than ever before. Yet we're also in an age where I've heard it being complained about over and over again that music in the old days was so much better. One exceptionally worrying trend is that the hottest concert draws have been the same acts who have been around in the 20th century - the old wrinkled rock stars, the indie musicians of the 80s and 90s. We're celebrating a lot of 20th anniversaries of great albums but relatively little of the 10th anniversaries of great albums and I find that very troubling. So this is a paradoxical age whereby we have both a glut and a scarcity. This is important because when AI comes online and music is being churned out en masse, we could see the same situation: so much music lying around and people are constantly complaining about the quality of it. 8. Will AI render human music makers as useless? Possibly not. There is every possibility that when AI is advanced enough humans and computers will be living in exquisite harmony, and we'll be teaching each other newer and more profound patterns of music all the time, and we will be in an age of everlasting happiness. Of course, by that time we would probably also have been enslaved by our own creations and working 15 hour days all the time and too tired to care.    Embed Quote 