★What will be the next big thing in artificial intelligence in the next 10 to 20 years?
Note: I haven't gone into detail with the following, mainly because, I am not well versed with all these areas. I have, though, shared relevant sources to help you understand better! Plus, these are the areas which, I think, have a lot of scope for RnD. Deep Learning -Deep learning is based on the theory that - "human intelligence stems from a single algorithm". It, basically, involves development of (artificial) neural networks that can gather information and can understand what objects can look like (not restricted to just what they look like). So you provide the system with a huge amount of data so that the system can itself learn from that data. Quite a lot of research groups are now involved in this research, including Andrew Ng and Google (Entire list - Deep Learning Research Groups) have been working on this and there have been quite a few developments in this area in the past few years. It's applications can be quite significant in the field of computer vision and other areas I believe. There is a detailed talk on this subject (too long, ignore if you have to!)   - You can refer to the following sources - Why Google Is Investing in Deep Learning | MIT Technology Review New Techniques from Google and Ray Kurzweil Are Taking Artificial Intelligence to Another Level | MIT Technology Review Using large-scale brain simulations for machine learning and A.I. IBM Watson This is more of an implementation rather than a concept (of A.I).  This computer was mainly designed to answer questions posed in a natural language. In fact, in 2011, it beat the world's two best player in the game show - Jeopardy! (Source - IBM's Watson Jeopardy Computer Shuts Down Humans in Final Game). It is now, I think, being used (well, not used but learning) in the domain of medical diagnosis. I find this to be quite interesting actually. This could have a lot of scope in AI (implementation point of view) if researched properly. Source - IBM Watson Robotics The field of robotics, needs A.I to survive be it in any form - motion/path planning, navigation, computer vision, HCI. A.I combined with robotics is another huge field. I am merely giving you examples of the kind of work that's being done, as I think (previously mentioned) that these areas will be the main focus in Robotics for coming few years. Motion Planning There are a lot of different topics in which motion-planning can be implemented. Some of these are what interest me - The work being done by ETH Zurich on UAVs. Motion planning involved in Humanoids like work being done by Boston Dynamics Nao humaoid Work on the PR2 - Overview | Willow Garage There are a lot more applications when it comes to Robotics + A.I, but I am still not up-to-date with quite a lot of them. So, as per my comment on your question as well, there is a lot of scope in each of the sub and related domains of A.I. It should be upto you which side interests you more, which you can stick to throughout. And it's upto you, what you make of the knowledge/opportunity/technology at your disposal!    Embed Quote