★Is Artificial Intelligence the force of attraction for all programmers?
No. Some enthusiastic high school kids who are interested in computers, naive fresh out of college newbie programmers, and deluded singularity zealots who should know better may think that HAL 9000 is around the corner and may be drawn to computer science for that reason. Most experienced programmers -- and I mean by virtue of their experience -- realize how far we are away from solving the general problem of artificial intelligence. Further many experienced programmers understand that throughout the history of digital computers there has been a faction that has argued that truly artificially intelligent machines are within reach and that that faction has been consistently wrong; their predictions have not come to pass, have in fact been laughable, yet such a faction persists and has the ear of the naive and the deluded. Given the above most experienced programmers don't give a shit about solving the general problem of artificial intelligence. It's hard to give a shit about something that isn't going to happen. Physicists don't go to crackpot symposiums about faster than light travel and constructing time portals for the same reason. Now many programmers are interested in something that is called artificial intelligence. That something is a hodgepodge of domains and problems that have been labeled "A.I." because of mostly arbitrary historical reasons, e.g., game AI -- mostly DFA-based multi-agent simulations, machine learning (which bullshit aside should actually be called iterative statistical optimization algorithms or something like that), machine players for board games, speech-to-text algorithms, various computational linguistic algorithms, various kinds of optimization algorithms generally, etc.  These things basically have nothing to do with "strong AI" -- they are all a part of  what actually exists that is called artificial intelligence because of quirks of the sort of engineering culture of the 1950s and 1960s, its fads and fashions, more than anything else.    Embed Quote Updated 14 Oct, 2014. 579 views.