Will artificial intelligence render human music makers as useless?
To think deeper about this question, we must first go back to the definition of music. I define music as the creation of a form, encased with the knowledge of human feeling, expressed in sound and virtual time. So, what does artificial intelligence need to be able to accomplish to create music (and playing music requires the same skills)? First, it needs to create sound in virtual time.  Accomplished. Second, it needs to create a form. You might think we're close, but let's come back to it. Third, it needs to have knowledge of human feeling. They're not close. Yes, soon computers will exceed the processing power and memory power of human brains, but will they ever have what we recognize as feelings? If they do, will they resemble human feelings? How do we teach computers to feel, or to at least recognize what we feel? If artificial intelligence can mimic human emotion, does that really count as a knowledge of human feeling? Right now we're so far away that we aren't even sure if artificial intelligence can ever get there. But for the purposes of discussion, let's imagine that artificial intelligence can attain some level of emotional feeling. Can it create music then? No, for our second point is that it needs to create a form encased with the knowledge of human feeling. That doesn't mean that you create an empty bucket and fill it with music. The form of the music is directly tied to a symbolic expression of human feeling. So computers must not only understand human feelings, but must understand 1) how to express those feelings, and 2) how to create a formal expression that symbolizes those human feelings. That requires knowledge of subjects like rhetoric--how ideas are communicated, how we speak, choose words, etc. It must also understand how humans react to sounds we hear in real life. Which instrument should play the melody of a memorial to dead children, a sweet violin or a blaring trumpet? We understand that the violin is better, but how would artificial intelligence know this? We could tell it exactly which instruments should play what, of course, but that wouldn't work either. The musical world is full of events which "shouldn't work" according to our assumptions, but actually do work artistically. To really be able to compose music, computers need to be able to not only be smarter than us, but to understand how we think about everything--essentially, to understand how we see the world. Until an artificial intelligence can master all of this, it is destined to mimicry. Some computers can already do this well--choose notes and chords that sound good together in a logical pattern (according to our rules of diatonic harmony) and using instruments in a pattern that we have controlled so carefully so that it cannot fail. That works for background music--music that you can listen to while you're doing something else. In a sense it is analogous to a computer-generated screen saver image. It may be pretty to look at. But to actually function as art, it is completely inadequate. One analogy it brings to mind is our trip to the moon in 1969. We got men to the moon and back in under 10 years, but 45 years later, we've never sent anybody to Mars. At first it seems like the same trip, only longer, but it's really not. To go to the moon you need to bring everything to stay alive for 1 week--basically food, water, oxygen, and a few other things. To go to Mars, however, you need to bring everything to stay alive for years (or forever, if you're there to stay). That's a lot more stuff, and it requires knowledge of living in space, reusing water, reusing oxygen, medical procedures, etc. In reality it is much more complicated. The same can be said of artificial intelligence creating music on a level to replace humans. My conclusion is to say that for the foreseeable future, artificial intelligence will never replace humans.  Of course, never is a long time, and computers keep improving according to Moore's law. I think that if it does happen, so much will have changed about humanity and our concept of Life that it almost becomes an absurd discussion.    Embed Quote 