Is it possible to create artificial intelligence? And why or how?
Very unlikely. I will give you one example of something we do every day, but is probably impossible to program a computer to do. Like today, there was a "Wet Paint" sign in the stairwell.  Just think of the kinds of knowledge and judgment that goes into interpreting this sign: (1)  We see a rectangular piece of paper or cardboard, and a piece of masking tape holding it up.   We realize that this is a "sign", and it's not a permanent sign, it's a very temporary one.  We only know this because we know the durability of paper or cardboard and the sticyness of a small piece of masking tape.  And we recognize masking tape.  And we also note that it's not very accurately placed, it's at a bit of an angle.  And we also know that sometimes things are placed at an angle intentionally, but utilitarian signs are no the kinds of artsy things that are intentionally hung at an angle, so we know the sign was put up in haste, and we know that people's time is limited and expensive, so things are put up in haste if it saves time.  (2)  We read the words.  That is not so easy, as the signs came free with buying 20 gallons of stairway banister paint, and they were made up by an artist at Sherwin-Williams, so the letters are intentionally drawn as crude brush-strokes, so they're a bit difficult to read.   And we know to ignore the borders which show a panoply of Sherwin-Williams products, and we ignore the earth with paint being dropped all over it.   This box is too small to describe how we know those things are ads and that we can ignore them and that the image of the planet is not to be taken seriously, that would take 1000 pages of English to explain and nobody has a clue how to program a computer to understand the concept of an "Ad" and how to evaluate it and how to understand its meaning, validity, and purpose, and its relevance to our current task..  We would have to have the judgement to first interpret the spree as a "planet", and we would have to know that we are on a planet, and it's probably depicting our planet, and that dropping paint on a planet is a metaphor, not to be taken literally, and that we are supposed to be "impressed" by a paint that covers a planet, but not really in that way, and it would take another dozen pages of English to explain why someone would go to the trouble of drawing this image and putting it on a piece of paper and how they judged that it was worthwhile to do so, economically, esthetically, or just for "brand building", another 5,000 pages of text or code to explain and process that, if that is even possible to code.  (3)  Then we think, oh, "wet paint".  We know what they're getting at.  "Wet paint" is not interesting in and of itself, but it is implying that there IS wet paint, and it's not in a paint can, it has been spread by some unseen someone, in the recent past, and that while wet paint is a very useful thing in a can, and it's useful to spread it,  it can transfer to places where we don't want it.  Sometimes we DO want to paint ourselves, with suntan lotion, or water, or soapy water, and sometimes as cosmetics, even with paint, but we want to do these things at a particular time and place and not with the kind of paint that is put onto banisters.   Another 1000 pages of English to parse those subtle distinctions, at least, plus  nobody has a clue how to program a computer to understand the concept of an "Wet Paint" and how to evaluate it and how to understand its meaning, validity, and purpose, and its relevance to our current task.. . (4)And we also know that the someone that put on the paint did not do so with the idea that we were welcome to take some of it off, they were actually probably employed (employed? 100 pages on that), by someone who paid for the paint to be applied to the banisters to provide an esthetic effect, or to prevent rusting, which results in an entropic loss, which is undesirable because the building was built with someone's money, and people want to preserve their investments, so they make a judgment as to what is cheaper, let the banisters rust, or paint them, or if it's an esthetic thing, they judge whether coral pink is in "fashion", and it would take another 1,000 pages to explain economics of painting over rust, and fashion and still not do it, and why you would want fashionable colors in a stairwell, another dozen pages of text  and nobody has a clue how to program a computer to understand the concept of corrosion and investment" and how to evaluate it and how to understand its meaning, validity, and purpose, and its relevance to our current task.. . (5) And we have just scratched the surface.  We need to know about paint, how it sticks to various things, how it dries, how some kinds of paint have a distinctive smell when they're wet, and how some paints have lead or mercury and how those things are undesirable to have on or in our bodies, and why death or degeneration is undesirable, another few thousand pages there of just English to really explain those concepts and again,   nobody has a clue how to program a computer to understand the concept of "stickiness and smell and undesirability of having wet paint on your clothes, or the undesirability of the paint spreader to have their paint mussed up" and how to evaluate it and how to understand its meaning, validity, and purpose, and its relevance to our current task.. . (6) And that's not all.  We might also notice that the "Wet paint" sign is not really applicable, as it's curled and yellowed so it's obviously been up for months, and paint dries in less time than that.   That would take a whole lot of code too. (6) Or that the sign is lying on a step, so it's probably fallen off something else much higher up.  (7) Or that the "Wet Paint" sign has a picture of an electric guitar and the words "12:30", so you realize that there is a band called "Wet Paint" playing at 12:30 in the atrium.     and nobody has a clue how to program a computer to understand the concept of  music and how it's desirable for humans to listen to it and how to evaluate it and how to understand its meaning, validity, and purpose, and its relevance to our current task.. (8) Or you see that it's really a stack of 25 "wet paint" signs held together along the top by a thin glue strip, so it's a "pad" of such signs and that means they have not been applied yet, so never mind.  (9) Or you see a picture of a model with what looks like a sprayed-on and wet bathing suit.  Oh, it's an advertisement (9999 pages to explain why there are advertisements, what one is, how they're generated, how the normal rules of veracity are severely broken in ads, and how there is a saying "that suit looks like it is painted on", and how some person named their swimwear line "Wet Paint".  Oh, another 999999 pages of code to explain why humans wear swimwear in the water, and why they go in the water, but how many of them just cover themselves with some kind of paint and just lie near the water.   and nobody has a clue how to program a computer to understand the concept of these things and how to evaluate it and how to understand its meaning, validity, and purpose, and its relevance to our current task.. (10) And there's more, it's quite possible that we are the person that put up the Wet Paint signs, and we know that was yesterday, and we know the drying time of the paint, given the temperature and humidity, and we know that while the paint is still somewhat soft, we don't have to use extreme care.  Or we know that we only put on one coat, so we can ignore the signs and apply a second coat.   Or we know we are the supervisor of the painter, so we're supposed to carefully touch the paint to see if it's dry.  Or we know that those orange flames above us are not there for decoration, but they're the paint, on fire, and therefore we should adjust our priorities and ignore any Wet Paint signs if they interfere with our getting out of the building. and nobody has a clue how to program a computer to understand the concept of a "fire"and how to evaluate it and how to understand its meaning, validity, and purpose, and its relevance to our current task.. (11) And there's more!  We "know", that wet paint as it dries it goes through a sticky phase, and doors are usually considered more functional if they're not stuck with paint, but they very often are stuck, due to locks and push -bars and closer sprintgs with dashpots because don't you know a spring will accelerate a door and it will make an annoying thwack, so another 88 pages to explain why certain noises are annoying but you really do want to hear at least a click of the door closing for security, so another 9999 pages explaining 3D enclosures and the desirrablity of keeping out certai temperatures of air and certain kinds of people and animals.  So at least another 99999 pages explaining the socilogy of space, privacy, weather, and nogoodniks.  S back to the door, you don't want to close doors or they will stick closed, so if there are any doors propped open they should be left open. And yo have to know that doors are not all that strong , if wooden, so you don't want to put a wedge by the door hinge, but further out, and how now the door is sticking to the wedge, but the surface area is sucha nd the placement is such that we don't care about the stickyness and from human sight lines we don't notice a little bit of missing paint along that door edge.  Hmm, lots more pages to explain and understand all those things.  However you "know" that open doors on a stairwell are very dangerous, so you can judge whether it's better to close the doors and be safe or leave them open and take the risk.  Which means you have to be able to estimate the risks and downsides of all the possible scenarios.  Is the building full of children or old people?  Is the building equipped with sprinklers?  So many things to judge.  A computer has no innate ability to gather all this data and appropriately draw a conclusion. All that we do in maybe half a second!  And without having explicitly coded that into our brain algorithms.   I doubt if you could train a computer to make all those judgments, correctly,  or even meta-train it to learn these things by itself, even if you had 75 years.   And that's just the training to make one of ten thousand judgments that we make every day.  See how challenging real AI is?    Very.  Very.  Very. Footnote, about the doorstop:  I used to work with a guy that was in charge of a small datacenter.  He had to prop open the door one day because of water on the floor, and he was sorely puzzled, why the door would not stay open.  He was wedging the rubbery doorstop about an inch from the door hinge.  So you see, even humans can be a bit lacking in basic I.    Embed Quote Updated 20 Aug, 2014. 1,050 views.