What are the coolest artificial intelligence companies (startups or otherwise?)
Vicarious (www.vicarious.com) Elon Musk is demonstrably one the most effective value creators of our time. Every venture he takes on tends to be about shifting entire paradigms; and companies that are successful at shifting paradigms are ultimately the ones with the highest value and impact potential. Betting against him has never paid off; just ask the guys who tried to short Tesla in the early days.    Chart of the Day: Tesla Shorts Throw in the Towel - MoneyBeat - WSJ Tesla is at $200+ with seemingly endless upside as it paves the way to a greener auto industry.  Their most recent move to open source their IP only solidifies their role as THE leader of innovation in this new age of the (sexy) electric car. At the same time, SpaceX is  ready to for the first time ever, to fly a rocket back from orbit and land it vertically back on earth.  A few years ago, the entire  aerospace establishment said this was simply not possible; that such a development was both cost and technology prohibitive. And yet- this is the video from the most recent SpaceX launch, and it's successful reentry, return and soft landing of the Falcon 9 first stage. The magnitude of what you see in that video is hard for the less that super geeky to comprehend; but it quite literally the dawn of the space age. Reusaulity in rockets decreases the cost of doing business in space by orders of magnitude;  this massive reduction in barrier to entry will change the world in ways we can only imagine. It is akin to the invention of the printing press or the internet.  Many may not yet understand it; but watching that video you watch the world change in a very profound way; and the value that will generate is immeasurable. Just a few years ago, this all sounded entirely absurd- check out this article and throwback interview of Elon on Colbert. Elon Musk Is Making Good On Promises To Stephen Colbert WTF does this have to do with AI? Elon Musk And Mark Zuckerberg Have Invested $40 Million In A Mysterious Artificial Intelligence Company Elon is like the guy who can't lose at the craps table; it doesn't take a genius to starting putting your chips where he puts his.  I don't know Zuck, but he has also demonstrated himself to be a damn good jockey.  The recent picks ups of Oculus VR, WhatsApp, and Instagram are all astute and strategic pick ups that extend the viability and influence of his empire into the next generation of consumer technologies. If both of these guys have put their chips down - seems like we should at least be paying close attention.    Embed Quote 