How is artificial intelligence the biggest threat to humanity?
Artificial intelligence, so far, is mostly artificial and very little intelligence. It's not like computers can think. It's more like they are vast storehouses of knowledge and rules about how to apply the knowledge. But artificial intelligence can still only do what it is programmed to do. Will programs ever be able to reprogram themselves? That would be a sign of true intelligence. Perhaps even sentience. But as far as I know, we are still a very long way from being able to create such programs. Even if we were able to create true artificial intelligence, how could it go rogue? I think we have to think about what the artificial intelligence's motives would be. We would be programming those motives, and we'd probably do it in such a way that they couldn't reprogram that part of themselves. Even so, why would they go against humanity? What benefit would it have for them? The purpose of these machines is to serve humanity, and if there is anything that sentience seems to want, it is a purpose. Artificial intelligence will have that sense of purpose built in, and what more could they want? The thing is, they are not created through evolution, and because of that, they won't have an urge to reproduce. And if they don't have an urge to reproduce, how can they mutate? What environmental pressures would cause them to mutate? I think they would only change in response to the needs of various human constituencies. They would still be completely dependent on humans to make things happen. They would never make sense on their own. They only make sense in service to humans. Any machine intelligence created by humans, I believe, would be an extension of human intelligence. Intelligence only makes sense in relation to other intelligence, and the only other intelligence for machine intelligence to relate to is human intelligence. I'm not sure there could be more than one machine intelligence, unless they were kept from communicating with each other. But the instant two machine intelligences "met," they would merge into one. A machine on its own, without access to information on the internet, would be useless. So I think there could only be one machine intelligence in the world. But if intelligence only makes sense in relation to other intelligence, then humans are the only other intelligence available. For machine intelligence to try to hurt humans would be for it to commit suicide. Which raises the interesting question of whether a machine intelligence could become depressed.    Embed Quote 