Will artificial intelligence render human music makers as useless?
Image via  If H. Jon Benjamin Voiced HAL 9000 Maybe, you never really know what the future holds in store. However, I predict the likelihood is extremely low. In the arts, new technologies do not always eliminate the status quo. Efficiency and optimization of a "product" is not relevant when dealing with such subjective experiences and aesthetics. Historically when innovations were made to existing means to create art, new trends or styles would occasionally emerge, though prior means would often remain as an active specialist group. For instance, when the electric keyboard was invented musicians continued to perform on the older pianoforte (piano) and composers continued to write for the piano. The same goes for the piano - harpsichord relationship before that. When it comes to creative efforts, "new and improved" does not necessarily improve the art. We have had the ability to produce computer music entirely based from programmed algorithms, even "smart" A.I. composition that adapts, for a number of years already.  The biggest problem is that there is no universal rule book for writing a good composition. For every characteristic that is present in 10 masterpieces, there will be 10 more that are built on the opposite principle. Beyond rule books, musical innovation requires a thorough understanding of cultures, trends, drama, history, societies, along with many other topics. With this in mind, how could one codify an artificial intelligence when our natural intelligence does not even fully comprehend the details of human preferences? There is such diversity in musical style and taste that the likely outcome would not be to render human music makers as useless, but rather to empower human music making with unmatched artistic tools. If someday we were able to better codify the human condition it would be a great advancement for composers, not something for composers to fear. Until then you might be interested in these articles: Artificial music: The computers that create melodies Virtual Composer Creates New Music    Embed Quote 