★What will be the next big thing in artificial intelligence in the next 10 to 20 years?
All or most of these areas have plenty of unsolved problems and plenty of scope for a graduate student. These are exciting times! I can talk of computer vision specifically, since I work in that field. What I say here I have probably said on Quora before, but I can't find where. Object recognition: Computers are still bad at recognizing things. We have made tremendous progress in the past few years and progress is likely to continue. Object recognition has moved from recognizing centered objects in typical poses to objects in unconstrained settings in cluttered scenes. The problem of "recognition" has also branched out into "segmentation" (mark out the pixels belonging to the object), "pose estimation" (in both 2D and 3D), recognizing the actions and activities being performed and so forth. There is a lot to be done here, since in all these tasks there is a significant performance gap. We are also beginning to move in the direction of more and more categories. Depth : While understanding the geometry of a scene, typically from multiple views, has been studied for a long time now, there is a lot of recent work on understanding geometry from single images. Some of it also ties in to recognition ("is this a flat horizontal surface?"). As consumer depth cameras have started coming out we are now also talking about what we can do if we get our hands on depth information. This might be a big shift from the "old-school" RGB images to "new age" RGBD images, and the implications are anyone's guess. Learning : I only dabble in learning, so I can't say much here. However, as the difficulty of problems we are looking at is increasing rapidly (from simple classification to predicting all kinds of structure) the need for newer tools and better algorithms is constantly there. Of late "deep learning" techniques have also burst into the scene, and, at least in terms of computer vision, there are indications these "off-beat" (in some sense; what in science is ever mainstream?) algorithms may perhaps end up becoming the method of choice.    Embed Quote