How is artificial intelligence the biggest threat to humanity?
To clear up a few other answers for this question: self-referential  learning has been an area of research since the late 80's with some interesting results: Metalearning. So yes, we already have programs that are able to update its own rules based on new evidence (Recurrent neural networks), or change by reordering its own modules (Genetic programming), or updating its own parameters (Evolutionary programming), etc. As Jürgen Schmidhuber puts it, "Metalearning may be the most ambitious but also the most rewarding goal of machine learning." But  the question is, how well does current artificial intelligence fair  when competing with humans? This is a very complex question. And just to  scratch the surface, we need to look at human vs. machine in several  different perspectives: 1. On some very specific search tasks, AI can out perform human by a wide margin. We have chess algorithms that will always beat our best human chess players. IBM Watson (computer) is able to win against any humans on answering trivia. 2. AI is catching-up fast in the task of pattern recognition. Visual - Google computer recognizing cat. Microsoft Kinect Audio - Speech recognition, Shazam Abstract - Natural language processing, inference of integer sequences, bioinformatics...basically all machine learning problems outside of machine vision and language technologies. 3.  AI algorithms are able to communicate abstract concepts with each other  at a much faster speed and much lower latency than humans Knowledge representation and reasoning 4.  The fundamental challenge in AI is reasoning, reapplication of domain  knowledge, and application of learning outside of domain. Intelligence  in higher living organisms is a difficult thing to understand. But one  thing we are certain is that in order for knowledge to be more useful,  learning results must be flexibly reused. For humans, we call that  reasoning and creativity. In machines,  our solutions to problems are typically greedy - we create an algorithm  that solves a particular problem or type of problems very well, and the  program does not even consider other problems. The moral of the story is, so far artificial intelligence has only been able to enrich human lives and aid in human efforts. Machines are incapable of a high level of creativity and reasoning to the point that they act against human interest without explicit rules by the programmer. (virus, spywares). Aside: Stephen Hawking might be a great theoretical physicist, but listening to him talk about AI is akin to listening to Steve Jobs talk about theoretical physics.    Embed Quote 