★Why does WiFi "relieve" a cellular network? Does it actually use a different network?
The quick answer is yes; it uses a totally different network. Read on, if you want to understand the difference more clearly. -------------- Suppose you live on a large ranch in the middle of nowhere. You still need supplies, right? The question is what is the most efficient way of delivering supplies to your doorstep. Clearly there are two factors at play here. One is the quality of the public roads that connect your estate to the rest of the world - this determines how fast vehicles delivering your supplies can reach your estate. The other is the quality of roads inside your estate that determines how fast suppliers can reach your doorstep after they have reached your estate. Wi-Fi is analogous to the roads inside your estate. It is a personal network that you set up and you maintain. In order for it to provide any utility though, it must be linked to a bigger network (e.g. a fixed broadband network). Without that link, the Wi-Fi network would not be of much use. Where do cellular networks come in, you ask? Well, now imagine an air mail service (your estate is rather remote). The service operates a helicopter that can air drop goods to any part of your estate, roads or no roads. The catch is that it is expensive to operate and can only carry so many goods at a time. You are not convinced you need it so the service provider says you can have it for almost free and as often as you like. Well now of course you sign on but unfortunately so do your neighbours so before you know it, the air mail service is stretched to the limits and bleeding the service provider to death. What does the service provider do? It cannot afford to put more helicopters in the air - too expensive! It cannot afford to charge you what the service really costs to provide because then you won't use it. What it does is it tells you it will take care of all your delivery needs, by the most appropriate channel, whether by air or by land. You don't mind because you are paying for the result - your supplies are getting delivered - and the service provider doesn't mind because now the helicopter is only needed for a fraction of delivery instances; the remaining times he can offload the delivery logistics to the road network which is much cheaper. The price he charges you is a blended average which reflects this delivery mix. Cellular networks are like the air drop service. Wi-Fi offloading is analogous to the service provider offloading deliveries from expensive helicopters to the cheaper road network. ---------------- End of analogy. I hope that helps. Feel free to ask a follow up question, if it doesn't.