★Why does WiFi "relieve" a cellular network? Does it actually use a different network?
"Mobile Handoff" is the phrase you'll hear used a great deal regarding this topic. It's starting to become a reality as mobile users consume ever greater amounts of bandwidth, driven by the growth of mobile video and social networking. Typically a mobile operator will allow a handset to 'roam' onto a WiFi network for Internet access. Voice and SMS stays on the Cellular network. The same as happens when you are using a home/work/hotspot WiFi network now, the major difference is that the mobile handoff process is automated. If your device has WiFi turned on and sees a signal from your operator's WiFi infrastructure it will happen without intervention from the user. How are they different? The cellular network is comprised of varying types of cells, large and small. These are connected to the operator's core network using microwave and fibre links. Building cells is expensive and providing good 4G coverage requires a high cell density. WiFi based mobile infrastructure is a lower cost rollout and good way for providers to relieve capacity on the more costly cellular network. As well as being a lower cost to roll out, WiFi networks have a lower ongoing cost. It all makes sense in a highly competitive market. As Bill rightly points out theoretical bandwidth speeds are also higher due to wider channels being used. The 2.4Ghz frequency (802.11b/g/n) has a wider coverage area than 5Ghz (802.11a/n) as lower frequencies will travel further. However, that 2.4Ghz spectrum is highly susceptible to interference from other sources using the same band. This is further complicated by only having three non-overlapping channels. 5Ghz has many more non-interfering channels, up to 21, depending on the country it is deployed. However coverage areas are lower due to the increased signal attenuation at higher frequencies. Mobile devices also have to balance the power of the radio operation with battery life. This generally means that a mobile device needs to see a better signal than say, a laptop. There are issues to work around but the overall benefits of mobile handoff to WiFi are worth the capital and effort required and it is an important part of the network as mobile operators expand their high speed networks.