★Wireless Technology: Who first developed practical multiuser MIMO systems for cellular networks?
PU2RC (per-user unitary and rate control) can a candidate technology which enables multi-user MIMO concept for cellular network. The following describes the concept of PU2RC (refer to Wikia): (http://humancommunications.wikia...) Per-User Unitary Rate Control (PU2RC) is the advanced multi-user MIMO technique which utilizes the concept of both pre-coding matrices and  scheduling to enhance the system performance of multiple antenna  wireless networks. Background technologies A single-user MIMO was  initially developed to improve the spectral efficiency of point-to-point  wireless transmission link. A multi-user MIMO was developed for  cellular wireless systems where the base station communicates with multiple users  simultaneously. Principle and Application The concept of Per-User Unitary Rate Control (PU2RC) was proposed in US Patent No. 7,324,480, Mobile communication apparatus and method including base station and mobile station having multi-antenna by James S. Kim, Kwang Bok Lee, Kiho Kim and Changsoon Park. Recently, PU2RC has been adopted in the IEEE 802.16m  system description documentation (SDD) and the concept of this scheme  was included in 3GPP LTE standard. Technology Per-User Unitary Rate Control (PU2RC) is the first  practical multi-user MIMO scheme. In this scheme different data may  simultaneously be transmitted to multiple users from the base station. Serving users are selected from the set of  service-requesting users by the base station using the information  provided by users. Data transmitted to mobile users are multiplied by a pre-coding  matrix selected from the set of predefined matrices before transmission.  The selection of a pre-coding matrix is made based on the information  provided by users. The selection of users and a pre-coding matrix using the  information provided by mobiles enables the utilization of multi-user  diversity and reduces feedback overhead from users to the base station. Pre-coding matrices used in this scheme is unitary. The use of  unitary pre-coding matrices facilitates the estimation of interference  from other users’ data to the unintended user. Advantages For larger codebook sizes the performance can be better than the  performance of the unit-size codebook. Because of codebook-based  multi-user scheduling, PU2RC outperforms the conventional  single-user and no scheduling scheme when the number of users is larger than one. Note that the performance plotted in the figure for the two  systems were obtained assuming linear receiver. PU2RC Source and Background Materials Source Materials James S. Kim, K. B. Lee, et al., Mobile communication apparatus  and method including base station and mobile station having  multi-antenna, US PTO 7,324,480 S.  J. Kim, H. J. Kim, C. S. Park, and K. B. Lee, "On the Performance of  Multiuser MIMO Systems in WCDMA/HSDPA: Beamforming, Feedback and User  Diversity," IEICE Transactions on Communications, vol. E98-B, no. 8, pp.  2161–2169, Aug. 2006. 3GPP TSG RAN WG1#31 R1-030354, Per unitary basis stream user and rate Control (PU2RC), 3GPP TSG-R1-030354, Tokyo, Fed 18-21, 2003. (See also R1-030130) Samsung, SNU, “Downlink MIMO for EUTRA,” in 3GPP TSG RAN WG1 # 44/R1-060335 Enhanced Methods Multiuser MIMO Scheme for Enhanced 3GPP HSDPA Kim, J.S., Hojin Kim, Yongxing Zhou, Jianjun Li, ``Multi-Mode Multi-User MIMO System with Finite Rate Feedback, IEEE Wireless Communication Systems, 2006. ISWCS '06. 3rd International Symposium on, 6-8 Sept. 2006 Background References R. W. Heath, Jr., M. Airy, and A. J. Paulraj, "Multiuser  Diversity for MIMO Wireless Systems with Linear Receivers," Proc. of the  IEEE Asilomar Conf. on Signals, Systems, and Computers, pp. 1194 -1199,  vol.2, Pacific Grove, California, Nov. 4 - 7, 2001. A. Kogiantis and L. Ozarow, "Downlink best-effort packet data  with multiple antennas," ICC’03, Volume 1, 11-15 May 200... (more)Loading...