★Wireless Routers: Why do modems take time to connect to the Internet when just turned on, as opposed to my phone, which connects to the net as soon as I turn on mobile data?
The act of establishing a data connection over a communications medium consists (roughly) of three phases: Physical connection:  A modem establishes a communications channel on a physical medium by negotiating with its partner device based line conditions, noise, and interference, and selecting an optimum modulation scheme based on those conditions (remember: MODEM is a shortened version of MOdulator/DEModulator).  The more unpredictable the channel, the more time this tends to take.  The process of establishing an optimal digital communications path over an analog channel is called "training."  Some communication channels are very strictly defined and can come up quickly (like limited distance twisted pair Ethernet) but some communications channels are more varied and take a longer time to train (such as dial up modems, cable modems, and DSL). Logical connection: Once a physical connection is stabilized, a logical connection is formed, typically consisting of an authentication and authorization phase in which the headend of the connection determines what capabilities and kinds of services and speeds are available to the end user.  The generally happens quickly, based on how fast the authentication server responds. Release to end users: Once the connection is up and authenticated, the end user applications can start using it, either through some API or through an offered IP address. So why is my phone faster? In the case of your phone, the first two time-consuming phases are completed as the phone boots up.  A data channel gets established and authenticated to carry voice and text communication, so mobile data, once activated, can instantly use the already established channel.  Presumably, the authorization to use that channel for data had been already established during the boot up phase. Similarly, in the case of a cable modem, once the modem is powered up, trained, and authenticated, additional users can be added with nearly zero delay, just like turning on mobile data on the phone.