★What would cause other circuits in my home to work only when the hot water heater (which is on its own 240V circuit) is switched on? Why did moving the breakers for those non-functioning circuits to other spots in the breaker box fix the problem?
It seems an unlikely case but maybe the common (ground) has broken continuity somewhere in the breaker box.  Your 240 volt appliance could continue to function because it recieves its 240 volts across the 2 out of phase active lines and not between an active line and common.  It may also be possible that when your water heater switches on, it has a switch which connects its common line to ground.  If the common line in the water heater is connected to the common line of all the other appliances, then the other appliances would suddenly have a return path to ground and begin to operate.  When that connection between common and ground in the water heater is turned off, that path is floating again and the other appliances stop.  Now as to the second part of your question... Why do moving the circuits in your breaker box fix the problem... If my theory is correct, this may help you diagnose where the common is open.  I do not know the configuration of your breaker box.  Sometimes there are multiple common bars (ie one or more sections where each section has a shared common bar.  If one of these sections has a misconnected common from the main power, then every circuit on this section will misbehave in the manner that you described and moving the circuits to another section will fix the problem.  The fix would be to examine the connection of the main power to each section to insure there is good continuity to each section.  If, on the other hand, there is only one section in the breaker box with a continuous 'comon' bar and some of the corcuits work and others don't, then I would be suspicious of a crack in the 'common' bar which is inhibiting return current flow from all the circuits below the crack but no impact to the circuits above the crack.  If this is the problem then the best fix is to replace the entire breaker box.  Technically you can diagnose 'common' opens with a continuity tester assuming you have the main power disconnected.  I would not attempt to diagnose it in this manner with the main power connected as this can lead to serious bodily injury or death.  It may be possible that a simple visual inspection inside the breaker box would show a poprly connected common or some cracking.  All this is only a theory.  It is impossible to know without seeing all your wiring.  But it seems to me that the most likely location for yoir problem is in the breaker box.