★What are the pros and cons of BJT versus FET transistor?
Pros for BJT: BJT's at the same physical dimensions and price can usually give you a lot higher speed, as they have very little input capacitance. BJT's can give you a lot higher gain.  Just take a bunch of components and compare them, and you'll find the BJT's give you better gain characteristics and therefore require fewer gain stages. BJT amplifier stages are much more linear than MOSFET amplifier stages, as the gain doesn't depend on the bias voltage.  This gives better fidelity. BJT's are capable of handling higher output currents for signal outputs and can have lower output impedance.  In amplifiers intended to drive a low input impedance load or deliver significant amounts of power, this is a huge advantage.  Many of the highest quality op amps are made with a BiCMOS process using a BJT pair for the output buffer stage. Cons for BJT: BJT's are current-operated devices rather than voltage-operated.  Most of the time this means higher power consumption. BJT's have an input-output relationship that can be basically inverted by biasing the terminals opposite to their intended design.  What this means is that a sloppy amplifier design can much more easily end up with positive feedback and therefore go unstable.  I've seen this before in one of my earlier designs in school, and the TA didn't figure it out.  (I did, but not until much later). BJT's have lower input impedance.  This means a higher output impedance device may not couple very well to the input of a BJT amplifier. BJT's are harder to scale.  FETs are easy. Related:  BJT's have pretty significant variations from transistor to transistor, while FETs don't as much. It's harder to make a good current mirror out of a BJT than a FET. Pros for MOSFET: They're really easy to scale.  Want precisely half the current?  Just make the gate half as wide. High input impedance.  At low frequencies, essentially infinite. Since the outputs are controlled by input voltage instead of input current, they consume can consume very little power.  The reason CMOS logic won out over other process technologies is power consumption, combined with scalability.  In a CMOS circuit, gate to gate power is only consumed when the circuit switches states, while other logic forms consume power to stay in an "on" or "off" position. Considering that most digital circuits are CMOS, using FETS for analog circuit design is much, much cheaper than using BJT's because it doesn't require a whole extra set of process steps. It's pretty easy to make MOSFETs nearly identical.  Transistor-to-transistor matching is simple. MOSFETs are easier to design stable circuits with.  Unless you add feedback, they don't all of a sudden act upside-down and go unstable. Cons for MOSFET: Not as high of fidelity as BJT, since the gain will vary slightly as you increase the input voltage (that is, it will generate some very weak harmonics). Input capacitance.  The higher the gain, the greater the input capacitance thanks to the Miller effect. Can't drive a low-impedance load very well. Low gain per part, which often means more amplification stages are necessary for higher gain, even when using advanced design techniques.  Each amplification stage adds noise -- that is, you can never, ever get a better signal-to-noise ratio at the output than at the input. This list is not comprehensive.  It's just the best I could do off the top of my head.