What mathematical or scientific principle have you discovered on your own only to later learn it was already known?
When I was in 7th grade or so, I discovered Euclid's formula for Pythagorean triples. After we learned the Pythagoras theorem in school, all the exercise problems would involve either the (3,4,5)  triangle or the (5,12,13)  triangle or their multiples to make the calculations easier. It was natural to wander if these were the only right triangles with integer sides. So I set out with the equation a 2 +b 2 =c 2   , noticed that it can be factored as a 2 =(c+b)(c−b)  . I think the next step was the 'Aha!' moment for me. If the product of two relatively prime positive integers were a square, they must be squares themselves. If they are not relatively prime, they will be squares multiplied by a common factor. i.e. they must be of the form (tu 2 ,tv 2 )  where t,u,v  are integers. I realized that I could now solve the equations: c+b=tu 2 ,c−b=tv 2 ,a 2 =t 2 u 2 v 2   to get a general formula, (a,b,c)=(tuv,t2 (u 2 −v 2 ),t2 (u 2 +v 2 ))  This gives all triples of integers or half integers satisfying the Pythagorean  equation. So I can just multiply by 2  to get all the triples of integers. And if I am only interested in non-similar triangles, I might as well drop the common factor: (a,b,c)=(2uv,u 2 −v 2 ,u 2 +v 2 )  Before I discovered this, I used to play hours with the calculator to try out larger and larger numbers to see if there were any two squares whose sum was a square. I don't remember if I found any new ones, but I definitely didn't go very far. Now I could churn out very large numbers by just using the formula, like 68 2 +285 2 =293 2   , without even using a calculator! what was even more amazing was that the formula can generate every possible triple. This was really profound to me, I think it was the first time I realized how deductive reasoning can be tool for accomplishing superficially intractable tasks. Before this, all of the algebra and arithmetic in school were application of algorithms that were pushed down to us. I always knew that there was an answer, and if I just follow the necessary steps we can arrive at the answer in more or less time if the calculations are done correctly, everything seemed obvious and nothing was really going on. Of course I am not the only one to discover this formula independently, it might even be a standard exercise for some introductory courses in number theory. But I was doing this at a time with no exposure to number theory, or even proofs. This was the gateway to the world of mathematical elegance for me. Many people find math rather uninteresting in school. I vividly remember the days when I was in the same camp. I think even more young school-children should be exposed to deductive reasoning at an early age, because it is the true world of mathematics, not repetitious application of known algorithm. I think it is not a question of easy or hard, it is just a paradigm shift in mathematical learning. Many a students, including me formerly, used to think that calculations were all there is to mathematics. But it is not. What I did was a rather simple exercise that anyone could have done. But what it learnt from it, truly changed my perspective for mathematics. Updated 22 Feb 2013 • View Upvotes