Philosophy of Science: Do electrons exist or are they just models to explain physical phenomena?I am well aware that there is a lot of evidence in favor of the electron model. But still can we surely say that it exists? I am confused about my notions of reality. Please help. Make your answer general (not just pertaining to electrons).
There are some really great answers here that should give everyone some excellent reading and thinking. However, I just want to add my two cents about the fundamental nature of what you are asking, as I think it is clarifying on the whole. I suspect you are asking about things being "real" as defined by your ability to experience them sensorily. Can you see it, hear it, smell it, feel it, taste it, etc? Is there a direct, subjective, experiential reality that could reflect the electron, or is it entirely a symbolic construct? The answer, for now, is that it is a symbolic construct, as Barak Shoshany points out (using more of a physics and mathematics lexicon). There may come a time when we can generate more of a sensory experience of the electron. Perhaps we will somehow be able to capture it visually, although how escapes me, as electrons are the very means by which we examine things at the microscopic level. Also, Viktor Toth makes a convincing argument that we already do have sensory experiences of the electron, pointing out that it's all about how we conceptualize our sensory experiences! But while the electron may be a symbolic construct only, keep in mind that most things are. As a sensory-driven organism, you are constantly engaged in a subjective, experiential reality. However, as a human, you are engaging it through a vast, highly-complex realm of symbols (culture + individual symbolic processing) that is powerful and convincing enough that your primary subjective, experiential reality often appears secondary to it. Think about it: everything you "know" about that which you experience, and everything you are able to conjure or think of outside of what you are presently experiencing is all symbolic construct. When you look up at the moon, you do not just experience the moon, but you think of the moon . . . you conjure up thoughts of it pertaining to its name, its shape and size, its composition, its impacts on the tides, its mythological importance, etc. The moon is as much a symbol to us humans as it is an experience. That's because as humans, we rely heavily on symbols to manipulate the world. That's our evolutionary strategy and niche. That's the mother of all tools . . . our most fundamental and powerful technology. As such, the electron may "just be" a symbolic construct, not a "real" thing that we can directly experience through our senses, but it is "real" in the sense of most things being "real" that we can't directly experience. And again, as Barak Shoshany said, it holds up as solidly as any other idea or construct that we use on a regular basis. Enough so, in fact, that it has made its way into the scientific paradigm. As far as symbolic paradigms go, the scientific one is perhaps the most rigorous about what symbols and constructs it allows, as they must behave in certain ways and hold up to a very specific scrutiny and process: the scientific method. 