Philosophy of Science: Do electrons exist or are they just models to explain physical phenomena?I am well aware that there is a lot of evidence in favor of the electron model. But still can we surely say that it exists? I am confused about my notions of reality. Please help. Make your answer general (not just pertaining to electrons).
In physics - and science in general - we can never be 100% sure of anything. Any physical theory or model we can think of must be tested experimentally. If the results do not match the theoretical predictions of the theory, then it is disproved. If they do match, this doesn't mean that the theory is "100% correct". It only means that its predictions coincide with the results of the experiment up to a certain accuracy, which is never 100%, and only in the specific conditions of that experiment. It is possible that under different conditions a theory that was thought to be "correct" would fail miserably. For example, classical mechanics fails at high velocities (where special relativity replaces it) or at microscopic distances (where quantum mechanics replaces it), but it took us a long time to discover this. (Text taken from Particle Physics Beyond the Standard Model: Are we 100% sure the proton is stable?) Photons are real in the sense that they are a crucial part of many physical theories which have been verified experimentally to very high precision. However, all physical theories are mathematical models that approximate reality. We cannot know, and might never know, if the mathematical entities (such as photons) defined by these theories actually exist. We can only know how accurate the approximation is. (Text taken from Philosophy of Science: Are photons real?) What I said above about photons also applies to electrons, and all other physical entities. I cannot tell you if electrons are "real" or even what "real" means. There are many different points of view about this, and hundreds of books were written on the subject. However, this is within the realm of philosophy, not physics. In physics we are only interested in things that we can test experimentally, and philosophical world views are definitely not included in this category. The only thing I can tell you for sure is that in all of the experiments that we have ever performed that involved electrons, the results of the experiment were remarkably consistent with the predictions of the modern model of the electron (quantum electrodynamics). This does not mean that there can't be some other model out there that does not include electrons at all, but is nevertheless still consistent with experimental results - maybe even more so than the electron model. Perhaps there is such a model but we just haven't discovered/invented it yet, and one day it will replace the current model, just like special relativity replaced classical mechanics. Updated 15 Apr • View Upvotes