Philosophy of Science: Do electrons exist or are they just models to explain physical phenomena?I am well aware that there is a lot of evidence in favor of the electron model. But still can we surely say that it exists? I am confused about my notions of reality. Please help. Make your answer general (not just pertaining to electrons).
You may not realize it, but you are asking a fundamental question about the philosophical ideas of separation and unity. The question can further be defined as the difference between discreet and continuous and when you look closely enough you'll find that they exist in a cycling continuum, but I digress. Let me give some examples: Phonons are quantum mechanical treatment of mechanical waves. This means that we treat something we all know to be utterly continuous as though it is discreet. A mechanical wave in a solid can certainly be seen to have no reality to the "particles" we assign to it, yet when we treat the waves as made up of particles we find all the common quantum mechanical behaviors apply. The particles are not arbitrary like a gallon is for water but more closely related to real facts of the medium such as the distance between atoms in a crystalline lattice. So, you can also ask yourself: Does a tornado actually exist? When we think of a tornado we immediately picture a funnel cloud but upon a moment's reflection we know that the damage they do is certainly not confined to the funnel cloud so where is the border of the tornado? The funnel cloud's border is related to something real in that the local air pressure is altered to the point at which the relative humidity causes droplets of water to form in the air and the borderline of the funnel cloud therefore represents the borderline of 100% relative humidity in relationship to the gradient of air pressure surrounding the tornado but it's quite obvious that this is only somewhat meaningful. When you zoom in close to the "borderline" of a cloud, where exactly is that borderline? It quickly becomes a percentage or probability distribution. Furthermore the destructive capability certain extends beyond that area. The circular motion of the winds extends far beyond the destructive capability and each one of these definitions is completely fuzzy in nature. truthfully the tornado is just a focal point of the energy of an entire weather system. The energy contained in the system simply began to concentrate and localize when the whole system happened to come together into the right configuration. Weather systems are tied up in the motion of the earth and the sun so how can the tornado's energy really be separate from the sun's energy? Truthfully, it's simply useful to speak of a tornado but its separation from the whole may be only that, a useful abstraction like the number zero. So, does this mean there other abstractions that may be more useful? Why would they be more useful? Yes, specifically fluid dynamics and an extension/re-work of De Broglie–Bohm / pilot-wave theory are rapidly gaining ground in certain academic circles. Fluid dynamics offers a different scale of viewing effects which might provide a meta-language advantage over previous interpretations. We must understand that our interpretations are not for defining the "truth" but instead narrowing our area of inquiry towards the most productive path of prediction of effects. For instance, there is a tribe of people who use a ceremony of calling upon the spirit of a root of a tree to fish for them and they do so by beating the root into the water. When they do this, fish do indeed rise to the surface. (the root is actually a neurotoxin to fish but not humans) Therefore, in scientific terms, they have results of a theory which can be replicated. The problem is that attempting to extend their theory will result in very little progress. Other roots might have other properties which might result in them creating some medicines with their spirit theory but for the most part they are limited not by their methods of data collection, but instead the interpretation of their results. Whoa, fluid dynamics is a whole new way of viewing particle physics?! Well, it's actually the older view but it has found a resurgence since we have gained knowledge of advanced concepts in plasma physics and behaviors of superfluids and liquid crystals so basically it's a whole new ball game since the time of Maxwell. It may be that, just like the phonon, all our "particles" may simply be other properties, behaviors and border conditions of the underlying medium. Specifically, it was the macro-scale silicon oildrop experiments of Couder et al that really showed us that quantum mechanical effects need not be spooky or truly random at all. ...indeterminacy originally restricted to the atomic domain becomes transformed into macroscopic indeterminacy, which can then be resolved by direct observation. That prevents us from so naively accepting as valid a "blurred model" for representing reality. In itself, it would not embody anything unclear or contradictory. There is a difference between a shaky or out-of-focus photograph and a snapshot of clouds and fog banks. —Erwin Schrödinger commenting on his "cat" analogy It turns out that fluid dynamics can eliminate literally all the spooky magical effects that have snuck into science. Let me start you down that path with an excerpt from the website of a leading researcher in the subject from Cambridge, Ross Anderson: Maxwell's fluid model of magnetism shows that a wavepacket travelling along a phase vortex in an Eulerian fluid obeys Maxwell's equations, is emitted and absorbed discretely, and can have linear or circular polarisation. What's more, the measured correlation between the polarisation of two cogenerated wavepackets is exactly the same as predicted by quantum mechanics, and observed in the Bell tests Here's a laymen's terms video on the experiments that pointed us in a different direction: Here's some more technicals from MIT: Further reading: Shiva Meucci's answer to What predictions does quantum mechanics make that we couldn't verify yet? Shiva Meucci's answer to Why is Bohmian mechanics not very well promoted when it gives a simple and sensible deterministic approach to quantum mechanics? [1401.4356] Why bouncing droplets are a pretty good model of quantum mechanics [1305.6822] Violation of Bell's inequality in fluid mechanics [1301.7351] Why quantum computing is hard [1301.7540] The irrotational motion of a compressible inviscid fluid Updated 30 Jun • View Upvotes