What mathematical or scientific principle have you discovered on your own only to later learn it was already known?
I don't think this would be so uncommon, but since this was one of my personal discoveries I flaunted so many times before realizing it was a well estabilished concept, it will always have a special place in my memory. I remember when I was just a kid, around 9 yrs old, at a birthday party, a slightly elder guy, my friend's brother gave us a puzzle to solve. He asked us to draw the following image without lifting the pencil, in a single loop, without oversketching any line segment : Both me and my friend tried it for some time, but couldn't do task anyhow. He first loosened the condition, saying that the starting and ending could be different as well, but when we still couldn't do it, he didn't tell us how to do it and left it as a suspense then. But I was so intrigued by this this, I kept thinking about it while going back home. And on the way I was convinced that the loop case is surely not possible. After trying out few things, I was sure why this could not be done. I met the guy again a few days later, and told him my argument. Interestingly, just out of sheer luck, my statement was : "Since every time my pencil reaches a vertex, it has to leave that vertex too, hence every vertex should have one exit for every entry, but we have four vertices out of five here which have three lines touching it. Thats why leave alone having same endpoint and startpoint, we cannot even have them seperate as long as we stay on the paper itself." (The real trick that the question was all about was folding the drawing paper a bit and drawing an extra line segment, not to be visible in the sketch). Suprisingly he was unaware of this argument for impossibility, but now that he couldn't tell me the answer, since I clearly stated the assumption to be staying inside the plane sheet. So he gave another, apparently difficult version: But I simply put my argument again claiming it would work for any odd number, in place of 3. So he told me the solution anyways (and what followed was a younger version of facepalm :P ) I remember proudly stating this argument, claiming "I know this is not possible and can tell you why" many times after that. Birthday parties, classroom free lectures, ... : I found this was a particularly popular riddle involving lateral thinking among kids. And then came the Age of Wikipedia after a few years, when suddenly I hit upon the page of Seven Bridges of Konisberg while surfing through it. And I realized this was simply the concept of Eulerian Paths and Cycles. Not that it was a difficult argument, but the fact that I proudly flaunted it, makes it special. 