How can a seasoned software developer get into bioinformatics?For a person with lots of programming experience, and relatively fair (though outdated) biology knowledge, what would be the best way to start?
A2A. Knowledge of biology is not a big issue here. You can always pick necessary chops on the job. I work in a bioinformatics lab, and my background is in pure mathematics. But I was training to become a data scientist (a la silicon valley). For that, I spent a lot of time coding in Python and R, and read lots of papers on machine learning/data mining. So I joined the lab as a quantitative researcher to do data mining on genomics data. Bioinformatics is an amalgamation of biology, computer science, mathematics, and statistics. If you are good at one of these things, you can try to get a bioinformatics job. In you case, you can try to get a software developer job in a bioinformatics lab/company, where you will be writing softwares for bioinformatics, and you will get an opportunity to understand bioinformatics tasks in your language (CS). Make sure you ask lots of questions, read bioinformatics papers, may a book on bioinformatics algorithms. Bioinformatics is a lot easier if you have a good computer science background e.g. the sequence alignment methods are based on  the same theory as the data compression algorithms and uses data structures like suffix array, genome assembly is finding the Eulerian path in a graph etc. I would not hesitate to say that if bioinformatics is a lot harder if you are a biologist with no CS background, than the other way around.  We have 3-5 developers in our lab, who all write high quality code in Java. Some of us from the research team also write Java codes regularly.  We build softwares for other bioinformaticians and biologists to use. Even though I do most of my analysis in python, I write Java code for the software that we ship. A lot of bioinformatics labs/companies use C++ for their software development. You will get tons of opportunities to show off you coding skills. I have written about background readings for bioinformatics in the following post - Janu Verma's answer to If I want to start with bioinformatics or computational biology, what topics should I learn? What are the actual challenges in this field? I also write about bioinformatics, data mining, and python coding for biology at Random Inferences. Good luck and let me know if I can help in any way. 