Philosophy of Science: Do electrons exist or are they just models to explain physical phenomena?I am well aware that there is a lot of evidence in favor of the electron model. But still can we surely say that it exists? I am confused about my notions of reality. Please help. Make your answer general (not just pertaining to electrons).
Can you say that a table in front of you exists for sure? You see it, but that means you are detecting photons hitting your eye, from which you infer the existence of the table. You feel it, but that means you are detecting minute electromagnetic interactions between your hand and the (presumed) table's surface, from which you infer its existence. You do not directly experience the table. Now take an electron. You do not "see" an electron because as an elementary particle, it is far too small to be seen in visible light. But... a cathode in a CRT emits electrons which you can deflect with electric or magnetic fields to hit a specific part of the screen to form a picture. Or, you can do the same thing in a cloud chamber and visually observe the path of an electron. I'd argue that these means to detect and study even individual electrons are just as valid evidence for the existence of the electron as the evidence provided by your hands or your eyes for the existence of that table. Yes, some things in nature we only experience through instruments, because our senses are limited. Our eyes only see a small part of the electromagnetic spectrum. Our ears are only sensitive to a certain spectrum of mechanical vibrations. Our hands can feel certain things but not others. So we build instruments to extend our senses. Your eyes see an apple; through your instruments, you see an electron. Both are equally real in my opinion. Now when it comes to more ephemeral particles, the inference of their existence is much more indirect. We see the path of an electron in a cloud chamber; we infer the existence of the Higgs boson through complicated statistical analysis of a very, very large number of collision events and minute statistical disturbances. So perhaps the reality of these things can be more legitimately doubted. But the electron is something we almost see directly, and we are certainly very adept at manipulating electrons with century-old technology, like CRT displays. Updated 15 Jun • View Upvotes