What mathematical or scientific principle have you discovered on your own only to later learn it was already known?
Short Answer : Relative Velocity Long Answer : Ever since I can remember, one of my most favorite activities has been travelling by trains. As a 5 year old boy, I used to wait and wait and wait for summer so that we could travel by the train to go to our cousins' place. I did not want to waste the journey, so I would barter deals with my little sister in advance so that I could get the window seats. Since I did not wish to waste my precious time on the train sleeping, I used to lay awake and stare out of the window in the dark, looking at the flickering lights far away and the soft rhythms of the tracks. Now, as I turned 5, a deep desire to travel in the fastest train caught hold of me. I used to spend days arguing with my cousins (my age) as to what the fastest train was. Then, I used to spend the rest of the days convincing my parents to arrange a vacation such that we could travel by that train. I had a small notebook where I used to scribble down all kinds of weird facts and decided to catalogue the fastest train I'd seen. Now, in India, there are titles to various trains, viz. "Mail", "Express" , "Super-fast express" etc. We usually travelled by Mail. Whenever another train crossed ours (in the opp. direction), I used to note that it was faster than ours (it blazed past our train as a blurry block). Immediately, I inquired its name from my father and noted down its name. Based on these observations, I hypothesized that "Superfast express" trains were the fastest. When I was 6, we got to travel by the very train that I'd deemed to be the fastest in the world. I was overjoyed. I was eager to look at the old 'Mail' train and see it chug along slowly as we blaze past it as a blurry dot. To my greatest shock and disappointment, at a point in the journey, when the other "Mail" train crossed ours, *it* was the blurry block that blazed past our train (which appeared to be moving at the same pace). My first reaction was a fierce anger at the engine driver of the other train, who I assumed had conspired against me and deliberately slowed his train down whenever I was in it. But then it dawned on me that that couldn't be the case (after all, people in my own family did not take me seriously, why would he?). After observing a few more trains, I deduced ( in the very same journey ) that when 2 trains move in opposite directions, a person sitting in one sees the other moving with a speed that is equal to his speed + the other train's speed. And the opposite happens when they move in the same direction. I thought that I'd discovered this principle for about 5 more years, until we were taught Relative Velocity in our school. Disappointed though I was, I made up for it by breezing through the problems involving trains, vehicles and rafts moving up/down stream in a river. :) Updated 18 Aug 2012 • View Upvotes