What mathematical or scientific principle have you discovered on your own only to later learn it was already known?
Oh, this should be fun, I remember a few of these things from my childhood.I'm not sure if they count for much. When I was very young, probably 7 or 8, I had a habit of collecting stones. I used to collect stones which I found distinctive and used to give them points and store them in a box. I remember I used to mark them on physical appearance and weight. Since I had no way to weigh them,and I don't remember how I devised this method, I used to put them in a glass and see how much water had risen, mark starting and ending points with a pencil and measuring the difference with a ruler. This was way before I knew it was based on the Archimedes' Principle and I was honestly surprised when I learnt it was something that needed to be studied. Also my parents taught me the mathematical tables quite early on.According to them, I had started doing mental math way before I learnt to read and write. I don't remember that part but what I remember is that I have been using the cyclic properties of numbers for as far back as I can remember. The table of 9 has been my absolute favorite and I remember discovering the digit reversal property as well as the cyclicity of the digits, and using it in my everyday calculations since a very early age. Even today, I break the calculations in my head into parts of 9 rather than 10, as I find it easier to deal with. As a 5th grader, I remember watching some show on Discovery channel, and sitting on my building rooftop for one entire day, making weird markings around a stick stuck in a ball of dough, and measuring shadow lengths and angles with my geometry set. I had made a lot of calculations based on what I had seen in the show in a notebook and then forgotten about it. A few years back, I found that notebook on an old shelf and opened it to see that it had results for the Earth's radius. When I searched on the internet, I found my results were in very close approximation to the actual radius. Boy, was I elated! I further found the proper technique, a reference here: Measure Your World - Calculate . I plan to do it again one of these days, and see if my calculations and patience are any match to those of the 10 year old me. 