What mathematical or scientific principle have you discovered on your own only to later learn it was already known?
When my daughter was 9 and in the 3rd grade (in the USA) I was teaching her about factorials, which she hadn't yet studied in school.  She grasped the concept quickly and she could compute any number's factorial that I gave her (within her ability to multiply).  So I asked her what is the factorial of 0 (zero).  She contemplated a bit and said "I don't know because you said to start at 1 and go up to the number."  "Well, my sugar blossom, maybe it's 0?", I asked confidently (but incorrectly as soon I was to be embarrassed to learn), having forgot that definition in the years since I learned it.  She contemplated some more, perhaps for 30 seconds.  I could only imagine what new thoughts where forming, what new synapse connections where being made in her fresh, unmuddled  brain.  Finally, she declared me to be incorrect.  "And how do you know that, sweat pea?", I asked with the grin of one who knows the correct answer.  Now keep in mind, she's only 9, but she has escaped being a victim of the State of Texas education system since she goes to a private school, but she doesn't know the terminology, so I'm translating a bit because she was a little frustrated not to be able to state clearly what those synapses where telling her.  "Well, you get the factorial by multiplying the number by all the numbers below it.  Dad, that's the same as multiplying the number by the factorial of the number below it, isn't it?", she asked knowingly but for confirmation. "She's just discovered recursion!", I shouted silently to myself with much pride and excitement.  "Yes, you are correct, sugar booger!"  "So if you divide the factorial by the number, you get the factorial of the number below?"  I didn't know where she was going with this, but I confirmed her conclusion. "That means that the factorial of 0 is 1 because the factorial of of 1 is 1 and 1 minus 1 is 0 so the factorial of 0 is 1!"  I still didn't understand where she was headed but I was sure that 0! is 0! (that last "!" is not the symbol for factorial).  We both became frustrated with her trying to explain to her befuddled daddy;  she just lacked the terminology and I wasn't going to listen to 9 year old trying to teach me math.  But she was insistent that she was correct.  So we searched the Internet for  "what is 0 factorial" and we found this ... n!=n(n−1)!  so (n−1)!=n!/n  and for n=1  0!=1  I realized that's precisely what she was trying to tell me.  I gave her a big fat hug and kiss and treated her to her favorite ice cream.  She was unable to tell me how she figured it out other than saying "I just knew it in my head" and "Yeah, I think those equations are what I was thinking".  I was so proud of her.  She grasped recursion and used it to reason out a answer that I had incorrect.  I told my daughter's math teacher about her epiphany and she said "We don't do factorials until next year and we've not even mentioned them this year.  She's bright and bright kids make that kind of discovery from time to time." 