What mathematical or scientific principle have you discovered on your own only to later learn it was already known?
Excellent! It's not everyday that I get to shamelessly brag about my thoroughly useless 'accomplishments'. So, here we go: Mathematical induction and the principle of inclusion and exclusion I'm sure many would have intuitively used mathematical induction in some form or the other whenever a result regarding natural numbers is to be proved. An instance which I particularly remember is when I tried to generalise the following result |A∪B|=|A|+|B|−|A∩B|  to an arbitrarily large but finite number of sets. At the time (I think this was just before I began high school), I didn't know anything about set theoretic terminology such as unions or intersection, but Venn diagrams were familiar territory. I remember going crazy drawing them while trying to prove what I intuitively guessed to be the general expression. In the end, bugged of trying to draw seven blobs intersecting one another, I just decided to assume that it worked for a certain number of blobs and prove that adding one more blob doesn't cause things to fall apart. As would be expected, it worked! Relativistic addition of velocities This was in high school. I wasn't familiar with the machinery of Lorentz transformations, SO(1,3)  and all that jazz, but knew about the constancy of the speed of light, time dilation and length contraction. I reasoned that since all objects move slower than light, velocities couldn't add the 'normal' way as otherwise two objects dashing towards each other at 0.99c  would appear to be moving faster than light in each other's frame. So I devised an elaborate system of trains whizzing past each other and light pulses bouncing off them to arrive at the formula for the relative velocity v 12   of a train with velocity v 1   with respect to one with velocity v 2   . The central issue that I struggled over was that of defining and identifying what constitutes an 'event' — in fact, this took me very close to ideas about background independence, which I regard as the most crucial aspect of general relativity (special relativity isn't background independent when you take into account that spacetime is a single entity; at the time, I still thought of space and time as separate things). Anyway, this was what I found v 12 =v 1 −v 2 1−v 1 v 2 /c 2    I was particularly pleased that I didn't have to make an exception for fringe cases like the relative velocity of a photon from the 'perspective' of another photon (moving in the opposite direction) and was intrigued by the similarity of the expression to the angle sum formula for tangents. In fact, this is exactly the 'angle' sum formula for hyperbolic tangents — I later regretted not making the connection at that time and discovering for myself that boosts are essentially hyperbolic rotations. Fibre bundles ... well, sort of This was in my freshman year of college  — I had read up about the Aharanov-Bohm effect somewhere and was trying to wrap my head around the seemingly nonsensical idea that one could determine whether there was a current in an infinitely long solenoid simply by circumambulating it (remember, there is no field in the exterior of a perfect solenoid). It was then that I remembered that an analogous idea in this wonderful book, Time Travel in Einstein's Universe by J. Richard Gott, which I'd been reading at the time, didn't seem quite as surprising. Basically, if we have a cosmic string (nothing fancy, just an infinitely long cylinder of matter), the spacetime around it would get warped in a rather curious way. Even though it's locally flat, moving along a circle of radius r  centred around the string, would entail a distance less than 2πr  . Gott illustrates this by asking the reader to imagine a pizza (he actually orders one when he demostrates this in the classroom) and gobble up a slice. The pizza with a slice removed (and the cuts flanking the slice sewn together) represents the spacetime around a cosmic string. We have to admit that this isn't all that esoteric after all — it's just a goddamn cone! So, I reasoned that the local flatness is in some sense analogous to the absence of an electromagnetic field and as a corollary, the field itself may be regarded as some sort of curvature — in fact, even the expressions for the field tensor F μν   in terms of the potential A μ   and the Riemann curvature tensor R λ  μνρ   in terms of the Christoffel symbols Γ λ μν   are similar! I was later thrilled to find that this is indeed the case and that there is a way to formalise this abstract notion of curvature in terms of constructions known as fibre bundles. Updated 5 Mar 2013 • View Upvotes