What mathematical or scientific principle have you discovered on your own only to later learn it was already known?
When I was in eleventh grade, on a beach trip to a far-off island in Malaysia, I managed to re-invent hyperbolic trigonometry, although through a complicated side-route and only partially. I was led to this discovery by asking myself how one could compute the sine (or cosine) of an imaginary angle, say sin(iθ)  . I reasoned that it would only be natural to attempt to determine a relationship between the sine of iθ  and θ  itself. But first I needed a definition of what an imaginary angle was. I had read somewhere that an imaginary angle was of great use when describing rotations, so I reasoned thusly: suppose there is an angle θ  for a unit circle in a two-dimensional Cartesian plane, and let the origin have a third line, perpendicular to the x- and y-axes, that was purely imaginary. Then, a 90-degree rotation about the x-axis (I wasn't picky about this - so long as it was consistently one axis I was rotating, I was happy) corresponds to a multiplication of the original angle θ  with i  . The definition had, to me, the great advantage of turning θ  into −θ  when the circle was flipped a full 180 degrees, and recovers the original θ  when it had been spun a full 360 degrees, or i 4   - exactly as we'd expect. This elegant picture convinced me I was on the right track. I looked at this flipped circle (I had performed one 90-degree rotation in my head) and argued, from geometry, that cos(iθ)=cos(θ)  , and that sin(iθ)=isin(θ)  . This is actually pretty similar to, but not quite the same as, a hyperbolic angle, which is as follows: Hyperbolic angle I could verify from these definitions that the sum of the squares of the hyperbolic sine and cosine was not equal to 1, but instead to cos(2θ)  , and similarly that it was the difference between the squares of the hyperbolic cosine and sine that could recover 1. It was, as you can imagine, pretty cool. I was excited about this discovery for a while until I tried to do some more stuff on it, and thought I'd come up with a contradiction, which discouraged me from mentioning it to anyone (not that people would have found it interesting - it wasn't that sort of high school). It wasn't until I returned home (and to the Internet) to see if imaginary angles had been thought of before that I discovered what hyperbolic functions were (although I do claim originality for being audacious enough to imagine an imaginary angle to be just a rotation of a unit circle). Much later, I would discover you could dispense with my unusual geometric way of doing it and just compute a hyperbolic function through De Moivre's formula. Another thing I thought I had invented but discovered I hadn't were integral equations. Not only had I rediscovered what they were, I had also managed to re-invent what they were called! It had followed so naturally from differential equations, alas. I never found a general rigorous method of solving them, although I had a germ of an idea that, although it worked, just wasn't rigorous. 