If I want to start with bioinformatics or computational biology, what topics should I learn? What are the actual challenges in this field?
Thanks for A2A. There are two paths people take : 1. People who are primarily of Biology background learn advanced Computer Science 2. Those with CS background who later learn the Bio stuffs* I am aware of Bioinformaticians who are from both tracks and there is no difference in their approach to problem solving. What matters is that you must be aware of both advanced Biology and Computer Science to tackle the current challenged we are facing in Genomics/Computational Biology. Lets take each case separately because I am not aware of which route you are gonna take: 1. You start with coursework in Biology. Take Cell Biology, Biochemistry, Molecular Biology in Freshman/Sophomore  year, get some hands on cellular biology experiments. Learn immunology and basic cellular mechanisms. Get excited about how and why some cells survived the antibiotic treatment. Move on to learn some immunology and Plant biology. Grasp the fundamental differences between plant cells and animal cells. While you are enjoying the experimental work you remain curious as to what codes all of this at the fundamental level. You find out there is a Bioinformatics course starting up at your university. There you learn some basic sequence alignments and clustering. Understand what algorithms give the best alignment results. You saw that you can do better than Needleman–Wunsch algorithm. You took some basic programming coursework in Python, Matlab and R. Understood the core Data Structures and DB concepts.   While you finished up your sophomore year you wanted to dig deeper. You bagged a summer internship at a cool research lab and start exploring the real research world. Excited by the current challenges in the area you came back to college and started with your undergrad project in Bioinformatics. Took more courses in Genomics, Synthetic biology, Systems biology. When you graduate from college you did not feel full. You are hungry. Hungry for knowledge. More knowledge. Then you begin your masters in probably Bioinformatics /Computational Biology. Started with advanced genomics coursework where you learn the Next Generation Sequence Data Analysis. Learn what are the differences between RNA-Seq, DNA sequencing and ChiRP-Seq and what are the tools and softwares used to analyze those data. You dig there deeper and critically analyzed Tophat( Center for Bioinformatics and Computational Biology ) and Cufflinks (Transcript assembly, differential expression, and differential regulation for RNA-Seq). Updated 11 Jan • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Rodrigo Araújo