Is literary theory and criticism essentially 'much ado about nothing'?
What's fascinating about this question is that it uses a quote from a literary work to challenge literary criticism.   The answer is no.   I don't imagine for a second that the OP is isolating literary criticism in the challenge, so I'm going to assume s/he means all art studies and theories - but I will fix on literature in the response. But everything said here will apply to music, art and theatrical criticism too... not withstanding all the other arts.   Literature, like all art, is about a shared experience. Through novels and poems we expand our culture and sense of identity in our social groups. The stories of Scrooge, Romeo and Juliet, Jane Erye, James Bond, Frodo Baggins are things we all know and understand. Just watch TV advertising to confirm this - which routinely raids that resource to tap into the public consciousness. Is there another mechanism for doing this? Through art we share ideas.   Literature is also important for the health of language, but not in the sense that it keeps it "pure". Literature imbues words with resonance and richness. What critics can do is draw our attention to noteworthy works; they are able to put their communicate what is interesting about them; and why they seem to resonate with communities. Without critics many works would never receive the attention they deserve and other works that were once popular would vanish from the collective consciousness. Our lives would be poorer for it. If you follow TV or film, many of the themes and storylines are reworkings of old and revered literature.   Perhaps, sometimes, those choices seem arbitrary and bias, and the discussions and essays appear pompous and elitist. But when you take all that discussion and analysis together, consensus can be derived.   The works of Shakespeare, for instance, which the OP quotes, are of special note. Shakespeare was writing with a fresh language. Modern English was new and he coined many terms and words in everyday usage. The reason they are in everyday use is because literature has given them purpose; showed us how they can be used to build deep meanings - the meanings are there because they have already been shared between us.   Many great works of fiction that seem daunting are, when you look closely at them, built from everyday words - not obscure ones. Critics can open them up to us; show us how they work - how rhythm and structure are as important as words.   The reason Shakespeare was so good is that he explored profound themes and ideas with words that everyone understood. Even the new words he coined become recognisable due to the creative narratives he told. Critics can show us how levels of meaning can be derived from literature - how metaphors are created - in what historical contexts the author was writing.   Critics help raise the standards of literature; and I have no doubt that many of our greatest writers, living or dead, studied literature themselves.   In short literary criticism should remain as important a part of education as it is now - up there with mathematics and sciences, physical education and business studies. Understanding literary theory is an important part in building a student's ability to analyse, reason and communicate. Updated 3 May 2014 • View Upvotes