Philosophy of Science: Do electrons exist or are they just models to explain physical phenomena?I am well aware that there is a lot of evidence in favor of the electron model. But still can we surely say that it exists? I am confused about my notions of reality. Please help. Make your answer general (not just pertaining to electrons).
It depends on what do you mean by 'exist' and 'reality'. The more I learn the more my viewpoint comes to this conclusion: Newton believed that physical objects and phenomena have a local and objective existence in a 'canvas' of absolute space and time. To make it more clear, let's split this in 2 statements: 1. things exist locally and objectively 2. space and time are absolute Einstein with his General Relativity (GR) showed that space and time are not absolute, they are flexible and subjective, different observers will perceive them differently, but GR still assumes that objects exist locally and objectively in that spacetime. Quantum Theory (QT) on the other hand showed that existence is neither local nor objective, it's all a bunch of probability waves, non-locality was confirmed, observation and information is what defines the properties of objects and phenomena (for example path information yes/no defines the outcome of the famous double slit experiment), but QT still assumes a physical, objectively existing spacetime. So you see, GR showed that postulate 2 of Newton was false but kept postulate 1, while QT showed that postulate 1 was false but kept postulate 2. So the ultimate theory, if it exists, needs to be one which gets rid of both postulates at the same time. Existence is neither local nor objective, and spacetime is not an objective physical entity. Everything is the outcome of information processing, and spacetime is only a set of relationships governing how information events can relate to each other and which appearance they must take when perceived by a consciousness. Physical existence is a sort of illusion, although we of course must take it as very real for ourselves, but it is not material in the sense that we assume, its 'material appearance' is only a consequence of the rules governing how the information behaves as perceived by any consciousness able to process it. Only information does truly exist, and consciousnesses which process it. 