Philosophy of Science: Do electrons exist or are they just models to explain physical phenomena?I am well aware that there is a lot of evidence in favor of the electron model. But still can we surely say that it exists? I am confused about my notions of reality. Please help. Make your answer general (not just pertaining to electrons).
In the famous argument between Einstein and Heisenberg over the existence of an electron, I contend they were both right.  Electrons certainly exist, because we can see them in cloud chamber traces, and at the same time they are only a pattern repeated periodically in a larger quantum mechanical system with no existence between exhibitions.  It may be completely different energy exhibiting the pattern each time, it is only the same electron in our mind accounting for the tendency of the system to conserve angular momentum. Electrons exhibit momentum exchanges we call photons.  These are two dimensional exchanges without 3D being.  We see it's lateral and transverse dimensions as linear or angular.  These momentum exchanges account for everything we experience in the 3D projection of two dimensional underlying reality we experience.  That is all we really know  The only thing we can say with certainty that happens in the quantum world at the bottom layer are 2D interactions equivalent to what we call electron interaction.  It has been shown that the quantum mechanical description of an electron is complete and it cannot have a hidden third dimension of being and exhibit the properties evidenced.  We cannot say a two dimensional object has substance in our three dimensional realm, however, we can view electron potential from different perspectives in our 3D real and cause the two dimensions of electron to be exhibited momentarily from one of an x, y or z axis such that given multiple interactions it is in effect exhibited in our 3D realm. I am reminded of Feynman's wisdom in his preface to his lectures on quantum electrodynamics that there is nothing like a particle or a wave in quantum mechanics, before explaining how to do QED in terms of particles with the caveat that you should not try to understand it but just follow the method. It is a mistake to think of particles existing in the classical sense of having internal structure or substance between it's exhibitions in a larger quantum system.  The electron is a periodic effect of the universe at some point, not something that exists independently at that point.  This understanding accounts for the trick behind the quantum magic of the electron's ghostly behaviour of disappearing in one state and then magically appearing in another without having travelled between the two. 