What mathematical or scientific principle have you discovered on your own only to later learn it was already known?
These are fun stories to read. It's clear how much excitement a discovery can generate, even if it is a re-discovery. I believe it happens more often than people realize, but is rare enough that each one story is often codified as legend within a school. I'll preface this story by noting that, because of the way I learned arithmetic (verbally) with my father who taught it to me as a game, I became a young "human calculator", able to do several-digit multiplication in my head fairly rapidly.  For this reason, much of the math I progressed with early on had to do with pattern hunting---mostly what I came to know as number theory, combinatorics, and (more generally) sequences later on. This ability for mental arithmetic allowed me to explore math more during boring stretches at school, which is one reason I don't dismiss mental math skills entirely as do some mathophiles (that it's not necessary doesn't mean it's not useful---and it's good to promote a variety of talents in the intellectual ecosystem). When I was 9 I spent weeks examining powers of different numbers. I was already aware of basic modular arithmetic, though not by name ("remainder math"). I noticed that remainders of a continuous sequence of powers of a whole number (I don't know if I knew the word "integer" yet) cycled. After several days of playing around with numbers in a notebook, I was aware that the cycle was dependent on the number of integers from 1 to m  (the "modulus"---another word I didn't know) that were relatively prime to m  (I don't think I even knew the phrase "relatively prime"). I didn't formulate Euler's Theorem (Fermat-Euler Theorem) as it is traditionally stated, but saw it in a way that was inclusive of a lot of the "little theorems" that I've seen used as exercises presented along with the theorem. For instance, when the base of the exponent and the modulus are not relatively prime, a cycle of residues still exists---but there is no unit after the zeroth power (and the only achievable residues after a sufficiently large exponent are multiples of the GCD of the exponential base and the modulus).  I just saw it all as patterns and cycles that would reliably help me find remainders for quantities involving whole numbers and all of the closed arithmetic operations I knew to apply to whole numbers at the time. When I later learned Euler's Theorem, I tried to convince the older students who taught it to me that the stated theorem was the wrong way to think about it (the overconfidence of perspective of excited youth), but I came to understand over time that the holistic way that I saw the relationships between basic results surrounding it were not simply expressible, and that everybody needed to spend time with those kinds of exercises with any theorem in order to see it in a more holistic way. Updated 1 Jun 2013 • View Upvotes