What mathematical or scientific principle have you discovered on your own only to later learn it was already known?
Truly a nice question! When I was around 13-14, I had discovered a proof of the Pythagoras' theorem, the one that is attributed to 12 year old Einstein. I was excited then and tried to show it to my teacher, but he did not appreciate the beauty of the proof. I too, like him, then felt that it was no big deal. Like many others, I used to have fun with numbers, doing all sorts of things to them and playing with them. This made me come up with things like: General sum of any m numbers of an arithmetic progression- I had discovered an empirical formula based on "experiments" with different numbers. I was around 11, and did not know algebra, I did not write down a formula because I did not know how to! All I remembered was the "procedure". Methods for fast multiplication based on complementary digits, 9 - (digit). I used to go crazy multiplying big numbers quickly and having fun with them. A method to generate Pythagorean triplets by using odd numbers (later expanded to even numbers) as the least side. This was my favourite "discovery" and I used to write articles on them for school. Extending the base 2 system- When I was 12, I hit upon the idea of representing decimals too in the binary system, i.e using a point after the main part to expand decimals in terms of 2 −1 ,2 −2 ..  etc. Unfortunately, I started calling it the base (-2) system, which was a big mistake. My teachers didn't take it seriously, and my classmates did not understand my intention well enough. I could not figure out a way to express any number like that, though. All I knew was that it could be done, but couldn't find a method. All this watered down when I learnt algebra. I learnt that all those tricks and wonderful peculiarities I had discovered were actually identities and I learnt to substantiate everything I had done before. I gave up experimenting with numbers, thinking that everything can be done with algebra. It was quite a disappointment. However, I still look around at numbers on license plates, checking whether they are divisible by 11, factorizing them and doing other weird things to the digits and that's all that's left from my curiosities about numbers. Updated 25 Dec 2012 • View Upvotes