Philosophy of Science: Do electrons exist or are they just models to explain physical phenomena?I am well aware that there is a lot of evidence in favor of the electron model. But still can we surely say that it exists? I am confused about my notions of reality. Please help. Make your answer general (not just pertaining to electrons).
Strictly speaking, electrons do not exist, but are nonetheless most likely real. In order to exist a thing must satisfy two conditions, it must be extended in time, and it must be extended in space. Sub-atomic particles do not seem to fit the criteria. If an electron is a wave it does not have a specific location in space, rather it is possibly in a number of locations. Further, we can only calculate either where an electron will be, or, what direction it is spinning in; therefore we cannot be certain that it is extended both in time and in space, but only in one or the other at a given observable moment. Now, my science might not be entirely correct, but, I believe physicists would agree that our concepts of existence and reality become problematic when we try to apply these concepts to sub-atomic particles. Our concept of existence pertains most closely to appearances, and in particular to things that appear of their own accord, what can our concepts tell us about things that must be called into appearance through elaborate experimentation and with the aid of technological devices? Reality, on the other hand, almost nowadays refers to the opposite of what appears; we see a thing and ask ourselves "what is it really?" We look for the cause behind the thing that appears as if the appearance were some sort of illusion that can only be justified if we know the reality of its appearance; we ask Why? We seem to outright reject the notion that things really are what they appear to be, and we end up with a giant conceptual gulf between what exists and what really is. On the other hand, reality can be thought of as the totality of the appearances of things, and we can question whether or not this reality truly exists. Reality and existence are not completely well defined concepts, and most people in this world are confused about this. This confusion lends to the fact that these concepts are problematic, even though they seem to be well defined. Electrons, and other sub-atomic particles are mind bending to the layperson (and probably even more mind bending to those who know how truly extraordinary their behavior is) and when we try to use concepts that are not well defined to evaluate something outside of their realm of origin even one practiced in philosophy runs into linguistic troubles. 