Philosophy of Science: Do electrons exist or are they just models to explain physical phenomena?I am well aware that there is a lot of evidence in favor of the electron model. But still can we surely say that it exists? I am confused about my notions of reality. Please help. Make your answer general (not just pertaining to electrons).
It's like this. We use words to communicate with one another. We invented those words, and they mean whatever we choose them to mean -- usually, whatever seems most useful. They don't have any "absolute" meaning -- how could they? We made them up. Yet people keep forgetting this, and then get perplexed because they can't seem to determine the absolute meaning of a collection of words. Do electrons exist? Does anything exist? It simply depends on what meaning we agree for the word "exist". A useful meaning for the statement "X exists" might be something like this. "X is part of an abstract model that we have shared between ourselves, which is appears to accurately predict our sensory experiences". Pretty straightforward: we build a model in our minds that helps explain our experiences, and share it. If some of us find ourselves having experiences that are not consistent with the model (for example, by observing the Large Hadron Collider), we try changing the model until we find a new one that is consistent with our experiences. Doing so may involve throwing out parts of the model, which may involve things that we would previously have said "existed" (like quintessence or phlogiston or the aether) no longer "existing". Can we "surely say that electrons exist"? Well, they are part of a model that currently matches all the available sensory data. So right now, it's useful to say that they exist. If we need to change the model in the future because of new data, they may stop existing in any generally-agreed sense. But do they really exist? I'm going to say that that's a meaningless question. Is there some special meaning of the word "exists" that is independent of humans against which objects can be tested? No. Would you like to propose an alternative definition to the one I invented above? Go right ahead. You may well come up with a better one. Now you can tell me whether electrons exist or not according your new definition. When having discussions about existence with other people, just make sure before you start that you are all using the same definition of "exist", and there should be no problem. Is there some God-given ultimate meaning of the word "exist' that we can test things against once and for all? Of course not. It's just a word we invented. 