★Given the issues surrounding net neutrality, can FM or AM radio frequencies be utilized to wirelessly transmit the Internet?
First, network neutrality and spectrum issues are very different. The neutrality principle (as I understand it — and there are *many* different understandings) says the Net should be open and ISPs should not discriminate against uses or users by using source, destination or content of data to infer the purpose of communications and thus to block them. No neutrality rules or proposed legislation efforts are based on that understanding (which I just paraphrased from an email sent by a friend who is one of the Net's own fathers), and nearly all arguments about net neutrality today are political, not technical. The situation is quite FUBAR. On the latter topic, regarding AM and FM frequencies and their usefulness for data, the carrying capacity for digital information will be less at lower frequencies than higher ones. The AM band, which runs from .54 to 1.7 MHz, has very little capacity, compared to what we experience over the internet today, even on dial-up. FM, running from 87.7 to 107.9MHz, has much more. To put this in perspective, the DOCSIS standards for cable Internet service (which all cable systems use) obtain downstream speeds using high-band (above FM) VHF frequencies, and upstream speeds using VHF frequencies below the FM band. That's one big reason why upstream on cable is always lower than downstream. Remember, however, that these are radio frequencies transmitted within cable, and not over the air, which introduces other advantages and disadvantages. For over-the-air, the big issue today is "white spaces" left by TV stations that have migrated from old analog channels to new digital ones, in many cases abandoning the old VHF channels (2-13) they've been identified with, and moving to UHF channels (or moving from one UHF channel to another). Everybody outside the broadcast industry would like these old frequencies, now blank and "white," to be liberated for other uses, especially Internet communications. Broadcasters consider old frequencies (and new ones) their property, and would like to continue to make money with that property, even if it's not with broadcast TV signals. This situation is messy and unlikely to be resolved soon. When it is, be assured that the best lobbyists will win, and technical considerations will be secondary at best.    Embed Quote