★Will quantum communication render radio frequencies obsolete as a means of communication?
Quantum communication is the study and use of quantum information to communicate. It includes the use of entanglement, uncertainty, superposition, back-action, and other quantum mechanical phenomena to transmit information from a sender to a reviver. The transmitted and received information may be either quantum (qubits) or classical (bits). The relevance of radio frequencies or any other physical system is that these may be used to encode quantum information. This variety of physical system may be used for encoding either bits or qubits and for performing quantum communication. Therefore,  quantum communication will not make radio frequencies obsolete as the two concepts mutually exist without contradiction. The original question may have intended to ask whether quantum communication will replace classical communication. And, if so, would this lead some other dominant physical system for communication. As Barak noted, classical communication is very effective for many of the tasks people typically perform. However, there are select tasks for which quantum communication is/may be more effective including secure key distribution, greater information capacity, and quantum information transfer (eg as used in quantum computing). For some tasks, it is a tradeoff between quantum and classical communication. If there are other constraints on total power consumption, for example, then quantum communication may offer  advantages since these systems are typically much lower in energy and offer better readout. However, without power constraints, this supposed advantages may be lost. Regarding quantum communication at radio and microwave frequencies, there are currently several theoretical and experimental examples. For example, the Shoelkopf group at Yale has prepared single photon microwaves for use in superconducting circuit quantum electrodynamics, see Generating single microwave photons in a circuit. Weedbrook et al. have shown that short-range microwave-based QKD is possible, in theory, see Quantum Cryptography Approaching the Classical Limit, but there has not yet been an experimental demonstration. I think it is important to realize that a significant obstacle to the use of either radio or microwave-based quantum communication is that even the cosmic microwave background is a large source of noise relative to the energy of a single microwave photon. And that is before the enormous terrestrial microwave signal is accounted.    Embed Quote