How should I prepare for a software developer internship interview at Bloomberg?
When it comes to the SWE interview you have to observe the three P's: Practice, Practice, Practice. However, this doesn't mean going over course material that you may have studied at college or university - it means exposing yourself to the contrived environment and circumstances that make up the modern technical interview. Many many people who are great coders, perform their task in front of a computer, which doesn't talk back to them. Some of them get up and pace around, some switch to other 'non-productive' tabs while they are thinking, and letting the answer percolate in their head before the 'aha' moment. None of this is helpful in a technical interview. Try to imagine it from the interviewer's perspective. They are more like you than you think. They themselves are technical, and they may or may not like having to conduct interviews: after all, they have a coding job which they like when it directs their creative efforts to solving problems and writing dope code on their projects! So what would you look for? A nice and quick (approx 45min - 1hr) problem which has either an elegant solution, or a solution which requires trade off and constraint consideration. Perhaps a binary search tree, or a small finite state machine. Maybe a large scoped project like "building Microsoft Excel" which requires scope narrowing to come to a conclusion. These questions are not hard in the sense that they require you to come up with any novel algorithm or solution: they are mainly looking for competency. If you've got a Bachelor's degree in computer science - you've got these skills already. The thing you need now is confidence. Remember how I said it was a contrived environment? You'd be surprised how often technically capable people trip up when they have to explain the procedure they're currently implementing to arrive at the solution to a binary search tree problem. So what's the best way to prepare for this? Mock interviews. Mock interviews give you exposure to the interviewing experience, which allows you to overcome the unfamiliarity hurdles facing candidates in technical interviews. Candidacy.io has a mock interview service which you can use to hone your skills, check your resume is up to scratch and benchmark your performance against the competition, and I recommend you check them out! Good luck! 