What is it like to work at CERN?
To me, working at CERN is more than anything else a really humbling experience. It is hard to get a grasp of how big is the LHC project and how each of us, no matter our title, can only contribute a little bit to it, it's a really collaborative project with many, many parts involved. I work in the Agile Infrastructure team and our goal is to essentially keep the data center working well. This is called the "tier-0" center of the LHC computing grid. As a result of this, some other tier-1 centers mimic our procedures as pretty much every important step we take, there are a few people who make some presentations about it to let people in the industry know, and of course to let other people correct us and keep working in the right track. A lot of things we work on are either really bleeding edge or not very widely used because well, not everyone has the same needs as experiments do here, so instead of googling for answers, most of the times you find yourself reading lots and lots of code and asking in the IRC, your peers, etc.. As of now, my main duties are to migrate everything to OpenStack, using Puppet for machine provisioning and Foreman as a web front end. We actively contribute to these projects. If you want to learn more about this and the underlying reasons, check this out: http://www.google.ch/url?sa=t&rc... A lot of times people working here (myself included) have to write code in languages they just picked up in the same week, so you find vast differences in the code quality depending on what you're working on at a moment. I had to write a few Perl modules on my first 2 days and I had no experience with Perl whatsoever. We use git in our group, although I know many other groups use svn for their version controlling needs. A scrum meeting takes place every morning and unless you're part of some board there are not many meetings. Coding practices are not as excellent as say, in Pivotal Labs or 37signals but everyone trusts everyone here so in my opinion it is fairly good, definitely above average, and this allows us to move fast (at the end of the day a lot of the code we write only has a lifespan of months). One big thing at CERN as a science laboratory is that there seems to be an implicit rule that absolutely everything we use has to be open source. All of our work (unless it deals with sensitive or personal data) is publicly available on the internet and indexed by Google, even our JIRA tracker. We have weekly talks that everyone is encouraged to attend every Friday, from CERN fellows and people from outside. I remember talks from guys at NVIDIA, math departments from FSU and Sapienza, Intel, Riak, etc.. We don't have an open office plan, but you can always pop in one of your folks' office to ask questions and whatnot. The organization is very flat and culture is very European and meritocratic so everyone is very down to earth (a good thing), I would even say working here forces you to be like that. No slides, no free food, although the restaurant has a pretty good assortment of pastries and dishes, and 'no' many of the things Google and some other companies in the valley are known for, but still we strive to be a world class research lab, and the results are there. I probably missed some things and I might be confused in some others but overall I think this is a good depiction of how being here is like to me. Edit: Just a little more background on what are we up to at my department these days. Updated 14 Oct 2013 • View Upvotes