How can I combine a computer science from a great school with a interest in a trade such as welding?I'd like to put this combination to work in the maritime industry. I want to get my hands dirty but keep my brain active.
Computer science in not really an end in and of itself.  Its power lies in the applications. I've seen the results of a structural analysis a weld that was done for a company which builds tractors.  It was computationally intensive, and made a huge difference in how they built the product.  This work exists! One way to get in to this line of work is to study mechanical engineering, naval engineering, or metallurgy and then do advanced study (either senior electives or graduate studies) on computational methods. Another option is that the University of Illinois created a major which one of its proponents called "computer science and something else".  It's not a double major -- it's a single major where the CS department sits down with another department and comes up with a course of study which covers both topics. There may be other options.  I used to do IT support work for Dr. Alan Brown at Virginia Tech.  He teaches naval engineering, but when I was there about 10 years ago, he and his students were doing a lot of computational simulations of how ships were damaged during collisions at sea.  One of his students had been working as an accident investigator of some sort, and talked about flying out to go look at damaged ships.  I don't know what they did after that (simulations and/or insurance claims?), but it sounds a little like the mix of practical and computational work that you're asking about. There is a lot of computational engineering work to be done out there!  If you go down this road, and don't mind getting a masters degree or a PhD along the way, you can land yourself in some really fascinating work! P.S. I'm an operational computer guy, so my exposure to this kind of work was maintaining the computers that these folks used for this work.  It's a fascinating area! 