Psychology of Everyday Life: What are some of the greatest examples of presence of mind?
In the late 1960's and early 1970s, South Korea was still a very poor country, not the global powerhouse it is today. In fact South Korea's per capita income was only US$72.00. North Korea was the greater economic and military power on the peninsula due to the North's legacy of high industrialization such as the power and chemical plants, and also the large amounts of economic, technical and financial aid it received from other communist bloc countries such as the Soviet Union, East Germany and China. There were no big and powerful companies like Samsung or LG. However this is a story about one man and his presence of mind. That man is a young man named Chung Ju-yung.  Chung Ju-yung was born in Kangwŏn province (now located in North Korea), during a time when Korea was under Japanese rule. Born to a large impoverished family of peasants, he was the eldest out of six children. As a young boy, Chung dreamed of becoming a school teacher but his hopes were cut short because the restrictive environment at the time kept the family stuck in poverty, effectively keeping Chung away from the opportunities of higher education. Despite the setbacks, Chung continued to go to a local Confucian school run by his grandfather whenever his time was not taken up by tasks on the family farm. Chung’s talent for business became apparent during his trips into town where he would sell wood. The fast paced atmosphere of the town along with the articles in newspapers he read sparked his imagination and he soon grew tired of the poverty that he and his family had to endure. His opportunities were limited due to the Japanese control of law and industry as well as the Korean war and the general poverty in his country. He relocated to Seoul in South Korea and traded rice and other products. During the North Korean invasion of 1950, Chung abandoned his start-up construction business and fled with his younger brother to Busan for safety. During the 1960s, South Korea was still one of the poorest countries in the world, and had no real technological know-how. To raise capital, the Korean leader, Park Chung-Hee encouraged South Korean ladies to cut their hair to create wigs for global export and also encouraged Korean engineers and nurses to work overseas. He also encouraged Koreans to build export oriented businesses. It was at this point that Chung Ju-yung visited Europe to gain investment for a shipyard business. Chung had very little chance in raising funding as at that time South Korea had never built any modern ships whereas Europe was the world's shipbuilding epicentre. Chung's mission was akin to going to silicon valley today to gain seed funding for an IT start-up without any coding experience, let alone internet connection infrastructure. The consensus view of the European banks and financiers was that, “The poor country of Korea is incapable of developing a shipbuilding industry.” Due to such pessimistic views of Korea's abilities, one of the poorest and least technologically capable countries in the world, Chung had no chance of attracting investment. Every single door that he was able to even open was shut in his face to concealed laughter. Chung soon ran out of money to travel Europe looking for investment support and he became very worried. His one last chance to raise funds was at A&P Appledore International, a British shipbuilding company with a huge reputation. It was a David and Goliath meeting and A&P Appledore's  chairman, Longbottom, also rejected Chung’s proposal without a second thought. As Chung was hastily ushered out the door by the British chairman's minders, Chung Ju-yung made a pivotal last act to the British chairman. In the face of rejection, Chung pulled a 500 won Korean bill from his pocket. He grimaced, and initiated to the UK Chairman in one last desperate pitch: "There is a famous Korean general named Yi Sun-shin from several centuries ago. In the 1500's, the Koreans had been invaded over 40 times by the powerful Japanese navy. Shin had invented a 'turtle ship', that with spikes embedded on the outside and efficient oars, allowed a Korean skeleton navy of only 12 ships to defeat a Japanese navy of over 130 boats. For Shin's amazing maritime and strategic achievements, he has been placed on this 500 won note." Chung handed the note to Longbottom and said, "Yi Sun-sin invented this ship and defeated the Japanese attacks against the odds. So you can see, Korea’s shipbuilding technology is over 300 years ahead of Britain’s." It was a long shot... but Longbottom was moved by the man's conviction and passion and by his amazing off the cuff pitch... he decided to fund Chung's shipyard project. And what happened to Chung and that ship? Well that was the first investment in a company that is now one of the biggest shipbuilders in the world, and now also builds many other products such as cars and semiconductors. Chung's company that Longbottom funded is one you may have heard of  - a company named Hyundai Group, now in the top 40 companies in size in the world. It's shipyard looks like this today With no experience in shipbuilding, Chung took Appledore's funding package and created the Ulsan shipyard, the largest shipyard in the world. The first vessel was completed in three years (rather than the expected five) as Chung had the shipyard and vessel built simultaneously. He introduced the Hyundai Pony in 1975 and the Hyundai Excel in 1986 using only Korean technology and expertise and now Hyundai have introduced the Hyundai Genesis competing with Audi and Mercedes in the luxury car market. As of February 2007, these are the affiliated companies of the Hyundai Group.[4] Hyundai Construction Equipment India Pvt. Ltd. Hyundai Asan Hyundai Elevator Hyundai Logistics Hyundai Merchant Marine Hyundai Securities Hyundai Research Institute Hyundai U&I Hyundai Welding Hyundai Power Equipment (UK) Hyundai Mobis Hyundai Heavy Industries And Chung? Chung passed away in 2001, however his legacy and presence of mind should never be forgotten. He is a true hero of the last minute all-in elevator pitch. 