How do I start game development in C/C++?
These projects have very big teams with different specialities, spanning engine programming, tools, IA programming, physics programming, audio programming, gameplay programming, network programming,... Most of these are coding in C++ and it is good to have one of these topics where you are strong. That said I would recommend touching a little bit of all specialities, for example build a very simple 3D game with your own minimal engine, to learn about each technology, you can do that while reading a book such as Game Engine Architecture. Also you will meet to know about 3D linear algebra. It's also good to have a formal education, at least bachelor or master in classic computer science at the best university you can get. It could be a single room FPS for a start with only static targets, with 3D graphics in OpenGL, simple ray/sphere collision to find when you hit a target. Then you can improve by creating a simple map editor where the room is drawn by putting squares together and weapon pickups and enemies are placed. Then you can add simple AI, the enemies are still and they start shooting at you when they see you. Then you can add some network to play against your friends. Then you can model enemies with blocs to create a robot and animate them just by rotating the blocs Etc.. Start very simple and do not add functionalities before what you have is playable, i.e do not start the level editor before your renderer is nice enough and before you fix all bugs. At the end, you will have a neat little demo to show when looking for a job and learned a lot about engine architecture, 3D math, OpenGL, some basic collision detection algorithm. Then if you like a topic particularly, focus on this on you demo and read a specialised book, while making sure to code some of the algorithms. In parallel, you might also use a commercial engine such as Unity or Unreal Engine an build simple demos on it, it will help you understand the architecture and inspire you to improve you own. You can also look at the source of open source engines and try to contribute. This is a big journey and it may take you a few years depending on where you start but if you start and have fun programming you will keep motivated. 