What are the goals of the Large Hadron Collider project?
The #1 goal of the LHC is to find the Higgs boson.  That's the particle version of the field that gives mass its, well, massiveness.  If the Higgs exists, it'll show up as a specific observation of leptons in the Compact Muon Solenoid or ATLAS experiments.  That's a big deal, because it will confirm the Standard Model of particle physics, which has predicted the existence of other subatomic particles and does a very good job of describing their behavior.  It also predicts the Higgs, and the failure to find it will deal a serious blow to the Standard Model.  Arguably a better outcome, since it will push science in new directions, but not much fun for the scientists who have to go back to the drawing board.  There are other bugs in the Standard Model, like a failure to completely incorporate general relativity, and a kick in the pants in a new direction would be nice, though it would be even nicer if it gave a bigger clue than "we can't find the Higgs". There are myriad other experiments going on.  With a particle collider, each collision is a separate experiment.  There are many different outcomes from each collision; the particles will fall apart in a variety of different ways.  The vast majority of them will have been observed before, but the LHC produces millions of these experiments per second, at higher energies.  Some of them will produce previously unseen signatures in the half-dozen different detectors on the LHC. The energy is key. The more energy in the collision, the more ways particles can join and re-form.  Some particles will appear only if truly vast amounts of energy are pumped in.  Is it worth the money? You can never be sure with fundamental research.  The canonical example is that transistors and lasers both came out of fundamental research.  Nobody knew immediately what they'd be good for, but clearly their economic effects have been immense.  Ordinary research produces evolutionary, expected improvements.  Fundamental research can completely change everything, producing genuinely novel results. I can't say if it's really worth the billions they're spending.  They might discover something worth trillions, as computers have been.  Or... not.  There are also some deep philosophical questions it could answer, all the way down to "were did the universe come from?"  Whether that answer is worth tens of billions... well, I dunno.  Depends on what it is. 