How do I prepare for a software engineering job interview?This is a follow-up question to What's the best way to prepare for job interviews?
I believe it's impossible for a single person to be a master of everything and the same applies to the coding interviews and the interviewers too know this fact. Based on my experience in industry and as a Teaching Assistant and Research Assistant in the University, I would like to make some points here:- 1. Go through the basic concepts of Data Structures, Time and Space Complexities, Regular expression, recursion, induction, Relation and no Sql DB etc as they want to know if you have a basic understanding of Computer science fundamentals. 2. Many people have mentioned that go through this book, that book, I think rather than going for a specific book, first check the company you are applying for as every company has a different product line and has a specific mindset while approaching problems for eg: in google or Twitter, you will asked questions on how to scale up the systems eg: includes algorithms for scalable systems, while in Nvidia, it may focus more on chip level programming for eg: Strides ( Row major vs Column major), matrix multiplication etc, the same applies for gaming industry. 3. Read about the  full stacks of companies where you can get the architecture of a company rather than focussing on how to build a Linked list and Trie data structure and you will answer question in the way company wants to listen the answers. 4. the best preparation happens when you teach someone or when you share whatever you learn to others, in this way you become more confident and also come to know about your shortcomings when people ask you questions, moreover, it will widen your expertise on that particular subject. If you do not find anyone to teach, prepare in front of mirror and join online forums where you can write and share your ideas. Try to speak as much as possible in public seminars and technical groups and attend seminars ( even if they look waste). Preparation ( not only limited to Coding interviews) requires a lot of dedication and perseverance and do not be discouraged if you do not get into Google, Facebook or any other top notch firms. Focus more on developing something of value rather than just be a part of big name. 