What is going to be the next "big thing" in the next 5-10 years?
There will be 3 Biggest Things in the Next 5 to 10 Years and Beyond: #1 Internet of Things (IoT) - new hardware startups building on both home and body.  An expected exponential rise will continue for the next 20 to 30 years and beyond. #2 Computer Security & Cybersecurity - Our book Cyber Nation: How Venture Capital & Startups Are Protecting America from Cyber Criminals, Threats and Cyber Attacks - projects that we'll see the Cybersecurity industry increase to more than $150 Billion Dollars per year by 2020.  We've got to start building more sophisticated hardware and software tools to combat cybercriminals and hackers abroad.     The biggest sectors within cybersecurity to protect will be: healthcare, military drones/robotics, and financial technology (#fintech).  The military in particular faces massive hurdles protecting new drone technology as they deploy weapons systems abroad.  The financial technology industry continues to face new threats from cyber hackers and, our healthcare system's consolidation with Obamacare is now more critical than ever to protect. From the following report on cybersecurity:  The Cybersecurity Threat Report - Emerging Global Threats from Cyber Attacks #3 Biotechnology - Now that our genomics is mapped completely, we've got incredible companies like Tute Genomics who are creating platforms for scientists to collaborate and build new cures.  Biotechnology innovation will be led by smart, agile startups and then furthered by established players like Merck, Roche, Astra Zeneca, Gilead, and Pfizer - who can use these technologies to build better drugs for patients. Here's a 10-year chart of how the growth in biotech investments has continued to increase: I've created a video on the topic to expand on the biggest trends you can expect in the future of startups: I hope this was helpful in seeing the big picture on future growth of startups and the next big things.  Feel free to comment, reply, or ask questions below! Ross Blankenship Author, Kings over Aces Early Investor, How to Invest in Startups - Investing in Top Startups 