What is going to be the next "big thing" in the next 5-10 years?
The world today has so many evolutionary things than revolutionary which is a great sign of progress. We have got to let them run until they break their threshold and give us an opportunity to innovate new stuff to keep up the needs. Self driving zip cars : We're seeing how Uber is advancing every day. People love it not because of it's new technology or anything but it revamped the very old business from the ground and made it much simpler. Likewise, Ola Cabs (company) in India has done the same or even better job in reaching out to general audience. Imagine if the cars are self-driving too? I am sure companies like Google, General Electric are spending resources towards this. We should be expecting their presence more and more going forward.                                                                                                                                                                                                           Why are we desperate for them? Amount of time people are spending in driving per day could be more resourceful. Most of the accidents are drink and driving,using mobiles etc are human blunders. They're taking over the actual feel of driving a luxury car like BMW or Mercedes. Hyperloop : This is phenomenal. There is a very good reason why Elon Musk is backing it up strongly. For years now, we have accepted the time it takes to travel from point A to point B. Because it's what we were told that it takes this much time. Hyperloop broke that stigma and presents a great way to make travel faster, efficient(no fuel) and safer. It just began it's beta run and not too long away to get into mainstream.      3D Printing : This technology has been there for years but has never seen the broad day light like it should have already. Highly undervalued sophisticated technology. Ofcourse it's gonna take longtime to get mid sized consumers understand and use it for personal stuff but companies like SpaceX or popular Car makers has a huge scope to make it a mainstream design approach.                                                                               Payments : Very traditional approach broken by PayPal (product) a while back and then big players like Google, Apple has got a good hands on to break this process. Apple has seen a good success so far with Apple Pay. However majority of the world still uses Credit Cards, Cash as a day to day payment channel. This has got to break. We are changing this slowly and hence mobile payments, payments through watch etc came. It's gonna spread even more with stuff like thumb impressions, watch payments etc                                                                                                             Artificial Neural Networks : Well, it needs no introduction any more. Despite this has been there for decades we're still crawling in getting to achieve what we want. Simulation of Human Brain proved to be very challenging. The more you learn about human behavior the more complicated it gets. There is a lot of potential taking advantage of Artificial Intelligence. Automating atleast some of the human work would give us great opportunity to focus on other important things. There is always another side of a coin like it could endanger human species etc but I don't see how it will happen.                                                   Solar Energy : We're already seeing how much Electric Cars, trains, buses etc Probably Flights and Rockets too soon. However, in generating this electricity we have a great Solar Power generating system(Sun) which is free. It was and is challenging how to store this huge amount of solar energy and convert it into Electric Energy. Companies like Solar City, Tesla are putting a great deal of resources here and here we see products like Powerwall. Well, its just beginning. We have a lot to cover like cars, houses, even phones(why not).                  