How do I become a game programmer or developer by doing computer science and engineering at an average college of India with self-effort, as there is no typical college in India for gaming?
So you want to be a Game Programmer. Well, for your information, one person, in general can't do everything in a game and you can't easily learn to know everything in game design and development, in start. These skills come with a lot of experience. What's involved in Game Development For example, Game Development is made up of 3 parts - Planning, designing and programming (They might have called differently, but that's what I call them). Planning involves Game Designers, Producers etc. who starts by having an idea and then share it with the team. You can count concept and storyboard artists in them too, although they can belong to the second category too. Designing involves creating the art asset for the actual game. This is not an easy task and certainly not a one man task. AAA studios generally have different teams for modelling, texturing, rigging, lighting, animation, motion capture etc. etc. In startups (like ours) do it with two or more people. Programming involves writing code for the game and is also not a one man task. AAA studios have different team for coding in-game logic, physics, UI, memory management, debugging, network back-end etc. I am not saying that it's not possible to create game all by yourself. I did create few games by my own. Another example would be Temple Run, it's first version was created by 2-3 persons only. My point here is you shouldn't try to learn everything in start. You'll eventually learn it with time and experience. Placement Companies like Zynga are mostly interested in network programmers who can write logics for their back-ends (acc. to the job offers I've got in the past), it's an essential part of an MMORPG, but certainly you wouldn't be interested in it. Demand for low-level graphic programmer, who have knowledge of a game engine and a modelling tool both is also good. Game Engines Now if we come to coding game-engines, well you can definitely create yours, if you're really focused and can spend 5+ years working on the same thing. For that you need to know low-level graphics libraries such as openGL, directX etc., you must also know everything about a general game-physics and let me tell you, working on collision will itself take 6-12 months. Working on UIs and Fonts are pain in itself. Did I forget about Sound Codecs and cross-platform code? Easy enough? Colleges and courses about Game Development I know about few game development institute which teach you every aspect about game development. One is DSK Supinfogame, where one of my friend have studied. Few animation studios run courses for game development too such as Virtual Voyage, Maac etc. Summary Choose one field where you want to excel, and seriously forget about making your own game-engine. Developers demand too much these days from a game-engine, and thus you alone won't have chance against likes of Unreal, Cry-Engine and Unity. Focus on learning few programming languages first, such as C++ (Most popular language among game-developers), C# and python. Choose your platform between mobile, web and desktop, since they are completely different frome ach other. For example C++ and C# is for mobile and desktop games, while HTML5 and JS is for web. You can create games in any language for any platform these days, but do not try for that. Try learning mobile development first, choose any one mobile platform, support for Windows is better from Microsoft , but I'd suggest you to try Android first. Once you learnt about mobile development, try Unity3D as your first engine. And after you've mastered Unity3D, you can go low-level to the likes of openGL and DirectX. Learn both if you can, although that would be the toughest part in your game-dev journey. You can then try learning about 3DMax or Maya tool, which will help you understand the basics of 3D geometry and mesh rendering. Try learning about UDK/Unreal Engine and Cry-Engine after that, although the chances are slim since Unreal and Cry-Engine both are beyond the reach of a Indie developer, since they serve enterprises and well known studios only. You can try with UDK(Free, Indie version of Unreal engine) anyways. You might choose some other path depending on your interest, I just have shown you one of the available path. Happy Coding!!! 