Is computer science without computers just maths?
Sure  there were algorithms before CS and you might have been interested in  analysing their runtime or required space but why should that be of  interest without computers? The interest in complexity for an algorithm could be derived from the problem itself.  It does not matter that computers exist or not.  It is a fact of nature that things can scale up.  The fact that problems become annoyingly difficult when they grew big, made it inevitable for us to study complexity. The SAT problem existed before we could identify it. Is computer science just mathematics without computers? Now since there were no computers then, it would have been absurd to call it computer science. As Baker Kawesa points out, most of the laws and theories in physics have their associated mathematical statements. Why it was called physics than being defined as some special underling of mathematics? It was simply done because physics addresses specifically to the study of nature.  The existence of mathematics does not alter the fact that speed of light is a universal constant. Similarly, computer scientists address the computability and complexity of a problem. The SAT problem could definitely not be expressed easily without mathematics, but the fact is the computability and complexity of SAT are independent of the fact if we have the mathematics to express it in the first place. The problem is inherently difficult. Computer Science has all the justifications to exist independently as physics does. Why all the fuss? I had a similar discussion with a fellow from Mathematics. So, this is the summary of how it went for us in the concluding phases. Thanks to a subject in my curricula, I could defend my course against the all powerful and mighty Mathematics in the debate. ... Moreover, the computer scientists have gone a step further by showing reducibility of different problems to each other.  Now, mathematicians may have defined graphs and boolean algebra differently to deal with completely different stuff but if you could solve a hard problem in graph theory say the Hamiltonian path problem then you could solve a problem like SAT in boolean algebra. Maybe a polynomial time solver for a game of Candy Crush might suffice too.  We live in a strange world or doesn't this question if our mathematical definitions were appropriate in the first place.  Since all these problems are equally hard to solve, shouldn't we revise our definitions so that similar problems were defined just once.  Think about the students, especially who fear their math tests, had to face the similarly hard problems over and over again. Isn't math a kind of a bully then? (One of my school teachers often use to comment that math is like a bully, so you better not ignore it and practice daily. I wonder if she could have been more right :P) Interestingly, we chose to agree that we live in a strange world.  We bow before the code of mathematics and to cover up, we did what mathematicians really do.  Come up with another definition.  Let us define computer science and mathematics differently a priori.  Nevertheless, this is definitely creating more job opportunities for us.  So I do not think any of us will be questioning mathematics in the near future. If you are wondering what scientists did instead of dealing with the paradox, they did the same. They came up with a new definition. The notion of classes of problems(something I overheard in the my Theory of Computation class). 