How do I prepare for a software engineering job interview?This is a follow-up question to What's the best way to prepare for job interviews?
You might feel overwhelmed to prepare your job interview as there're countless resources online and infinite coding questions you can't solve. BUT IT'S OKAY, you are not algorithm experts, you don't need to know all of them. There are definitely certain patterns that allow you to get hired more easily and I'd like to share my experience about how to prepare interviews with 2 months and got hired. Be familiar with basic data structure and algorithm. This is the most fundamental thing for a software engineer interview. If you fail to get a good grasp of those basic data structures you learnt at school, you just failed the whole interview. I'm not exaggerating, once you've been thru several technical interviews, you'll realize how important it is. Practice writing code on whiteboard. This is what most people ignores. It looks quite simple at first glance, right? But it isn't once you try it. You'll miss so much about those fancy shortcuts on your favorite text editors and IDEs and what's more, it's so inconvenient to modify the code like inserting another piece of codes in between. But you have to get over it as most of the real interviews will ask you to write SOLID code on whiteboard. It doesn't need to be compiled, but it should be almost there. No pseudo code! Practice with real interview questions. Once you have a good grasp of basic data structure and algorithms, it's time to prepare with real interview questions. There are tons of resources like glassdoor that allows you to practice with questions from real interviews. If you have a particular company in your mind, it's even better since you can target your practice specific to that company's questions. Don't expect to have the same interview question you prepared (though it's possible), but practicing with real interview questions will help you be aware of the difficulty, style of each company and what they really care about. Practice with mock interviews. It's a great experience for you to practice in a way where you can't fail. You can do this with your friends and interview them back. I also got my mock interview from http://www.gainlo.co whose interviewers are working at Google, Facebook etc. and gave me tons of feedbacks. Mock interview is what a lot of people ignored since it's not very easy to conduct, you need to find the right person and it may be time consuming. However, it's definitely worthwhile to do it!Personally mock interview is the most effective approach I've ever had because you will have totally different feeling when thinking and solving problems in front of a person. You'll be nervous, and you may fail even at the simplest question. Also interviewers from real interview won't give you any authentic feedback, they can only tell you those official response, which is no other than bullshit. However a mock interviewer will help you improve in every way especially he/she is experienced. I hope this will be helpful. Keep in mind that practice is the only way to help you improve. Updated 15 Aug • View Upvotes