What are the advantages of hiring someone who has been in the US military?For a non-military job.
I will not go too far into detail about the advantages of hiring vets, as Jon Davis already did a thorough job in explaining. However, I will offer a few nuggets. Also, I will only speak in regards to the Marine Corps, because I have little to no experience in matters of other branches. Though I would imagine it is roughly the same. *NOTE* This answer does not apply to all vets. There are good and bad in everything. 1) Punctual! After being in the civilian world for almost a year now I am AMAZED how few people are punctual. In the Marines if you are not 15 minutes early, you are late! I have applied this to every appointment or event I have a responsibility to be at. I was, as I said, blown away being the first one there for the first 15+ minutes. People arrive on the dot, or even late! If I am late to something I WILL have a good reason. This is the case with most Marines, because if they didn't have a reason then they would be in trouble. Traffic or "sleeping in" was never a reason. See number 2. 2) Planning This sort of has a little to do with number 1. Marines are drilled constantly with the acronym ORM (Operational Risk Management). Every weekend it's ORM. This applies to everything we do. As I said in the number 1, if you are late you better have a reason. Well, sometimes even with a reason superiors would throw the term ORM in your face. Rightfully so. ORM is the process of taking a task, mission, event, activity, etc. and planning it out to prevent anything negative from happening by foreseeing what could go wrong. 3) Patience   Oh, do Marines have patience! The Marine Corps is full of "hurry up and wait." This means we are hurried along, and rushed, and worked like the world is going to end. Then, we wait and wait and wait. There have been times where I would show up at 3:30 AM and not do anything until noon. So, I developed patience. In fact that is one of the leadership traits "Endurance." 4) Respect Marines are required to be respectful to everyone. In boot camp Drill Instructors basically say you are less than everyone, civilian or Marine. Then, in the fleet you are required to address superiors by rank and last name. Disrespect was met with Non-Judicial Punishment. I have always been respectful, but after the Marines I am more so. 5) Timeliness If a Marine is given a task it is expected to be done in a timely manner. During my deployment my superiors were notorious for 30 min. They would give me tasks that should take hours, and say they wanted it in 30 min! See Jon Davis' answer with Mission Accomplishment, and the picture. Marines will not stop until it is done. Basically, it can be summed up in 14 words. Which are our Leadership Traits. Justice, Judgement, Dependability, Initiative, Decisiveness, Tact, Integrity, Enthusiasm, Bearing, Unselfishness, Courage, Knowledge, Loyalty, Endurance. 