Psychology of Everyday Life: What are some of the greatest examples of presence of mind?
During my 12th standard, I used to go to a coaching center since I was preparing for IIT-JEE. It was the best coaching center in my city, it was very tough to get admission into it. But I cleared the entrance test and took admission, but it was nearly 12 kms away from my home. So, my mother never allowed me to go by my own vehicle (as she was scared of road accidents happening on the way). I thought of hiring an auto but the per month fare was way too much to afford. Then I decided to go by city bus or tempo daily and it was a lot cheaper. My coaching timings were 3 pm to 8pm daily. One day, when the last class got over at 8pm, I had a lot of doubts, so I went to my teacher and clarified all of them. I got freed at around 9.30 pm. I was never away from my home at this hour of night plus I couldn't find any bus to my home. I already told my mom that I was going to be late. So, after waiting for 15 minutes, an auto came, asked me where I was going. He told me that he'd charge 200 rs. to take me home, but when I said no, he came directly down to 50 rs. Since I was too innocent to understand his intentions, I got in the auto. On my way, he called someone, and said "mil gayi hai" (translated to: "I have found a girl"). After hearing this, I could understand what he intended. I was very much scared, I began to think what to do. Then, I pretended to call my father, and talked in a loud voice so that autowala could hear it, telling my father to come at some place, which was very near and I was almost there. When I got into the auto, I also had seen its number plate, so I pretended telling the number to my father. On hearing this, the man was scared, I asked him to stop the auto, told him that my father was coming to take me. He immediately stopped there, and I got off. Then I got a bus, in which a lot of people were sitting, I boarded the bus, and came safely to my home! :-) By the way, my father was out of station, and I didn't want to tense my mom. So, I decided to handle that situation by myself and I did pretty well to save myself. :D Edit: I never expected that this answer would gain so many upvotes. :P Some people asked me what if the autowala meant "Sawari mil gayi hai" (translated to: I have got one passenger). The answer I would like to give is, at that moment, I couldn't think of anything but my safety, I wanted to reach my home as soon as possible. My logical thinking was directed only to think how could I save myself instead of judging that autowala. Thank you guys! :) :) Edit 2: Rushi Suthar, Odai Assaf, Ayush Jain, Suhas V. Sonawane, Chaitanya Agrawal and Epshita Manashi, I thank you guys for sharing/tweeting this answer. :) Updated 1 Apr • View Upvotes • Not for Reproduction