How do I become a game programmer or developer by doing computer science and engineering at an average college of India with self-effort, as there is no typical college in India for gaming?
I'll try to answer your questions one by one. 1) Subway Surfers, Fruit Ninja, Clash of Clans are all example of good designs. A programmer usually cannot make these games all by him/herself, you'd need people with varied skills or have those skills yourself with a lot of previous experience ( and  therefore long list of failures to learn from ) to pull that off. 2/3 ) Taking up a computer science course is a step in the right direction. Game programming schools/colleges are overrated.The importance of 'traditional' programming will soon become clear as you make more games and they should not be ignored. Don't be lazy when it comes to improving your code even by small amounts. In my experience across over half a dozen commercial projects so far, games are almost made twice, because during development you keep on editing and eventually part by part you do most of the things all over again to make it as good as you can. Patient iteration is the key here. 4) Making an engine takes a lot of effort. Usually the engine programmer is busy enough with coding the engine to not contribute much to the game's design or gameplay. I suggest you try Unity3d/Unreal/CryEngine etc. However, it is a huge plus to know a bit of what goes into making them. Get some theoretical knowledge of computer graphics and related mathematics. 5) Video game companies aren't known to come for campus selection in India, or even abroad much for that matter. Professionals in this field need to have good networking skills and working experience to get a job. No one hires a fresher, I've seen newly graduated CSE students who have never made a game struggle with simplest of things on their game programming job. Make games on your own during your undergraduate course. 6) If you're serious about this, don't wait for your college to start, it will pass by fast and will end in no time, I'm halfway through college, and can't believe it. Also, having an idea for a game is not enough. Ideas are so cheap, no one even 'buys' ideas anymore, they just take it. There are lots of resources online for any engine you work with. Learn the know-how and the tools and execute your game idea yourself. 7) Let Us C is a great book for the language. PS : If you take up coding, please form good formatting rules, making everything look sensible and purposeful. Your {QuestioN's} tEXT is a pain to read, but I hope I could help! Thanks for the A2A. Updated 23 Dec 2014 • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Anonymous