How do I prepare for a software engineering job interview?This is a follow-up question to What's the best way to prepare for job interviews?
In the following answer I have given an idea as to what you kind of questions/problems you can expect from an interview for Software Engineer.  Based on them, you can keep yourself prepared for the same and crack the interviews. Pre-requisites for Interview Preparation There are some essential things you must be aware of before starting with the preparation Ensure that you know the  answers for all of the following questions - What does the company do ? - What are its different products ? - What is going to be my role, if selected? - Which team I am going to join ? (This is easy to find out in case of lateral hires) - Do I have the necessary skill set for the role ? (If yes, Please highlight that in your resume) - Do I have my resume tailored for this interview ? (If no, please do it immediately) Kind of Questions to Expect / Areas to Focus COMPANY/TEAM SPECIFIC AREAS: If its E-COMMERCE COMPANY then they will want to know about your skills in web development like HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, Angularjs etc. And also they will be happy to know about the websites you have created so far. If its a SOCIAL NETWORKING WEBSITE then you will be expected to showcase proficiency in Data Mining, Graph Mining, Machine Learning (a Plus Point). You must be a champ in famous/complex Graph problems. If its an M-COMMERCE company you must be proficient on android /ios development. If its a company which develops SOFTWARE SOLUTIONS BASED OUT ON CLOUD or some other software packages they will want you to know working in Linux OS. Also Networking questions will be asked. If it is a ANALYTICS COMPANY they will check your problem solving skills using puzzles. They would sometimes be interested in what all Data Science courses you have done online. They will prefer you if you have knowledge of Hadoop,R and Python. COMMON AREAS: And whatever be the company they will test your technical skills in computer science using Data Structures and Algorithms . If their work involves DATABASES , you will be given DS /Algorithms related to FILE MANIPULATION,SORTING and SEARCHING. Otherwise if they build efficient software systems, (like Kindle, Windows Products for eg) they will test your DS/Algorithms in Trees, Linked Lists, Arrays, Graphs. They will definitely give preference if you are a competitive coding enthusiast. Good ranking in TopCoder, Codechef, Hackerrank is a plus point. (though not mandatory)Hope it helps. All the best for your interviews ! 