Psychology of Everyday Life: What are some of the greatest examples of presence of mind?
The man who who was accidentally interviewed live on BBC News 24. Guy Goma was waiting in the main reception area of the BBC Television Centre in west London to be interviewed for a position as a "Data Support Cleanser" in the corporation's IT department. At the same time, Guy Kewney, a British technology expert,  was in another reception area, known as Stage Door, preparing for a live television interview on the subject of Apple Computer's court case with The Beatles' record label, Apple Corps.  The producer who was sent to fetch Kewney, however, was told that  Kewney was in the main reception area. When he got there and asked the  receptionist in person where Guy Kewney was, she pointed to Goma, even  after being asked if she was sure that this was the right person. The producer had seen a photo of Kewney, but only had five minutes  before the live interview was due to take place. So he approached Goma  and asked him if he was 'Guy'. Hearing his first name, Goma answered in the affirmative. Goma was led  to the News 24 studio. BBC staffers put on makeup, and he was ushered to  the television studio, where he was seated in front of the cameras and  wired up with a microphone. Although believing the situation to be  highly unusual, he prepared to do his best for what he believed would be  his job interview. When introduced by interviewer Karen Bowerman as Internet expert Guy Kewney, Goma became visibly shocked as he  finally realised the serious misunderstanding that had taken place.  Aware of the fact that he was on live television and not wishing to make  a scene now that the interview had already begun, he simply played  along, doing his best (in heavily French-accented English) to answer the  interviewer's questions about the Apple Corps v. Apple Computer case and its ramifications for the music industry. Apart from the  facial expression at the start, the interview seemed fairly believable  to many viewers, particularly those unfamiliar with Kewney. In the  meantime, Kewney, still in the waiting area, was himself shocked when he  saw Goma interviewed in his place, though he was not able to hear the  audio. Refernce:- Guy Goma on Wikipedia. 