How do I prepare for an interview with Oracle?
I'll walk you through my interview experience at Oracle. Bachelor of Engineering, final year, Computer Science stream Profile : Global Business Unit (GBU) Interview I – Tech.:- One panel member  - Went on for about 45 minutes  Interviewer went through my resume and asked about my projects right away 1. Did you face any challenges with your project? If yes, what was your approach to solve it? 2. How did you optimize your code? 3. Do you plan to extend your project? 4. What else are you planning to include in your project? 5. Why did you choose Java for your project? 6. What are the OOP concepts (explained in detail for about 7 minutes) 7. Write a program to check if a given string is palindrome (Had to do a dry run of the code and explained its complexity) 8. Explain HashMap and HashTables 9. What are collection classes? 10. What is hashing? Explain various hashing techniques 11. What are collisions in data structures? 12. Explain various search techniques 13. What are the JavaScript concepts that are similar to Java? 14. What is Google Student Ambassador (GSA) Program all about? (I am currently the GSA of my campus; explained about it for 5 mins) 15. What work did you do as a GSA? 16. What technologies were used in your events? Similar questions for asked for my other internships too In between, I was asked to tell about myself and anything else I’d like to tell them about me, basically to avoid the void while the interviewer was going through my resume Interview II – HR + Tech. - Panel of 2 members - Went on for about 50 minutes 1. Tell me about yourself 2. At which level do you play badminton (I mentioned in my previous answer that I play badminton) 3. What is it that you like about yourself? 4. What don’t you like about yourself? 5. What don’t you like about others? 6. How good are you in programming on a scale of 1 to 10? (I told 7 to 7.5) 7. Write a program to reverse a string (Wrote and explained my code with a dry run) 8. Asked more about Google Student Club, Technical events we conducted 9. More questions about my marketing internship at Viber 10. What is Big Data- Hadoop? (It was in my resume; I had presented on the topic) 11. What’s your favorite subject? (Java) 12. What is multithreading in java? 13. (Other interviewer) What’s your favorite subject? (Data Structures and DBMS) 14. DS: (Elevator problem) Given that you are standing on a floor in a building having ‘n’ elevators, design a system such that on pressing a button, the elevator on the nearest floor to that of yours arrives. Which data structure can be used and how is it implemented? 15. What is normalization in DBMS? 17. Difference between 3NF and BCNF? 18. How to convert 3NF to BCNF 19. Anything you would want to know about us? - Recruits announced - Result: Selected! :D Updated 31 Oct • View Upvotes