Why do many software engineers not like Java?
Let me put it in perspective. In 1995, Java seemed like a godsend, in that it fixed a number of the uglinesses, gratuitous overcomplexities, and dangers inherent in programming in the C++ monstrosity. If blindingly fast performance was not critical, Java was then (and in the subsequent 5 years) a much better choice than C++. As computers have got significantly faster, and technology for conversion of interpreted or partially compiled languages to efficient executable code has become much better, there are now a bunch of options that allow practical programming in even cleaner and more succinct and elegant languages (and also Javascript ;-). I bide my time between Go and Python these days. Neither of these languages is very inspiring truth be told but the complexity of the frameworks around mainstream Java development, and the verboseness of conventional Java-bean java, and the misguidedness of single-inheritance with interfaces makes Java a no-go zone. Man I miss common lisp. Bonus Extended Rant on Python and Go: - Python succeeds because of great libraries and frameworks, and quick program experimentation, and because library/framework programmers take good advantage of metaprogramming capabilities, but the language itself is too permissive and malleable to be safe for non-expert programmers. Why would __varname be just a convention for making a private variable, easily overridden. Dumbass hack. Almost everything that is called a "pythonic" convention in the language should be enforced by the language interpreter/compiler. - Go is refreshingly less verbose than Java, and you can write some performant programs in it that are slightly less dangerous than C/C++ programs, but Go is a royal pain if you really want to get back some of the DRY benefits that true interfaces + implementation inheritance can get you if you know how to use it. And allowing a type to implement an interface without telling anyone it does so is a potentially misguided double-edged sword. And there are lot of pretty weird little tricks and rules you have to learn to get fluent. Arguably too many. In Go, you just have to know. 