Psychology of Everyday Life: What are some of the greatest examples of presence of mind?
PIA Flight 544 PIA Flight PK-554, a Pakistan International Airlines Fokker F27, was hijacked on May 25, 1998, shortly after it took off from Gwadar International Airport, by three armed men belonging to Baloch Students Organization. The hijackers had initially asked the pilot to veer the plane towards Delhi. But, the pilot refused to head towards Delhi on the pretext of fuel shortage. Then the pilot, Uzair Khan, duped them by landing at the Hyderabad (Pakistan) airport, as the hijackers were told that they had landed in India. According to the sources, the pilot was in his senses and his message addresses Hyderabad Airport as Bhuj airport. His decision led the hijackers to believe that they were in Bhuj, India, as he had heard the hijackers talking about maps of Bhuj. The airport general manager also responded by saying that he was at Bhuj and waiting for the flight. This communication assured the hijackers that the plane had crossed into India. The concluding part of the drama started when the hijackers allowed the women, two infants and a child to disembark following negotiations with the ASP, Dr. Usman Anwar, who met them as "Assistant Airport Manager" Ram and SSP Hyderabad, Akhtar Gorchani posing himself as Ashok, Manager Bhuj Airport. Deputy Commissioner, Sohail Akbar Shah, joined the team as DC Rajhastan and communicated with the remaining officers in Hindi language. The officers had successfully evacuated the women and children from the aircraft while the officers had remained in the plane. All three hijackers were arrested by the SSG and Army Rangers and were rushed to Karachi where they were handed over to Pakistan Police. The hijackers were given death penalty in 1999.  All hijackers were hanged on 28th May 2015, the same day Pakistan successfully conducted their nuclear tests in Chaghi, Baluchistan, the same activity the hijackers were trying to stop. Oh the irony. Source: Pakistan hangs three men who wanted to fly hijacked plane to India in 1998 - Firstpost PIA Flight 544 