Is computer science without computers just maths?
Computer science, without computers, is as much maths as spelling lists are fine literature.  CS is all about arithmetic, algorithms, and optimising results, not whether some thing converges / diverges, or is true. A good source is to study 'railway signaling', which is about sharing resources without accident or collision.  'semaphore', 'token', 'signal' are examples of railway terminology, and TMRC (the model railway club) was a model railway controlled by computers, was highly influential in the design of some processes. I spent a good deal of time designing interfaces for things based on what I imagine a computer [i]could[/i] do.  I am happy to report that it is an amazingly robust system that I and others have used to implement programs for. In earlier days, CS was called IT and DP.  IT is information technology: something that was designed to get things like 'does he have the right to have a meal tonight' (yes, i had that as a question on an IT desk).  DP is data processing.  It was about cramming lots of data into tiny little fields, and saving the bulk of processing to a computer thousands of miles away.  I use base 120.  I spent hours of time combing books looking for algorithms to wrangle that system.  In the end, number theory was just simply not interested.  I had to invent my own.  The dozens of algorithms one sees in the 'shilling arithmetic', are never broached in mathematics.  You simply don't learn in uni maths how to multiply £sd/ac by acres, roods, and perches.  It is mathematically correct to reduce to pence per perch, etc, and do the calculation there.  But it's a four-liner calculation, the whole lot!. Mathematicians are not really about bumming out redundant code or deep theory when you can get rid of that.  I used the same principles to speed a program up from weeks to hours, as i did in rationalising electrical formulae from hours of calculation to inline on-sight processing.  There's no maths in that.  It's just bumming the process so that less junk is carried. 