How can I explain Computer Science Engineering to a layman?
Originally Answered: Can any person currently doing his/her Btech in CS tell me what is CS all about in laymen terms?Computer Science is ultimately the study of manipulation of data. Or in other words, how we can take data in one form and convert it into a more useful form. If you had taken a mishmash of data and put it in a nice chart, you are said to have computed, especially if that chart is useful to make a decision. Ultimately almost all intelligence relies on data manipulation. Think of what your calculator does. It takes in individual keypresses 20 X 30, processes all that and gives you a nice little data output of 600. Numbers and mathematical operators -> Computer -> Result. Almost every other computer can be reduced to this. For instance, your MS Word takes in a bunch of key presses and converts that to some letters that you see on the screen. It can then respond to your mouse clicks to change the fonts and do other stuff and finally it gives you a document that you can print or send email. From the less useful keypresses, the software converts that data to a more useful document that you can send to your boss. Key presses and mouse clicks -> Computer -> Document In the battle grounds, there will be a variety of software that would take in all the different sensor inputs, manipulate that data and finally give an output that the enemy plane is coming from this place and is moving at this speed. Sensory inputs --> Computer --> Useful insights about the plane movement.  Everything from nuclear reactors to web apps, computing is all about processing data into highly usable forms. The programSo, now the whole question is how do we manipulate the data. Let's take the analogy of cooking. You have moved to a new city and you are forced to cook. You are first figuring out how to cook rice. You call up your mom and ask her for instructions. Your mom repeats each stuff patiently. Take the pressure cooker. Add 1 cup of rice. Add 3 cups of water. Close the lid. Put it on the stove. Run it for 15 minutes. Switch off the stove. Wait for 5 minutes. Open the lid.By using these 9 instructions, you convert inedible raw rice into edible cooked rice. Writing such instructions are what programmers do most of their life. As a human you understand somewhat higher level logic - such as take the pressure cooker. Unfortunately, our computers are much dumber. Thus, we need to even more precisely describe this [possibly in geometric coordinates]. Every piece of software you see has instructions such as the above. For instance, to manage everything your car does, Tesla and other modern cars contain as many as 10 million lines of such instructions. This combined is called the "software". Managing the data: Data structureWe saw that data is the heart of computing. The data input could be almost anything. It could be something as simple as numbers entered in a calculator. Or 10,000 pages of text you put in a Word document. Or it could be the billions of pages of text that Google manages. Sometimes you don't care about storing the data for long term. Atter you are done with 20 X 30, you don't really care about the computer remembering 20 and 30. However, in other cases, you might want the computer to remember everything you entered. The programmer has to make a smart decision about how to store the data. The decision depends on how big the data is and how the data would be used. The way in which you would store and organize the data is termed data structure. Software Testing / Quality controlWhat happens when things don't go as expected? You put the rice in the stove for 15 minutes and it might end up overcooked or undercooked. There could be spills from the cooker that might have flooded the stove. The stove might have burnt the cooker's bottom. The cooker could have burst. So many things could go wrong just by leaving you in the kitchen for 15 minutes. The art of software testing is about identifying such problems in the instructions and data storage before the cooker bursts out. That requires you to be sly as a cat and smart as Sherlock Holmes. Program ManagementThere are some broad questions. Should you be cooking rice or maybe doing something with wheat to make roti? Should you be cooking rice the Indian style or maybe you want it Thai or Chinese style. What type of rice do you want to buy? How much cooking do you like? Especially when you are making food for others, you have all these questions to answer. This is what program/product managers do. They try to understand the tastes of the customer and help you figure out what data to take and what data to output. If it were a restaurant, the program manager would be the waiter and the developer would be the chef. Ultimately, this is what people who study computer science do. If you like mathematics [managing data requires some passion in maths and logic], love to think of systems and are an expert at breaking down a complex problem into a bunch of simple instructions, you are ready for computer science. 