How do I prepare for a software engineering job interview?This is a follow-up question to What's the best way to prepare for job interviews?
>> I recently responded to a similar question on quora and this is a copy paste of that. If you aren't rusty with code I would expect two or three months to prep for Google interviews. This would require going through available books, apps and online resources. Here goes the list: Books: - Algorithm Design Manual: It is a hard book to follow but the content is really good. If you are someone like me who finds it hard to read books with a lot of theory then I recommend starting with interview questions and solving a couple everyday. Selectively read concepts as needed by each question that you are solving. Also another thing that helps big time is having an interview prep buddy. Divide questions and discuss solutions on daily / bi weekly basis. Also do some whiteboarding together on questions that you discuss. - Cracking the coding interview: It has a good set of problems but I wont expect any of these exact questions to be asked since this book has been around for a while and is probably the most well known resource for preparation. - How to Think About Algorithms & Programming Interviews Exposed are good books too. Apps: - Coderust: Good set of more recent interview questions with explanations and quality solutions. I recommend solving these questions by yourself and then comparing answers. Websites: - GeeksforGeeks: Checkout the solved problems on the site. They also have very good explanations of optimized solutions that have been verified by a pretty big audience. - Careercup: Good collections of questions. Note they are questions only - I wont trust responses on careercup site as I have seen a lot of vague/incomplete answers. I recently did a blog post on what senior ICs are asked in interview. I recommend going through that as well. I have been in my current job for a while and I want to move. What should I expect in my interviews? by Soban Hameed 