Psychology of Everyday Life: What are some of the greatest examples of presence of mind?
You may go through following HR interview questions, their answers will blow up your mind. Question 1: You are driving along in your car on a wild, stormy night, it’s raining heavily, when suddenly you pass by a bus stop, and you see three people waiting for a bus: * An old lady who looks as if she is about to die. * An old friend who once saved your life. * The perfect partner you have been dreaming about. Which one would you choose to offer a ride to, knowing very well that there could only be one passenger in your car? This is a moral/ethical dilemma that was once actually used as part of a job application. He simply answered: “I would give the car keys to my Old friend and let him take the lady to the hospital. I would stay behind and wait for the bus with the partner of my dreams.” Question 2: What will you do if I run away with your sister? The candidate who was selected answered ” I will not get a better match for my sister than you sir” Question 3: Interviewer (to a student girl candidate) – What if one morning you woke up & found that you were pregnant. Girl - I will be very excited and take an off, to celebrate with my husband. Normally an unmarried girl will be shocked to hear this, but she managed it well. Why I should think it in the wrong way, she said later when asked. Question 4: Interviewer ordered a cup of coffee for the candidate. Coffee arrived kept before the candidate, then he asked what is before you? Candidate: Instantly replied “Tea”. He got selected. You know how and why did he say “TEA” when he knows very well that coffee was kept before. (Answer: The question was “What is before you (U – alphabet). Reply was “TEA” ( T – alphabet) Alphabet “T” was before Alphabet “U” Question5; Interviewer said “I shall either ask you ten easy questions or one really difficult question. Think well before you make up your mind!”. The boy thought for a while and said, “my choice is one really difficult question.” “Well, good luck to you, you have made your own choice! Now tell me this. “What comes first, Day or Night?” The boy was jolted into reality as his admission depends on the correctness of his answer, but he thought for a while and said, “It’s the DAY sir!” “How” the interviewer asked, “Sorry sir, you promised me that you will not ask me a SECOND difficult question!” Read more: Puzzling and stunning HR questions 