What is it like to work at CERN?
I was a summer student at CERN for a few months, back in 2012. I worked in one of the Higgs boson groups in ATLAS, which is one of the experiments at the Large Hadron Collider. I arrived there after the Higgs boson was already discovered, but before the official announcement was made on July 4th. So I was lucky enough to be there at perhaps the most exciting time in recent years. My job was to improve the background estimation method that was used by my group. The "background" consists of events that "look like" a Higgs boson, but in fact aren't. An accurate background estimation is crucial if we want to know how many events actually produced Higgs bosons; these events make up the "signal" in experimental particle physics jargon. This is building 40, where I worked: Here's how it looks from the inside: I think one of the main thing you realize while working at CERN is how immense it is, in every possible aspect of the word. The "machine" itself - the LHC - is the largest scientific experiment ever built. It is a 27 km long circular tunnel, located between 50 and 175 meters underground. And it can reach enormous amounts of energy in its collisions, much greater than any other experiment in the world. The tunnel is about 4 meter wide and contains billions of dollars worth of scientific equipment, including thousands of magnets and the cryogenic systems needed to keep them at a temperature of only 1.9 degrees above absolute zero, which is colder than the temperature in outer space! It's almost unbelievable that humans have actually built something like that. And that's only the tunnel. The detectors used for the experiments are amazing feats of technology and engineering. All of this simply leaves you in awe. And then there's also the huge number of people working at CERN at any given time - usually between 3000 and 4000. So you realize that you're merely a tiny cog in the machine. Every publication by ATLAS has literally hundreds of people listed as contributors. For example, the Higgs discovery article has an author list which is 14 pages long. Here's a picture of some of the people from the ATLAS collaboration; these are the ones who came to celebrate the publication of the above article in a peer-reviewed journal. (I'm there, somewhere in the middle...) And these are not just ordinary people. They're extremely bright scientists and students from all over the world. Simply by having a conversation with any random person - a physicist, an engineer, a computer scientist or anyone else - you can learn a lot of new things. And you make friends for life, whether you're there for a few months or for many years. There are events at CERN almost every day. Workshops, seminars and other professional sessions, but also parties and even festivals. There are even bands composed of CERN employees, the most famous being of course Les Horribles Cernettes: CERN itself - the laboratory site, not the accelerator - is also a huge place with many buildings, and mysteries (!), worth exploring. Most people don't know this, but there's a vast network of underground service tunnels connecting most of the buildings at CERN. Just don't get lost in it (and yes, I'm talking from experience...) Let's not forget that CERN is located in Switzerland, near Geneva. There are so many amazing places to visit that are less than an hour's drive away; and Geneva itself is quite a beautiful city. In short, CERN is a wonderful place to work at. The laboratory, the location, the people, and of course the science - they were everything that I wished for, and more. If I were an experimental physicist I'm pretty sure that I would have been very happy to work there for the rest of my life. You can read a little more about my experiences as a summer student here: What are some benefits or perks of spending summer (and working) at CERN? Updated 15 Apr • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Yash Kumar Lal