What is it like to work at CERN?
I visited CERN in the summers of 2013 as a summer student from a non-member state country. It marked the beginning of the most exciting phase of the year. Working at CERN is ecstatic while being humbling at the same time. Its so easy sometimes to forget about the scale of wonders happening at this place that once it gets back, it always leaves you awestruck for a moment. I worked with the CMS collaboration on improving the efficiency of one of their muon detectors. While work is important, it is usually not the highlight of someone who visits such an incredible place for a brief period of just 8 weeks. To start off, my experience goes as this. People tend to start off their CERN experience with a Tram 18 ride. I would say Tram No. 18 is the lifeline of the people in and around CERN. Its their connection to the reality of city life in the form of Geneva. And you will probably take it from the airport to make it to CERN. It looks something like this. And the globe always makes you think that its something really cool and scientific (but it isn't!). Another highlight of your experience at CERN could be the country life. Yes, I am talking about Saint-Genis, the other alternative to living inside CERN. Its close to CERN on the French side, which makes you cross the border between France and Switzerland almost on a daily basis. The place is serene with an exquisite view of the Jura's. And those cows in the field, indeed. This is one of the pictures I clicked on my first day in the hostel. And you begin to love the Jura's so much that you end up climbing them. Ok. Moving on to the actual CERN experience. Once you are done with all the formalities, you can officially begin your work at CERN. And then you realise the scale of the things happening at this place and how smart people could be. People just work all the time. And at all the possible places. The levels at which people collaborate is really great despite of all the diversity. You get to meet people who are really awesome, and are humble enough to help you out at almost all instances. I was given a choice to occupy an office that was on one of the far corners of CERN. But it didn't matter because most of the simulations I intended to do were either based on my personal computer or the server. So I chose to reject this offer, and stay close to the action (and to the loads of friends I made even before coming to CERN!). If you don't have an office in CERN, you just don't worry about it. You just make it an opportunity to explore out every place you can ever work in, with all the auxiliary advantages in the form of food. So I ended up working in places like this: (The R1) or this, (Building 40) or this, (Library) or this (your hostel room). And you get to tour all the detectors, where the real magic happens. The tours are important because they let you experience real form of magnificent engineering. They are the pinnacles of complexity, yet they work perfectly well. I took a tour of the ATLAS, CMS and the LHCb detectors and it was really awesome. You have to be there to experience it. Thats all I can say about it. Here is me being serious about all this with a few other people. I tend to click less photographs because the experience is more important for me. So as you may notice, I didn't click this. But its not all so serious throughout. CERN has some crazy all-nighter music-blaring parties happening in the Pump Hall, usually organised by the summer students. And to top off that, there are a lot of things happening in Geneva too. Geneva is a beautiful city and quite picturesque as well. I miss the city. Fete De La Musique is the highlight of the summers and is a must attend. Maybe I can use some pictures again because reading extended texts for a long time is really boring (at least for me!). And as you are busy enjoying your life, you get used to CERN. You get so used to being near all the smart people that you really don't wanna go back. Its saddening to leave all the friends behind. To summarise it its entirety, working at CERN is an experience like nothing you will ever have. Its a haven for Particle Physicists and the research being done there is at the forefront. Its just a perfect combination culminating in the best working environment you can ever find in the world. I would be happy to go back to this place anytime, if I get a chance. And you should go there too! Updated 25 Nov 2014 • View Upvotes