What type of mathematics is behind Pixar animation?
All sorts! Pixar's technology is an awesome intersection of many branches of mathematics and computer science. I'd even venture to say that "intersection" doesn't quite do  justice to the depth and breadth of mathematics involved; it is more like a "union" of the whole spectrum of CS research topics (from software engineering all the way to abstract math), with lots of statistics and physics. Consider the following still from their latest film, Inside Out. What kind of maths might go into a clip such as this? 1. Rendering The metaphor typically used is a camera pointing at a 3D scene, and the camera "renders" what it "sees" into a 2D image. We need to compute all the light arriving at the camera lens from the scene. The following integral describes the "rendering" equation, which is a recursive definition for how light moving away from a point in a given direction is the sum of how much light it's emitting in that direction, plus a subtended fraction of how much light it is reflecting from every other point in the universe. This precise definition is unhelpful in practice because there are infinite points and infinite recursion, which computers are no good at (but apparently nature is - curious to think about if you like to philosophize about these things). Instead, we approximate the rendering equation using statistical techniques. As a personal note, computer graphics is actually a really fun and intuitive way to learn many statistics concepts like MCMC methods, importance sampling, statistical mechanics, and the bias-variance tradeoff. Physics goes in here too. Light is not a scalar quantity - it has polarization and one needs to decide what basis to represent light in (do we use RGB basis vectors? do we allow color values greater than 255?). A great deal of computer science and engineering optimizations go into this as well. 2. Simulation Ok, so we can draw pictures, but we still need to know what to draw. In the above picture, Sadness (the character) is floating on a pillow cushion atop some molten lava. She's wearing a fuzzy sweater, and as she speaks, her face deforms in motion. For something with complex behavior like lava, it may be easier to simulate it rather than have an artist animate its fluid advection behavior. Before we draw a picture of physical reality, we often need to simulate physical reality itself. The sweater is made of cloth, which behaves somewhat like a dampened system of springs (where each sweater thread is a spring). That has to be simulated so it behaves like a sweater when Sadness is moving. Sadness's hair is also a system of springs that absorbs kinetic energy from the movement of her head, and is influenced by wind. The lava gives off light (which feeds into the light transport simulation). If the lava model was built from first principles, we might actually calculate the light using the amount of blackbody radiation emitted by molten rock. This might be unnecessary though, if the shading artist simply decides on the emission color ahead of time. Note that Pixar is not in the business of making perfectly realistic renderings, but of touching hearts and making money. Having the ability to push the limits on how many lights and how pretty the images can be affords artists with ever more creative room, so that's why Pixar invests heavily in math/tech. 3. Scene Representation As mentioned in Khan Academy's "Pixar In a Box" Layout section, representation of scene geometry is done using a lot of linear algebra. Whether it is modelers tweaking some vertices on a characters face mesh or a set dresser arranging some item, stuff needs to get moved around, or "transformed". These "transformations" are represented using linear algebra. Rotations, transformations, and scalings are simple, but linear algebra is also involved in inverse kinematics problems (e.g. animation) and numerical solvers for simulation (i.e. finding solutions to large systems of equations for numerical solutions to spring mechanics, or preserving volumes when Sadness's cheeks are squished). From time to time, an object might fall and collide with some other objects. The collision of meshes has to be simulated too. More numerical methods, and if the colliding objects are squishy, finite element methods might be needed. 4. Shading Hand-in-hand with rendering is shading, which describes how every little patch of geometry in the scene responds to incoming light. Again, we're trying to simulate reality here. A bumpy or even fuzzy surface is noticeably distinct from a flat surface because of how it reflects light. Surfaces in reality are a lot bumpier and heterogenous (in composition) than the computer models, so this geometry is compensated for by shading. What is a good way to approximate a variety of different surfaces? Machine learning, linear regression and other parametric models come into play here, and a BSSDF models are another active area of research. In fact, with enough data, machine learning methods can actually be used to do regression on the light field equation itself - that is, make a "guess" as to what the light integral turns out to be, without even doing full path tracing. These fitted models may be statistical distributions themselves - a microfacet model that can be used to produce shimmery, mesoscopic reflectance behavior of knitted sweaters or hair or skin. Observe the pictures below - they look fuzzy, right? Surprisingly, these are just primitive cubes and tori, without a single strand of fur geometry. These images are shaded by sampling from the statistical distribution of how an actual fuzzy object would react to light, and it turns out that reproducing the statistics of an objects' behavior can serve as a very good impression of the underlying object (the fur geometry). I think that's pretty profound. Source: https://www.cs.drexel.edu/~david... Computer graphics facilitates a lot of interesting combinations of maths you might not see in other places. 5. Miscellaneous Geometry Basic things like parabolas and splines and fractals turn up everywhere in computer graphics, whether to draw simple curved geometries like grass in a large-scale, parametric fashion, or even the smooth motion curves of a joint animation over time. 6. Differential Geometry and Topology Keenan Crane does a lot of really cool work in this area. I don't understand a lot of it myself, but it appears to have really huge computational complexity improvements and make feasible certain angle-preserving mesh operations (like deforming a rabbit into a ball) that weren't possible before using traditional representations of meshes. 7. Signal Processing All of the emotions' avatars are made out of shimmery material This undoubtedly presents some aliasing difficulties in images, so anti-aliasing methods must be used. Anti-aliasing is also an important part of rendering (see http://iquilezles.org/www/articl...), which brings up interesting questions on whether aliasing has a deeper meaning with regards to monte carlo estimates of light transport. The notion of spatial frequency is also important from an artistic standpoint, as compositions with a spectrum of spatial frequencies tend to be more visually compelling (see http://iquilezles.org/www/articl...) Set dressers will intersperse a scene with large blocks, followed by progressive refinement at higher levels (frequencies) of detail. This can also be done procedurally, whereby multiple octaves of spatial frequencies are composed together to produce the "impression" of phenomena like hair, shrubs, etc. Summary and more resources All told, computer graphics span a lot of mathematics because the holy grail of graphics is to simulate all of physical reality (light, fluids, collisions), as fast as possible (CS algorithms and data structures). The Pixar-in-a-Box curriculum is a nice start to understand how computer graphics plays a direct role in the more common operations. Pixar in a Box For more advanced mathematical concepts, Ke-Sen Huang maintains on his homepage (http://kesen.realtimerendering.com/) listings of papers presented at the annual SIGGRAPH conference (Special Interest Group on GRAPHics and Interactive Techniques) and other graphics conferences. These really widen the rabbit hole of mathematics. Topics can vary from year to year, but areas of research include differential geometry, optimization, numerical methods. Disney research does cool work as well: Paper Generators: Harvesting Energy from Touching, Rubbing and Sliding I've only mentioned the mathematical aspects of CG and the work relevant to Pixar. There's also lots of Computer Science and user-interaction research. Updated 7 Oct • View Upvotes