Psychology of Everyday Life: What are some of the greatest examples of presence of mind?
Originally Answered: What are some great examples of people showing presence of mind in tough situations?As a child, I read this story of Albert Einstein and his chauffeur. Einstein's chauffeur used to drive him around the country for his lectures in various Universities. The good natured chauffeur would often remark, ''It's a pleasure to drive for a genius like you, sir.'' One evening, Einstein was rather tired and did not feel like giving his speech. He was mumbling his displeasure to his driver who then came up with an idea. He said, ''Sir, no one at the University has seen you before. I have heard you give the same speech so many times, I know it by heart. Why don't you let me deliver your speech this time? No one will ever know.'' Einstein thought it was a reasonably good idea and agreed to it. He wore his chauffeur's beret and sat in the last row of the hall when his driver (whom everyone thought was Einstein) went on stage and presented the speech flawlessly. The chauffeur was applauded and was going to get off the stage when a professor from the crowd raised his hand and said, ''Just a minute, Sir. I have a question for you regarding your theory.'' Einstein thought, ''Oh dear.... Now what do I do?'' The professor's question was so tough that the driver didn't even know what he was talking about. Nevertheless, he gave a chuckle and said, ''Why, that's not a difficult question at all! In fact, it's so simple, that even my driver will be able to answer it.'' ''Won't you?'', he asked the real Einstein. And Einstein stood up and baffled everyone in the hall by giving a perfect explanation for the professor's doubt. When they left the University, Einstein was driving the car for his driver. After some distance, the driver offered to take over. But Einstein chuckled and said, ''No, sir. It's a pleasure to drive for a genius like you, sir''. P.S. I have no idea if this story is true, or if it's a fictionalised account. 