Electrical Engineering: How is the culture of EE different from that of CS?
Hi. Computer Science and Engineering degree here. I lived in both worlds. It breaks down to its core as such: EE: Technology is physical. CS: Technology is intellectual. Allow me to elaborate.  Engineering is physical. It requires bending your will to the physical constraints of the problem. Software is intellectual. You could perform a bubble sort on a quantum computer faster than quicksort on a i386, but you won't get points for using the quantum computer because you implemented bubble sort.  For EE, you'd get points for using the quantum computer even though you implemented bubble sort. In both fields, you're goal is to minimize resources. In EE, those are typically power and materials. In CS, those are typically time and memory footprint. In EE, you wish to maximize durability of circuit and resistance to signal interference, else your detonator responds to an SMS while you're still building it. In CS, you wish to maximize resiliancy to bad inputs without bringing down the system or economy. Because the goals, criteria, and risk factors are different, you could imagine a best case / worst case scenario and let the characters fill in the plot. EE: tinkerers and modders can bypass physical security. CS: hackers and crackers can bypass software security. Where are they the same? Probably at the firmware level. FPGA advances will turn CS'ers into EE prototypers. When you're reading signals off the circuit and deciding what to do next, you're both EE and CS. Looking for a more funzies response? EE do more Maker fair things, and CS play more video games.  There aren't really any expos for showing off your algorithms. I think Github is better for that.  Even at the DARPA team competitions, the software people aren't the ones talking to the reporters; that's the EE people. Why? Possibly because EE built the thing, or maybe because CS forgot how to talk to humans.  It's difficult to describe how your collision detection system works, but it's easy to point out the sensors used by the system. EE's don't describe how they built the circuit board, but maybe they mention the tools that they used... and their favorite soldering iron. Plus, oscilliscopes look really cool on TV when they're showing circuit voltage under active conditions. All CS does on TV is $ cat /dev/random 