Electrical Engineering: How is the culture of EE different from that of CS?
Did my undergrad in EE, and currently doing a PhD in CS. I am not sure if I have adjusted completely to the CS way of life (been here for just over a year), but I'll give it a shot. I think the difference in culture is largely due to the perspective. EE views the world as "applied physics" whereas CS views the world as "computing machines". This is mostly consistent with the type of problems the two fields attempt to solve. However, my biggest complaint with EE is that they are very in adapting to changes in technology. In particular, EE undergrad coursework emphasizes archaic technologies that are 40-50 years old. It is good to learn for a historical perspective, but of very little value. Most problems are solved using computers today, however the courses still emphasize the physics instead of computing. The result is that CS classes are simply a lot more fun and intellectually stimulating. Even for EE courses that are computationally intensive like signal processing, a lot of emphasis is laid on theoretical properties of estimators as opposed to actually running some code and doing something hands on. This is why EE looses out to CS in terms of result to even clearly EE problems like image processing, speech processing etc. Even a CS undergrad is filled with a sense of optimism and adventure. They know the state of the art, and what they do directly impact the world. I TAed a course where undergrads put together a very good course project which led to a good conference paper. This is extremely unlikely to happen in EE since the idea is unlikely to be state of the art, and journals (primary EE venue) require well formed ideas which take a lot more time and effort. In effect, a CS PhD might graduate with 10-12 papers while an EE PhD will graduate with 3-4 papers with a lot less visibility. EE needs to change the way it operates very fast if it wants to stay relevant in anything other than circuit design and power systems. 