★What could you do with the NSA Call metadata dataset?What data mining techniques would you use to analyze mass caller information? What amazing insights could be gleamed? What beneficial academic/commercial studies would you love to perform with the National Call Database? Are there any social problems you could solve (aside from terrorism) if you had this database? Example: determining which carrier had the fewest dropped calls.
Let's explore the fun side of correlating phone/email metadata with demographic information. There's a dark side, which I hope will be readily apparent, but I'd like to focus on the good stuff, as requested. The Magic Word Before I delve into specifics, there's a word and concept we should all be aware of: homophily. It's the fancy term for "birds of a feather flock together," or in other words, like attracts like. This is a very powerful concept, and allows you to draw reasonable conclusions about the probability of something, based on the connections between people. One Example: Health Care Lets say you work for a school district, and you're concerned about the recent nationwide outbreaks of measles. You wonder: what schools and communities in my district are at greatest risk? So, you log into your PRISM account (haha), and ask your graph database a question: * Rank schools in my district by percentage of parents who are connected within two degrees of an anti-vaccination organization phone number or email address. Antivax organizations are relatively easy to identify, and charting out the parents who engage in phone/email conversations with people who have self identified with those organizations is relatively simple. Viola -- by knowing about the casual social connections within your community, and given a large enough population, you can make some very reasonable decisions about what schools are at greatest risk. Extend this example to any communicable disease and a large health record database, and you have a remarkable portrait of how you can predict the spread of infections. Another Example: Crisis Response Lets consider the recent flooding in Boulder. Given just phone-to-phone communication data for CO residents (voice and SMS), it's likely that one could identify who is in greatest danger based on deviations in their communication patterns. An obvious pattern to look for is unreturned calls. Healthy people have a tendency to call each other during a crisis, to make sure everything is ok. People who are in trouble are often unable to make those connections. So, you log into your PRISM account, and tell it to: * Rank individuals by deviation from their normal volume and ratio of outbound:inbound communication, along with the highest frequency inbound phone number. This would give you a list of people who are having trouble returning calls -- and the most likely person you should contact to determine their status. ... obviously, neither of these scenarios is fool proof. There will be a lot of false positives and negatives. Homophily is not a magic bullet -- but it has a remarkable tendency to point you towards trends within a population. All you need is the metadata of how people connect with each other.    Embed Quote