★What is the best-supported hypothesis on why we need sleep?
If you ask about the purpose of sleep: we fall asleep for the brain to get a chance to restructure memories stored during the day and associate these with previously learned things. If you ask about the mechanism of falling asleep: it is not entirely understood. Some parts of your brain work by regularly stimulating and inhibiting each other. This produces a daily cycle of activity. Some structures are responsible for inhibiting those responsible for arousal. You get drowsy and the brain goes into a different mode of action: optimizing memory storage. After the work is done, your arousal center gets stimulated again and "get up and go" hormones enter the bloodstream. You are ready for a new day. If we consider the current status of knowledge about the function of sleep, many of the older theories start making sense. They all seem to converge into a central theme and all carry lots of inspiration. Here are some of these: Krueger and Obal theory: the theory speaks of a natural propensity of neural networks to enter sleep states. However, the theory probably goes too far when calling sleep a network-emergent phenomenon that requires little or no central control (compare: Why we fall asleep?). dreams create wisdom: yes! Dreams are an expression of a process that serves reorganization of memories. As a result of dreaming, knowledge becomes more coherent, more abstract, more applicable, etc. In sleep, skills get honed and fine-tuned. This means that we are wiser and more skillful in the morning than before going to sleep! garbage collection: an early theory by Evans (1965), derived from computer garbage collection metaphor, says that sleep is needed to clean up the brain from useless memories. Indeed, there is a lot of evidence on synaptic weakening in sleep. Lots of garbage and chaos evaporates from the brain overnight. reverse learning: inspired by the ideas of Evans, reverse learning was proposed in 1983 in Nature by Crick and Mitchison. Reverse learning theory, a neural equivalent of garbage collection, says that dreams sift away memories that are not needed, irrelevant or incongruent. Born in 1916, Francis H.C. Crick together with James Watson unraveled the mystery of the DNA double-helix for which they were awarded a Nobel Prize in 1963. In 1983, Crick and his colleague from Salk Institute, Graeme Mitchison argued in Nature (Crick and Mitchison 1983[123]) that human memory can get overloaded and REM sleep is used to run a garbage collection process on memories. They called this process reverse learning, and originally attributed it only one purpose: forgetting the unnecessary memory ballast. Crick named those ballast memories "parasitic memories", saying that "REM sleep allows us to have a smaller brain for a greater purpose". Crick's seminal 1983 article was taken further by many researchers who have ultimately concluded that REM sleep must serve optimization of memories expressed by synaptic weights of the neural network of the brain! If REM sleep was only to be used for forgetting the excess information, Crick's theories would run into the same evolutionary trouble as other theories listed above. After all, spontaneous loss of synaptic information with passing time would be a cheap solution that could be easily implemented metabolically. The value of the network optimization goes far beyond just forgetting. consolidation of memory - some researchers posited that memories get consolidated in REM sleep. What is the purpose of NREM then? How can this be that antidepressants do not damage learning even if they are strong REM suppressants? Why does the REM brain behave like a waking brain? The term consolidation is a bit ambiguous. It may refer to processes occurring at the molecular as well as at the neural levels. Only neural consolidation might require turning off the brain. In reference to procedural learning a distinction has been made between acquisition, consolidation (post acquisition) and enhancement (sleep dependent). Of these, only the enhancement would depend on sleep. For a number of procedural tasks, sleep-dependent enhancement has been demonstrated (Stickgold and Walker 2007[124]). For more see: Neural optimization in sleep psychotherapeutic theory - The theory says that in sleep we dream up situations that would be emotionally difficult to confront in real life. This is supposed to help us learn how to react in emergencies without actually living through those emergencies. This interpretation is plausible due to the fact that it involves an actual need to turn off the consciousness. Moreover, when dream contents are analyzed it is indeed found to be dominated by threatening situations. The psychotherapeutic theory, however, should rather be considered a narrow interpretation of a larger and more encompassing function of sleep: optimization of the neural circuitry. In this case, known information is played back in various constellations to compile new behavioral strategies that might be useful for survival. As I try to argue throughout this article, creative and optimizing function of sleep is more general and needed also for other neural functions, not only those related to the threats encountered in waking life. activation and synthesis theory - Proposed by Hobson and McCarley in 1977 (Hobson and McCarley 1977[125]), Activation-Synthesis theory says that during sleep there is a sensory inhibition (input attenuation), and, during REM, there is a motor inhibition (output inhibition). Pontine PGO waves characteristic of the REM sleep travel up to the cortex that tries to interpret that stimulation resulting in dreaming. Visual, auditory and motor areas of the cortex are active and responsible for whatever we experience in dreams. Activation-Synthesis theory inspired further research into the neural function of REM sleep. AIM model - the AIM model is a Hobson's improvement upon the activation-synthesis model that has dominated this field of research for two decades (Hobson et al. 2000[89])(picture). In the AIM model, brain states are described by 3 variables: (1) Activation, (2) Input source, and (3) Modulation. A healthy brain moves in selected trajectories in the AIM space. Various psychiatric and sleep disorders can be characterized as the departures from those trajectories. The model does not explain the function of sleep, but helps describe sleep in simple neurohormonal terms. For example, REM sleep is characterized by high activation, minimal sensory input, and cholinergic modulation. brain development - In brain development theories, dreaming is supposed to provide internal stimulation of brain circuitry to ensure growth and development. As babies dream far more than adults, this theory finds inspiration in the correlation between the degree of immaturity in infancy and the proportion of REM sleep in animals. Human babies are particularly limited in their ability to interact with their environment and dreaming is said to act as a substitute for the waking experience. REM-induced muscle atonia combined with the brain activation would enable brain growth by activating the synapses without the negative consequences of acting out. The role of REM sleep in developing the visual system has been demonstrated by Stryker (Stryker et al. 2001[10]). REM deprivation results in developmental abnormalities later in life. Recently, the role of NREM sleep has also been confirmed. Source: Good sleep, good learning, good life    Embed Quote