★Is Singularity a fact or just a hypothesis?
It is a prediction. Specifically, it is the prediction that we're approaching a point in time beyond which we cannot make any predictions. Quoth wikipedia: The term "technological singularity" was originally coined by [Vernor] Vinge, who made an analogy between the breakdown in our ability to predict what would happen after the development of superintelligence and the breakdown of the predictive ability of modern physics at the space-time singularity beyond the event horizon of a black hole.[6] So, think of the singularity as a prediction that we're just a few decades away from being completely unable to make predictions about the future of humanity. That prediction stems from the theory that computing  technology will continue to advance at an exponential rate. It might be  more accurate to say that the computing power (the amount that you can  buy for a given price) will double every two years. (There are reasons to doubt that theory, but I'll get to that later.) A bunch of interesting predictions have been derived from that theory. For  example, it has been predicted that an affordable home computer will  have as much computing power as a human brain. Ray Kurzweil predicts  that this will happen around the year 2020 (he has done a lot to  popularize the idea of the singularity, so I'll treat his predictions as  representative).  It has also been predicted that an affordable home  computer will eventually have as much computing power as all human brains. Kurzweil predicts that this will happen around 2055. It  has been predicted that, at some point in between those two dates,  technological innovations will be driven by computers, rather than  people, and that the pace and nature of those innovations is simply  beyond our ability to make confident predictions. We can't predict what happens after that, just as we can't predict what happens behind a black hole's event horizon. But I need to add a disclaimer...  I'm personally somewhat skeptical of the theory behind those predictions, for two reasons. First, because the continued exponential growth in computing power will only be possible with deeply fundamental technological advances - advances comparable to the development of the atom bomb. We don't just need new technology, we need new scientific insights to guide the development of technology that we haven't yet imagined.  Perhaps those insights will indeed come along quickly enough to continue the exponential curve. Or perhaps they won't. The trend so far as been remarkably consistent, but as they say in investing, past performance does not guarantee future results. Second, having a vast amount of computing power does not imply having a vast amount of intelligence. Getting from computation to cognition will also require fundamental advances. The advances that we need for that to happen are, in my opinion, far more profound, revolutionary, and challenging than the invention of the atom bomb. The transistor was pretty neat, but it took geniuses like Turing and von Neumann to build computers from transistors and make it possible to write software for them. Massive computing power will also be pretty neat, but it looks like we're going to need a whole bunch of geniuses to build brains from computers and make it possible to guide their behavior. I still think that the singularity is inevitable. I just think that those two issues will delay its arrival by decades, perhaps even by centuries. The next few decades are still going to be a wild ride either way, though. (Incidentally, there is some reason to hope that the computing advances in the next few decades will bring health care innovations that allow us to live long enough to see the singularity even if it does arrive a few decades late.)    Embed Quote