★How can a theorem or conjecture or hypothesis be proved to be unprovable?
To prove that a conjecture is independent of a specific axiomatic system is equivalent to makign a model of the axioms where it is true, and a model where it is false. The computational statement "These axioms are consistent" is always independent of the axioms, if these axioms are consistent, as Godel showed. So there is always an independent statement for any given collection of axioms. Iterating "This system is consistent" transfinitely over computable ordinals should complete mathematics, so as long as you can name sufficiently large computable ordinals by some method, you don't have any computational statements which are unprovable. But there remain set-theoretic statements which are unprovable in a sense, in that they are not decided by transfinite induction over computable ordinals. These questions are those which can be forced one way or another by adjoining various subsets which are in some sense free of properties, random, or generic. This method is due to Cohen. Using forcing, it is straightforward to show that the continuum hypothesis is not provable from standard ZFC set theory, with any axiom of higher infinity you like. So this question is in some sense absolutely undecidable, relative to the structure of ZFC. But it becomes true in L, or in L-like universes which are consistent with higher axioms of infinity, like the recent "ultimate L" idea being pushed in logic. These absolutely undecidable questions are kind of silly, as they do not matter except philosophically. There is no observable computaton which depends on the answer to these questions. So there are really no undecidable questions, this is just nasty propaganda that is going on to long. Either a theorem is computationally meaningful, in which case we should be able to prove it from a sufficiently strong countable computable ordinal, or it is meaningless and arbitrary, in which case we should be free to adjust it's truth value according to convenience, according to which axioms we feel like working with today.    Embed Quote