★How true (if at all) is the Petrodollar hypothesis?
Let's first look at the theory: If other countries need to hold Foreign-exchange reservesmostly in US$ to purchase oil/petroleum from the OPEC countries, then it makes the US the only supplier of US Dollars among several consumers. The implication of having to hold USD reserves does not follow directly from having to buy oil with them. Reserves can be held in whichever currency, and then exchanged into USD at the time of purchase. What having such a large portion of foreign trade contracts settled in a single currency does is add incredible turnover, i.e. liquidity, to that currency. Now, being the most liquid currency then, yes, that is the reason why central banks around the world hold reserves in USD. Another engine towards USD liquidity is that it still is the world's largest domestic market, and - guess what - it only pays in greenbacks. The crux is that the value of money is being indirectly skewed in favor of those with the largest military might, and not just the value of the goods, services and natural resources exported by each country. The strength of a currency has little to do with the value of a country's goods, services and natural resources; at least not directly. Money is a means of exchange; it's value derives from its effectiveness and efficiency in completing transactions. In other words, the strength of a currency is directly related to its liquidity. In the US' case, the use of force has been called for to protect its national interests in guarding against losing the hegemony of its currency. Now, that is a two-way street: the military is also funded through the strength of the currency. Eisenhower warned US citizens about the Army-Industrial Complex. He failed to mention the financial sector, which grew, in the hands of the Rothschild, exactly by financing the 100-year war and later WWI. And here is the evidence: André Levy's answer to Escalation of the Syrian Conflict (Aug-Sept 2013): Why doesn't the US use Scandinavian oil instead of fighting wars in the Middle East?    Embed Quote