★Is the efficient-market hypothesis (EMH) generally accepted?This theory says that markets are "informationally efficient" meaning you will not achieve in excess of market returns on a risk adjusted basis. So basically someone like Warren Buffett has been successful because he flipped the coin heads 90 out of 100 times, not because he has any special knowledge that could enable him to profit more than any other market participant.
I think the EMH is interpreted in two very different ways.  One is mostly correct and widely but not universally accepted.  The other is very often incorrect and more often rejected. 1.  The interpretation of the EMH that I think is right is that current stock prices already reflect past and current publicly available information, and some information that hasn't been made public.  See Joel Askey's answer and a more extended discussion in A Random Walk Down Wall Street: The Time-Tested Strategy for Successful Investing (Tenth Edition) by Burton G. Malkiel.  The stock market lets everyone buy or sell every stock based on what they know, and what they think will happen.  Different people may be aware of different information.  Different people may interpret the information differently.  Some people think the stock will go up.  They buy until they don't think the potential gains make it worthwhile to buy any more.  Other people look at the information and expect the stock to go down.  If they own it, they sell.  So the price at any time is an equilibrium value set by the participants in the market. The implication for investors is, there are no underpriced stocks that you can buy, knowing that they will go up.  Nor are there overpriced stocks that you can sell (or short), knowing that they will go down.  Even if you are right about the stock's intrinsic or objective value, the market can, as Keynes famously said, remain irrational longer than you can stay solvent.  If a stock goes up or down tomorrow, it will be because of information that becomes available tomorrow.  And the information that affects stock prices is very general.  It includes information about the specific company, information about prospects in the company's industry, information about every country's economy, information about every country's politics, even information about every group's optimism or pessimism. Why might this be true?  It happens because many, many investors are always looking for underpriced or overpriced stocks.  When they think they have found such stocks (called market inefficiencies), they buy or sell until the stock is correctly priced.  The more investors there are, the better this works.  The more free cash the investors have (liquidity), the better this works.  The more information that's available, the better this works.  The faster information spreads through the investment community, the better this works.  The better people are at interpreting the information (rationality), the better this works.  But none of these factors have to work perfectly.  The field of Behavioral Finance has identified many forms of cognitive bias that make individual investors irrational, at least some of the time.  Knowing these things and guarding against them can help you avoid losing money.  But those cognitive biases are either limited, or perhaps they cancel each other, because behavioral finance hasn't generated any trading rules you can use to make money. This doesn't always work.  It hasn't always worked.  There have been market inefficiencies.  There are probably market inefficiencies right now.  But, as inefficiencies are discovered and exploited, they become known.  And when they are widely known, they vanish.  Malkiel's book discusses some famous patterns that people have recognized.  One was a tendency to sell stocks at the end of the year, for tax purposes.  There was a pattern of stock prices rising from January to March, then staying flat, then falling at the end of the year.  So now people buy stocks in December (or November, or October, ...), expecting an increase by March.  And people sell stocks in early March (or February, or late January, ...) expecting prices to fall.  And this eliminates the pattern and the opportunity for profit.  More Money Than God: Hedge Funds and the Making of a New Elite (Council on Foreign Relations Books (Penguin Press... by Sebastian Mallaby tells many stories of hedge fund managers who discovered inefficiencies and exploited them.  And their methods were copied by other investors.  And most hedge funds became less successful with time, because the managers who discovered one inefficiency didn't necessarily discover others.  All these histories represent good empirical evidence that the processes underlying the EMH do operate robustly. The implication of all this is, if you've heard about a new pattern that will let you make money, others have too.  It's probably too late for you to make money from it.  And the fact that a fund manager has made lots of money for his investors in the past really is no guarantee that he'll be able to make money in the future.  If you want to make money, you have to discover the inefficiency yourself. 2.  The interpretation of the EMH that I think is wrong is that current stock prices efficiently reflect a true, correct, objective value of the company which the stock represents.  If this were true, then what people think a company is worth would always have to be true.  That's not necessarily true.  And I think the exceptions to this (some mentioned in other answers) are why people reject the EMH.  I think they are right to reject this interpretation, but not the first. Caveat:  I'm not a professional economist.  The above is what I get from the literature I've read and the conversations I've had.  If anyone has seen different interpretations of the EMH in the econ literature, please add comments with links. Thanks.    Embed Quote