★What is a null hypothesis in layman's terms?
The null hypothesis is the position you take before you examine the evidence. The alternative hypothesis is the position you are willing to move to if the evidence is strong enough. An example. I am accused of murder. The null hypothesis is that I am not guilty, because the legal principle is that I am innocent until I am proven guilty. Since the null hypothesis must be constructed before you examine the evidence it must be that I am not guilty. The alternative hypothesis is that I am guilty. If the evidence is sufficiently persuasive, you will shift your belief from the null hypothesis to the alternative hypothesis. You may be wrong. You should consider the consequences of being wrong before you decide how much evidence will persuade you to move from the null hypothesis to the alternative hypothesis. If I am not guilty of the murder but you conclude that I am, an innocent man is sent to the gas chamber. If I am guilty of the murder but you conclude that I am not, I am free to kill again. Which of these is worse? We generally believe that being executed by the State after a protracted legal process is worse. So we require a lot of evidence before we shift our position from the null hypothesis to the alternative hypothesis. We require "proof beyond reasonable doubt". On the other hand, suppose I am being sued in the civil courts for non-payment of a bill. The null hypothesis is that I do not owe the money. This is because it is for the person suing me to prove his case. The alternative hypothesis is that I do owe the money. Suppose the court makes the wrong decision: what are the consequences? Either I lose money unfairly or the person suing me loses money unfairly. Which is worse? Well, neither, really. So the evidence required is much less than in the criminal case: we require "proof on a balance of probabilities". This is how OJ Simpson was acquitted in his criminal trial for murder, but found liable in the civil suit against him. The hypotheses were the same in both cases, but the level of proof required (which we call the "critical value") was different in each case because the consequences (we call them "type I and type II errors") were different.    Embed Quote