★Everyone has a hypothesis about why autism is so prevalent nowadays. What is your hypothesis?
A portion of it is better identification tool and a recognition (in the past 15 years) that Autism is a spectrum... as is true with most issues termed "mental health issues". However, my Darling Wife works with these kids on a family basis as a Speech and  Language Pathologiy Assistant, in a fairly rural area... lots of farming. She has noticed that the per capita cases are substantially higher (double or close to) in areas where a lot of farming is occurring close to where the kids live and play. Could it be due to increased exposure levels to farming chemicals (many if not most of which are KNOWN ENDOCRINE DISRUPTORS) for the mothers during pregnancy?  Many, if not most of these chemicals are KNOWN endocrine disruptors; including Glyphos, 2-4-D, and each of the insecticides.  I would also note that we have seen a massive (6x to 15x) increase in the amounts used per acre over the last 30+/- years.  The interesting thing about this is that the RESIDUES of these chemicals have also seen a massive increase in our food supply... affecting the entire nation if my supposition is true. The OTHER interesting thing about this increase in chemical usage (due largely to the efforts of Monsanto and their bevy of bribed "regulators" and Congress critters) is that We have absolutely NO WAY to avoid these toxins in our food source if we buy food at stores.  Thus We ARE the gunie pigs in the largest, (intentionally) unmonitored, unauthorized, uncontrolled, "experiment" about low and moderate levels of toxicity in our food supply.  In point of Fact, the USDA just DOUBLED the "allowable" residue of Glyphos on fruits and veggies sold in the US... THE OLD LEVEL WAS +10X WHAT EUROPE ALLOWS. So we are now at +20x the "allowable" levels of residue in food (over Europe) for a KNOWN endocrine disruptor. The other "interesting thing about this +30 year trend is that ALL of the "science" on the supposed safety of these toxins and poisons is conducted (almost exclusively) by the very companies which have a vested interest in the poison being approved... the FDA and USDA (unlike European regulators) no longer do any actual research.  Rather, they simply "review" the assertions presented by those manufacturers. Does any one else see the truly massive potential for conflicts of interest here?! Posit: COULD IT BE that the massive, and nearly universal (throughout ALL PHASES of our food production) increase in the use of known poisons in our food prodction be driving the massive increase in the number per capita of Asperger's, autoimmune diseases, and cancers (especially virulent forms of cancer)? Question: Why are the folks who are researching these things (in Europe mostly) completely dismissed as cranks and wearers of tin foil hats by our "regulators". Seriously, folks: Am I the only one who sees a problem here?!    Embed Quote