★Is morality truly an unnecessary hypothesis?
I gave a speech on this topic... Two men look through the same bars; one sees the mud and one the stars. Our world is governed by opinions and the most popular categories are good and bad…white and black Shree Ram, the ’maryada purushottam’, is probably the best example of a character under the category ‘white’. He gave up on his family because of certain allegations I’m sure everyone is familiar with. He showed distrust on his wife which is why people have also considered him as a member of the ‘black’ community. I’m pretty sure that grouping a person in two categories does not qualify as proper grouping. Which is why a new column, the ‘grey’ column is considered. This grouping is not limited to humans or Gods alone. Non-living matter is also studied for its pros and cons. UV rays for example, are notorious for their skin cancer causing potential. But what some of us might not know is that it is important for the conversion of skin oils to Vitamin D. Black? White? Grey. When we see a person in a bus, shouting or acting ‘unlikely’, we quickly judge him as inappropriate and dump him in the ‘black’ category. What we don’t try to realize is 1, we don’t know what he is going through and 2, judging his character is not going to do us any good. The practice of judging people leads to nothing. No contribution to our selfish interests what-so-ever. Which brings us to another form of ‘black’, selfishness. Why are people who care about themselves before others evil? You came in this world alone and you are supposed to leave it alone. Our family and friends are important, very important. But they are never the center of our universe, and why should they be?  There’s a reason every person has been granted with a separate life. It is all for mutual benefits. A mother feeding her baby is supposed to be the biggest form of giving. But if the baby is not fed, it will not survive. If it does not survive, the mother will never be happy. Sounds like mom’s selfish, but is she evil?  It is all grey, just the intensity differs. Kahlil Gibran said in his verse “a divided house is not a den of thieves; it is only a divided house’. An argument within a family means difference of opinion, not that the family is ruthless. I know no family without this character, and if you do, you might want to consider the idea of ‘suffering in silence’ that plagued our society for long… The world’s wheels keep on turning, and we should turn with them. Known fact? Then why is a person who wants to change things for better not considered as the boon for today? You and I have supported Anna Hazare, but there are many who haven’t. Does that mean that either the Anna team or the Anti-Anna team is evil? I won’t say yes as an answer to that question. But corruption has been eating our country alive. And whose fault is it…ours! Why you ask, because we are the ‘common people’ who bribed the officers. Maybe the Anti-Anna team says that we should refuse to help to ‘big people’. Are they wrong? Or are we wrong, for following Anna? Analyzing the situation, I switched sides. I am now on the grey team, where sit quietly, mind my own business, and try to work things out instead of giving up or blaming the government or the population. To me, seems like the best way to go. The more we try to divide the world, the more it gets complicated. There is no good and bad. Just because we don’t feel like investigating something, we dump it into good or bad. Well let’s change it today. Let’s move on and stop judging the world. Whether it’s your family, your school, your work, your dinner…stop categorizing. And if you feel tempted to do that, just sit down and begin with chalking out your own pros and cons. Then you will know what I mean… In the end….i would like to say….. In Rumi’s words….  Out beyond ideas of wrongdoing and rightdoing there is a field. I'll meet you there.    Embed Quote