★Is morality truly an unnecessary hypothesis?
MORALITY IS WHAT THAT KEEPS ME FROM KILLING (you). What IS morality? Consider this... there are two types of morality. The first being: morality is a rule that decides if a deed is good and bad. True, as you've mentioned in your description, the concept of morality is arbitrary. Why? Because the factors one puts in in defining morality is very subjective to begin with (or even the definition of good or bad, for that matter!). But I would go to an extent of saying that this definition of morality breaks down after some limit. This is the second type of morality. After this breaking point, man follows the true morality which Nature has programmed in us. So when does morality (set by man) break down? When your survival is in question, of course. But why is there a threshold for this morality to break? For others to survive, of course! Else you will be in a murdering spree to get whatever the hell you want by murdering anyone who has what you want, and so will everyone! Imagine a world where everyone is walking with knives and guns to get your possessions and you, to get others'. So this threshold set by man varies from culture to culture and even from person to person within a culture. The idea of good and bad was invented (well, framed would be a more apt word) so that there is an order and peace amongst the group of people who choose to abide by it. For instance, some cultures practice strict monogamy. All the members of that particular society have agreed that a man can have only one wife and a woman can have only one husband. Having two wives is against the(ir) morality. But mother Nature does not comply with this, of course (if it did, then it would have made penis of one man to be compatible with just one woman's vagina!) This is precisely the reason why this rule is not followed in ALL the cultures. Why is there a discrepancy of this sort? Because factors such as this (or tipping) is not the basis upon which Nature defines morality (else all cultures, whose DNA sequences are of the same species, would follow that the same rule all over). So on what basis does Nature define its morality? As I firstly said: SURVIVAL! ANYTHING THAT YOU DO WHICH HELPS YOU SURVIVE IS MORALLY JUSTIFIED BY NATURE (but not justifiable by man's rules, mind you). Evidence? In ALL the cultures there ever was, killing of another man/woman/child for an unnecessary reason is considered a crime (you can interrupt and ask, "What're you talking about? What do you have to say about the violent wars that were fought where  men, women and children who were strangers were slain?". Well, they were killed for a reason, stupid reason or not. Territory (and other goods that come off a war) is an essential need for survival, so you die either defending it or you die trying to acquire it. Might seem paradoxical, but the former illustrates your definition of morality and latter illustrates Nature's definition of morality! [you also die for your kith and kin in the latter illustration, which is where altruism comes in one of its many forms for the survival of the whole] Your next question should be, "Aren't we all humans that are made by Nature? Then isn't the -morality set by man- also a product of Nature in the first place?" Nice question. As we evolved as humans to form cultures and language, I think we have acquired a distortion in our view of morality but the pristine form of it still resides deep within us that it kicks in when the "threshold" is crossed. The trouble occurs when the morality set by man clashes with the pristine morality that is programmed in him by Nature when thinking rationally without encountering an actual situation. When we encounter an actual situation, I don't think we will have any conflictions between both. Let us consider an hypothetical scenario. You are walking into a street where I come in the opposite. Suddenly, I knock you over and put a pistol to your head, counting from 10 to shoot you and kill you, for no reason. But say you have a remote button in your clinched fist, which when pressed, will give me an heart attack. Will you or will you not press it? Since you are against murder, you probably will wait till 3. If you are a really really soft person, you might wait till 2. But will you still not press the button after calling 1? I don't think so! Because you shouldn't! Your brain will say, "FUCK THE LAW, FUCK MORALITY, I AM PRESSING THE BUTTON!". But to answer your question, "Is morality unnecessary in this modern era?" Morality is absolutely necessary. If not, you would've pressed the button even before I knocked you over (just like how I would've knocked you over and killed you for no reason). This makes the world too unfair for both of us, and worse, extincts the human race sooner. :-)    Embed Quote