★Has evolution been proved or should we consider evolution a hypothesis?Is it only a theory or a fact? Edit: All the answers have been written with eloquence and brilliance. Now I can confidently discuss the "Theory of Evolution" with my creationist friends. :)
The problem is one of language.  The goal of mathematics or a court of law may be to prove a case, but science doesn't work like that.  There's an important reason for this. In the late 17th century, Newton put forward his theory of universal gravitation.  Newton wad an absolute genius if ever there was a mortal worthy of the name.  He made important contributions to everything from optics to fluid dynamics, and basically invented calculus.  He theory of universal gravitation was his crowning achievement. Unfortunately, it was also wrong. His thinking was held in ascendancy for over 200 years until some random, no-name Swiss patent clerk put forward his theory of Special Relativity.  It called many things assumed under Newton called into question, but the real coup de grace was when he later developed a theory of General Relativity.  This theory, along with the observations made in support of it, proved Newton was wrong. In the wake of this, it became clear to philosophers of science that no theory, no matter how advanced, true, correct, or substantiated, could ever graduate to a point wherewe could no longer question it. So in contrast to what people are writing here, it's not that "theory" is some exalted True Law of the Universe hiding under a euphemism.  It's that no matter how good a theory is, there's no higher level to which it can honestly aspire. Many theories today are wrong and are crap, they just haven't yet been disproven.  That's beside the point.  The theory of evolution by natural selection is among the best supported and most important theories in science today, and abusing language doesn't change that. It's a theory supported well enough that I'm confident enough to call it correct.  That's the most you can ever seek in science.    Embed Quote