★Has evolution been proved or should we consider evolution a hypothesis?Is it only a theory or a fact? Edit: All the answers have been written with eloquence and brilliance. Now I can confidently discuss the "Theory of Evolution" with my creationist friends. :)
Evolutionary theory is quite robust. It has become such an integral part of biological science that every aspect of life on earth ends up being analyzed in the light of evolution. If, for instance, the color of butterfly wings is considered, we inevitably ask questions such as: What is the advantage of the coloring? How did the butterfly develop the biochemical pathways to produce the necessary pigments? In what way is the coloring related to reproductive success? What characteristics are shared by closely related species and how did they respond to similar environmental challenges?, etc. In terms of proof, the great strength of evolutionary theory is the relative ease with which it could be proven false, if contradictory evidence were ever found. Some examples are: anachronistic fossils, unrelated species (species which cannot be placed on an evolutionary tree), or a sudden change in a species not explainable by the stepwise process of mutation/phenotype/selection. Now for the problems. Those who are specifically opposed to Darwinian Evolution believe there are no clear examples of speciation in which one type of animal, such as a fish, becomes (through successive generations) a different type of animal, such as a frog. Even embryological similarities are rejected as insufficient evidence of evolution, because ultimately fish produce fish, frogs produce frogs. The response of the evolution camp is to say, "give it a few million years." However, if one is speaking with a young-earth creationist, then the conversation devolves into a debate about the age of the earth and the relative merits of radiometric and stratigraphic principles used to establish geologic dates. If both parties are knowledgeable, the discussion quickly degenerates into examples of and defenses for the errors inherent in dating techniques. Moving along, we now come to the great weakness of evolutionary theory, which is the mutation and selection process. First, the easy version, about which both sides generally agree. Let's say there exists in a population a group of people who are immune to a particularly deadly, virulent epidemic illness. The survivors of the epidemic will presumably have offspring and eventually repopulate the geographic area that was depopulated by the epidemic. The obvious phenotypic result is that the succeeding generations all look more or less alike. Perhaps red hair, tallness, baldness or another easily recognizable trait is shared by most (allowing for a bit of diversity, even in a small genetic pool) of the descendants because these traits happened to be present in those individuals who were genetically equipped to avoid infection during the epidemic. The hard version of the mutation and selection process--at least the part that is hard to believe--is the idea that mutation leads to both survival advantage and a substantially different type of animal. It's one thing to say that there might be a pre-existing variation among some individuals in a population that gives them a survival advantage. It is another thing to say that enough advantageous mutations occurred sequentially to cause a fish to become a frog. There are at least two reasons why it's hard to believe the mutation aspect of Darwin's theory. (Note: I am not suggesting here that Darwin understood genetics. Genetics were not integrated into evolution until the 20th century.) The idea that mutation can yield a survival benefit seems ridiculous when one considers the empirical phenotypic evidence. Almost all mutations that result in an obvious phenotypic change do so to the detriment of the individual. Even those mutations that provide a survival advantage seem to be limited to changes in physical performance, immunity or physiological chemistry--not a change in body plan. The relatively few advantageous changes we know of among living animals are generally rather subtle. There don't seem to be any mutations at all that 1) provide a survival advantage, and 2) simultaneously move a given species in the direction of becoming something completely different, as in my fish to frog example. Creationists ask, over and over again, "where are the transitional species?" The question might be better asked in the form "where are the mutations that are gradually causing one species to become two species?" But that latter question leads to some rather tedious science, Archaeopteryx lithographica notwithstanding. It may be argued, on the basis of very great evidence, that bacteria evolve quickly and often. Antibiotic resistance has been clearly demonstrated to develop within a fairly short amount of time, certainly within a decade or less. Unfortunately, microbial examples are not very persuasive to someone for whom the term "evolution" is inextricably linked to the ascent of human beings from primate ancestors.    Embed Quote