★Has evolution been proved or should we consider evolution a hypothesis?Is it only a theory or a fact? Edit: All the answers have been written with eloquence and brilliance. Now I can confidently discuss the "Theory of Evolution" with my creationist friends. :)
Yes. Evolution is a fact. Any conversation at a non-technical level has to begin with that. The evidence for evolution is utterly overwhelming. Any conversation that includes "only a theory" needs to backtrack a bit. In science, gravity is a theory. That's just the way the word is used. Clearly, we have a lot higher opinion of "theory" than nonscientists do. And "evolution" is about as well-attested a theory as gravity is. There are hundreds of different lines of evidence, all of which fit together like a vast, 42-dimensional jigsaw puzzle. Some of the numerous forms of evidence (each of which has millions or billions of individual examples): Stratigraphic records, showing how various layers of the earth are formed over time, and the evolution of life forms over time. The genetic code, which relates one species to another in precisely the way you'd expect from evolution. Evolution observed in laboratories in bacteria. The evolution of antibiotic resistance. Selective breeding, using humans as the selection factor in evolution rather than natural selection. Dozens of different forms of dating, from tree rings to thorium inside zircon crystals, all of which establish time lines corresponding to billions of years of evolution. Enough fossils to fill vast warehouses, all of which confirm the evolution picture.There is no serious scientist who questions that evolution occurred, and that it is the mechanism by which speciation occurred. There is no "debate" here. The question isn't just settled, it's been settled for over a century, and the evidence continues to pile on. Fake controversy is generated for anti-scientific purposes, and I consider it one of the biggest threats to American power, making us a laughing stock and scaring people away from science.    Embed Quote