★Is morality truly an unnecessary hypothesis?
This exact question has had me pondering, wasting many of my idle times. Some of the what-if sub-questions ranging from donating my kidney to someone, to killing someone. What if I kill someone? Its not that I am a psychopath (I guess even if I am I wouldn't admit it, but assume). I am merely questioning the consequences. I hope I have got your question right. A Simple World Now let us assume, for the sake of comfortable reading, that I am not killing someone, but I am donating my kidney to a patient in need. Let the entire system that we live in (our world) be W. Let my act of donation be A. Lets say I did not go for act A. But I stayed by the patient in need of a kidney, comforting him/her. Call this act B. Let C be the act of ignoring the patient. A is a very good(right) act w.r.t. (with respect to) W. B is a good(right) act w.r.t. W. C is a bad(wrong) act w.r.t. W. What makes A very good, B good and C bad? Were the acts A, B and C considered in the same way when we were cavemen? Will A still be considered the right thing to do in some future era? Since we also usually add a quality to describe how right or how wrong an act is, let us assume that quality as the magnitude. In a way, we have quantized righteousness. For the sake of simplicity, let the domain be [-1,1], where -1 refers to extreme wrong and +1 refers to extreme right. Let there be n citizens of W. Each of them have an opinion(function, f) on each of the acts A, B and C. f1(A) gives the righteousness of act A w.r.t. citizen#1. Similarly f2(A), f3(A),..., fn(A) give righteousness of act A w.r.t. citizen#2, #3,...,#n respectively. A is right w.r.t. W when average(fi(A)) > 0, where i = 1, 2,..., n. Here lies your answer to why tipping is considered rude in some countries like Japan, while not tipping is outrageous in some. Because f1(A) = 0.9, f2(A) = 0.7 and f3(A) = -0.3 in a 3-citizen world. Its all in the opinion of the n citizens of world W. It depends on the people to decide what is right and what is wrong. When I find a pattern that allows me to classify an act based on the opinions of the citizens of W, i.e. if a threshold (almost all) number of citizens have a positive opinion about an act, I call it moral. The internal working of the functions f1, f2,..., fn, are dynamically dependent on the regional history, culture, recent events and are under a cycle of continuous learning and changing. Since everything is relative here, we have no standard or absolute righteousness to compare to. We can set the standard to be the average of all as done above. The more people think an act is right, the more right it is. Sometimes the standard righteousness is set upon one citizen. That citizen becomes the leader and a new religion begins. He/She decides what is right and wrong for all who follow him/her. But each and everyone is free not physically, but mentally to follow his/her own path to righteousness and define it, free to define their own morals. An analogy to this system is time. A body moving faster moves slower in time. But there is no absolute standard to measure this speed of time with. The standard can be assumed to be the average of that of the entire universe, or the speed of time for a particular body.    Embed Quote