★Is the unfalsifiable hypothesis of "dark energy" the secular equivalent of fairy dust?Isn't belief without evidence typically considered irrational? It's interesting to note, that the Bible explains at least 17 times that the heavens are expanding, and that God "stretches them out like a curtain." I wonder how those ancient primitive people could've known such things with such un-coincidental certainty?
A few points: We may not know what dark energy is, but that doesn't mean we don't know what it's like. Given a snake in a bag, you might not know what a snake is, but you can deduce that it is long and scaly, and makes a hissing noise. Dark energy is the same: we don't know what it is, but we know damn well what it must be like, especially on a mathematical level. Knowing what it's like, we can make predictions about dark energy. What should the universe look like if 10% of the energy density was dark energy? 20%? 70%? We have multiple, independent ways of measuring this and checking this value. One such way comes from looking at the power spectrum of the CMB. There's a brilliant applet by NASA called Build a Universe that allows you to adjust the relative proportion of baryons, cold dark matter and dark energy to match the CMB spectrum measured. Another way is to look at Type Ia supernovae to observe the accelerated expansion of the universe, which can be indirectly used to understand dark energy. You can find out more at The Dark Energy Survey. Turns out dark energy should take up about 70% of the energy density of the universe today. Referring to the previous point, it clearly is falsifiable: just check that the independent ways of measuring the proportion of dark energy disagree with each other. Unfortunately (or fortunately), they don't. In fact, the three main methods agree on the 70% number (that's the figure on the vertical axis): If they didn't agree, you would find that all the color plots (blue for the supernovae measurement, orange for CMB, green for another measurement of something called baryon acoustic oscillations) don't intersect at the same area (all consistent with 70%). Instead, you've got an excellent agreement. This is clearly not fairy dust, where anything goes. It's funny that in one breath, you can deride dark energy while lauding the discovery of the expansion of the universe, when they both come from our achievements in the science of cosmology, based on the same understanding of physics. You can't pick and choose your evidence: once you've discovered the expansion of the universe, and then notice that this expansion rate is accelerating, you end up quite naturally with dark energy. Dark energy is basically just a placeholder name for something that can potentially give us the required accelerated expansion, after all. If in spite of all this, you're still not convinced that dark energy is real, then you've got to do some pretty drastic things to explain what we observe. You've got to abandon some fundamental concepts in physics that we have very good reason to believe. For example, you could get around the need for dark energy by saying that general relativity is wrong: but this is really tough, because we've checked general relativity many, many times, and not once has it been shown to be wrong. Pick your poison.    Embed Quote