★Is the efficient-market hypothesis (EMH) generally accepted?This theory says that markets are "informationally efficient" meaning you will not achieve in excess of market returns on a risk adjusted basis. So basically someone like Warren Buffett has been successful because he flipped the coin heads 90 out of 100 times, not because he has any special knowledge that could enable him to profit more than any other market participant.
Yes, the Efficient Market Hypothesis Efficient Markets Hypothesis (links to: /Efficient-Markets-Hypothesis) is generally accepted in academic circles, hence Fama getting the Nobel prize Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences (links to: /Nobel-Memorial-Prize-in-Economic-Sciences) recently. Even though they got the Nobel for detecting trends in time-series Fama is the representative of the EMH. There are detractors in academia but not enough and without much acceptance in academic circles to amount to the equivalent of a fringe party. Now, the markets should be efficient in some way, they generally reflect new information very quickly, in a matter of a few miliseconds oftentimes. So they are efficient in that way and every time more so thanks to high-frequency trading. However, the real problem lies in the Efficient Market Hypothesis implying equilibrium of some sort. If economic policy Monetary Policy (links to: /Monetary-Policy) shows clear trends (e.g., several raises of interest rates Interest Rates (links to: /Interest-Rates) in a row, etc.) then, then the market efficiently reflects that and the market gets into booms and busts. Then again, the EMH implies that the cognitive model in the minds of all humans is correct. So the efficiency is relative to those heterogeneous human models. If the human model is false, and people realize it and change their mind, then the adjustment that takes place in the markets can be drastic. Buffett Warren Buffett (links to: /Warren-Buffett) has a better cognitive model than most and here there lies the his advantage. Another issue with EMH is using normal distributions Normal Distributions (links to: /Normal-Distribution-probability) and other parametric distributions. Taleb Nassim Nicholas Taleb (author) (links to: /Nassim-Nicholas-Taleb-author) has a real problem with the distributions the EMH uses and for good reason. I remember asking now Yale prof. Yuichi Kitamura on how are we sure all these processes are normally distributed and he doesn't believe they are are, but then you get into non-parametric processes and you have to spend a few years on that to really use it, so the EMH simplifications are for actually efficiency purposes. It should be called the Efficient Market for Academic Theories on the Financial Markets.