★What is the convergence hypothesis?
The convergence hypothesis, stated simply, is that given sufficient time, the inflation-adjusted per-capita income of all nations of the world will approach equality. This is theorized due to the observation that "developing" nations' per-capita incomes increase more rapidly than "developed" nations, as the acquisition of industrial technology by a developing nation allows it to take advantage of the imbalance in labor costs, in turn increasing demand for said labor as the nation builds wealth through exports. Eventually, however, as the industries of that country mature, the rate of increase in wages slows to a relative steady-state as the competitive advantage of that country's wage imbalance to other developed nations is reduced. We have seen this lemma demonstrated with many countries over the past 50-60 years. Japan, post-WWII, was an economic wreck. Japan's industry is almost totally dependent upon imports, as both raw materials and fuel are in relatively short supply on the home islands. They recovered mainly through abandoning the isolationist policies that had been ingrained in their culture for centuries, and learning from the consultants they hired from the U.S., who ironically weren't being listened to by the established firms at home, to their eventual detriment and in some cases demise. However, today Japan's industries are well-developed and more or less fully saturated; they're no longer the upstart firms that got their toehold by making a quality product more cheaply, their products are now on par price-wise with those of America, Germany and other well-respected manufacturing centers. As a result, their growth has slowed. We're watching a similar story play out right now in South Korea; in terms of value for dollar it has become a second Japan, only delayed by about ten or fifteen years due mainly to the time difference between the last major wars fought on the soil of both countries. In a few industries, Korean goods have already peaked in growth rate and perceived value, and foreign developers have moved on to new centers for budget-level manufactured goods.. China's story has been slightly different due to the large amount of control China's government retains over commercial interests, but there's no denying the fact that the country has also seen an economic boom, even (perhaps especially) when the rest of the developed world was in the throes of the worst economic recession since the Great Depression. Even so, it's beginning to slow as the flaws or flip-sides of many of its policies are becoming more apparent. Given these many examples, it seems reasonable to assume that investors looking for the best deals on labor will eventually exhaust the world's supply of undeveloped nations in which to build industrial infrastructure. This will likely not happen in our generation; at the moment there are too many countries being actively shunned by developed nations for a variety of "risk factors" such as political instability or tyranny, epidemic, climate etc.    Embed Quote