★Does the God hypothesis violate causality?By definition itself, God is eternal and has always existed. The creator was never created, he has simply existed. We do think in terms of cause and effect, making it difficult to understand that the Big Bang had no cause. How did we end up synthesizing an entity that violates the same? Please be free to point out mistakes in my premise.
Yes, but the logical conclusion of causality violates causality. If Z was caused by Y which was caused by X which was caused by W ... eventually, you get to A and think, "What caused that?" You're forced to either conclude that A had no cause, that it popped into being on its own or that it has existed forever, or that the chain of causation is infinite, and so A was caused by AA, which was caused by AAA, which was caused by AAAA, and so on. Neither a first-cause theory nor a infinite-series-of-causes theory (turtles all the way down) is emotionally (or intellectually) satisfying to most people, but there aren't any more options. At least, there are none our brains seemed rigged to understand. (Why aren't they satisfying? Because we aren't built to think that way when it comes to the sorts of subjects we evolved to deal with most often. No one says, "I'm hungry because I've always been hungry.") This isn't a religious issue. It's a religious and secular issue, so it's always confused me when people use it as a debate point in religious arguments. When atheists (who believe in Science) say, "If God created the Universe, who created God? Ha! Gotcha there!" why don't the say the same thing about the Big Bang? When theists chide atheists for calling the Big Bang the first cause, why don't they chide themselves for saying the same thing about God? If you're intellectually honest, you have three options: 1. "I don't know." - "If God created the Universe, who created God?" - "I don't know." - "If the Big Bang caused everything that exists, what caused the Big Bang?" - "I don't know." 2. "That's good enough for me." - "If God created the Universe, who created God?" - "I don't need to know. I'm happy to just trace things back to God. That's emotionally satisfying, and it's all I care about." - "If the Big Bang caused everything that exists, what caused the Big Bang?" - "I don't need to know. The Big Bang caused everything we can see, everything we can detect, everything in our timeline, and all our physical laws. So I don't really care what came before it, if 'before it' even has any meaning." 3. The third option is to embrace, if you can, one of the two answers I gave at the start of this post, eternal existence (or popping into existence) or infinite chains. - "God had no beginning. He has always existed." - "The Big Bang had no cause. It just happened." I don't really see how either "side" can accuse the other of being more or less logical than the other when it comes to making claims about the end-point of a causal chain. As humans, we are simply at the limits of our understanding. Perhaps the problem is that we can't prove that causation exists in the first place. Everything we call "causation" is really just a tight form of correlation. Don't believe me? Try pushing a chair over and proving that your push "caused" the chair to fall over. You can prove that you pushed it and then it fell over; you can prove that every time you push it, it then falls over. You can't prove that pushing it causes it to fall over, unless you just define causation as a form of correlation.    Embed Quote