★What is the Gaia hypothesis?How much interest does it currently generate in the scientific community?
The Gaia hypothesis proposed by Lovelock, like his "analysis" of wind power, is sloppy and not the modern understanding.  Lovelock proposed the Earth's biosphere as a homeostatic system - seeking to always return to a stable balance of forces when disrupted by temporary events.  Thus, it could appear to be like a living organism restoring itself to an equilibrium.  This is now a discredited view. Lynn Margulis stated alternatively, and more correctly, that the biosphere is not homestatic but homeorhetic.  That is, it seeks to return to a stable set point but that a certain type or degree of disruption can change that set point quickly and catastrophically.  Between such catastrophic changes, the biosphere behaves as if it were homeostatic. The fossil record backs Margulis strongly and proves Lovelock absolutely wrong.  Catastrophes that have clearly altered the entire biosphere include the rise of blue green algae and the oxygen atmosphere, the Permian extinction which may have involved eutrophication or toxicity of all or most of the oceans, the Paleocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum (PETM) in which the Earth effectively was without ice, numerous "ice ages" since, and today's threatening-to-be-also-catastrophic average global warming and ocean acidification (due mostly to CO2).  There can be really no question that the biosphere is homeorhetic and adapts to challenge by radically changing what type of life it supports and where.  Margulis has to be acknowledged as correct. Asimov and de Chardin speculated about intelligence of beings aware of their biosphere and seeking to stabilize it, or change it, constituting a sort of abstract layer that could cause faster homeostatic stabilization or slower homeorhetic change - perhaps just enough to give people time to adapt or get off the Earth.  These are not the Gaia hypothesis, they are best described in de Chardin's terms as the "noosphere" which was the abstract self-awareness of the biosphere.  Such projects as Peter Gabriel's "Interspecies Internet" push in this direction.  No matter what the potential of such ideas, however, there is no reason to believe rationally in any biosphere-wide intelligence operating to guide prior extinctions.  To believe in that is a religious view, not one subject to disproof or experiment. It is incorrect to describe the Gaia hypothesis as implying the Earth or just its surface biosphere has any particular intelligence or "cares" about survival of any particular ecosystem or species.  Very simple systems can be homeostatic or even homeorhetic.  Most of what's written about Gaia is basically ideology or hopeful thinking - the hypothesis is named for a Roman goddess who had the Earth in her womb, "mother Earth" basically.  That's however not what the hypothesis itself is.    Embed Quote