★Is the efficient-market hypothesis (EMH) generally accepted?This theory says that markets are "informationally efficient" meaning you will not achieve in excess of market returns on a risk adjusted basis. So basically someone like Warren Buffett has been successful because he flipped the coin heads 90 out of 100 times, not because he has any special knowledge that could enable him to profit more than any other market participant.
No, but essentially because so many people make so much money by making you believe that markets are NOT efficient. Just compare the income of the huge majority of academics working with objectivity and no conflicts of interests teaching and researching EMH, and the income of investment professionals discounting EMH on the basis of smoke and mirror evidence and juicy anecdotes they sell to the investment public to understand the dynamics of the problem. Academics believe in the utility of rationality as a starting point, snake oil salesmen ridicule it for obvious reasons. All investment professionals want you to believe they are better than average; maybe that should tip you off. But what is most difficult to fathom for most is that through survivorship bias, almost everyone can indeed always be presented as better than average! Warren Buffett is wise and intelligent. He is also very successful but even in his case there is no formal proof of a relationship between the two. Unfortunately, graveyards are also full of very intelligent people. Jim Simons is also wise, intelligent and successful. But he is also very opaque and closed for outside investors. Indeed, if you are truely an exceptional investor why would you need to manage other people's money? The conclusion is that unless you are extremely confident you have some superior insight, intellectual capacity or other competitive advantage, you are most probably better off by going with the pack, believing markets are efficient stop trying to hit a home run but concentrate on cost minimization. If you don't, it means you accept the fact that you are mediocre but still believe you have the capacity to select someone else who has the qualities you lack. Many investors suffer from this urge. Their irrational behavior brings noise to the system, most often a murmur, sometimes very loud, but does not alter the signal. “It is difficult to get a man to understand something, when his salary depends on his not understanding it.” ― Upton Sinclair, 1937 "The only people who do not believe in EMH are North Koreans and active investment managers" ― Rex Sinquefield 1995    Embed Quote