★How valid is the theory of 'God: Ancient Astronauts' (paleocontact hypothesis)?
Your assumptions are wrong. 1. It is very achievable, as well quoted by other answers. There is no any advanced knowledge needed for it, just a big number of people and a lot of time. 2. Pyramids are not smart structures. Their design is quite primitive in comparison with, i.e., Parthenon or other later buildings. Their size is the exact reason why they are primitive. Now we can construct buildings which are narrow, light and multiple times taller. (Why advanced civilization would want to build these primitive useless structures in the first place?) The alleged precision of their design is easily achieved. "Oh, wow, the stones are laid with precision of 1cm over such a big distance" is easy and has been done for millenia. How? With a thread. Just stretch it above the surface between two points and here you go - a long ideally straight line. This is how they did it then, this is how we do it now, still. Vertical alignment? Plummet. Easy as that. There are instruments found during excavations, there are drawings of the building process, there are no any unexplainable things found in physical form or drawn anywhere. Those speculations you suggest have absolutely no backing, this is a typical "argument from ignorance", that is "I can't imagine how can it be done, so, it must be aliens". Even if we wouldn't know all the facts, this logic seems like a huge leap... 3. Again, those civilizations weren't that advanced at all, just a bit more advanced than their neighbors. Where did they go? They declined over time. They didn't just disappear in an instant. It might seem like that from our perspective, and is misleading. The country got too big and complacent. There was not much threat around and they were not prepared for it. Military technology was not advancing because they didn't think they needed it much. When revolts and foreign invasions started to happen here and there, there was nothing which Egypt could reply with. Losing control on some of its lands, supply of produce dried out which coincided with progressing of deforestation and advancing desert. It started internal unrest and replacement of local rulers with foreigners who effectively colonized Egypt and started to use it in their own interests. This happened over a period of almost 1000 years, mind you...    Embed Quote