★Has evolution been proved or should we consider evolution a hypothesis?Is it only a theory or a fact? Edit: All the answers have been written with eloquence and brilliance. Now I can confidently discuss the "Theory of Evolution" with my creationist friends. :)
Biological evolutionary theories are as supported as any other scientific theories (although, as noted by others, it's possible the theory might be improved on or falsified later).  However, certain off shoots of the theory of evolution, such as evolutionary psychology, are not nearly as well supported.  We have a wealth of evidence that creatures do change genetically over time, and that this change includes the brain (from the cranial capacity of fossils, etc).  However, because we know so little about the specific conditions in which humans evolved and no psychological record as humans evolved, explaining the current human conscious in terms of natural selection is largely speculation (see the Wikipedia article for a more in depth survey of criticisms to evolutionary psychology). The point is while evolution is as 'proven' as a theory gets in science, not all applications of it are equally supported.  Organisms do change genetically over time, and the evidence points to the time frame on a scale of hundreds of thousands and millions of year.  This has application in biology, and does tend to discredit the belief that the world as we know it was created in a literal seven days as we measure days now.  However, evolution does not currently much evidence for psychological application, or proof that their is no God.  Darwin himself pointed out the latter, although an occasional fan of evolution will attempt to claim it anyway. I mention this because of the context given in terms of your creationist friends—there are religious individuals who accept evolution.  Here are some arguments from such apologists: The Bible is more concerned with why the world was created than the literal biological processes involved.  Essentially, Genesis and the theory are answering different question.  The first answers why the world exists, the second answers what processes led to its current state. The Bible describes the world being created in seven days... it also starts the day count before the sun is created.  Since we measure days by the sun, the days in Genesis are clearly not our days.  So how does God measure a day?  Genesis doesn't really answer that.  Perhaps God's days are millions of years longer than ours. My personal speculation: Genesis describes man being raised from the dust.  If God were to show Moses (a commonly accepted author of Genesis) a vision of the evolution of man from single celled organisms, how do you think Moses would have described it?  Keep in mind that Moses had no clue about modern biology and microscopic organisms.  I believe that God either guided evolution, or created the world such that life would evolve as He intended.    Embed Quote