★Earth Science: The Gaia Hypothesis: genuine scientific hypothesis or pseudoscientific nonsense?
Genuine scientific hypothesis is my vote. A scientific hypothesis is one that proposes a model of reality that can be used as a basis of predicting results ("A, therefore B"), and which therefore can be disproved ("B but not A, therefore wrong!"). A pseudo-scientific model would be one that can't be disproved. That may be because the model is so general that it would predict any outcome ("A, therefore anything" - a bit like the epicycle model). Or because the model is so self-evident that it is basically a tautology ("A, therefore A") although that may not make it unscientific as such. The Gaia hypothesis as I understand it was originally of the form "atmosphere in chemical equilibrium (low entropy), therefore no life." This seems fairly easy to disprove - find an example of a living biosphere where the atmosphere/environment is in chemical equilibrium. This seems like a valid scientific approach to me. I believe Gaia goes further than that, saying "atmosphere not in chemical equilibrium, therefore life" which might be a little less solid. While that certainly holds on Earth (oxygen wouldn't exist in the atmosphere without plants/algae) it may not necessarily hold elsewhere - non-living processes might cause non-equilibrium of atmosphere/environment. This is still a long way from pseudo-science, IMO. And not nonsense either - it makes a lot of sense within the area of systems dynamics. Nothing in this hypothesis rules out catastrophic events or demands some predetermined purposes. And it does offer an explanation as to why a complex biosphere remains relatively constant over long periods of time. (Of course, the last few dozen decades might not be a good sample re that last point.) As regards the idea that the Earth's biosphere actively self-regulates, and that it perhaps has a mind in some way. Well, we know that simpler systems than the biosphere are capable of both. I don't recall hearing an argument that a system can be too complex for active self-regulation. So I'm not sure if the counter-argument is falsifiable either.    Embed Quote