★Is the efficient-market hypothesis (EMH) generally accepted?This theory says that markets are "informationally efficient" meaning you will not achieve in excess of market returns on a risk adjusted basis. So basically someone like Warren Buffett has been successful because he flipped the coin heads 90 out of 100 times, not because he has any special knowledge that could enable him to profit more than any other market participant.
The EMH Efficient Markets Hypothesis (links to: /Efficient-Markets-Hypothesis) is generally accepted in academia (see the notable exceptions below), although there is a growing body of people (myself included) who are moving the opposite direction. The EMH is widely rejected by practitioners, although there are some exceptions. One interesting academic piece is by Grossman and Stiglitz Joseph Stiglitz (links to: /Joseph-Stiglitz) (who worked for Clinton) called "On the Impossibility of Informationally Efficient Markets." There On the Impossibility of Informationally Efficient Markets. Their argument is as follows. Suppose : suppose that market are efficient. Since prices reflect all publicly-available information, there is no incentive to conduct a valuation analysis. But if no one does research on the assets, prices will quickly become inefficient, leading to a situation in which it becomes profitable to do research. The equilibrium they suggest is one in which markets are just inefficient enough to make it worthwhile for people to do research to estimate values. Robert Haugen has an interesting little book called The New Finance: The Case Against Efficient MarketsThe New Finance: The Case Against Efficient Markets. It is well worth the read for anyone interested in the subject. He reviews and summarizes the research on the subject and concludes that markets are indeed inefficient. Having said all that, the average investor and corporate managers are all very much ahead if they assume markets are efficient. To believe otherwise and act on those beliefs is tantamount to saying that you are better at valuing assets than the market, which incorporates the collective wisdom of numerous highly intelligent professional investors.