★Is the efficient-market hypothesis (EMH) generally accepted?This theory says that markets are "informationally efficient" meaning you will not achieve in excess of market returns on a risk adjusted basis. So basically someone like Warren Buffett has been successful because he flipped the coin heads 90 out of 100 times, not because he has any special knowledge that could enable him to profit more than any other market participant.
Pretty much every academic accepts that it is very difficult to beat the market. Many, many studies show that mutual fund managers, for example, do not beat the market on average and winning streaks are no more common than would be expected by chance. Moreover, trying to beat the market based on past information in stock prices, ala  technical analysis is especially absurd. IMO, efficient markets theory is right about all this. Thus, buy and hold diversified low-cost funds is the academic consensus on investing. Depart from this consensus at your peril! But what does it mean that markets are hard to beat? If markets were informationally efficient then they would be hard to beat so this is some evidence in favor of the theory of efficiency. It's quite possible, however, for markets to be hard to beat even when they are not efficient. Markets can stay irrational longer than you can stay solvent so markets may be difficult to beat even when not efficient. Behavioral economists such as Richard Thaler and recent Nobelist Robert Shiller have pointed out anomalies that are difficult to account for on a purely rational basis. Charlie Plott and Nobelist Vernon Smith have shown that bubbles occur quite regularly in experimental asset markets (real markets with real money but run in a controlled laboratory setting) Identifying and Popping Bubbles: Evidence from Experiments Skepticism about the information efficiency of markets is largest for  the market as a whole because it is more difficult to arbitrage away  anomalies on a big scale than on a small scale (e.g. we would expect  arbitrage to keep similar prices for similar firms). Note also that we need a good comparison. Efficient compared to what other institution? Markets are very efficient compared to other institutions for aggregating and using information. Prediction markets, such as the Iowa markets where you can speculate in the outcomes of elections, predict better than polls. The Hollywood Stock Exchange improves on the predictions of experts and so forth. If you want to find out whether a merger is a good idea, look at what happens to market prices when the merger is announced etc. The bottom line is that markets are marvelous but not miraculous.    Embed Quote