★HIV: Is the Duesberg hypothesis trustworthy?Which assertions by Duesberg about HIV and AIDS are trustworthy or, at least, merit investigation?
No. Period. End of discussion. Wikipedia has a detailed summary of why Duesberg and other HIV denialists are wong. (See: Duesberg hypothesis) In short, there is simply overwhelming evidence that HIV causes AIDS. Probably the best evidence is the fact that when the HIV protease inhibitor saquinavir, the major component of the first truly effective anti-HIV "cocktail" of medications, was introduced in 1995, deaths in HIV-infected Americans fell dramatically as shown in this graph. Worldwide the number of people dying from AIDS in 2013 (1.5 million) has been reduced by 35% from its high in 2005, when it was over 2 million. This reduction is due in large part to the fact that anti-HIV meds have been available to more people in developing countries, especially sub-Saharan Africa. In fact, the World Health Organization estimates that anti-HIV medication programs have averted an estimated 7.6 million [CI 6.9 – 8.4 million] deaths between 1995 and 2013. Anecdotally, I had a friend with AIDS who clearly was not going to be around much longer after Christmas 1995. His weight had dropped to less than 100 pounds from 185 and had no T lymphocytes. After six months of saquinavir and he was back to 160 pounds and all his T-cell count was on its way to being normal. In recent years, research has accumulated that shows starting anti-HIV medications earlier than later is beneficial. You might be surprised that in the US the CDC (HIV/AIDS Care Continuum) estimates that roughly 14% of HIV-positive Americans don't know that they are.  The goal of people involved in HIV medicine is to have all HIV-positive people aware of their status and in care with a qualified health professional regardless of where they live. In conclusion, the Duesberg hypothesis belongs in the dustbin of history along with the theory that the Sun orbits a flat Earth.    Embed Quote