★What is the best-supported hypothesis on why we need sleep?
The best theory that I have personally seen.  I am not an expert neuroscientist, but I am working on that: Neuronal Synchronization and Thalamocortical Rhythms in Sleep, Wake and Epilepsy Anyway I will try to explain this article, because the technical language is hard to decipher.  So let's start with memory and learning.  There are many types of memory, so I will just explain associative memory because its rather simple.  Associative memory is essentially the connection of 2 or more phenomena in a meaningful way.  Think Pavlov's dog.  I will use a baseball example.  You are an outfielder.  When playing baseball, you see the batter swing, hear the crack of the bat against the ball, and you react, running toward the ball to field it. In your brain, there is a certain pattern of neurons that are triggered, specifically in the visual cortex, that corresponds to the sight of a batter swinging.  And then, your temporal lobe receives a signal from your ears, and processes the sound.  Then there is the hippocampus, which processes these 2 distinct sensory phenomena and links them.  This primes the motor cortex and the cerebellum to get you running toward the ball.  When you are young and just starting off in baseball, this reaction is not that strong, and takes years of practice to refine.  But by the time you are in your twenties, the reaction is such 2nd nature that you don't even have to think about it, it just happens.  This is due literally to the formation and strengthening of connections in the brain.  Your synapses become more and more sensitive every time you use them, leading to the subsequent response being activated much more readily. Why this is related to sleep: In really simple terms, the reason why we need sleep according to the above linked theory is that the brain, while sleeping actually runs through these connections over and over again, strengthening them if it deems them important, or throws them away if they are circumstantial and unimportant.  Like if you were to have  jotted notes throughout the day on pieces of paper, then at the end of the day went back through them at the end of the day, saving or discarding what's important/unimportant.  This is also part of the reason some things are short-term memories, while others are not.  And quite frankly this is so vital, as we take in SOOOO much information in 1 day, if you remembered everything you would be so boggled down with information your wouldn't be able to recall anything without great effort. But yet you can think of sleep as a sort of maintainence period for the body.   The brain uses a lot of energy as well, and needs time to clean out all the waste metabolites.  But that doesn't really explain why the brain goes through oscillating periods such as waves (like alpha or beta rhythms).  But this theory attempts to explain those phenomena as simply running through its subprocesses to optimize them.    Embed Quote