★Has evolution been proved or should we consider evolution a hypothesis?Is it only a theory or a fact? Edit: All the answers have been written with eloquence and brilliance. Now I can confidently discuss the "Theory of Evolution" with my creationist friends. :)
Evolution is simply the fact of organisms changing over time. There is ample evidence that this occurs. The theory of natural selection is the best explanation as to why organisms change in certain 'fitness-enhancing' ways such as cheetahs becoming faster rather than slower. There are also other theories of selection, such as the theory of sexual selection and other factors of evolution, such as genetic drift. 'Theory' used in this context does not mean guess, hunch or anything similar. Instead, it means "a well-confirmed type of explanation of nature, made in a way consistent with scientific method, and fulfilling the criteria required by modern science. Such theories are described in such a way that any scientist in the field is in a position to understand and either provide empirical support ("verify") or empirically contradict ("falsify") it. Scientific theories are the most reliable, rigorous, and comprehensive form of scientific knowledge" [1]. As evidence of evolution (organisms changing over time), consider these examples: 1. Elephants are losing their tusks. Historically, around 2-5 per cent of Asian elephants were born tusk-less. In 2005, around 5-10 per cent were born tusk-less. In a study of African elephants in one park, 38 per cent were born tusk-less. 2. Fish in the Hudson River are becoming immune to toxic waste. 3. Carnivorous Lizards introduced to a Croatian island in 1971 have evolved the ability to eat vegetation. This change has taken place in less than 50 years. So, evolution - organisms changing over time - is a fact. The best explanation for these 3 changes - and countless other examples - is natural selection. Elephants with tusks are more likely to die at the hands of poachers before reproducing; fish in the Hudson River that cannot tolerate toxic waste will die; lizards on the Croatian island that cannot eat vegetation will also die, as there is a dearth of insect life. Natural selection in action - not just a theory (hunch), but a Theory. [1] http://www.geo.sunysb.edu/esp/fi... PS. Why ask this question anonymously?    Embed Quote