How was your IIM interview experience?
Hello! This is my IIM Ahmedabad Interview this year. Profile : X- 94.6 , XII – 80.8 , B.Tech (Delhi College of Engineering) – 71.91, CAT percentile : 99.90, work ex : nil Academic writing test : case study on freedom of expression . should there be limits or not. Interview 2 profs. Lets call them P1 and P2. Both middle aged Duration : around 15 min So,  it went like : P1: Tell me something about yourself. Me : Born and brought up in Delhi. Final year of graduation. NSS Volunteer – social involvement. Learning Bharatnatym for seven years. Talked about my two internships – Delhi Metro and gas power plant. (Could have said more about fests and other stuff) P1 : Ok . so which turbine is used in this power plant? Me: combined cycle. Two gas and one steam. P1: what are the capacities? Me: told P1: what is the heat ratio? Me: I don’t know. (Never heard the term. I think it is related to mechanical) P1: cost of generation of electricity? Me: The bill charges 5 rs per unit. So must be around 3-4 rs per unit. (Could have talked about  transmission and distribution losses and that every plant has a different cost depending on many complex factors.) P1: which turbine is more efficient? Gas or steam Me: don’t know exactly but In case of gas turbine, the process is faster due to instant combustion. So, probably gas turbine. P2: So, why did u choose Bharatnatyam Dance and not any other Me : sir, initially it was closest to my home that why. But then I really liked it and enjoy it a lot. It is really vibrant. That why P2: Tell me the difference between Freedom of expression , speech and opinion. Me: Freedom of speech is a subset of expression. It refers to only verbal expression. Expression is a broader term and can be through variety of means like cartoons, dance, paintings. Opinions are thoughts , they may or may not be expressed.   P2: you have not taken a clear stand. If you have to take a clear stand- should there be limits on freedom of expression or not? Me: no. there should not be limits. But people must be made aware that they should use their rights responsibly.   P2: so, the French gov. didn’t do that? That’s why Charlie hebdo happened.? Me: we as a society learn from our mistakes. And I think this message is clear now.   P1: But French gov. did nothing new in this direction. Me: But many important people including the Pope have criticized the misuse of freedom of expression to offend a community.   P2: So, you are from Delhi. Do u think Delhi should be given full statehood. Me: no. it is not practical because Delhi is very small geographically and will not be financially sustainable if made a state. Moreover, lot of central government machinery is in Delhi like the MPs and foreign dignitaries visiting. Hence, Centre must have the power to control them. There are two main reasons why Delhi people want statehood.  One is law and order i.e the Delhi police is not answerable to Delhi CM. and land issue – state gov. needs permission from center on land usage. DDA is not under state gov. I think there are better ways to resolve these. Regarding police, one department of police can be made to report to CM. and regarding land- more representation of state in DDA and already some steps have been taken in this direction. P2: So, is kejriwal mad. Making it an issue. Me: no sir. There are issues. But full statehood is not practical. A better and middle path solution with devolution of  more power to Delhi state would be better.   P1: But, there is even a country which is smaller than Delhi. Which one? me : Vatican city   P1: how does that work? Me: It is extremely dependent on its neighbors.   P2: what do u think about CCTV cameras being installed. Me: I think it is a good step. But it is the second part towards ensuring a safe city. It will help in catching criminals. But we can not always wait for crimes to happen to catch a criminal. It needs to be supplemented with more awareness and gender sensitization and  similar moves should be emphasized.  (Could have also talked about terrorists and related activities)   P1 : So, what kind of books do you read Me: it keeps on changing. But recently I have been reading social books about life of people. For instance, the last book I read was PRINCESS: THE LIFE BEHIND THE VEIL IN SAUDI ARABIA. BY JEAN SASSON. It is about a girl who is of the Al-Saud’s family and talks about her life as a woman in Saudi Arabia. And before that NOTHING TO ENVY: ORDINARY LIVES IN NORTH KOREA BY BARBARA DEMICK It explores the life of common people of North Korea under the dictator during the 1980s and the subsequent famine of 1990s. it is a compilation of interviews of refugees from north Korea by a journalist. P2: what is Saudi Arabia doing about oil? Me: It has refused to cut down oil production and because of this, oil prices have fallen P2: what is the problem in opec? Me: Saudi Arabia is a rich country with abundant oil and low cost of production. So it can afford to sell at a low price for long. Other countries can’t. P2: should OPEC break ? Me: No. their strength lies in staying together because then they can monopolize the market. P2: why do u think Saudi Arabia is not cutting down production? Me: told about the shale gas. If oil prices remain low, then exploration of shale gas in unviable and world would continue to depend on oil as an energy resource. P2: any other reason Me: market share If Saudi Arabia cuts down production, it will loose out the market share to other countries like Russia. P2: How is Russia’s economy dependent on oil? Me : oil forms a huge percentage of Russia’s GDP and export. And due to the low price, it is suffering a lot. P2: could this be the reason why USA is asking  Saudi Arabia to not cut production? Me: yes. specially because of the Ukraine – Russia conflict. A lot of other sanctions have also been imposed on Russia. P1 : so, since you have read about North Korea, tell me something about the Korean war. Me: the communist powers mainly USSR were supporting North korea whereas USA was supporting South Korea. P1: year? Me : 1970s.. I think P1: sure? Me: I am not sure sir. Sorry P2: who is the dictator now? Me: KIM JONG UN since 2011 after the death of his father. 94-2011 was KIM JONG IL. P2: so what are the firsts about MOM Me : three firsts- 1.      First time in maiden attempt 2.      First time in least cost 3.      First Asian country   And overall it is a very good step 1.      Firstly, this allied tech can be used in a lot of Page on places.eg. Communication 2.      Then, PSLV is ISROs expertise, and we get a lot of international assignments for the same. It is great. 3.      It inspires young kids to take up science   Hence, it is a great achievement for the country P2: what is the full form? Me : mars orbital mission P2: think of some first related to that Me : (thinking aloud) earths orbit to mars orbit. But that would be done by every rocket. So, I don’t know P1 : okay thankyou. Take something. Take all three.( there were three things) Me : thankyou sir, this one is fine ( picked a toffee and went ) VERDICT : CONVERTED!! Also converted C, L, K, S ;) Joining A!! Super excited That is it. Hope it helps :) All the best to everyone. My conclusion : IIMs look for positive people who show willingness to learn and basic ability to comprehend any situation. It is not necessary to be a master of everything- stellar academics and extracurriculars to get through. (though Grades do matter a lot!). You just have to show the interviewer your ability to think. 