What are the important insights of random graph theory?
The email address randomgraph@yahoo.com belongs to me, so I feel obliged to answer the question. The key insights of the theory of random graphs, in my mind, include the following: It is often incredibly hard to construct explicitly a graph with the properties of a random graph. This is highly counterintuitive: it may be true that 99.9% of the graphs of a certain size have some property, but finding even a single specimen is so difficult that nobody has ever found one. As a consequence, if you need some crazy good graph, consider choosing one at random. In other words, in the universe of all graphs, the years we spent building graphs and counterexamples were all spent in a tiny, insignificant corner of that universe until we hit upon the idea of the random graph. If a random graph doesn't have what you need, try modifying it slightly. The classical existence proof of graphs with high chromatic number and high girth uses this trick. As you increase the density of a graph, most properties (all monotone ones) show up abruptly. It is useful to be familiar with some of the critical thresholds. For instance, for a graph with n vertices, choosing each edge randomly and independently with probability p yields a connected graph as soon as p is about log(n)/n. The random graph on countably many vertices is unique. This is incredible. It's possible to choose a random regular graph. First replace each vertex with a small cloud of mini-vertices; match these up; and collapse the clouds back to vertices. This beautiful model is simple enough to facilitate the investigation of random regular graphs. Random methods are formally just counting arguments, but that equivalence is misleading. Tools such as the Lovasz Local Lemma and martingales make the probabilistic viewpoint extremely valuable and natural.  Graphs are such flexible objects that the study of random ones is possible, and very valuable. Other mathematical objects are not as flexible and hence not as easy to choose randomly (consider groups, or manifolds), but it's worth trying. I'm sure I'm forgetting some major ones. It's been a while. I reserve the right to modify this answer at any time without warning. 