What factors does the search algorithm for the iTunes App Store take into account?Does it place a higher priority on keywords, description, etc?I was doing some research on this topic yesterday. To get some insight into how the search function in the iOS App Store works, I did a search for some popular games and compared factors of the other games that ranked for the term. For example, I searched "Angry Birds" and got some interesting results. Of course, the top results were the official Angry Birds games, then some Angry Birds Guides. But then I found some games that were not about birds, nor anger. I looked at the profile for these games and something immediately stuck out to me. The developer's name was stuffed with keywords from popular games! There were several apps whose developer was named "Doodle birds jump call of duty fruit ninja" and similar derivatives. It is interesting that Apple reviews and approves apps using such obvious blackhat strategies to gain rank in the app store. One quite egregious example is a developer using this tactic to get an app called "Nude Booth for iPhone" to rank on a variety of popular app search results, including "Angry Birds" and "Tiny Wings" (Nude Booth currently ranks 3rd for "Tiny Wings" searches). How such an app got past the supposedly stringent review process is beyond me. I have also seen one developer name their developer account as "Best, Free Games". This strategy appears to work for them as I have seen their games rank in the Top 25 (Free Section) in the app store previously. How this works is simple. Many users are not the most adept when it comes to using a search function. They will literally search for "best free games" in the App Store, as if they are expecting results from Google's search engine! So it seems, the most important factors to ranking for a term include the name of your developer business account and the name of the app itself. Keywords and words in the description appear to have a secondary effect for ranking in the app store search. 