★Will the Semantic Web be fully realized?The computer science is done. Will the internet go the way of the Semantic Web, whether to the W3C standards or some new standard like MicroFormats?
"The semantic web is the future of the internet and always will be." -Peter Norvig, Director of Research at Google The semantic web is here, but its impact is likely to be more focused on the b2b market than is commonly acknowledged.  There is a clear value proposition which will drive the adoption of semantic web technologies on the business operations and analytics back-end; especially with respect to enterprise modeling and enterprise resource management systems.  Semantic web technologies have clear advantages over the dominant relational database SQL technologies; such as lower cost of ownership and lower interoperability costs.  However there do not seem to yet exist customer facing applications which would drive the adoption of the semantic web. Instead of thinking about "The Semantic Web", we should be focused on the implications of "semantics" for computing.  Knowledge based systems will likely have a large impact on computing over the next thirty years and "semantic web" is just one facet of that. The semantic web looks promising as a technology platform, however it is a bit overwhelming in its generality.  If someone were to hand you the internet or ARPA net in the 1980s, you would not really know what do with it.  You could have built anything on top of it and yet it was very difficult to find a specific application you could build that would produce value.  It has been thirty years and we are still discovering new applications to be built on top of computer networks. The same could be said of HTML.  When HTML was first developed and became widely available with the release of Netscape Navigator, there was unlimited technological potential; however it took us decade to really find the applications of HTML and find the applications and problems it could address.  No one was thinking about or imaged social networks, video games, shopping and online video when they invented HTML. The "Semantic Web" is similar to SQL, the internet and HTML in that it is not a specific application, but rather a "general purpose technology".  It is a platform and a set of tools on which other applications will be build.  Normally tools are developed to address specific problems, such as Ruby on Rails and the tools remain confined to a limited application domain.  In these cases the development of tools is driven by the need to solve a specific problem. In the case of "general purpose technologies" such as mathematics, computer networks or semantic web, a set of tools is created which are applicable to a much broader domain than the problems these tools were designed to originally address.  The potential of semantic web is therefore both immense and extremely ambiguous.  The meaning of "the semantic web" will change drastically as we discover the application domains to which it can be applied.    Embed Quote