★Is 'big data' indifferent to the semantic web, i.e. linked data?Presenters and participants at this year's Strata Conference http://strataconf.com/strata2011 had little if anything good or bad to say about the semantic web. The absence of dialogue  between the two struck me as odd as they apparently have much in common.
As the chair of the Strata conference, I see a link between big data and semantic web, but it's not yet of sufficient utility to make a strong connection in the conference agenda. While putting the February program together, I certainly had dialogue with members of the semantic web, also known as "linked data", community. I myself used to be a part of that world and a contributor to semantic web work. Perhaps the best example of the development of the relationship between big data and the semantic web is Google. Early on, Google search eschewed explicit use of semantics, preferring to infer a variety of signals in order to generate results: the big data. Now, as the search algorithms mature, and the connections between entities become more important (e.g. social graph, document authors, dates, recipes), Google are using data from initiatives such as schema.org, RDFa and microformats. They do not use these semantic web techniques to replace their search, rather augment it and enable it to become more useful. To get all fancypants about it: Google are starting to promote the information they gather towards being knowledge. Historically, semantic web enthusiasts generated metadata and identified entities explicitly, ie. by hand or program. This is part of why the full dream isn't realized: generating metadata is hard. Analytical approaches take the opposite approach: surfacing and classifying the metadata from analysis of the actual content and data itself. Once big data has been successfully applied and you have identified entities and the connections between them, you need a language in which to organize, exchange and reason about those entities. It's this framework that has been steadily built up over the last 15 years with the semantic web project. For the Strata agenda, I will be starting to include a little more semantic web, but with a strict emphasis on utility. Strata itself is not as much beholden to big data, as about being data-driven.    Embed Quote