★What are the best universities for learning about the semantic web?I'm interested in a college program for the semantic web. Are there any universities with well-known programs in semantic web development?
Here are some great universities / research institutes for learning about Semantic Web and associated technologies (where there are more universities or research institutes in the same cities I mentioned only the ones I considered that are very good): UK - Southampton, Oxford, Cambridge, Sheffield, Manchester, Liverpool, Open University; USA - MIT, Stanford, Rensellaer Polytechnic, Harvard, Kno.e.sis - Wright State University; The Netherlands  - Amsterdam (VU, UVA, CWI), Delft; Germany - Karlsruhe, Koblenz, Berlin, DFKI, Mannheim, Max Planck Institute; France - Paris, Montpellier, Toulouse, Lyon, INRIA; Austria - Innsbruck (STI), Vienna (WU, MODUL, Technical University), Salzburg, Graz, Linz; Ireland - Deri; Belgium - Ghent; China - Singapore, Hong Kong; Japan - Tokyo, Nagoya, and other universities; Spain - Madrid, Barcelona; Italy - ST Lab - Roma, Padua, Torino, Bologna, Trento, Bolzano; Switzerland - Zurich, Bern; Romania - Cluj-Napoca;and so on. Try to choose based on the professors and the research projects related to Semantic Web. Sir Timothy Berners-Lee is also teaching at MIT. Another thing to factor is the area you are interested in. If you are interested in Semantic Web + HCI -> Stanford is the place to be. If you are interested in Linked Data then I would suggest Southampton, Amsterdam or Innsbruck. If you are interested in reasoning over billion triples, I think Amsterdam, Leipzig and Oxford are good choices. If you are interested in infrastructure check the universities involved in LOD2 and IKS projects. If you are interested in NLP then check Sheffield. If you are interested in intelligent agents and Semantic Web I guess Stanford, Liverpool or Manchester are good places. If you are interested in visualizations and Semantic Web then check MODUL University and Technical University Vienna. Make a list of the topics you are interested in and try to see which research groups work in that area. This will make it easier for you to choose your university. Disclosure: I am an employee of MODUL University and we do work with some of the universities mentioned here.    Embed Quote