★How do you explain semantic web to someone whose professional frame of reference is in order-taking, delivery, humoring customers, or catering in the food service industry?
I think we're possibly confusing the applications with the web that makes them possible. The Semantic Web is just a way for the Web to be more specific about things that are part of it, and how they're related. We've become used to a web of linked documents: stories, pages, pictures etc. For something to be part of the web, it simply needs an address and a link to it. Anyone can put something on the web, and anyone can link from there to other things. In order for you to know what a link is, you need to understand the page that's linking from. I could say: "here's my blog (link)" and you'll know what that link is pointing at because you've read it. (And you trust me enough to believe it, which is a whole different kettle). The Semantic Web is simply a way to use these addresses and giving the links between them some meaning—a meaning we can program against and build services over. In other words, we're giving the links a name too, and making it so the applications we build can "know" what something is because of this relationship. The difference will be that we can now actually say in the code that makes up the web (and through tools built with this code) what something is and how it's related to another thing. So, I could say: this is a name—or address—that represents me (link), and I'm saying that I'm friends with you (here's a link to your address).  We'll also give that link itself a name, kind of like pointing the link at the word "friend" in an online dictionary. Now, we have a name for you, a name for me, and a name for the way we know each other. You can do the same between things (this mug is a kind of dish, I like this coffee, the beans were grown by John etc). Application developers can then take those links into account when building tools, so they get better and more accurate.    Embed Quote