★What are the best examples of the semantic web being used by newspapers, magazines, and TV websites?
I might be misunderstanding the question or twisting it off topic, but I think this is relevant: At least three organizations are focusing on semantic work that is used by newspaper, magazine and TV websites in various ways: DocumentCloud, with ties to the New York Times and Pro Publica, makes it easy for other news organizations to upload, annotate and share existing documents. It has fed reports in both the New York Times and Pro Publica, and you can see who else is using the tool by visiting its site: http://www.documentcloud.org/home It runs all documents through OpenCalais, also used by CNET and apparently owned by Thomson Reuters, mentioned already by Marin Dimitrov It has ties to the Gotham Gazette, focused on politics and civics in New York City, with games and wiki like tools like Councilpedia: http://www.councilpedia.org/inde... The Sunlight Foundation builds tools for analyzing and linking data from government, with APIs. The organization is working on doing machine reading of state documents as well as federal documents, and is aiming for the legislatures of all 50 states, with APIs. A story's here: http://techpresident.com/blog-en... Media organizations like AOL News, Fox News, Pro Publica and Blogher have either cited results of the organization's work, partnered with it on specific projects or used its data for their own stories. The Public Library of Science provides open access publishing and article level metrics for mostly academic papers, including rankings of bylines and sources. That work can be used to rank writers by what they produce. I can't cite specific mass media that use this information, but it has ties to a healthy and growing network of science blogs, which feed books, newspapers and magazines. So that spins the question a little differently. It's interesting to me that these three organizations rely on donations for their work, rather than relying on advertising revenue. But there is no doubt that their semantic work is being used by newspapers, magazines and TV, at least to provide raw data that then becomes a form more common in mass media. I suspect most mass media have walked away from funding this kind of work themselves.    Embed Quote