★Is Facebook going to be the Semantic Web?With OpenGraph API, the new Related Posts (on Pages) and mentions, is Facebook going to be the Semantic Web giant?
I don't think so because of the following reasons: 1. Structure: Semantic Web is about structuring data and making it machine readable. How much of their data is easily readable by machines? They might have APIs, but they are just interfaces. You need to be able to represent data in a well defined structure for it to be used effectively. In addition, you need to define this structure in well-defined standards so that you can link it to other applications and enable meaningful conversations between apps. Furthermore, there are different ways in which you can publish structured data and each has its own advantages. Read this interesting article which assigns a star for any particular way you adopt: http://lab.linkeddata.deri.ie/20... Do you think you can do this with Facebook? 2. Open World Approach: Facebook guys seem to be creating their own ecosystem by sucking in all the world's content into their world. For Semantic Web to be a reality, you need to have an Open Web approach, not a closed one. You should be enthusiastic about opening up your data to the world, sharing content with others and building mashups. How much of their data is open to the outside world? Read this fantastic post by David Siegel where he makes a call for the Open Web Movement. http://thepowerofpull.com/pull/t... 3. It's All About Meaning: Semantic Web is all about meaning. You need to enable machines to be able to understand what is being written and told. Machines should be capable of deciphering the exact sentiment to make decisions. Do you think their framework currently supports this? Do you think it is easy to take the Facebook status messages and determine the semantic meaning lying underneath them? 4. You Need To Connect To Others: OpenGraph API does try to connect web pages and create a graph out of all the pages by making each page a node, but this is hardly the Semantic Web. Semantic Web is when you have Facebook knowing what you like/dislike and then talking to your Outlook Calendar, your Mobile Phone, and planning a vacation that automatically gets updated on your Facebook page automatically. We have still a long way to go, to say Facebook as a Semantic Web. 5. It's All About Adopting Standards: For any website/community to become semantic enabled, it is necessary for all the data in that community to be structured, linked to other data sets and published in a quality-certified manner. There are several standard being published by W3C, ISO and OpenGroup. How much do you think all the data on Facebook adheres to these principles? Remember, Semantic Web is not a mission that one person or one company can realize and become a Semantic Web giant! It is not the responsibility of a leader at the top leading this movement. It is a group movement and you already know how hard we are all working towards it :) Come, join the mission, play the standards game, and believe me, it's real fun!    Embed Quote