★Is Schema.org good or bad for the Semantic Web?Google, Bing and Yahoo have launched a site called schema.org, "to create and support common ways to represent web page metadata" (you can read the news right here: http://www.informationweek.com/n...), but it doesn't use RDF... so, is it good or bad for the Semantic Web? Or maybe it IS a semantic resource, but is not good for Linked Data project...?
Mmmm ... I think I have to take a somewhat less enthusiastic position, if for nothing more than that I never trust monopolies, in this case a duopoly, period. Ok, I may be a bit overly suspicious, but I will blame the Irish genes for that :-) On the one hand; RDF, and related semantic web standards, were created in order to provide an open interoperable and flexible framework with which people could build linked data applications. As the types of applications expanded, so did the requirements on the system and hence the growing complexity. This complexity has undoubtedly hurt adoption, and this is something that schema.org may help with.   I guess my one concern, is that this duopoly will inadvertently (or otherwise) co-opt the open standards initiative for its own limited set of scenarios, stifling innovation in this space.   However, taking a glass is half full perspective, I am hoping that as Alan indicated schema.org will bring to the semweb community a new generation of developers, business applications, and will in fact raise the profile and the value realized from the initiative.   Alan, Not sure I like the sports car vs. truck analogy though :-) It conjurs up the image of slow & lumbering vs. fast & slick. I guess I would equate schema.org more of a pre-built car which can be used exactly according to the specification, whereas RDF is a shed full of parts which you can build into any vehicle you want. The only problem is that you need to be a qualified engineer to build your dream vehicle. Schema.org may help get more people into cars, although it may be a slightly more boring world. I hope we will soon want to build motorbikes, planes, boats, and other more interesting vehicles, and then RDF will come to our rescue :-)    Embed Quote