★Why is the semantic web important?It seems to be doing fine without it.
Are we really satistifed with the status quo? Instead of constantly gathering, sifting, and analyzing vague clues, couldn't we just help a bit with better data description and then let machines help us cut to the chase? We spend enormous amounts of time hunting for better information so we can make better decisions. That time could be better spent making more decisions and then acting on them. Guesswork only goes so far. The methods of the Semantic Web amount to more modern and comprehensive forms of data description, and that kind of data description is really a no-brainer. We already understand we need to describe oodles of data for analysis purposes--look at the scads of databases + proprietary schema we generate daily. Relational databases exist for a reason, and they are useful, but that utility has been maxed out. It's silly that these data aren't better integrated, and that less structured data can't be brought into the fold more readily. The older data description methods are archaic, and contemporary standards that scale do exist. The modern techniques leverage the power of the graph. (See http://www.pwc.com/us/en/technol...). Semantic Web methods will just help us structure more data and integrate it at Web scale. It will help avoid reinventing the data description wheel. We need to stop haggling about how to address 20 percent of the problem, when 80 percent of it is already addressable with current Sem Web standards. With more commitment to existing standards, 90 percent of it could soon be addressable. Semantic Web methods help us describe various piece types of the information puzzle. Once those pieces are described, machines can help us more. First it will help us describe ourselves online. That's critical to personalization and relevance. Then it will help us describe places and things in linked ways we haven't been able to before. That will help provide contextual search, a form of relational navigation, and ways to infer C from understanding how A and B are connected. We're instrumenting the world, and now we need to automate how more of those data are analyzed, as well as link those analyses to other relevant content. Leading companies, particularly in media and retail, have been using these methods to good effect for years now. Paraphrasing George Box, this future exists as the present, just less evenly distributed. See my answers at http://www.quora.com/Alan-Morris... for more detail.    Embed Quote