★What is the Semantic Web?
"The Semantic Web is not a separate Web but an extension of the current one, in which information is given well-defined meaning, better enabling computers and people to work in cooperation." - Tim Berners-Lee, James Hendler and Ora Lassila; Scientific American, May 2001 The Semantic Web has commonly referred to a vision for a future state of the World Wide Web, but because the concept subsumes many technologies which are in use today, the Semantic Web is already emerging. Semantics is the study of meaning and therefore the Semantic Web implies "a web of meaning". By this, we mean a web where computers and software agents can better understand the meaning behind information and therefore - a web that better enables computers and people to work in cooperation. The vision for this Semantic Web has been firmly advocated by Tim Berners-Lee (a.k.a. father of the web) and the World Wide Web Consortium (W3C). The Semantic Web is not a separate web, but an extension of the current one. It implies a set of standards, markup languages, and related processing tools, which allow us to use the existing web in new ways. The Semantic Web builds upon existing well-known standards such as Unicode, URI, and XML. The following diagram, often called "the Semantic Web Layer Cake", depicts some of the key concepts and technologies that are important to the Semantic Web. Chief among the Semantic Web technologies is the Resource Description Framework (RDF). RDF is a common framework for describing resources. It is primarily intended to represent metadata that can be parsed and processed by machines rather than just displayed to people. While the resources it describes may be content or services that exist on the Web, they don't have to be; they can be real-world objects like you and I. Anything with identity can be described in RDF and, in this sense, RDF is a good candidate for recording and sharing knowledge on the Web. With RDF, we can model information by describing concepts in a way that is consistent enough for machines to process uniformly. At the same time, we are able to describe any concepts that exist and in all the different ways that we prefer to conceptualize them. In RDF, we do this in much the same way we would when describing something to another person: we make statements about the thing. These statements are expressed in a simple three-part form called a "triple". A triple has a structure like a simple sentence we might have learned about in grade-school (e.g. “Jack is a friend of Jill.”). It is comprised of a subject, predicate, and object. Only, in RDF, it doesn’t really look like that. In RDF, triples are expressed with Uniform Resource Identifiers (URIs), which can be globally unique on the Web, so it actually looks more like this… The subject of a triple links to either a literal value like an integer or a string or another object, which is itself identified by a URI. Unlike traditional hyperlinks on the Web, however, this kind of link has meaning because the property that makes the link also expresses the nature of the relationship. And don't let the simplicity of the triple mislead you. Though it is simple, the entire universe can be described by triples because together, triples comprise a graph. A graph can be linked to one or many other graphs on the World Wide Web and these graphs are a fundamental part of the Semantic Web. The concept of linking data in this way is also referred to as Linked Data. "It's called linked data. I want you to make it. I want you to demand it." - Tim Berners-Lee, 2009 TED Talk on The Next Web So, stated yet another way, the Semantic Web aims to turn today's existing Web of linked documents into tomorrow's Web of Linked Data. I personally believe that Linked Data and the emerging Semantic Web has the potential to change the world as dramatically, if not more, than the original Web of hypertext documents. For example, it can help us create search engines that are far superior to today's search engines. Most search engines today only search keywords based on the number of times they occur (and then combine with various proprietary ranking algorithms - such as assuming authority by the number of backlinks). They do not search based on a true understanding of conceptual information. And by "understanding", we do not have to believe that advanced artificial intelligence is required - although verily, these technologies are part and parcel to the "age of cognitive computing" that IBM now promotes in context of the Watson system, which beat humans on the show Jeopardy. It can also help us integrate systems. The RDF data model makes systems inherently easier to integrate than they would be using only traditional data models like relational data in an RDMS. Systems integration is one of the highest costs in I.T. today, which Linked Data and Semantic Web technologies can help to alleviate. Knowledge-oriented systems can benefit significantly and systems can be made to be more knowledgeable because reasoning engines can be used to reason against assertions that have been made to infer new meaning. And because data from within your organization may be linked to Linked Open Data on the web, you can find relationships and meaning far beyond the scope of the data you manage yourself alone. This can help make meaningful connections between knowledge bases (medical science institutions with hospitals and pharmaceutical research firms, for example. Or - for e-commerce purposes, one corporate enterprise to others). This brings to mind a possible "dark web" where computers are churning through the internet, making connections, reasoning, and processing information on our behalf. Autonomous agents and software systems might be using the Web far more than we  - in order to deliver meaningful and significant results to us. To some, the Semantic Web stirs up sci-fi visions of the Internet becoming a brain or of the technological Singularity, but upon further research you will find that it refers to technologies and ideas that are both very real and realistic. The question, "What is the Semantic Web" may be asked by an I.T. manager who wants to know if there are values to be leveraged for improving his business or by the I.T. engineer who wants to know if there are values to be leveraged for her personal career. Though I am now heavily invested in both research and development, my experience has shown the answer to be YES. If it were not the case, I would not remain invested. The Semantic Web is indeed here. The technologies are useful, usable, and many are now well-proven in the field.    Embed Quote