★Why isn't Semantic Web technology used in programming?
It's not as much that it's not used. At large companies like Google, Facebook, Microsoft they already use it. It's just that it's not mainstream. There are several reasons why it's not mainstream: current projects are focused towards standards many projects do not have a proper documentation, so unless you're a well-connected researcher (noticed I said connected not brilliant) you have virtually no chance of doing the hard work all by yourself (you will always have to write to the creators of some obscure libraries in order to solve some of the problems). You can't always use APIs just by reading the code, so if the technology is virtually alien to you you are less likely to use it without proper documentation! there is a serious need of evangelists to spread the good news people don't know when they should use Semantic Technology as opposed to relational databases many good Semantic Web libraries were developed for certain projects and then abandoned or rewritten from scratch, which creates a large landscape that's full of abandoned or hard to used libraries there is a lack of tutorials about how to build good Semantic Web applications should be done following current standards - everybody does a demo and leaves it at that! whereas we should not just demos but also try to explain from time to time how we did the magic tricks. But why would we do that in this competitive landscape? This way any kid would be able to step in and steal our jobs - this is unlikely to change in many areas that will provide a competitive and lucrative advantage. Plus in many cases what we can share is restricted through NDAs (non disclosure agreements) regardless of the place where we work (university, research company, normal company). I signed an NDA therefore I will not publish tutorials, but I will share all the links to great tutorials that I happen to stumble upon after they get good jobs programmers tend to settle in, like you settle in a couple, and they stop learning cutting-edge technologies... They just choose whatever is easier to learn or profitable for them to use during their 15-25 years career and stick with that: Java, PHP, NET ... That's not to say everybody is like this, but most of them are (I would say 80%). I mean why bother with Semantic Web when Java Enterprise pays the bills and it does so with a good profit? except for countries where the ties between academia and industry are really really good like US, The Netherlands, UK, Germany, France and Austria we are unlikely to see people who are aware of what's coming.These being said, I would advise to look at his cool tutorial that tries to address some of the problems signaled by me in this short answer: http://www.cambridgesemantics.co.... It is by far the best tutorial about Semantic Web you are ever likely to find. There are many other reasons, but these are by far the most common. I hit the walls caused by them way too often in the last months. There is hope however. Currently there are a lot of infrastructure / integration projects founded through EU's FP7 program so we are getting closer and closer to the age of Semantic Web.    Embed Quote