★Where is the semantic web going?I see a lot of hype about semantic web, but not many real products where I can play with it. Where does it seem to be going?
I love semantic web. I spent a lot of time before and after around 2000 on legal semantic web, defining vocabularies, ontologies, getting into XML, RDF, DAML, OWL, building knowledge models, adapting this to pragmatic uses. In the legal domain, for instance, it's fascinating how something relatively straightforward as a "verdict" in a case has completely different nuances in different legal systems. Defining this across various European and US legal systems (and later on, some Islamic law as well) is a huge challenge, but potentially very rewarding. However... you run into the limits of what you can model if there's not a huge amount of funding (which requires actual business benefits, not just academic interest or idealism). Very complete definitions, or even a useful taxonomy and vocabulary is an incredible amount of work, and it's nearly impossible to automate. This means in the end, the projects don't really deliver any tangible benefits (or at least, not close to the resources spent); they usually fall short of that. All of that is just a long, anecdotal way of getting to my point. Marking up content in a meaningful way has huge potential. It means we can automate all sorts of inference, tie everything together systematically. If anything it would hugely improve search. It could also be used to build completely dynamic, personalised sites. If you explicitly define "this is a person, with these attributes" in a machine-readable way; and you do the same thing for all types of meaning in content; you can really start using the content itself in much more useful ways, instead of having just blobs of content that are meaningless to the machine. To me, the essence of "semantic web" starts at marking up meaning in the hypertext; and it leads up to creating coherent definitions of how all of it relates to each other. But as in my "Legal XML" project, in practice, this is really hard to get going. And it's almost equally hard to find a short-term justification to put in that effort. The same is what has held back Semantic Web everywhere else. There are still the fans that have been at this for over a decade, and somehow didn't get skeptical enough to stop trying; and there are still new people getting in to this when they realise the possibly limitless potential. And all of them are still cheerleading it as "Web 3.0", the big wave that will come after Web 2.0. (I tend to argue that historically, this was in between Web 1.0 and Web 2.0, and it sort of got left behind. Also, there's too many different things claiming to be 3.0.) I don't mean that quite as cynical as it will probably sound, since as I said at the beginning... I love semantic web. So, since it's a lot of hard work; and there are not enough tangible results to offset this (partially because of the hard work required to get it there); and because of that, there's still not a lot of systems support for it to make it easier; where is this going? I think that eventually, it will start to pick up again. But this time around, as a combination of automated processes (text analysis tools, automatic categorisations, etcetera, even if they only suggest, would make it a lot easier to get ahead) and formalised logic and structure. We see the early signs of this starting to happen. Many popular "blob" tools (like WordPress) are making it easier to create more granular content models. This makes it easier to produce "semantic" markup. On the "pay-out" side of things, the search engines are starting to push for this. Schema.org has a lot of ready-to-use definitions. (It has been vilified for using "the wrong syntax", but I think that's missing the point.) The real-life benefit of semantic web is now starting to be seen from SEO. If you mark up your recipe as a recipe, Google will have a much nicer presentation. If you mark up yourself as an author on your blog, Google will have your photo. This is an important driver for semantic web. It proves the value (and makes people think about how to provide that value). It's the most tangible benefit yet. So my guess is, we'll get there (slowly). And it is a fascinating topic, even if you don't get it anywhere; it's worth to study it, if only for the experience.    Embed Quote