★Will the Semantic Web be fully realized?The computer science is done. Will the internet go the way of the Semantic Web, whether to the W3C standards or some new standard like MicroFormats?
As initially imagined, probably not. The full "Semantic Web" vision tended to focus on a future Web where ad hoc communication on the Web (say in text or HTML) would largely be replaced by all kinds of software (agents) communicating on users' behalf about every imaginable topic, in fully defined and structured formats.  Maybe this will happen someday, but this broad vision seems unlikely to be realized for quite a long time, if ever. There are a few reasons to think this. A key one is that the Web is by now governed as much by social and economic incentives as by technical protocols and RFCs.  People and companies use new data formats and standards because they have an incentive to -- not because it's technically the better approach.  With some standards, like RSS, content providers have had incentives to use the new standards, and they have become widely adopted.  With others, like RDF and OWL, there is no immediate and compelling reason for most people to use them. A second issue is that much communication over the web is by and for humans, and is inherently only semi-structured, and experimentally, it seems people are happy with that. Innovation seems to happen in adding small bits of semantics with instant benefits (like tagged people in photos, or iCal events) and in how the data is shared among groups (like Quora), but there are low limits to how much effort people will put into adding metadata and structure. About the only way major shifts can happen is if large players that have significant data or user base (such as Facebook, Google, or Amazon) try to consolidate their data in consistent structured form. So I'd say in the next 10 years, only more narrow and focused steps toward more semantic data formats and protocols are likely to see widespread adoption: those that offer immediate benefits to users, or those that are specifically promoted by big players.    Embed Quote