★What are the biggest problems in "semantic web" today?  What's wrong with it?...and what opportunities are there for startups?
The only thing that's wrong with "it" is that visions for how it could be applied are lacking, and that the platforms necessary for applications are bespoke and must be specific to the application. Knowledgeable and visionary designers do exist, but they're rare. The rest tend to carp, point fingers, and blame the technology--that is, when they're not going down rabbit holes after the latest small-minded "solutions" that aren't worth the effort. A very small percentage of organizations are using semantic web standards in a highly effective way, while most of the rest are struggling with how to apply them at all or suffer from ignorance or indifference to them. A few are systematically trying to apply the technology effectively, but haven't succceeded yet. Search engine companies suffer from a mindset that embraces legacy search and retrieval, rather than new forms of graph-based browsing and discovery that are just emerging. A few examples of effective semantic web usage: The BBC's dynamic semantic publishing, which is prominent on their sports sites and allows massive scaling: http://www.bbc.co.uk/blogs/bbcin... Amdocs' application architecture, which speeds development time and promises a range of novel applications: http://semanticweb.com/tag/craig... The use of YarcData's uRiKA appliance for data federation, discovery and relationship analytics by government agencies and medical research institutes. Our interview with Arvind Parthasarathi outlines the fundamental approach they're using and what the benefits are. http://www.pwc.com/en_US/us/tech... Companies have had latency problems when trying to mine large graphs. Large amounts of supercomputer style shared memory along the lines of the YarcData appliance addresses the problem. Graphs have to be analyzed in a contiguous memory space. x86 architectures don't allow this. Shared memory systems are leased rather than bought now, and over time they should become cost effective for a broader range of organizations. These are just a few effective applications. The field is still wide open. Identifying and working toward new applications requires persistence and creativity. But there will always be naysayers sitting on the sidelines voicing their objections, even when someone is building a competitive advantage right under their noses.    Embed Quote