★Is Schema.org good or bad for the Semantic Web?Google, Bing and Yahoo have launched a site called schema.org, "to create and support common ways to represent web page metadata" (you can read the news right here: http://www.informationweek.com/n...), but it doesn't use RDF... so, is it good or bad for the Semantic Web? Or maybe it IS a semantic resource, but is not good for Linked Data project...?
The introduction of schema.org indicates the beginning of a federated approach to shared semantics, one in which we currently have a search engine consortium's stripped down version on one side that's federated with a Web based on what seems to be a richer (albeit more complicated) W3C stack on the other. To use an automotive analogy, schema.org seems to be a sports car for those who want a sports car. The W3C Sem Web, by contrast, is a diesel truck. Sports car aficionados will help mobilize schema.org, and those who need diesel trucks for heavy hauling will stay with the W3C approach, and will bring some others along with them. Ideally, the result will be more people driving, on a network of roads that continually expands as more uses occurs and more federations get started to meet the needs of a variety of different motor vehicle users. The conventional Semantic Web is on the cusp of breaking out--people just don't realize where it is being used already because it's under the covers and not evident to the casual observer. Many lack awareness of how much triple stores, RDFa, RDF Schema and OWL are being used, by whom and why. Majors in the content and retail industries--such as the BBC, the New York Times, Reuters, Best Buy, Overstock--have been users for years. Google, Yahoo and Bing have all supported RDFa and the GoodRelations ontology for years now. Amdocs and Cisco are just getting started building enterprise applications that are based on triple stores. What this implies is that the leading 20 percent are getting their minds around these concepts and are poised to leave the other 80 percent behind. So though it seems like schema.org is leaving the mother ship for a radically different approach, the foundation the search engine companies are starting with for their consortium is similar. They're picking and choosing what they like from the more basic W3C standards for their sports car and are making what they're using mappable to the more "truck-like" W3C-conformed standard. According to the http://schema.org site, "The data model used [by schema.org] is very generic and derived from RDF Schema...." Later on the description continues: "Our use of Microdata maps easily into RDFa 1.1. In fact, all of Schema.org can be used with the RDFa 1.1 syntax as is. The RDFa 1.1 version of the markup looks almost isomorphic to the Microdata version." The promise of schema.org is that it could bring into the fold developers who've been on the sidelines or at least hesitant until now, people who could help expand the use of RDF-style markup (whether they call it RDF or not). That's generally good because we don't really care what they call it, as long as what's good about RDF doesn't get lost in the mix. The negative aspect of this new association is that those who side solely with the search engine consortium may be turning a blind eye to the benefits accruing to companies like Best Buy who use a more holistic approach, companies who need trucks rather than sports cars for a reason. Jay Myers of Best Buy, quoted at http://semanticweb.com/schema-or..., describes the advantage of the W3C approach: “Eventually your web site utilizing this rich markup becomes the API.  All these pages are accessible by URIs,” he said. “I don’t think with any other format that you can make your web site an API, and that is very powerful.” Those who side with the search engine companies thinking they will have all the answers here for every application and usage category may miss out on the bigger promises of the Semantic Web. The next generation of apps isn't more apps--it's Websites that will act as apps. The next generation of data warehousing isn't another phase of data warehouses--it's federated data alongside data warehouses. The next generation of RDF isn't RDF everywhere, it's RDF as an adjunct to native XML or "NoSQL" databases: http://semanticweb.com/native-xm.... To get to that point requires a more cooperative, heterogeneous, mix-and-match approach, not an either-or choice. The schema.org organizers have a point, but it's not the only one worth paying attention to. An articulation of the larger, more inclusive vision will be necessary for these promises to become reality. The vision of three search companies will not be sufficient for non-search. There's a bigger data integration play here that goes beyond rudimentary schema, one that has to leverage more sophisticated kinds of data description. Should you hedge your bets? As with any Web standard, you have to use what works, regardless of what it's called or how it came into being. Like microformats, schema.org doesn't seem to go deep enough. But it may help with adoption in some areas, and could serve to clear out some of the dead wood that may exist in the W3C approach. Just something for enterprises and developers to think about.    Embed Quote