★Is Schema.org good or bad for the Semantic Web?Google, Bing and Yahoo have launched a site called schema.org, "to create and support common ways to represent web page metadata" (you can read the news right here: http://www.informationweek.com/n...), but it doesn't use RDF... so, is it good or bad for the Semantic Web? Or maybe it IS a semantic resource, but is not good for Linked Data project...?
I am not a semantic web expert (or even a practitioner). I am just an interested onlooker, so take this as outsider opinion only: This is good news for the Semantic Web. Schema.org provides an implicit commercial incentive to markup data semantically. It also ties into the presentation layer, which is important. The presentation layer is the only attribute common to all web content. If blog providers, Wikipedia, news sites, and other major content creators embrace the implied promise of more relevant search placement, and if the big three search providers can keep it clean and relevant, then we could see the same kind of rapid growth of semantically meaningful web content as we have seen with other valuable innovations like JS libraries and HTML 5. I am not a big data expert, but as a designer, I think schema.org has an elegance that RDF doesn't have. I could see it displacing RDF entirely. So, it is good for the semantic web in the sense that the day-to-day internet could soon be flooded with semantic data, but it could require big changes from the projects that have already started down the originally ordained path. Schema.org also separates the markup of data from the idea of linked data. It allows the data to be marked, but forces linking to be proprietary, which I think has to happen for the semantic web to shed enough idealism to become commercially viable. I would argue that the internet was invented to help a few smart people collaborate and advance science, and was evangelized up by people who wanted to make the world a better, freer, and more informed place, and finally, was delivered to the wider world by people who thought they could make a bundle of money with it. I see essentially the same pattern emerging here with the semantic web. I think schema.org is the search giants' much more commercially useful counter-proposal to existing semantic web standards, and has the potential to change the world.    Embed Quote