★What is factorial ANOVA?and when is it applicable?
A factorial ANOVA allows us to examine 'interaction effects.' [more than just main effects] Interaction effects exist when some independent variable has different effects on some dependent variable as a function of some other independent variable. Example research scenario : 1] Suppose I am interested in the effects of ritalin and tendency toward attentional problems on attention in a classroom setting. There is some evidence that ritalin actually makes kids with no attentional problems form attentional problems. There are two ways to examine :  a] If such is the case, and we had a whole bunch of kids, half of whom have attentional problems, and other half of whom do not - and we randomly distribute ritalin to half of them, we may end up finding that ritalin appears to have no effect on attention (here, the dependent variable). b] However, if we separate the children into a second independent variable, tendency toward attentional problems, and examine, concurrently (at the same time), the effects of (IV1) ritalin and (IV2) attentional problems on (DV) attention in the classroom, we may find that for kids with attentional problems, high doses of ritalin increases attention while for kids with no attentional problems, the opposite trend is observed: these kids have worse attention with the ritalin. 2]  To address whether males and females vary in terms of how much they like movies as a function of whether the movies in question are action versus romance movies. To test this question, the data include information from 10 males and 10 females. Half the males watched an action movie whereas the other half watched a romance movie - and the same is true of the females. Note that the data have this information coded in the variables gender and movie. Each of these variables is an independent variable (each with two levels). The dependent variable in this study is called "like." It corresponds to how much each participant liked the movie that he or she saw (on a 1-10 scale - 10 meaning "liked more").     Following is  how the examined interaction plot will look like http://www2.newpaltz.edu/~geherg    Embed Quote