★What is an intuitive explanation of ANOVA and what it's used for?
You know when you want to compare two treatments to see if they're different? So something like seeing if people's reactions change when they're drinking alcohol? You might get two groups of people to play a game but have one group as drunk as a skunk and the other sober as a judge. You'd expect the drunk group to get a different score than the sober group, probably worse. We can use something like a t-test to compare scores to see if they differ statistically. But if we have 3 treatments, or more, and want to compare them, we have to do some arcane trickery if we use a t-test because running a test twice on the same data could result in alpha inflation - it becomes more likely that we'll get a significant result when one doesn't really exist (AKA, a Type I error). What an ANOVA does is let you compare 2 or more treatments but without trickery and in one go. Say one group which is sober, another which has just had a couple of glasses of wine, a third group being totally paralytic and, just for fun, a fourth group of gerbils on mind-altering hallucinogenics. With an ANOVA, you could compare the game scores with a single test. It will tell you whether there are differences in these conditions or not, but not where. We can find out where with post-hoc tests or pairwise comparisons, depending upon the experiment's design. So with my bizarre experiment with four groups, I have a set of game scores by condition. I would check various assumptions like expecting equal variance between each condition - just eyeball this in a histogram or box plot, sphericity of data, and other stuffs. If all these are okay, the ANOVA could be run and I'd see a table with a single p-value. If this is above my critical value (probably 0.05 but that's not set in stone if you can justify changing it), then the conditions did not differ - alcohol (and the drug) did not change reactions. But if it was lower than the critical value, then we have a difference somewhere. My next step would be to find out where. Well, actually I'd check the data and run the test again just to find errors like typos, but you get the idea. I'm not sure if this is intuitive but I've tried to avoid reliance upon jargon. Hope it helps.    Embed Quote