★Is it better to get the Anova Gen2 or Mellow sous vide machine?Kickstarter for Anova ends soon and I'm trying to decide if I should get the Mellow instead.
Caveat / Disclosure: Our agency, Get Fresh, runs sales and marketing for Anova, so I'm super-biased. Because we represent Anova, I think it would be pretty bad form to talk about Mellow, so I'll focus on talking about Anova. Anova is a remarkable company. They manufacture all products in-house and their products are the result of pretty impressive standards. Development of the current product was the result of us getting consistent feedback from customers over a six-month period. I should qualify that by saying we didn't simply design based on customer feedback, but our interviews produced actionable insight that resulted in the product you see on Kickstarter, here: Anova Precision Cooker - Cook sous vide with your phone. Here are some of Anova's features & benefits that you may want to consider: People love the portability of Anova. They can either store it or take it with them. Depending on your use cases, this may or may not be important to you. Anova will weigh 2.5 lbs, so its incredibly light. SDK and developer community. We're cultivating a developer community to build apps that will work with the device. We'll will provide our own app, but we'll leave it to the community to be creative. The sky's the limit. You can delay a cook with Anova. If you really want to start a cook while you're at work for example, you'll be able to put your food in ice water and program a delayed start. Anova's price is an incredible value. Anova is vertically integrated - that is we design and manufacture products in-house and sell our products direct to consumers. This allows us to offer a product at a price that I don't think anyone else can match. You can use Anova with existing equipment. One of the features that people didn't like with Anova One (and this is true for ALL existing immersion circulators), is that you have to use it with a relatively high pot. The new Anova has a removable clip, so you can use with pots as shallow as 2.5". That makes it remarkably flexible.    Embed Quote