Is Jaime Lannister in love with Brienne of Tarth (Spoiler)?
No, but he respects her. The only person he ever truly loved is Cersei (although the love has disappeared now) Brienne changed his life. (That and Whispering Wood and the maiming) Jamie was an overconfident fool. He cared about exactly 2 things, Cersei and his sword. He loved fighting and jousting and everything, but never gave a second thought about his actions. He was frivolous at times and did what he wanted to. After his defeat at Whispering Wood and the captivity, with all that he already was, he became bitter and even more frivolous. But he lost it all with his hand. His pride, his confidence, his will to live. It was Brienne who sparked that will in him again. She motivated him to hang on and keep fighting. She brought him back. But more than that, his time with Brienne taught him the value of 'honour'. The Jaime who returns to King's Landing is a very different Jaime Lannister. How? He cares about what is and what will be written about him in the 'White Book' (A book which has a page devoted to every person who has ever served in the Kingsguard). Yet, he writes about his defeat at Whispering Wood and his maiming. Raw truth, just as things happened. He tries to honour his vows made to Catelyn Stark. He refuses Lord Tywin's offer to abandon his vows and go to Casterly Rock. He wants to honour his 'white cloak' now and wants to be a good Lord Commander. He wanted to come out in open about his affair with Cersei and claim his children. (That was a little stupid, or very) He distances himself from Cersei on finding out what a lying poisonous woman she really was. Why is it because of Brienne? It was Brienne's love for honour that set him on this path. It hurt him how Catelyn said he had 'shit for honour'. It hurt him how Brienne was bitter towards him because he slew a king while serving in the Kingsguard. For the first time in his life, Jaime felt the need to explain his slaying of Aerys II Targaryen, the mad king, and explain he did. (That's when we realize that it was actually a very noble deed. He saved King's Landing and yet the deed tainted him forever.) So, it wasn't love for Brienne that chnged Jaime, it was respect for her love for honour. Updated 43w ago • View Upvotes