What skills are expected from entry-level software engineers at Google, Facebook, Microsoft, Amazon, Twitter, etc.?
Of course there are a bunch of things interviewers are looking for for entry level software engineers. Instead of providing you a list of tens of items, I feel like highlighting several most important points with specific advices would be more helpful to you. It's worth to note that understanding which skills are expected is just a starting point, working hard to improve yourself is much more important. Data structure and algorithm Among those skills, the most important one is absolutely data structure and algorithm. During the interview, you will expect to solve some coding questions. Without a clear understanding of those basic data structures/algorithms, you won't be able to provide the correct solution. Also most interviewers will ask you to analyze time/space complexity of your solution, which also requires a good grasp of this topic. Resources: Introduction to Algorithm Coding skills As a software engineer, your daily job is mostly about writing good code. As a result, coding skills are extremely important in an interview. In most of the cases, interviewers will ask you to write solid code of your solution and further optimize it when possible. So your code should first be correct. It's not pseudo code and it should return the correct answer. Second, it should be of good style. Although it's not required, good coding style will impress interviewers for sure. Lastly, it should be efficient. In fact, I don't have any resources to recommend as good coding skills require quite a lot practices and you'd better just write more code and work on more project to improve. Communication I can't emphasize enough the importance of communication, which is exactly what makes interviews different from exams. You won't just submit your code solutions to interviewers, instead you are required to have a lot of discussions. You should be able to explain your ideas, solutions clearly and make your approaches very easy to understand even without a single line of code. Resources: Gainlo - We build this to allow people have mock interviews with interviewers from Google and other companies and get real feedback. System design If you are applying for a full time position, you will have at least one system design interviews for sure. You will be asked to design a system to solve a problem from scratch. You will spend the whole interview session to discuss your approach with the interviewer. Sometimes it could be quite high level and sometimes it can be very detailed that you need to explain a lot of technical details. System design interview is both hard and interesting, as it's closer to real life projects. Resources Glassdoor Design Patterns Conclusion For entry level engineers, things like experiences are definitely not required. Also some other points like problem solving ability are either too vague or covered by one of the above bullets. As I said, the most important thing is to work hard to improve yourself in these areas. 