Is Jaime Lannister in love with Brienne of Tarth (Spoiler)?
If this were a romance novel, or a chick flick, Jaime would totally fall for Brienne and love her for her honorable nature and intelligence, seeing beyond the packaging to the underlying person. *Sigh* Last I checked, George R. R. Martin doesn't write romance novels. Brienne is very accomplished in her pugilism but utterly hopeless in her social interactions. Her emotional strength lies very firmly towards honor, courage, bravery, duty and strength, but wavers when it comes to showing vulnerability, softness and any feminine mannerisms. I think this is why she fixated on Renly - he was safe to worship and love from afar because he was 100% unavailable. Now she's thrust into close proximity with a man who is dishonorable, rude, incites her incessantly, is attractive but also 100% off limits for all kinds of other reasons, and it would be easy to write him off as a disgrace and an insult to humanity... But Brienne is a warrior, and she struggles to understand why a warrior like Jaime would do the opposite of what she chooses to do (uphold oaths, be honorable, etc). What starts as morbid curiosity ends up educating her the more she learns about this interesting person. Because it turns out he's a misunderstood person, an unhappy person, and just a little bit redeemable if anyone happened to bother to invest a little time in him. And it just so happens that they've got a lot of time on their hands. (No pun intended.) And, Jaime is going to challenge Brienne's perceptions of herself. In Season 3, it didn't even occur to her that the men would try to rape her; she doesn't see herself as a woman that way. Nor does she see herself as someone who could spend time at court, hold easy conversations, relax enough to recognize her own femininity. Jaime is going to do a couple things for Brienne that are really cool: he's going to treat her like a normal person, rather than a freak; and he's going to treat her like a genuine warrior, rather than discredit her simply for being a woman. The latter is super powerful because he's validating her especially because she's a woman. Jaime has a reputation. He's the Kingslayer, forever remembered for breaking his oath by killing the king he was sworn to protect (stabbing him in the back, literally). He's one of the most skilled swordsmen in the land (prior to losing his hand). He loves his sister, really truly loves her (he's never slept with anyone but Cersei, and in its own way that's kind of honorable). When Jaime interacts with Brienne, she becomes a lens and mirror. Here is someone he wrote off (like everyone does): she's crazy-tall; she can't be that good of a fighter; she's an ugly woman; she's an awkward conversationalist; she's utterly naive wanting to stick to honor and oath-keeping and all that rot. But every time Brienne forces him to confront his cowardice, his hypocrisy, or self-deprecation, she pushes him closer to being the kind of warrior and knight he always hoped he would become before life got in the way. He has the opportunity for redemption now, because if Brienne can see his value maybe the rest of the world could, too. Jaime's transition period could only be possible because he lost the one thing that he felt defined him - his right hand. It's the hand that killed Aerys, that won tournaments and touched Cersei. Without the hand, he's figuring out how much of who he is is based on his reputation, and how much is based on his character. He has an opportunity to reevaluate every person and relationship in his life, and he can use Brienne's example to make sure his choices are good and sound, or selfish and regressive. He was starting to pay attention to Brienne's wisdom before he lost the hand, but now the process is accelerated. So now we're back to the Romance Novel Moment. Will he suddenly realize that it's been Brienne all along, she's the one who sees him, she's his perfect counterpart? Unlikely. I prefer to think that there is a genuine respect between these two people. In their own ways they are both outcasts, and this is what binds them together with mutual understanding and tolerance. It's not a romantic love, but it's a feeling just as strong. I like how the HBO series is exploring this relationship. (Thanks for the A2A!) *If you liked this answer, please upvote! Thanks!* 