What are examples of assumptions that people passionately believe in when they are young, that turn out to be false?
In my case, it was a belief that people were either rational or irrational. I knew everyone makes mistakes, but I believed that there were people who were rational most of the time and other people who basically incapable of logical thought. (Naturally, I assumed I was in the former camp.) Here's how this played out: if I heard someone saying anything irrational -- unless it was a really minor mistake -- I completely lost trust in them. For instance, my therapist once told me that "every dream has a wish in it." I was educated enough to have heard of this notion; I knew it came originally from Freud, and I knew there was no evidence for it. Even though my therapist and I rarely discussed dreams, and even though she seemed to be competent and was helping me, I thought, "Well, if she's irrational about dreams, I can't trust her thinking about anything." What I didn't understand was that rationality is a set of thought processes that requires energy, and that we didn't evolve to evoke those processes all the time.  They can't just be switched on and left on. Each time someone applies rationality, he basically has to run certain mental "programs." It's entirely possible for someone to choose (consciously or unconsciously) to run those programs in some instances and not others. And -- sure -- there are some people who almost never flex their logical muscles, but there are loads of folks who are quite rational in specific domains, even though they may be irrational in others. As I got older, I saw more and more evidence for this. I met gifted scientists, writers, teachers and other professionals who couldn't get work done without rationality -- and yet who subscribed to various forms of magical thinking. They didn't meet my model of "you're either Spock or you're not," but they clearly existed in droves. Still, I refused to believe it for a long time. I didn't want to believe it. So much of my rhetoric was based on "You're a stupid person, because you believe X." Which was a way of telling myself I was smart, because I didn't believe X. Then I started reading lots of Psychology and Neuroscience books, and I gradually shifted my model of human consciousness and reasoning. I learned that humans are by-and-large irrational creatures, led by instinct, with occasional help from rational processes. The best recent books that I know of on this subject are "Thinking, Fast and Slow" [1], "Predictably Irrational" [2], and "The Righteous Mind" [3]. I've heard that many paradigm shifts in the Sciences have involved unseating humans from a superior position. For instance, there was the huge shift from an Earth-based solar-system to a Sun-based one. Then there was a shift from in-God's-image to the Darwinian stance that we're "just animals." For me, the shift was from believing in Spock's/not-Spock's to believing that all humans -- except me -- were largely (and frequently) irrational ... to, eventually, realizing that I was just as irrational as everyone else. Paradoxically, it was rationality that brought me to that conclusion. My brain is human. If the human brain is largely irrational, mine must be, too. I started keeping track of my mistakes[4], and that slammed me against the truth -- that I make them all the time. And I realized that, due to my biases, the mistakes I'm aware of must be the tip of the iceberg. [1] Thinking, Fast and Slow: Daniel Kahneman: 9780374275631: Amazon.com: Books [2] Predictably Irrational, Revised and Expanded Edition: The Hidden Forces That Shape Our Decisions: Dan Ariely: 9780061353246: Amazon.com: Books [3] The Righteous Mind: Why Good People Are Divided by Politics and Religion: Jonathan Haidt: 9780307377906: Amazon.com: Books [4] Failures: On Stuff I Did Wrong    Embed Quote Updated 31 Dec, 2012. 6,333 views.