Question That Contains Assumptions: How do atheists explain exorcisms?
I'm an atheist. I don't explain exorcisms. But I do appreciate their entertainment value. According to a years-old article, by Nick Rees, in The Daily Telegraph, the Catholic Church conducted a conference in Rome to combat the dangers of Satanism. A conference for demon-busters? This is, apparently, not a joke. There were Catholic clergy, doctors, psychiatrists, teachers and social workers – ostensibly grown adults with college educations – all gathered together in a coordinated effort to do something about the insidious, dangerous, problem of devil worship. Traditionally, any priest could perform exorcisms to cast the Devil out of a possessed person but 7 or 8 years ago the Vatican decreed that such purging should be left to professional exorcists. Professional exorcists? I guess parish priests aren’t up to the task. Do grown adults really believe people can be literally, physically, possessed by the devil? That the devil’s possession of a victim can be so potent that only a professional exorcist can force him out? And what does it take to become a professional exorcist? If parish priests aren’t up to the task, where does one start their quest to specialize in demon-busting? One such specialist is Father Nanni of the Vatican’s Congregation for the Causes of Saints. He says that one should first have a “moral certainty” of an actual possession before calling in the big guns. Moral certainty may not be an oxymoron within the church but, if you ask me, it has certainly become cliché with overuse. In case you’re not sure what moral certainty of an actual possession looks like, look for freaky changes in behavior or voice. Sudden glossolalia (speaking in tongues) often accompanies possession. It occurs to me that exorcists should be careful to ensure they're not mistakenly exorcising a Pentecostal charismatic. I guess that’s one of the reasons the Vatican requires exorcisms be performed by professionals. The professional exorcist knows the intricacies of his craft and is undaunted by victims that “scream, dribble and slobber, utter blasphemies and have to be physically restrained”. A real pro is even prepared for supernatural phenomena like vomiting “shards of glass and pieces of iron”. According to the Vatican’s chief exorcist, Father Gabriele Amorth, demon possessions are so insidious that Satan even lurks in the clergy and the Vatican itself. That’s right: the Anti-Christ is attacking the Holy See. As proof of this, Father Amorth pointed to the sex abuse scandals that have engulfed the Church. Need we say more? Exorcism is serious business and was “wholeheartedly” endorsed by Pope Benedict XVI. Scary. Isn’t it?    Embed Quote Updated 13 Apr. 1,153 views.