Question That Contains Assumptions: Why are 99% of successful people married?
For the purpose of answering this question, I am taking the "99% of successful people" detail as a hyperbolic expression for "a large majority of successful people". The tags suggest success is being defined by markers such as billionaire status/ wealth and marriage. I would posit that the claim is true mostly for men and not necessarily for successful women. In other words, there is substantial gender disparity among successful people in long-term monogamous relationships. Citing exceptions, such as one of the answers already here does, is unhelpful because the question is not about outliers. Extensive research by Sylvia Ann Hewlett over the years has found: 79% of the men I surveyed report wanting children—and 75% have them. The research shows that, generally speaking, the more  successful the man, the more likely he will find a spouse and become a  father. The opposite holds true for women, and the disparity is  particularly striking among corporate ultra-achievers. In fact, 49% of these women are childless. But a mere 19% of their male colleagues are. It is worth noting her research defined success mostly by income level and the ultra-achievers were those earning over $100,000 (this research was published in 2002, pre-Facebook, pre-iStuff, pre-Twitter, pre-MuchOnlineAsYouKnowItNow). Her research also found further gender differences in successful people being married: Only 60% of high-achieving women in the older age group are married, and this figure falls to 57% in corporate America. By contrast, 76% of older men are married, and this figure rises to 83% among ultra-achievers. On why this is so, she quoted one of her interviewees, a high achieving woman: "The hard fact is that most successful men are not interested in acquiring an ambitious peer as a partner." The research then found that assertion was backed by data. Only 39% of high-achieving men are married to women who are employed full time, and 40% of these spouses earn less than $35,000  a year. Meanwhile, nine out of ten married women in the high-achieving  category have husbands who are employed full time or self-employed, and a  quarter are married to men who earn more than $100,000  a year. Clearly, successful women professionals have slim pickings in  the marriage department—particularly as they age. Note this interesting data backed nugget from the research: Professional men  seeking to marry typically reach into a large pool of younger women,  while professional women are limited to a shrinking pool of eligible  peers. So back to your question. Not forgetting that I am making the claim that a majority of successful -- and married -- people are men, not necessarily women. That women serve a "second shift" at home -- also called the Double burden -- after a full day at work, is not an unknown. From Sylvia Ann Hewlett's research: Even high-achieving women who are married continue to carry the lion’s  share of domestic responsibilities. (See the exhibit “Primary Child Care  and Household Responsibilities.”) Only 9% of their husbands assume primary responsibility for meal preparation, 10% for the laundry, and 5% for cleaning the house. When it comes to children, husbands don’t do much better. Only 9% of them take time off from work when a child is sick, 9% take the lead in helping children with homework, and 3% organize activities such as play dates and summer camp. I am sure there are better reasons for why many successful people have long term monogamous relationships, but a person in a high stress job is happy not to even think about such basics as long as someone's doing it all. Since as mentioned above, most successful men want -- and have -- children (while most successful women don't, despite wanting), invariably this means there is a spouse or long-term partner at home, who is managing the home front in more ways than one. Joe Geronimo Martinez has outlined many other reasons but for the purposes of summarising my rather long answer, I'd say it is all down to "feasibility". Successful men attract both successful and low-ambition partners; successful women not so much on account of a host of factors including the most productive career years coinciding with the most fertile reproductive years, gender conditioning in men and women among others. The  more successful you are as a woman the harder it is to find a man who  will become a stay-at-home supporting partner. The reverse is true of  men. The quotes are taken from this HBR link. Executive Women and the Myth of Having It All    Embed Quote 