★What is the most bizarre assumption made about atheists?
The most bizarre assumptions about atheism are the ones held by some atheists. In my view, most of the assumptions made about atheists by theists  aren't bizarre at all. They're often wrong, but they're wrong in easy-to-understand ways -- ways I can imagine being wrong if I wasn't an atheist and didn't have atheist friends. Here's what I hear most often from believers: - "Atheism is just another religion." Well, if they mean that some atheists are dogmatic then, yes, some are. But so what? All sorts of people are dogmatic. In fact, it's rare to find anyone, atheistic or otherwise who isn't swayed by dogma, at least at times. Calling atheism a religion is, in my view, short-changing Religion. Religions are incredibly complex structures, built out of web of narratives, rituals, social/political hierarchies, ethical frameworks, lifestyle tips and so on. Atheism is just disbelief in something. It's way simpler than a religion. But it's not bizarre that some think atheism is a religion. It's just wrong. Or, at best, it's a sloppy use of the word "religion." - "Atheists have no morals." This is demonstrably false. Aside from sociopaths, almost all people (who feel empathy) have moral sentiments and subscribe to moral systems. There's tons of research on this. See, for instance, "The Righteous Mind." The Righteous Mind: Why Good People Are Divided by Politics and Religion: Jonathan Haidt: 9780307377906: Amazon.com: Books But, again, it's not bizarre that someone would make this mistake if, all his life, the only moral system he's known is God-based. - "There are no atheists in foxholes." I know many atheists -- including myself, who have been close to death or have almost lost loved ones (or have lost them) and yet haven't wavered from atheism. Extreme fear and/or anguish doesn't necessary dent atheism. Personally, when I'm in crisis mode, I don't think about theological matters at all. At those times, I'm too caught up with worries to be an atheist, an agnostic or a theist. God doesn't enter my mind -- not even as something I disbelieve in. I just think, "Noooooooo!" But someone who has found great solace in Religion during times of crisis might understandably be confused about this. - "Atheists are incapable of seeing the beauty all around them." No. Many of us gasp when we see the ocean and feel deep love for our fellow humans. Many of us are artists and poets. Many of us are deeply moved by the mystery and majesty of the Universe. We just don't derive God from those feelings. But I understand how someone who associates God with beauty might assume someone who doesn't believe in God might not know beauty. It's a common logical error (P --> Q does not imply Q -->  P) and most people get befuddled by it at times. - "Atheists hate believers or think believers are stupid." Of course, some do. Many don't. I've known hundreds of atheists in my life, and the majority of them respect and get along with theists. My best friend is a devout Christian. We have long, fun discussions about atheism and Christianity. Neither of us gets offended. But I understand why many theists feel hated, because they are listening to the minority of atheists who pick fights on the Internet. The squeaky wheel is getting the grease. In my experience, the friendly theists and atheists tend to stay out of Internet debates, because they've been burned so many times before. The unfortunate result is that both atheists and theists often learn about "the other side" from its rudest, most agressive members. - "Atheists are unhappy." Some are; some aren't. There's some research (which I'm having trouble finding right now), that does suggest that, on average, theists have a slight edge when it comes to happiness, but it's not profound enough to make "atheists are unhappy" true. There are plenty of happy atheists. But if you derive a huge amount of your happiness from religion, you're likely to be confused about how anyone could be happy without it. Heck, I don't get how people can be happy without eating pizza, but lots of people, all of the world, get by just fine without it. Bizarre! - "Atheists have no proof God doesn't exist." Others have gone into the hard/soft atheism distinction, so I won't repeat it except to say I've never met a hard atheist in my life. Most of us don't claim we can prove God doesn't exist. We just have no evidence that He does exist. That's a subtle point, so I'm not surprised many theists don't immediately think of it. Most get it once it's explained to them. Here are the bizarre claims I keep hearing about atheism from atheists: - "The world would be a better place if everyone was an atheist." That's like saying the world would be a better place without sharks. My wife hates sharks and she says that all the time. I try to point out that we have no idea what effect shark-extinction would have on the ecosystem. Religion is deeply interwoven in human affairs and has been for the entirety of human history. It has caused great sorrow, great joy and just about everything else. If everyone was an atheist, the only thing we can say is that the world would be ... different. See Marcus Geduld's answer to Should atheists be aiming to eradicate religion to improve the world? - "Religion is based on faith; atheism is based on evidence." This is true at certain levels. But at core, all intellectual frameworks are based on faith, by which I mean axioms you have to accept without evidence. Science, for instance, assumes Materialism and Causation are true. It's bizarre to me that anyone would deny this. "In science, as also in mathematics, we always have some axioms to start with, from which we derive theorems etc. Axioms are something we accept without questioning." -- http://richarddawkins.net/articl... "All philosophical systems start with axioms (presuppositions), or non-provable propositions accepted as true, and deduce theorems from them. Therefore Christians should not be faulted for having axioms as well, which are the propositions of Scripture (a proposition is a fact about a thing, e.g. God is love). So the question for any axiomatic system is whether it is self-consistent and is consistent with the real world." -- http://rationalwiki.org/wiki/Not...    Embed Quote 