What is the biggest assumption people make about you that is not true?
That I am somehow inspirational or amazing in some way... They think this because I (along with my husband) set up a creative arts charity for talented young people, as a living memorial to our son Kyle, who tragically passed away in 2007. We founded the charity 10 months later, focusing on things Kyle loved and excelled at. We have expanded recently, taking on 5 paid staff, and are open 7 days a week from 11am to 9pm (6pm at weekends) as well as running a number of music and/or fundraising events for ourselves and others. We have over 30 volunteers and that includes my husband and I. We don't pay ourselves as that would take money away from the young people, or time, should I sit filling in funding applications for our wages, instead of for projects etc. I am regularly told that I am an inspiration or that I am very courageous and altruistic, with people saying 'you are one of a kind...it is almost unheard of for managers of a charity like this to not be salaried...', or worse 'I could never do something like this if I had lost a child...'. They obviously see what I (and my husband) do as something amazing and selfless when really the truth is much simpler and I guess, selfish. We set up the charity wholly for our son Kyle. Everything we do there is something he loved to do; even the name of the charity, Red Dreams, came from a running joke I had with him. At the beginning, the internalised thought wasn't about how we could help young people, but how we could help ourselves out of the bottomless pit of grief. It gave us something to get out of bed for; something to give us strength; something to help us smile again and ultimately something to be proud of. We were basically extending our parenting and parental support to other young people; as we would have done for Kyle. It enabled us to project our love and pride in our son, onto others and build ourselves a new family. We work so many hours (approximately 70 hours a week) not because we are amazing in any way, or inspirational, but simply because it is a distraction from the hell of grief we still endure. It doesn't give us time to stop and be drawn in to the thought process of Kyle's last day; last moments... Having said that, what we do is also great therapy as we can imagine Kyle doing the things our young people partake in. Singing, acting, writing music or plays etc. he would have done it all, and it helps us immensely to know he would be proud of Red Dreams and an integral part of it. All of what we do is for us. Yes we help hundreds of young people aspire to their goals and ambitions, but that is a secondary aim to our own sanity. We do crack at times and need to step away when things get too close, but it all helps us to heal.    Embed Quote 