What is the best way to challenge your assumptions?
This is a difficult question. I am assuming (pun intended) that by assumptions you mean your assumptions -- those which you made yourself, and that you are in a position to retract and challenge. But with every step you take backwards in an attempt to inspect what you know with greater detachment and objectivity, we will have to arrive at this: Everything is an assumption. If it's not yours, it's someone else's. Some may be safer to assume than others, but ultimately, everything still is an assumption, especially if you subscribe to the latest consensus in scientific theory -- that science is a method that progresses, and that the truth is a moving target. Whatever is out there is out there, but it is the gap between it and our understanding of it that we constantly struggle with and mine for new intelligence and progress. Without getting into further detail of the structure and nature of intelligence, there is one approach that works with any assumption, and hence, with anything and everything. Break it. What you cannot break will hold true forever. Science progresses in the order by which its facts are broken. So break them, starting with your own assumptions. They are probably easier too. But the brings us to the next question: How do we break them? An assumption is an understanding, meaning it is a piece of intelligence acquired and applied to what we already know. This creates a fabric of assumptions -- what we'd prefer to call knowledge -- that we aspire to have make the most sense for us at any given time. But this fabric is all in our heads and is full of defects. Yet, the clues as to where it is torn, where there are stains, and where it is unfinished are also in our heads. It's all readily observable when we self reflect upon what we already know. There are plenty of leads to discover and follow, and you can start by pulling up your favorite armchair and closing your eyes. These leads are what we call questions. Intelligence is the luxury of simulation. By merely thinking about our assumptions we can get to know them better. Once we get to know them, we have an easier time imagining what could possibly break them. What do you break them with? Other assumptions of course. Congratulations, you just became a philosopher. The next step, if you do choose to proceed, would be to get out of that chair and gather new evidence through exploration and experimentation. Now, instead of breaking assumptions with other assumptions, you break molecules with other molecules, break products with users, break suspects with new evidence, and so on and so forth. You are now taking your ideas to the field, and producing real  hopefully new results. Congratulations, you just became a scientist. There is another step. Once armed with this new set of assumptions, tested and true, you have a distinct advantage when building something new. Engineering capability is proportional to depth of understanding. Congratulations, you just became an engineer. Take it a step further, and you can sell what you've built. Congratulations, you just became an entrepreneur. The sky is the limit.    Embed Quote Updated 9 Jul, 2013. 80 views.