What are basic assumptions of modern physics?
Michael Enciso gave a good list, but I'm not so sure that they can all be called basic assumptions. I think that's a pretty strong term. A lot of times, people use "assumption" to mean something like a metaphysics or an axiom, and a lof of what he described has some pretty strong evidence. The closest to a basic assumption, I think, would be the validity of the Lagrangian. A lot of stuff falls out of that. Because of it, for example, we don't have to assume that the laws of physics are the same far away or were the same long ago. If the Lagrangian is valid, Emmy Noether proved that these ideas are equivalent to the conservation of energy and momentum, which we can measure now. There are a couple of things that muddy the waters. Physics is all about finding models of reality, and there is some degree of flexibility in what kind of model you are looking for, what kinds of properties you want it to have. Then you find one, and it either works or it doesn't. If it doesn't work, it's wrong, and you have to find something else or tweak what you have. Sometimes, though, you find multiple idea that work. Sometimes you find that one only almost works. Newtonian gravity is wrong, but it's good enough for anything you are likely to encounter, and it's a lot easier than General Relativity. Sometimes, though, two ideas work equally well, and you can pick one or another. Sometimes they are actually equivalent, but you might not know that yet. Or you might only be able to see that they are equivalent with some very tricky math. Consider Hawking radiation. The argument for it was based on pure thermodynamics, but you can also describe it in terms of particle/antiparticle pairs. Some physicists look down on people who do, but still it works. Or the electric field. Is the field made up of a bunch of virtual particles, or are virtual particles a way of visualizing excitations in the field? Who cares? Still, they seem different, and you have to pick one. There are umpteen different interpretations of Quantum Mechanics. People assume one or the other and have huge arguments. It's not a basic assumption, though, because it matters not at all which one you pick, so pick the one that hurts your brain in the way you enjoy the most. Bohm made up one so that he didn't have to give up Marxist Dialectical Materialism. Whatever floats your boat.    Embed Quote 