What are your base assumptions?
Everything we do we do to protect and trigger dopamine flow. Dopamine is triggered by expectations of scoring certain drugs, foods, sex, safety, power, acceptance, approval, attention, status, and (especially) money (which can be converted into drugs, foods, sex, safety, power, acceptance, approval, attention, esteem/status, and more money). Dopamine flow is threatened by expectations of the loss of drugs, foods, sex, safety, power, acceptance, approval, attention, esteem/status, or money. Dopamine is so powerful that very, very, very little goes a long way with healthy dopaminergic systems. And it's so powerful that flooding the system can destroy delicate receptors and turn rational, biological, life-sustaining behaviors into irrational, bioillogical, life-threatening addictions. In 2010 the Scripps Research Institute issued the results of a study (News Release) that found that laboratory rats given the opportunity to consume foods  that are normally considered highly palatable yet extremely unhealthy  (i.e., high-calorie, high-fat) will overeat. This overeating forces a  neuroadaptive change in their dopamine circuits that is similar to the  changes in brains of people suffering from drug addiction. As the  brain’s pathways grow accustomed to being overstimulated a pathological  cycle begins where addicts require a constant flow of dopamine to avoid  entering a state of withdrawal. According to Scripps Research Associate Professor Paul J. Kenny,  “What happens in addiction is lethally simple. The reward pathways in  the brain have been so overstimulated that the system basically turns on  itself, adapting to the new reality of addiction, whether its cocaine  or cupcakes.” Despite the mounting evidence linking addiction to narcotics, alcohol, nicotine, video games, social media, gambling, texting, tanning, and even cupcakes, few believe that it's possible to get addicted to safety, power, acceptance, approval, attention, esteem/status, or money. And fewer still believe it's possible to explain all behavior in terms of protecting and triggering dopamine flow. Ironically, the explanation is that the deception of having free will is highly attractive because it triggers dopamine by elevating safety and esteem while the thought of a neurotransmitter undermining free will is repellent because it threatens dopamine flow by threatening safety and esteem.    Embed Quote 