★Is it a safe assumption to say that human history would be less violent without religion?
No. I wouldn't make that assumption. When we look at the primates we're closely related to, we see lots of violence that's eerily familiar to human violence (in terms of the situations in which it occurs), and those animals aren't religious. Historically, humans have used religion as a tool to express, condemn, and condone pretty much every sort of human behavior. But, in my opinion, if you want to look at the root cause of most behaviors, you have to peel away religion and look underneath. There are many reasons why humans are violent, but I'd say the chief one the lifestyle we've been stuck in since the Agrarian Revolution. Prior to that, for the bulk of our history (nearly 40,000 years), we lived in small bands of related people. Farming allowed us to clump together in march larger groups, ones composed mostly of non-relatives. Which causes problems, because Natural Selection crafted us with a much better skill-set for getting along with kin than non-kin. I don't want to push this idea too far. There was certainly violence in the hunter-gatherer days, and we see violence today in tribal cultures. Usually what happens is two tribes compete for limited resources (think of the "water hole" scene in "2001"). But clumping together into large towns and huge cities has greatly exasperated the problem. In order to live together in these large groups, we've created all sorts of structures for keeping the peace. These include laws and religions. It's worth remembering that almost all religions have rules like Thou Shall Not Kill. Of course, religions are also used to justify mass slaughter—as are laws. Pretty much every product of civilization is a double-edged sword: language can be used for poetry and cursing; art can be used for beautiful paintings or frightening propaganda; technology can be used to cure cancer or obliterate Hiroshima ... We find a way to use pretty much all our creations for good or ill, because we have both good and evil impulses, and any really useful technology is necessarily going to be highly malleable. Another thing that happens is that when people try to solve problems (or even just complain about them), they resist looking at Human Nature. That's too complicated and difficult to alter. Instead, we tend to focus on technologies and other cultural artifacts: in other words we focus on the way we express our nature rather than that nature itself. So we find people who hate technology because they blame it for murder. And we also find people who love technology because they think it creates wealth and prosperity. And of course it does both. Or, rather, we use technology to do good and evil. This is the other way we're different from our primate cousins. We have larger brains and are much better at creating useful tools: tools that allow us to express our base and better natures. I don't want to say tools count for nothing, but I'm pretty sure that if we made religion go away, the people living in the post-religion age would be smart enough to come up with other tools to allow them to help the poor and kill people they didn't like. (I may have fallen into my own trap when I blamed the Agrarian Revolution, and you'll have noticed that I pulled back from it further down. Agrarianism is a human invention, just as are laws, languages, and religions. Our cultures and cities help us express our nature. They aren't the same thing as our nature.)    Embed Quote Updated 3 Apr, 2014. 44,696 views.