★Behavioral Economics: What are the most controversial assumptions of economics?
I believe that the following are incorrect and are believed by at least some economists: That we live on the production possibilities frontier.  On the contrary, I would suggest that the more demand-constrained an economy is, the further it is from this frontier. That applying the mean-value theorem to the assumption that tax revenues are a dependent, continuous function of the independent variable "tax rate" (ignoring distributive effects) gives you a useful framework for setting policy. That "preferences" are a priori and can be used as inputs to a non-dynamic (in the differential equations sense) Supply & Demand analysis. Another way of saying this is, supply and demand solutions are numeric values rather than chaotic paths that depend not only on emotional preferences, but also on pricing history.  That the Velocity of Money and "propensity to save" can be considered independently of the Distribution of Wealth. That value creation swamps negotiating leverage in determining prices of goods and labor. That labor offered to the labor market increases monotonically with Price offered. A more reasonable model is that for an individual it is V-shaped, with both fear and greed being associated with an increase. (By the way, in case I am being too subtle, this is related to destructive deflation.) That levels of the U.S. Public Debt can be discussed intelligently without first knowing whether the debt is locally denominated or foreign-denominated. Just as labor can potentially offer more hours to the labor market under conditions of fear, countries can potentially respond to drops in their currency prices by offering more dollars to the market if their debt is denominated in foreign currency. (Which of course is related to Hyperinflation) That physical efficiency (goods made per worker hour) and Economic Efficiency (Revenues divided by wages) can be used interchangeably. (In an extreme example, if you pay someone half as much to spend the same amount of time making the same amount of goods, then does that mean you are "more efficient" and therefore can grow your economy?) Perhaps this belongs in the "pundit" section? That "asset inflation", when producing physical capital becomes scarce compared with dollars chasing that physical capital, and "price inflation", when consumer goods become scarce compared with dollars chasing those consumer goods are a good logical category that can be termed "Inflation". That "National average savings rate" means the same thing as "middle class savings rate". As a point of fact, if you want to increase the national savings rate then your simple approach is to tax the poor more and the rich less. That when you apply the law of Comparative Advantage to International Trade you can ignore the effects of low tariffs on labor price negotiations within companies. (This seems to be universal. Despite the apparent lack of first world countries that became first world with zero trade restrictions and despite obvious counter-examples, like Japan, South Korea, and China recently, the US in the 1800s and England during The Renaissance, almost every economist surveyed in a recent survey seemed gung-ho on Free Trade. Sorry, I can't find the link at the moment.) That Labor Unions need to be considered only in context of their host businesses and their effect on small businesses without unions can be ignored. (in other words, that union's effects on "natural monopolies" can be ignored) This is a repeat, but it bears repeating: That irrational consumer preferences are the only threat to the ergodic assumption in pricing theory, which is that initial conditions can be ignored and economic price targets are independent of the path you take to get there. The effects of irrational consumer choices are no more than a straw-dummy compared with the effects of shortage avoidance, the V-shaped individual labor supply curve, the effects of minimum production thresholds, factory location decisions, etc. There are also some assumptions that are probably not held my most economists, but are generally held by certain economic pundits: A monopoly is a "black swan" that can be ignored when talking about general national patterns, rather than the end of a continuous spectrum. A complex economy can be understood using only principles of basic Barter at a Microeconomic scale. Inflation is bad over a certain level regardless of the context. That the Dow Jones Industrial Average, with 30 of the largest corporation stock prices is a better metric for economic health than the Russell 2000. That externalities should be considered a simple fact of the universe rather than being enabled by certain financial innovations (e.g., Leveraged Buy-Outs were made legal in the 1970s) and we need not consider "corporate ownership rules" when discussing corporate stewardship (for example, an unsafe uranium mine has the most value to the owners with the least regard for life and the greatest ability to work the tort system. Corporate ownership rules, far from being just "red tape", are our means of addressing this issue). That an increase of efficiency in Walmart can be considered an unqualified positive for total national efficiency because its effects on efficiency outside Walmart are negligible compared with its effects internal to Walmart. That millionaires are "rich" for the purpose of talking about inequality. I would actually contend that creating more millionaires is the most effective way to reduce inequality's effects on the velocity of money. Notice that you and I have a better chance of winning the mega-millions lottery than one of Charles G. Koch's dollars has of buying his morning coffee or bagel, whereas every dollar a millionaire earns in a given year could at least in theory be lured away from him by an Entrepreneur with a compelling enough product.    Embed Quote Updated 26 Jan. 239 views.