What are the assumptive flaws of atheism/skepticism?
You also don't get morality or purpose from observing that the Earth is round. That doesn't change the planet's shape. It's not a worldview - it's just a conclusion by educated people. You struggle against it like a creationist fighting 'evolutionism', like a homeopath fighting 'allopathy', like a Holocaust denier fighting 'Zionism'. You've fabricated an ideology to turn established facts into opinions to make an argument that can never end; in defiance of the establishment, in which most scientists are non-theists, you now have a conspiracy theory.  Conspiracy theories are not automatically wrong, but most of them are garbage because they fall prey to a hysterical, narcissistic ego, an ego which says 'I can know the unknowable but you cannot; I can see through the conspiracy that fools everyone else; you should ignore all the experts and listen to me'. The fallibility of science and scientists is the only point you could begin to make, but this pseudo-skepticism never turns inward. It is typical for narcissists to exempt themselves from the criticism they apply to everyone else; an argument that undermines everyone's credibility has no effect on a committed narcissist. This is the condition that is required for a non-surgeon to argue with surgeons about surgery.  Beyond detectability anything could be true, but any one thing you propose will have trillions of trillions of alternatives. Thus, pointing out the limits of science cannot be done in the defense of a particular alternative (a false dilemma). The options are not 'science vs. religion' or even 'science vs. X', but 'science vs. chaos'. If you doubt the establishment, why aren't you politely agnostic? You basically make 99 percent of an argument for pure ignorance and agnosticism, and then make yourself less fallible than the rest of us by plucking out a random, evidence-free idea from the undetectable trillions and declaring your delusional, narcissistic certainty. I hope you're lying.    Embed Quote 