What are the assumptive flaws of atheism/skepticism?
Absolute skepticism might be summarized in the position, held by Gorgias, that no truth can be known for certain and that if any truth can be known for certain then it cannot be communicated. On its face it would seem to be a self-contradictory philosophical position, since its definition would imply that the foundational statement of absolute skepticism itself cannot be known to be true with any certainty and that one cannot with any utility discuss any issue relating to the truth of the philosphy itself. However skepticism arose in response to dogmatism and absolute skepticism could be seen as a limiting case of the skeptical argument against the dogmatism that underlies many forms of theism. But absolute philosophical skepticism is an extremely rare position among atheists and atheism is quite distinct from absolute skepticism as a philosophy. So I do not understand the attempt to equate them as philosophies. Atheism is a form of skepticism with respect to the existence of gods, but it is not possible to equate it with absolute skepticism. I think that is an error. Many atheists could probably be classed as skeptics in the sense of David Hume, which stops well short of the statement of Gorgias and some of the other Greek Skeptic and Sophist philosophers. Morality in the context of atheism is something which has been repeatedly discussed - it is quite possible for an atheist ethics to be constructed. The utilitarianism of Jeremy Bentham and John Stuart Mill is just one example. Now if it is claimed on the other hand, that the source of the good is absolute and arises from an agency such as a God or gods, as it does in many forms of theism, then the ethics that are constructed from those forms of theism are certainly vulnerable to the criticisms raised by the Skeptics, specifically those of Socrates. Remember Socrates claim was only that he himself did not know anything for certain except one thing - that he did not know anything for sure. This is not absolute skepticism.    Embed Quote 