What are some examples of stupid assumptions that intelligent people often make?
* Assuming that intelligence = wisdom.    Intelligence is a mashup of your knowledge and abilities.    Wisdom is knowing what you don't know and aren't able to do.    Someone with wisdom can hire or find out abilities and knowledge he lacks.    But someone with intelligence who lacks wisdom can't find out what he doesn't know because he doesn't realize he doesn't know it.   This leads to stuff like some brilliant engineer starting a company and then destroying it because he thinks he's also a brilliant accountant, marketing manager, design consultant, chief counsel, HR manager etc. * Assuming they're treating people like equals even when the people feel like they're being treated like inferiors, whereas if they treated people like inferiors--i.e. not using your full vocabulary or distant-dots-connecting at a zillion mph, not vivisecting their ideas like a teppan-yaki chef slicing vegetables, not rolling your eyes over what they say--that is, treating them like your dear but dotty Aunt Martha from Boise--then more mentally constrained people would think you were treating them like equals. Moral: "Speak to each in accordance with his understanding" --The Prophet (your pick of prophets) * Assuming people are rational (that includes yourself).   Required reading for this one: Amazon.com: Inevitable Illusions: How Mistakes of Reason Rule Our Minds (9780471159629): Massimo Piattelli-Palmarini: Books * Assuming your flavor of intelligence = "intelligence." Especially a problem with those who are highly verbal and extroverted, dealing with someone who's intelligent in a different modality--say an elite tennis player, or a visual artist who can't articulate anything, really. Or a forensic accountant, say. There are dozens and dozens of flavors of intelligence, genetically speaking. * Assuming being smart guarantees anything. Like if you're also a jerkwad you won't have any real friends, even if you're rich and famous. Like if you lack discipline as well (i.e. you ate the marshmallow instead of waiting), your intelligence will only mean you're a fabulous dilettante or a clever conversationalist (or Quora commentor?). * Assuming people with lateral intelligence are just defective linear thinkers.    Embed Quote 