Question with assumptions:  Why do Jews and Muslims hate each other?
I am a Muslim. I can give you my views and the views of most around me. I could quote many verses from the Quran here to show that hatred of Jews is not Islamic but that is not what you are asking. If I understand your question correctly you want to know average Ali’s / Achmed’s  view on Jews and from where those views come. Jews represent the first of the Abrahamic traditions. Religiously seen they are to be respected as they were the first to receive the Holy Books. Jews, Christians and Muslims are, as I see it, branches of the same tree.  Up to here most Muslims will agree with me. I try to read the Torah as often as I can (together with the Quran and the whole Old and New Testament) because Muslims consider all these books to be heaven sent.  I love Jews (I married one) and Christians and Hindus etc… as the Quran teaches (we also have the Golden Rule). Jews and Muslims have lived together for centuries in reasonably peaceful conditions. The Islamic anti-Semitism arises from several sides. First, sadly, western antisemitism reached the Islamic world around the turn of the first century. As you know, doctrine takes ages to loose its effects. Antisemitism is still alive and well in Europe. I was in Prague not long ago visiting a synagogue where the walls are covered with names of the Prague Jews that had died in the second WW. My wife and I cried at the sight of all these names. Back at the hotel I asked the staff if there still was a Jewish community in Prague. The answer was shocking. "They are still here but we don't know who they are. They still control everything. They are hidden among us". My wife and I thought this guy was pulling our leg at first but he kept on going which made us sick to our bones just having returned from the synagogue. Then the statements in the Quran about Jews are being totally taken out of context creating an anti-Jewish sentiment. This is being done mostly by people (clergy and politicians) who do have other agendas. A politician screaming:  "Kill all Jews!!”  is most likely trying to shift the focus of his people from things that could cause internal damages (him getting lynched for instance). Most educated Muslims understand this and basically laugh it off. But the uneducated masses are vulnerable to outcries of solidarity and often can do no better than copy the sentiments relayed by their clergymen. Third and most importantly The state of Israel (Medīnat Yisrā'el).  Israel is the main problem. The reason some Muslims do hate Israelis is Israel. Mind you, I didn’t say Jews, I said Israelis. There is a distinct difference between the two. The problem is that a lot of people see Israelis and Jews as one and the same. They are not. It would be like saying all Christians are Italian or all Muslims are Saudi Arabians. The creation of Israel came with struggle from day one. The day the state of Israel was born Egypt, Syria, Transjordan and Iraq—entered what had been British Mandate Palestine, launching the 1948 Arab–Israeli War. This war for many has never ended. The Israelis had pushed (backed by western finance, hence the hatred of the west) their Muslim brothers out of their homes. The homes they had lived in for many years. I do not hate Jews. Most Muslims around me do not hate Jews. Some say they do hate Jews, but what they mean is the Israelis, and to be more precise the Israeli politicians creating what they see as oppression.  I personally don’t hate the Israelis. I understand (as do many other Muslims) their need for a homeland. I feel saddened for the Palestinians who lost their homes, as I feel saddened for the Jews who had to leave theirs many, many times in Christian Europe.  I hate Israeli politics. But I also hate the Egyptian, Lebanese, Syrian etc. stands on the Middle Eastern conflicts. I would dare say most Israelis hate Israeli politics and the politics of those around them. People like Morsi are not the average Muslim. I'm sure there are Muslims that hate Jews and see them as the root of all evil in the world. I am also sure that there are Christians who have the same view. (I do believe that there are more Muslims with this view than Christians) Back to average Ali’s view. He does not hate the Jews. The average Muslim is just like every other guy on this planet. Busy trying to put bread on the table and not contemplating wars with a people who have never wronged him personally. He is a product of his society... so all this media is forming his opinion on the Jews. This media, in the Middle East, is very anti-Zionist. He is an anti-Zionist. I believe that at least 80% of Muslims are anti-Zionists. They have learnt to hate Israel. They mistakenly use the words Jews and Israeli as the same word.    Embed Quote 