What are examples of assumptions that people passionately believe in when they are young, that turn out to be false?
That . . . Excuses matter.  They don't.  In fact, all the great excuses in the world mean shit when you fail.  Don't care.  Don't wanna' hear them. Nobody cares about my feelings. Garbage!  The most important person to you cares about them a great deal:  YOU.  It's your job to find people who will respect them.  Just don't expect them to accept your bullshit excuses whenever you fail. My parents know what they were talking about.  (early childhood) I've discovered so many things that I was taught that were patently wrong (false-science, religion, politics, etc). My parents have no clue what they are talking about (I'm soooo much smarter than them). (teenage years) I'm not.  Turns out they were right about a whole lot and I should have shut up and listened more. Life has a purpose.  Things happen for a reason.  It's all a part of god's plan. Yeah.  What a crock of shit. Life is pointless.  Nothing matters.  Look, just because there isn't some magical destiny or giant destructo-god in the sky, doesn't mean that--in and of itself--life doesn't have a wonderful purpose.  The purpose of our life is what we make of it. We are unique in our solar system, possibly unique in all the cosmos in that we have the ability to make our destiny and alter--intelligently--the purpose of our being and the fabric of our existence.  If your life has no purpose, then you aren't trying hard enough.  Hard work pays off.  (in and of itself)  It doesn't.  It takes a lot of other things like time, intelligence, wisdom, teamwork, ingenuity and sheer luck. Hard work doesn't pay off, it's all how smart or rich you are. Bullshit, you have to work hard too, unless you inherit your wealth or win the lottery.  Care to guess how many worthless smart or rich people there are out there?  They didn't fail for lack of intelligence or net wealth!    Things will fall into place.  They will all work out.  Garbage.  Nothing just "happens" as an adult and if you want things to fall into place, you have to make a plan, follow through and put them there. Some people are just natural overnight successes. Most overnight successes are the result of long work days, lots of practice and failures too numerous to name.    Embed Quote Updated 21 Feb, 2012. 6,611 views.