What are some examples of stupid assumptions that intelligent people often make?
That the logical or reasonable answer is the best one. Intelligence is only half a human, but there are people who now believe it is the end-all, be-all. One of the best of course, is the Big Bang Theory and Sheldon Cooper. Our humor in the show is watching intelligence run rampant, constantly screwing up. Rightness is Sheldon's God. There are other places where we see people who are technically correct but are just stiff. No fluidity or feeling. Like a musician playing the notes, but there is no depth to them. One of the criticisms with the young people on 'So you think you can dance' is they are technically correct, but lack their own personality in the piece. They are in their head thinking too much. There is a great line in Star Trek where they are tactically dealing with an alien and Spock is calculating out what move to make next. "The Corbomite Maneuver". Alex Knapp, of Forbes magazine writes. “Not chess, Mr. Spock. Poker. Do you know the game?” In one of my all-time favorite Star Trek episodes, Kirk and his crew face down an unknown vessel from a group calling themselves the “First Federation.”  Threats from the vessel escalate until it seems that the destruction of the Enterprise is imminent. Kirk asks Spock for options, who replies that the Enterprise has been playing a game of chess, and now there are no winning moves left. Kirk counters that they shouldn’t play chess – they should play poker. He then bluffs the ship by telling them that the Enterprise has a substance in its hull called “corbomite” which will reflect the energy of any weapon back against an attacker. This begins a series of actions that enables the Enterprise crew to establish peaceful relations with the First Federation. I love chess as much as the next geek, but chess is often taken too seriously as a metaphor for leadership strategy. For all of its intricacies, chess is a game of defined rules that can be mathematically determined. It’s ultimately a game of boxes and limitations. A far better analogy to strategy is poker, not chess. Life is a game of probabilities, not defined rules. And often understanding your opponents is a much greater advantage than the cards you have in your hand. Playing that strategy with an eye to the psychology of our competitors, not just the rules and circumstances of the game  can often lead to better outcomes than following the rigid lines of chess. And the same trap is displayed by people relying on sheer intelligence to have relationships. That unfortunately is why many geeks have trouble with intimacy. HAL won't open the pod bay door. Being right is more important than empathy. And that lets them use people and be serviced, rather than opening up and making a mistake. So again, the stupid (Your word, I'd use naive) assumption that intelligent people often make is: The logical or reasonable answer is the best one.    Embed Quote 