What are basic assumptions of modern physics?
I'll take a slightly different tack, because I interpret the word "assumption" slightly differently. There is only one assumption of physics (or two, depending on how you count). This assumption is that physics is possible - that 1) all of existence is governed by inviolable rules (perhaps patterns would be a better word and that 2) these rules can be discerned by observing the universe around us. These assumptions really aren't particular to modern physics, and are essentially the basis of the scientific method as described by Roger Bacon in the 1200s. (Also, everything I'm about to say isn't really particular to physics, but applies to any science with appropriate modifications). Part 1) of the assumption is manifestly crucial to the possibility of physics. The existence of rules that govern the existence does not specify anything about these rules. They could be completely deterministic, like classical theories of physics, or involve elements of inherent but explicitly defined chance like quantum mechanics of the 20th century *,**. All that matters is that they are inviolable. There can't be a a different set of laws tomorrow, a billion years ago, in an area around Alpha Centauri, or beyond the observable edge of the universe. The universe in these places can certainly look different, but the same underlying rules are at play. Part 2) of the assumption is less obvious, but is equally important. What if the universe obeyed a set of rules that, for some reason, was incomprehensible to human minds? Perhaps the rules could not be "finitely expressed". No matter how long your textbook goes, it can't contain all the details of the rules. No matter how long intelligent life researches physics, revising its rules as it goes, the complete set of rules (the "theory of everything") cannot be reached, and the best that can happen is continuous improvements (small or large) that never reach "the end." I would hope that this isn't the case, but it's impossible to say that it's not. The best we can say right now is that, even if the rules of existence cannot be finitely represented, it appears that "finitely expressible" chunks of these rules appear to very good approximations, since our theories (guesses at the rules) are themselves "finitely expressible" and are in very good agreement with data. Another possibility is that there are rules of existence that cannot be discovered or verified for practical reasons. Perhaps the "theory of everything" can only be truly studied / verified by building a particle collider the size of the asteroid belt. This is a more mundane possibility, but it's also more depressing since it's a case where the complete TOE is within our grasp but is denied to us. If only we'd been born as Jupiter sized lifeforms in an interstellar cloud somewhere! Sadly, this is a very likely possibility. There is certain to be a point at which we cannot study physics at higher energy scales, either by building colliders or examining cosmological data. Hopefully at that point we would have a theory that seems to be complete (unlike today's situation  where there are several strands and outstanding problems that need to be woven together). Then we'd simply have to assume that this theory is "if not true, close enough." Fundamental physics would come to an end, while the other branches (statistical physics, condensed matter physics, AMO physics, chemistry (which is really the largest and one of, if not the, most important branch of physics), laser physics, astrophysics, nuclear physics, biophysics, ...) would go on strong. The interplay of 1) and 2) is also important. Our theories of physics are provisional ideas about what rules we think existence obeys. We can see these rules be violated, because they our guesses and theories and not the actual rules the universe obeys. So, our response to seeing our theories break is not to give up, but to refine the theory and postulate a new set of rules that explains all the data. So, we have modern theories of physics that we've arrived at overal several centuries. These include postulates, such as invariance of speed of light, use of Lagrangians to codify symmetries and conservation laws, etc. You could call these assumptions, but I would rather not. If we find out they are wrong, physics will not be broken - it will adapt and survive. If the assumption I've discussed turns out to be wrong, physics is dead. I've probably made it clear that I find this unlikely. * The element of chance involved in 20th century quantum mechanics, in wave function collapse, is not an element "anything can happen" chaos. There is chance, and certain outcomes have different probabilities, but there are extremely precise rules about what these probabilities are. ** It seems (though I could be wrong) that recent advances in basic quantum mechanics are beginning to overturn the presence of inherent chance in quantum mechanics. It was assumed in the 20th century that if an electron could be in a superposition of two states, then so could a cat in a box. This theory left a lot of principles ill-defined. Most importantly, what counts as a "measurement" of the cat's life state? Evidently this measurement involves the interaction of two very macroscopic systems, and 20th century QM had to pretend that the "measuring" subsystem was classical and only the "measured" part was quantum mechanical. Current research, of a process called decoherence, seems calling this into question, and I personally hope that one day the last nail will be put into the coffin for Schrodinger's dead cat (or, at a level of classical but not quantum uncertainty, the cat will be freed). However, I've also read statements that decoherence has little to do with the measurement problem (e.g. Schrodinger's cat). I know little about the subject, don't understand it after briefly researching it, and so can't really offer an opinion. See: What is quantum decoherence? and Why decoherence and entanglement have nothing to do with Schrödinger's cat    Embed Quote 