★Is it a safe assumption to say that human history would be less violent without religion?
I would say that any answer to this question is highly speculative and it would be unfair to declare religion or non-religion as the cause of violence.  In the spirit of full disclosure I need to let everyone know that I am answering this question as an Atheist. I see religion historically as a way of centrally organizing large groups of people who otherwise would not necessarily associate with each other.  It allowed the creation of a central identity for larger groups of people as we transitioned from hunter gatherers to agrarian societies and then on to city states and finally nations. Religion formed the glue for the ever larger groups that were forming. It also formed the context for a central moral code and a system of justice based on divine retribution.  At a time when there were few alternatives for keeping the peace this was critical.  Groups that used religion effectively became more powerful and displaced other populations that did not have as effective a way of managing the population. The problems come from some of the other aspects that are also part of religion. First there is the issue of belief or faith.  In order for the religion to effectively manage the masses they had to believe unquestioningly that what they were being told was true.  This leads to a strong doctrine of faith, often one that demands belief without ever questioning.  The second issue is the problem of the missing ruler or judge.  For all practical purposes the deity never appears in person to clarify or pronounce judgement on the people that believe in it. It falls into the hands of other humans to decide what is right and wrong.  Humans decide what the message will be and how it should be followed.  They do this as agents of their deity and presumably backed up by the power of their specific god. Over time this starts to concentrate huge amounts of power in the hands of a very few representatives of that god.  Since they are presumably acting on behalf of their god their decisions cannot be questioned.  Given that the people who have this power are often the people who are by nature driven to acquire power and control over others this in many cases leads to regrettable outcomes. If you look at the common thread of all the major massacres in history you will almost always find a powerful leader that commanded huge amounts of unquestioned power.  In many situations this power was acquired through religion. In other cases it was acquired through forms of social engineering such as ideologies or the use of ethnic identities. In almost every case it comes down to a small group of people with a huge amount of power making horrible decisions with no one able to question their judgement because it is forbidden or restricted in some way.  If religion has a specific structural flaw it is that it facilitates these situations. Faith and dogma suppress the ability to question what is right and wrong.  In many cases this situation is abused and the results can be horrifying, but religion is by no means the only way to achieve the same results.    Embed Quote 