Economics: What are the most significant flawed assumptions in economics?
One that seems to be turning out to be problematic is that you can model the probability of all the things you don't know as noise using a Gaussian (bell) curve distribution.  That's based on the assumption that all these unknowns are independent events that don't have any effect on each other. In practice, many of the things we want to take account of ARE connected, and when they deviate from the average, they do so in concert. Often reinforcing each other. It's turning out to be much better to model these unknowns (say the chance of a crash) using some kind of "power-law" where you accept that shocks are endemic and that the magnitude is inversely proportional to the frequency. That's because power-law models tend to model things that have a network structure. However, there are a LOT of models in economics and finance that have this Gaussian assumption, and they tend to assume that things will "average out" and remain stable without external perturbation, rather than that significant instability is to be expected within a system due to the hidden connections. Obviously this is a complex area, but here's a brief example : it's actually a defence of certain Gaussian uses against a certain failure : http://www.economist.com/blogs/f... I happen to think that it's an inadequate defence. Saying that models are known to be simplifications and the problem is people misusing them outside the limits of their applicability is obviously true. But it misses the bigger picture that economists and finance people are actually completely dependent on models like this for their neat results. And the appearance of stability and predictability in economic systems. Unlike the elegant models in physics, which address an apparent deep structural simplicity in the universe, economics is really using grossly simplificating models to produce the appearance of an elegance over what's actually a messy reality of billions of complex human beings and their interactions. The best economics is at the behavioural end where economists have to get real about human psychology and motivation. Or looks to build models of large numbers of interacting agents. These simulations can characterize economic behaviour but can't fully summarize it in a few neat equations.  The author of that defence is still in love with the summarizing power of models even though such summaries will continuously find themselves misapplied outside the narrow circumstances in which they work, and will continue to let us down through misleading reassurrance and failed predictions.    Embed Quote 