Questions with assumptions: Why is science immune from criticism, despite constantly changing answers?
Yes, science changes but more accurately science refines it's answers and it does such due to criticism or more specifically scientific critique and review. Let's say you have a thing. It is flat, thin and of an indeterminate shape but fits within a defined area and it is hard to observe or measure directly. You do some observations and experiments to try and get a better idea of it's shape. First you try to measure it from two points and then 3 and then progressively more. As you continue to test and experiment you continue to define a closer and closer approximation of the exact shape of the object. Moving from a triangle to a square a pentagon, hexagon and on. All through this process you are using the scientific method. You eventually begin to get much closer to finding the actual shape of the object. 32 sides is close but still not it. The actual shape it turns out is this. A circle. Now science may not get the shape of that unknown object exactly right but at no point is science going to spontaneously just change the predicted shape to this.   All of the previous experimentation, observation and testing has already ruled out it being Manhattan shaped. It would be very unlikely but not quite impossible for science to suddenly change that dramatically. It would mean there is new data that was previously unknown and would not happen on a lark. You see science is not immune to criticism it is in a constant process of critique and review. It changes because upon critique of an existing theory there is found to be a better theory to explain it. This is where the peer review section of the scientific process comes in to play. Other scientists are constantly retesting old experiments. Sometimes they do this with the same equipment and methods and sometimes with new and improved methods and equipment. This is why you can trust science. It verifies and tests its results over and over to make sure they are right. We might find at some point that the object can change shapes and that would require us to radically adjust our theories. Even so, all of the previous data is not just discarded it is used to refine the theory. Even if it can change shape we know that for a time it had a shape roughly approximating a circle or was a circle and now we need to devise new hypotheses and new experiments to determine its actual properties and possible shapes. I would be more concerned if you made an observation and then made a claim without refining your results when you get more and better data. Man 1: That man in the distance looks like a robber. Man 2: I got my gun, just let him try something. Man 1: Actually now that he's closer maybe that's Uncle Bob. Man 2: He looked like a robber so I am not taking any chances if he comes over here I'm shooting. Man 1: No, that's Bob, its okay. You can tell from 10 feet away. Man 2: <Pulls trigger>    Embed Quote 