What are some examples of stupid assumptions that intelligent people often make?
The efficient market hypothesis has to be, by far, one of the most damaging and ridiculous assumptions I have ever seen smart people make. It's like saying all humans are equally rational - which is another incredibly ridiculous and damaging assumption in economics. Both assumptions discount non trivial search and training costs required to make good decisions under incredible uncertainty. They also fundamentally ignore the human frailties and biases present in complex systems. They also discount game theoretic outcomes in illiquid markets with asymmetric information , differing liquidity and regulatory risks, combined with cartel like microstructures. They also ignore friction and inefficiencies present in real life systems combined with arbitrary rule constraints in clearing markets. Finally they completely ignore the fact that the cost of finding a solution to a decision can frequently out weigh its benefit to a human - as rationality is merely a short hand for an optimizing function - it does not indicate relative utility and value. For example people who value their time will not look for the most valuable deal in terms of financial return - but will rather look for one that is good enough - one that satisfies their constraints. This nullifies both EMT and the rational actor model. EMT and the rational actor economic model are like a religion for intelligent people. They both provide explanations that are clear, simple and wrong. One thing is for sure; markets are incredibly inefficient. Granted, they are an order of magnitude better than central planning and an indispensable tool for increasing useful capital expenditure, but they are not nearly as perfect as people want to think they are. Note: If you've made it this far down the answer, enjoyed it, and you would like to see more like it, then you should follow me here: Anirudh Joshi    Embed Quote Updated 30 Jan, 2013. 1,281 views.