What are basic assumptions of modern physics?
This is a fantastic question for several reasons.  Let me first say why I think it's such a great question before I try to answer some of it.  Most if not all of modern physics relies on only a few base assumptions, and these guide us an incredibly far way.  The problem, though, is that some of these assumptions might need some adjustments, and are sometimes contradictory to each other.  If we ask how we need to alter some of our basic assumptions, we need to do so by being motivated by other basic assumptions.  But knowing which basic assumptions are "right", which are "wrong" (i.e., need adjusting), and/or whether or not any of them are "right" or "wrong", is an incredibly difficult problem.  This is why there are so many (wildly?) different proposals for new theories (usually new theories of quantum gravity, which is one of the places we know for sure that our assumptions must break down).  So with that intro, I'll talk about some of the main guiding principles, and try to scratch the surface of the tip of the iceberg of the possible ways they could be adjusted. The first, and hands down most important is the invariance of the speed of light.  The fact that every observer sees light moving at the same speed is perhaps the one fact that physicists have never been more sure about.  This is closely related to the fact that nothing can move faster than light.  Of all of the assumptions I'll mention, this one is the one that is least likely to need adjusting.  That doesn't mean it's full-proof, though.  Okay, this assumption itself might be pretty full-proof, but some of its consequences are not set in stone. One such consequence is the physicist's assumption that all of our laws (at least, the non-gravitating laws) need to be what's called "Lorentz invariant" (or really, "Lorentz covariant").  This simply means that the laws of physics can not depend on a) where an observer is (translations) b) which direction the observer is looking (spatial rotations) or c) how fast the observer is moving at a constant velocity (boosts).  This is the most fundamental guiding principle for constructing our theories of fundamental particle interactions, namely, for constructing various quantum field theories.  Every fundamental particle lives in a representation of the Lorentz group, which simply means that if I look at some particles and you look at some particles and we're situated in spacetime in a way that is related by one of the above Lorentz (or really Poincare, but the names don't matter too much) transformations (translations, rotations, boosts), then we'll see the same physics.  For this to work, we must assume that fundamental particle interactions take place in a spacetime known as Minkowski space, which simply means that spacetime is "flat" in a suitable sense. The problem is that we've recently found out that we live in a universe with a positive cosmological constant.  Thus, general relativity tells us that even in theories where we forget about gravitating matter, spacetime is not Minkowski but rather de-Sitter (again, just a name).  The set of transformations that leave the physics invariant in the analogous way to what I've described above is a different set of transformations than those used for Minkowski spacetime.  Light still moves at the speed of light for everyone, but this does have implications for other fundamental assumptions, which I'll mention now. Another assumption is the idea that the rest mass of a particle is constant.  I.e., that the rest mass of, say, an electron is the same now as it was 13 billion years ago and will be 100 billion years from now.  This is derived from the fact that in the space of Lorentz transformations, rest mass is what's known as a Casimir operator, which means essentially that it's just constant (just a fancy name).  But, as mentioned above, it is likely not the case that Lorentz transformations are really what we're after, and the analogue of Lorentz transformations in de-Sitter space are such that rest mass is not a Casimir operator.  Thus, it might be the case that rest mass changes over time (experimental results say that this change would be exceedingly slow, however), thus witnessing the downfall/adjusting of an "assumption" (scare quotes because "rest mass is constant" is not in itself the assumption, but rather is derived from the assumption that laws are Lorentz invariant). On another note: the assumption that spacetime is a continuum (i.e., that you can peer into smaller and smaller distances infinitely deep) is at the heart of both modern gravitational theory and particle physics, though is almost uniformly viewed as needing changing.  How to alter that assumption is anyone's guess, and no doubt there has been lots of fantastic mathematics found by asking this question. On a similar note, the assumption that spacetime exists fundamentally will, for similar reasons as the previous assumption, need adjusting.  Ever since people started asking questions about the universe, they've taken space and time as existing and then tried to formulate their laws in that framework.  Over the last few decades though it's become clear that this is not the best way to do things.  Just as Newtonian gravity "emerges out of" general relativity (by taking the proper limits), it is almost certainly the case that spacetime as we have always known it really is a secondary effect, and "emerges out of" some deeper entity driving the happenings of our universe. Another hugely influential assumption in particle physics and string theory is the Lagrangian principle, or the principle of stationary action.  This is a more mathematical principle, but it appears that all of our fundamental particle theories are described fully by a special function called a Lagrangian, which determines all of its dynamics.  Write down a Lagrangian, turn the crank, and physics comes out (to grossly oversimplify the matter).  How far this can be pushed remains to be seen. Along these Lagrangian lines is the idea that Nature is symmetric.  There are infinitely many Lagrangians that we can write down, but it appears that Nature tells us which to use by showing us that she's actually symmetric under what are called gauge groups.  If you hand me a gauge group and tell me to write down a Lagrangian that is symmetric under it (and what is called renormalizeable), I'm usually only left with one option.  Philosophically that's a remarkable statement, because whatever our fundamental laws of physics are or become, we'd like them to be "handed to us on a silver platter". I.e., we'd like them to virtually derive themselves.  Gauge theories almost do that.  The problem is that gravity does not appear to be a gauge theory, as it does not appear to satisfy that second requirement of renormalizability. All of the above assumptions are well established yet also relatively well agreed-upon that altering is eventually in store (as will always be the case).  One other assumption that most people over look due to its popularity is the fact that the act of measurement in quantum mechanics is a non-unitary event that requires an observer.  This assumption is well agreed-upon, but its necessity for adjustment is not.  In fact, only a few people see a need to change it, but the problem is that one of those guys is named Roger Penrose, so that makes people listen.  Personally, I agree that this needs to be changed, and so I'm happy that there's such a heavy-weight in our side of the ring.  But this isn't something you'd hear talked about much. So, to recap (and leaving out the final non-traditional point above), we have 1) Lorentz invariance (i.e., all that stuff with the speed of light), 2) spacetime is continuous, 3) Lagrangians/least action, and 4) symmetry.  Moreover, this list might be radically different in 100 years, and that's what makes science so rad. EDIT: Added a very important "not"    Embed Quote 