What are the assumptions of physicalism?
Standard disclaimer.... these definitions are fuzzy.  There's no ideal or standardized "physicalism", either among people's beliefs, or in some abstract world of definitions. Physicalism refers to a family of similar and/or incompatible packages of philosophical beliefs (depending on whether you focus on the similarities or differences).  So, mix and match from the following stereotyped ideas and you're within throwing distance. Ontological Assumptions (about what supposedly exists; metaphysics) There's only one kind of "stuff", that is, matter and energy (and maybe information as a property of that stuff).  This is a little more sophisticated than the old-fashioned "materialism" (there's only "matter"). Or maybe there are two kinds of stuff, like the mental and the physical, but they're completely separate. Or maybe the stuff called "mental" is actually a strange way the "physical" stuff behaves. We may we have a very limited idea of this "stuff", and its potential behavior, and consider it fairly limited in what it can do. Or maybe we understand that it is actually very weird and not at all completely understood yet, but we still think that's the only kind of stuff. Or, something else... ask a philosopher. Epistemological Assumptions(about how we can know things) The nature of this stuff is defined by what our current theories of physics. Or, the nature of this stuff is potentially defined by some future, ideal, ultimately advanced theories of physics, and we have a lot to learn, but there's still only this one kind of stuff.  And, we assume the stuff is talented enough to behave in a way we call "mind" and/or "consciousness". Or maybe not, so we will leave mind and consciousness aside and say we don't know (for now, possibly depending on the choice between (1) and (2). Or, we say mind and conscious don't actually exist;  they're just a somewhat mistaken way of thinking about the stuff, and everything we we want to know can be deduced from the theories of (1) or (2), to which we can reduce those and any other phenomena. Or something else... ask a philosopher.    Embed Quote 