Economics: What are the most significant flawed assumptions in economics?
The Broken Window Fallacy One day a child was playing in the village square throwing rocks. One of these rocks soared through the window of the local baker's shop, shattering it to pieces. The baker was very upset. A crowd gathered around the shattered window lamenting his problem. One of the people in the crowd spoke up. "We shouldn't be upset about this! Since the window is broken, the baker will need to buy a new window, which will employ a glazier. That glazier will now have money to spend elsewhere, and our economy as a whole will be stimulated. The broken window will actually make all of us wealthier." In time, the crowd heartily agreed. But this crowd did not know a deeper truth. The baker had intended on buying a new suit that day, and he will not be able to afford it because he now has to replace the window. The economy is not one window's worth richer - it is one suit poorer. Because the window was broken, the economic activity that occurs is less effective at satisfying the wants of the people than it would have been had the window not been broken. Whenever there is a tremendous disaster, there are always economists and media analysts who will announce the "silver lining" of the situation, that in spite of the tremendous destruction, it could be a good thing, because it will spur economic activity. Examples of this include: Natural disasters can give a boost to countries--sometimes, the more the better Despite $50B In Damages, Hurricane Sandy Will Be Good For The Economy, Goldman Says Reckonings; After The Horror If Krugman and the economist at Goldman Sachs responsible for the above article were correct in their assumptions, the best way for us to become wealthy would be to bomb all of our cities and build them back up from scratch. But we all know that would be ridiculous, and we would all be far poorer if we did so. Part of the problem is how we calculate GDP, which equals Consumption + Investment + Government Spending + Net Exports. The mere act of spending money appears to make us wealthier through this calculation. It does not discriminate based on the degree to which that spending is actually satisfying our needs more than was being done previously. In my opinion, this is a problem with how GDP is calculated, not a justification for increasing consumerism and viewing destruction as a positive economic activity. The belief in this fallacy, and the notion that spending is a good in and of itself, has resulted in more bad economic policy than practically any other fallacy I can think of.    Embed Quote 