★Is it a safe assumption to say that human history would be less violent without religion?
First Hitler was not an atheist; Mao and Stalin were, Their beliefs are irrelevant to the question. Of course, power hunger and associated psychological motives lie at the root of much violence. And yes, evolution has given us (especially men) a powerful set of incentives for violence. But the question posed is not about any of that that. Would world's history be less violent without religion? The question wasn't about whrther religion is the only or the main cause. Without question, yes, religion can and has contributed to violence. Religion often operates like an ideology and like all ideologies (communism, fascism, and for that matter capitalism) religion can serve as a primary motive for violence as well as a kind of cover story. Mass violence (wars, etc.) is never due to a single cause, and in practice it becomes almost impossible to apportion or parse causation into so much of this and so much of that. That said, there are plenty of instances of mass violence (e.g., the crusades, the Thirty Years War) for which religion was certainly the primary motivation at least initially. Obviously other factors were also involved. The main problem with religion in this case is that it gives adherents a powerful form of "permission" to kill. After all we're taught not to question god and his or her agents on earth, and if we're told that killing others is justified because the victims are an affront to god and that he he wishes us to do his bidding, who are we, as mere mortals, to question. No other form of ideology has this ultimate justification although communism sometimes came close with the justification that conflict is part of a larger fore-ordained historical process. So, yes, religion has a lot to answer for in regard to violence. And if you don't want to argue about historical mass violence what about those who think that god wants them to kill abortion providers? And what about suicide bombers? Of course their anger isn't just about religion although it's certainly a major part of it. The proper question is whether these Muslim men (and in earlier times it might have been Christian men) would be strapping bombs on their bodies were it not for the promises of salvation because of having done god's bidding. The answer is clearly that most would not.    Embed Quote 