What are your base assumptions?
I start with a couple of real simple concepts (assumptions, but not really axioms), that seem both obvious and strangely counter-intuitive given what we see around us daily. From there I built outward until I discovered something remarkably helpful: we live in a society that suppresses our humanity, with dire consequences. See if you can follow my arc. I am human. Other humans (regardless of race, gender, sexual preference, nationality, ethnicity, etc.) are humans and so are overwhelmingly like me with only superficial differences that should be celebrated despite what I might see and am told. Like others I struggled with this. I saw how others act and noticed that it seemed different somehow from my actions, as if motivated by something different. Because of this I imagined myself unique, but every time I would express what I thought was a unique pain someone would reassure me (despite my wanting to be unique) that everyone goes through the same thing. When I try to highlight a unique achievement someone comes along to burst that bubble too. The substantial differences are an illusion created by the fact that I have intimate access to my thoughts and motivations but can only view others by their actions and words. So instead I've tried to imagine myself a useful prototype to understand others. The root of other's actions and words must be found in me, which has (frighteningly sometimes, motivating at other times) proven substantially true. Some useful realisations that being true about me are likely true about anyone: I go along with things that I don't agree with in an effort to "choose my battles" I rationalise having more than others despite working less than some I have been known to imagine others are flawed in their base assumptions based on their actions and words I long to be free to pursue my passions and interests but feel stiffled and pushed in a direction that is both contrary to me and to a harmonious society I fear for my future ability to cover costs, if I had a family I would fear not being able to "provide" for them And there it is. I pretend to be something I'm not in order to fit in, in order to avoid personal disaster, in order to get by, in order to satisfy my very ordinary human requirements for food, clothing, housing, security, dignity and human interaction. And if me, likely everyone else (to varying degrees but within a fairly narrow band). So you can't trust what you see in people's actions and words, it is best to assume they are acting out of good intentions instead of some evil intent, just as I know I am even despite my actions not always demonstrating that clearly. Then I imagined the harm all this pretending must do. I see how others act and think that is normal, whereas I know can only pretend to be that normal. Why aren't I actually normal? What is wrong with me? If I'm not normal then normal rules of decency don't apply to me and my actions can become more extreme, more anti-social. Similarly, if anyone deserves more than their fair share it is me, for I try to work hard (you know, except for when it is "reasonable" for me not to, when I am entitled not to) and my intentions are always good (just looking to get what I am entitled to, nothing more, and avoiding others taking advantage of me). I'm the best person I know, so why shouldn't I be rewarded for that? I deserve it. Almost everything we see around us is a product of people pretending to be something they are not. Either we see the projection on the cave wall (to reference Plato's thought experiment) or we see people trying desperately to cope with the implications of denying their humanity and seeing others apparently having no difficulty doing so. Our society (social systems like economics, politics, mating, etc) has evolved under these pressures. People feel entitled to more than their fair share because others seem incompetent or driven by evil intent while I am good and worthy. We make up rationalisations and sell ideas to others in order to persuade ourselves that we deserve our advantages. It is clear in Capitalism, a system riddled with rationalisations about why a tiny minority is entitled to enormous wealth. It is clear in dictatorships and oligarchies. It is clear even in democracies, where we manufacture majorities as a rationalisation for why I deserve my power... as if even in theory the idea the majority has a right to impose its will on a minority makes any sense in a society that should embrace and leverage diversity. Our society pressures us to be inhuman. For starters it tells us much of the human condition is bad. To be efficient at providing for those most emboldened to take what they feel they deserve we are encouraged to all be alike. It easier to sell to and lead people who are all the same. Genuine differences become a tool of oppression, not something to celebrate and encourage. We are told what are passions should be instead of encouraging us to develop our own. If you stray too far you are put in your place by peer pressure (people pretending they don't want the same things you want). It gets to the point that people believe human nature is evil, that we need strict government in order to prevent (other) people from misbehaving (from behaving human). We need strong leaders to tell us what we can, cannot, must and must not do. The people certainly cannot be trusted. We give these leaders (political, economic, religious, community leaders) their outlets to demand and rationalise taking more and more from others. So my operating assumption, based on the first two base assumptions is that people are as good (human, humane) as I am (we act from good intentions, taking no more than we convince ourselves we are entitled to). We are not perfect and as such have fallen into a trap, a very self-destructive trap that creates its own defenses to prevent us from escaping it. We must judge people with this understanding. By which I mean we must not judge people at all, for they, just as surely as myself, act in response to our oppressive systems that insist that we deny our humanity, that give us no viable outlet to express our humanity, to be human. (This is substantially different from not holding people accountable for their actions, but so too must we hold the society accountable and strive to fix it.) If we want to be free, if we want to let the good in people (include ourselves) to come out, we need to come up with new systems that facilitate our humanity, not suppress it. We need to wipe clean centuries of corrupted ideas and ideals that become rationalisatoins for why some people deserve more than they put in. We need to stop enabling elitism that builds on top of itself to ever increasing proportions: increasing one-up-manship (one-up-personship) that becomes increasingly inhuman and inhumane. Only then will words like "Freedom" and "Opportunity" become genuine ideals instead of words used to control us and deny us both. We can't begin to imagine what this new world would look like, how humans would behave in it. We've never tried anything like it. But you can look inside yourself. How would you behave differently if you had complete freedom to behave as "good" as you really want to. From a couple of basic assumptions I have a framework for understanding how the world works today and how different it can be tomorrow.    Embed Quote 