What is the most ridiculous assumption that is generally regarded as true?
That the truth is something we can all agree on once we see it, when actually, it's the exact opposite. The truth is as it is regardless of what anyone thinks of it, and it never appears exactly the same to any of us. It can even change when we bother to look twice. The exclusive truth that is only capable of consensus at the expense of everyone that is wrong is a myth much like perfection. And by putting ourselves at the center of our consensual truth, we create a bubble that only contradicts and competes with other bubbles of other people. We all believe we are right, yet most of our truth bubbles don't equate. This is the source of almost all modern conflict, and is the direct consequence of the ridiculous assumption that there exists some exclusive truth that only we are aware of just because we perceived it. This intuition is so ingrained in the modern western perception of reality, that we are forced to confront it everyday. But we are forced to confront it through the people that exercise it, and as we ourselves exercise it. There is no room for everyone to be right and so we must fight. It is the Achilles heel of modernity. How can we overcome this? The natural truth is an inclusive truth that takes into account what everyone sees and all that everyone thinks of everything. There are no bubbles. There is only a web of collective outcomes that are woven and intertwined to produce what anyone thinks of anything. The catch? We cannot know it all. The hook? You are always included. Within this inclusive truth, right and wrong become statistical and cease to be empirical. And when we unite, our truths have room to become intentional, for now there is finally room in our perception for the better right and the worse wrong. We finally get to see the truth in shades and in full color -- a culmination of everything we think is right.. Oddly, the scientific truth is neither of the above. It is inclusive of nature, but exclusive of you. It is one bubble, but no one is in it. We can only understand it and recognize it from the outside. To mistake your exclusive truth to be the scientific truth is another source of many modern ridiculous assumptions. They claim to be scientific, yet are full of complete non-sense, and they confuse us, some even intentionally. The solution? We must master science, while we ourselves be inclusive. Let inclusivity become the greater bubble we are all a part of. Let science be the great bubble we all share. We are each the vessel of our own unique truths, and every one of us is host to our unique universe. Only when we add all these up do we get the whole truth. What we hear, say, or think are all free to contradict. But ultimately we all embody nothing but the truth. And the moment this bubble of us is combined with the bubble of nature, we will arrive at the future. No more conflict. No more dismissal of subjectivity. Everyone will count, not because of some democracy, but because we need you. We could all learn from what you know, not because you're right, but simply because you came to know it, and because you hold the key as to how and why. You are valuable not because you conform or behave or are knowledgeable, but for believing in what you believe, for acting the way you do, and for being a masterful piece of nature. You are valuable because you exist, period. If nature has room for you, so should we.    Embed Quote Updated 30 Dec. 3,099 views.