Questions with assumptions: Why is science immune from criticism, despite constantly changing answers?
On what basis do you say that science immune from criticism? Criticism is a fundamental part of the scientific method. No theory or piece of research is taken seriously unless it has been peer reviewed, subjected to scrutiny, replicated and alternative explanations raised, tested and discounted. Increasingly, it is expected that scientists will share their original data for scrutiny and analysis. It also needs to be testable: if it doesn't make predictions that can (at least in theory) be verified or shown not to be supported, then it isn't science. Before they reach the public eye, most scientific findings have been subjected to a ton of criticism. Occasionally, a pre-review piece will sneak out (labelled as such, so that you know) and subsequently prove to be wrong - like the CERN "faster than light" claim that turned out to be dodgy wiring. That's embarrassing, but it shows a key point: scientific output can be wrong, but it is self-correcting. These days, we often see things earlier in the process, so we see more errors - both where an erroneous finding hasn't yet been corrected, and where a new (but usually controversial) finding hasn't gained acceptance. It should be pointed out here that "subject to criticism" does not mean you can just raise objections and expect them to be taken seriously. Everyone plays by the same rules, or it wouldn't work: those objections can also be subjected to the same level of scrutiny and are expected to meet the same standards. That means that, say, creationist objections are often dismissed on the basis of failing to meet some basic criterion - they might be based on incorrect assumptions or interpretation of the data, or we might already have an explanation that better fits the data and has been subject to scrutiny. That is possibly where an impression of "immunity to criticism" comes from. But it is only an impression - the criticism happened, just some time ago (though it will be available for re-examination if you make the effort to look for it). EDIT: To address the "constant change" point, constant change is also the essence of science. We develop theories, and accept them for as long as they are useful, but the scientific method is always, always open to the possibility that there is a better explanation for the phenomena around us. My favourite example of this is the Rutherford atomic model (the one that has a central nucleus with little electrons orbiting it). Rutherford developed it knowing that we needed a better explanation than the previous "plum pudding" model (with electrons embedded in the nucleus like plums) because the scattering of alpha particles fired at a thin gold foil showed that that model couldn't be right. But at the same time, Rutherford knew that the orbital model could only be a stopgap because under classical physics the electrons should gradually radiate away their energy and fall into the nucleus - which he knew did not happen. Nevertheless, his model was an improvement on the previous one and a key step towards the modern model. It took the addition of quantum theory to reach a model that fits with everything we know, and even then it took a couple of iterations to get there. It would be tremendously arrogant (not to mention a bit disappointing) to assume that we have understood nature perfectly and there was nothing more to explore. Science constantly looks for ways to improve - which is (perhaps paradoxically) why theories that have stood the test of time (Relativity, quantum theory, evolution, even Newtonian mechanics - which is still good enough to put a man on the moon) are so respected.    Embed Quote Updated 5 Feb. 3,467 views.