Economics: What are the most significant flawed assumptions in economics?
Probably the most flawed assumption in economic modeling is that humans are rational actors that are constantly weighing all available options, both in the near and long term. According to many of the models we use for economics, we assume that humans actively make rational decisions regarding investment, consumption, and overall spending. This theory seems to say that humans should be aware of potential asset bubbles or inflated prices and that the market should be self correcting, yet financial panics and collapses like the one in 2008 consistently occur. There is also some really interesting research being done in the field of evolutionary psychology that shows that humans don't necessarily make rational choices when it comes to matters of choosing a sexual partner, voting, and other matters that concern our well being in the future. One of the greatest examples that humans are not rational actors when it comes to money comes from the "Dollar Auction", a non-zero sum game designed by economist Martin Shubik. The only rules of the game are that a $20 bill goes to the highest bidder, but the second highest bidder still has to pay up even though they don't receive anything in return. Thus, if one bidder bids $20, and the next highest bidder bid $19, it makes sense for the lower of the two to bid $21 because they would only be losing $1 instead of $19. This process should, in theory, continue indefinitely because each time the second highest bidder bids, they should be reducing the amount that they will be losing by $20. The problem illustrates that with perfect information, consumers are tricked into making an irrational decision where they bid more than the value of the money being auctioned. Now think of this problem but on a macro level where traders -- who could just as easily be bidders in a problem such as the dollar auction -- are dealing with hundreds of billions of dollars, everyday, and are motivated by profits with little to no liability when it comes to loss. Also add in hundreds of millions of consumers and investors that have nowhere near perfect information, and it becomes pretty clear how a small amount of irrational behavior can lead to catastrophic outcomes. The real challenge in predicting and modeling the field of economics stem from the same problems that arise when trying to predict weather patterns  -- there are millions of infinitesimal, complex variables that all contribute to the final outcome. Models are forced to make assumptions in order to actually be capable of any reasonable predictive power, but this case shows the result of making models that are over simplistic and that make too broad of assumptions. Sources [1] Page on toronto.edu    Embed Quote Updated 4 Dec. 3,876 views.