Questions with assumptions: Why is science immune from criticism, despite constantly changing answers?
It isn't a problem with science so much as a problem with science education and reporting.  We are not properly trained on scientific literacy in schools.  News organizations in a rush to make splashy headlines draw flimsy conclusions on early studies.  The news consumers getshit with news  that say, for example that screening for prostate cancer "could reduce deaths by a fifth" from one source while another says that screening has no effect.* It is critical to know that science is an investigative process designed to allow us to make rational investigations while trying to limit the effects of Cognitive biases.  I've done this spiel dozens of times now in different answers, so I'll keep it brief.  In a nutshell, human beings are horrible at observing and determining Causality.  We evolved to be hunter-gatherers, not particle physicists.  The parts of the brain that made us so good at at surviving despite a noted lack of physical weapons or defenses make us poor at investigation.  We use a ton of Heuristics in judgment and decision-making to make snap life-or-death decisions.  This comes at the expense of falling prey to fallacies like Post hoc ergo propter hoc.   One of the most important aspects of science is that it is self-correcting. Individual studies are NEVER to be trusted. no matter how accomplished the author is.  The papers and experiments have to be scrutinized by others for errors in procedure, judgement and protocols.  The peer review process can be brutal**.  More experiments have to be done by others to verify that the results are repeatable.  Only after the results have withstood these various trials by fire can we achieve a scientific consensus.  The scientific process is continually ongoing and never stops.  Science is a verb not a noun.  A theory that has withstood the test of time for 50 years can come crashing down in year 51 as your advances in knowledge allow us to design better experiments and make better observations.   Is the scientific process perfect?  No, it was designed by human beings after all and there are surely ways to improve it.   But the error-correcting mechanism is something to be celebrated, not derided.  *Venal, misleading, pathetic, dangerous, stupid, and busted **Page on richarddawkins.net    Embed Quote 