Does mathematics really exist in the universe or is it just a human assumption?
I consider mathematics to actually exist in the universe. Plato and Socrates, in the Theory of Forms considered the objects of mathematics to have a separate existence. So, for example in Timaeus (dialogue) number is considered a perfect ideal: "But when the world began to get into order, fire and water and earth and air had only certain faint traces of themselves, and were altogether such as everything might be expected to be in the absence of God ; this, I say, was their nature at that time, and God fashioned them by form and number. " Aristotle, in his Metaphysics (Aristotle) also considered mathematics as having a separate existence: "If the objects of mathematics exist, they must exist either in sensible objects, as some say, or separate from sensible objects (and this also is said by some); or if they exist in neither of these ways, either they do not exist, or they exist only in some special sense. So that the subject of our discussion will be not whether they exist but how they exist."   He concludes that the objects of mathematics do not exist apart from things, but even still, they have existence. As formal logic and mathematics began to be developed in the nineteenth century, Frege in The Foundations of Arithmetic presented a theory of mathematics that was explicitly Platonic: "Yet surely the number one looks like a definite particular object, with properties that can be specified, for example that of remaining unchanged when multiplied by itself?" And: "Number is not anything physical, but nor is it anything subjective (an idea)." And: " The concept of Number: Every individual number is a self-sufficient object." There have been a number of mathematicians who take after Frege. In the Wikipedia entry on Philosophy of mathematics, there is this: "Many working mathematicians have been mathematical realists; they see themselves as discoverers of naturally occurring objects. Examples include Paul Erdős and Kurt Gödel. Gödel believed in an objective mathematical reality that could be perceived in a manner analogous to sense perception." For more information read Platonism in the Philosophy of Mathematics. Note that the entry on Philosophy of mathematics mentions about a dozen different schools of thought on the subject. Take you choice, since none of them have a compelling argument to prove they are right. Personally, I am a mathematical realist but not a Platonist. Instead, I am an Aristotelian, which is to say, I believe that the objects of mathematics have a real existence in that they are an underlying quality of reality independent of what people think. But, like Aristotle, I do not believe that the objects of mathematics exist apart from things. Their existence comes about because they partake in the processes of nature. This does not mean that you an reach out and grab the square root of negative one. But this concept has a separate existence whose reality is adduced by its appearance in the explanation of physical processes.    Embed Quote 