How do artificial neural networks learn?
The question is fascinating, which makes many people curious about Neural Nets.  Some Really Good answers here, covering the Mathematical theory and biological analogy behind Neural Nets, I will try to give a simple hypothetical example, which may complement above explanations.   Problem : Suppose I am an Android with an Intelligence based on Neural Net theory and taking my First Exam: ·        I am required to answer 10 Questions. ·        To Pass,  I need to get 4 Correct The Problem is: ·        I lack Knowledge of the Subject.   Test 1: ·        I am able to answer only 1 Question correctly and Thus , I failed.   Mathematical Modelling: Now, let us see what Happened in the Exam and give a mathematical base to it, ·        10 Questions : # Input ·        1 Correct Attempt , thus I currently have only 10 % Knowledge of the Subject ·        This could be written as 0.1 , quantifying my Current Knowledge Level . # This is the Weight , Often called Synaptic Weight if you see the Biological Analogy and indicates the Current ‘stored Knowledge’ of the Neural Net ·        The Success Criteria is Clear: if ,         Correct Attempts >= 4 . then ,         Pass Else         Fail                                  Mathematically,  f(x) = 1         , If  x >= 4 f(x) = 0         , If  x<4                                                    # This is the Activation Function or Transfer Function , which assesses my performance and Produces an Outcome , Pass or Fail in this example.   ·        Based on above function , The Outcome for this First Exam is  0 , that shows I Failed.   ANN Leaning:   Now, the above Outcome of the Exam1 , can be quantified as an Error : Desired Outcome , T =  1 (Pass) Actual Output , O =  0,zero (Fail)   Thus , in simple terms  , Error = (T – O) = 1 The Positive Error shows a need to Learn and make a change to the Current Knowledge level of 0.1. This  Above incremental change  (say, ∆W) can be Quantified as a function of the Error,like: ∆W = α x (T-O) Where , α is the rate or Pace at which I learn, called learning rate. Based on this, I will Learn  and make changes in my Current Knowledge Level  of 0.1 ,denoted as ‘Weight’ Mathematically , Let us say , I learn at a rate of 10 % , thus, α = 0.1   ∆W = 0.1 X (1 -0) = 0.1 W (after learning) = W+∆W = 0.1 + 0.1 = 0.2 Hereby , Learning from My Failure (Error) , I increased my Knowledge Level (New Weight) by 10 % (my Learning Rate) to 0.2. In Test 2 , If given 10 Questions from the same subject , I will be able to do 2 Questions (0.2 X 10) correctly based on my  Learning.  But , as I am still unable to Pass the Test (4 Correct Questions) , I will keep on learning in the similar way as above till I get the Desired Result (Pass).   This was an Oversimplified example(With Many Gaps) to intuitively understand , what we mean by Saying , ANN Learning and is Loosely based on : - Single Perceptron NN , with Threshold /Hard Limit activation function , and learning by Perceptron learning Rule Algorithm.    Embed Quote 