★In management, how do you context switch from high level thinking to low level execution?
There are 2 different high-level thinking groups for me - one is company-wide process, structure, inter-departmental project management, and product issues, the second is departmental or programming project management issues. For ease I'm going to refer to them as premise issues and department issues. I find the high-to-low switches harder then the low-to-high switches. The two strategies I have are 1) minimizing the number of switches and 2) alotting the transition time. Take a few minutes after dealing with premise issues but before you deal with low-level issues to do something (like refilling your beverage of choice) that is not related to either issue. I find if I don't do this it takes me 2 to 3 times as long to do the low-level task I'm switching to. Having an organized to do list is key for me. When I'm still caught up thinking about a high-level issue, even after a "break", I go to the most mindless low-level task on my list even if something else has an earlier deadline. That way at least I'm being productive while trying to switch. Whenever possible keep the high-level tasks grouped in your day and the low-level tasks grouped in your day. Some days this means I end up doing low-level tasks at night, other times I deal with premise and/or department issues at night. I never know which a day will be, but I do the opposite level of what I did that day at night. This minimizes the number of switches you have to make. Figure out what's causing you to switch the most and find a way a silly, arbitrary rule could help. I facilitated the concept of no-meeting Monday in a meeting heavy culture and now everyone loves it. When making a premise change, don't let the rest of the leadership team leave the room before everyone understands the communication strategy (timeline, responsbility, etc.) for letting the rest of the organization know about it. Not doing this causes excessive switches to occur because different people are operating from different premises. I like to take a minute every month to be grateful I'm in an  organization small enough to react quickly and grow my experience at  both levels. In short, it's hard. This is only what I've figured out so far, though I struggle with it every day. I'm eagerly awaiting other answers.