★Why do only IT/Software companies like Facebook, Google, Valve, Dropbox etc. see the importance in creating fun and the most comfortable working places?
It's a new industry, the first truly new industry in 100 years. And this trend is actually dying, unfortunately, as new companies that are less high profile, more investor and business plan driven, come into being with no sense of history and a firm belief that you can run a tech company the same way you run Ford or Proctor and Gamble. In ancient times, 20 or 30 years ago, life at a startup meant working a zillion hours a week for low pay, with the promise of endless riches when the company went public. Things like free soft drinks, bottomless beer kegs, and game rooms were cheap ways to keep up morale for people who were spending 100 hours a week in shabby offices that were likely nicer than their apartments. The furniture was "eclectic" because it was bought at yard sales and bankruptcy auctions or brought from home. And people did fun things while waiting for stuff to compile or when they decided to just stay at the office instead of going home and coming back in 6 hours. Some of them became famous - Netscape's bus sign, stuff like that - and that kind of thing became part of what used to be called "tech culture". Then those endless riches became reality for some companies. And being run by geeks, they did the same things in their new offices, but better. Like giving a 10 year old a million bucks, so he builds a tree fort with an elevator and a big screen TV. Everything they had looked at and said "when we have money, we're going to improve that" at 2AM in the middle of a 130 hour week, they did. And again, being geeks, they had had those conversations about everything. These were companies where not spending money fast enough became a serious problem, remember. And they wound up with some amazingly cool workplaces. And now it's just expected at a certain type of company. It doesn't really happen anymore at tech companies that do all of their advertising in trade journals. But if you want to play in the same space as Google and Facebook, or you are Google or Facebook, having offices that will never be toured by Gizmodo is like being a Fortune 100 company without a Gulfstream. You aren't going to be taken seriously, by the media or by potential employees.