★Why do programmers love working at night?
Effective programming is (for me) about getting in the flow of concentration, keeping all needed facts about the current problem, possible errors and simply all other needed facts in you mind. When I get into that flow thingy, programming is not much of "I think, then I type" thing. The source literally flows from the brain to the source. Sometimes solutions come up which are hard to understand later - out of the flow of ideas. Comment these ;) Any interruption rips me out of that. Includes meetings, any unexpected or unpleasant noise, mails whatever. As this does occur rarely when you are alone, e.g. everybody else sleeping, the overall chance to get in a flow state is much, much higher at night... In current organizations everything is built up in a way this is nearly impossible :) Adding up, flow relies on feedback. You implement something and hopefully would get the result of you change immediately. Sadly nearly no development environment supports that. So you are getting flowisher when you break down your solution in very small, immediately responding parts which you can test right after you finished. But that's a different topic I think. Back on route... But there are rare exceptions: when you work in a team which is able to think as one mind, your effectivity might raise exponentially. I had this one time in my life with one colleague/friend and we formed a kind of synergetic mind. Following the same paths with slight alterations, understanding the others ideas always, as they felt naturally as own ideas... Wonderful :) The things said about interruptions from outside of course applied here, too. But it was much easier to get back into a productive state again. This never happened again, sadly. In most other team situations ideas of one person are not freely and willingly accepted to be carried by others but questioned if this is the right idea, especially when in these situations everybody likes his own ideas most. There will never be any state of flow together for sure...