★In management, how do you context switch from high level thinking to low level execution?
This answer is based almost entirely on personal experience, so I'm not sure how useful it is to generalize as advice to other people.  Still, that's never stopped me before: The answer is that you have to be good at both. Almost every leader that I've known who was poor at context switching from high-level thinking to low-level execution was poor at it not because they couldn't switch effectively, but rather because they weren't personally good at one or both of them. That is: the switching is easy.  But you can't switch "effectively" if you weren't personally great at both parts.  Many people get into management because they weren't the technical low-level expert but they were good at people skills or managing-up, so they were promoted.  A lot of organizations end up doing this - the technically strongest and most execution-oriented people remain on the front lines, while the person who is less technically strong ends up rising in the management ranks. This results in a manager who was not good at low-level execution.  (There are a lot of "good" reasons for why this happens, chief among them that promoting technical experts saps your organization of technical capability while potentially producing substandard managers; the long-term negative effects are not clear until much later) Because many organizations act this way, a large majority of managers simply were never great at low-level execution, so they appear to have difficulty context-switching into it.  In reality, they are doing the context-switch just fine, they are just bad at doing the low-level execution once they switch in. Conversely, a reasonable fraction of people who rise in the ranks of management are also no good at high-level thinking.  Instead, they rise because they have good people skills, they are politically savvy, they are well-connected, or any other host of reasons.  This means that at any time, there is also a significant fraction of managers who are also no good at high-level thinking.  Again, they have no problem performing the context switch, they are just bad at the high-level thinking once they switch into doing it. The end result of all this is that you have a very large percentage of managers who poor at high-level thinking or low-level execution, or both - and they appear to be poor at doing the context switch but in reality, they are just context switching into a task they are not very good at. Imagine you are a general contractor who builds houses, and you serve as both a carpenter and a mason.  If you are bad at one of them, "context switching" isn't going to be your problem - being incompetent is.  If you are just good at doing one, your poor performance in the other will spill over into the other task - poorly-made masonry will inhibit your carpentry (the framing), and vice versa.  A leader who is poor at one of the two will end up being poor at both, because each affects the other. In contrast, every leader that I've met who started life as a highly-skilled and execution-oriented engineer (or whatever job) and rose to become a leader who also has good high-level strategic thinking skills has no problem context-switching in their thinking.  They just do it.  Because they are skilled at both, they can recognize when it is appropriate to consider details of a certain granularity, and which details matter at what points.  The act of the context switch is not the difficulty, it's the competence level of the tasks you're switching into.