★Why do only IT/Software companies like Facebook, Google, Valve, Dropbox etc. see the importance in creating fun and the most comfortable working places?
Competition: Software industry, especially the Silicon Valley, has an extreme competition for top talent. That means the company that pampers its employees the most stands a better chance in getting the talent. Once one company starts it (Google started this trend) the rest have no option but to follow. In most other industries, there is enough supply of workers to enable the companies to avoid getting into these things. Younger workforce: Top talent in software industry tends to be younger than the top talent in other industries. Since they are young, they tend to value the trivial perks more than cash. In finance where top talent is slightly older, bankers and traders would rather take the money that the company spends on all these extra perks. Crazy/young founders: Software industry is defined by "crazy founders" who are less like founders in other industries. Billionaires in other industries would be going with their yachts and focusing on building an empire. Google founders on the other hand are playing with glass and car. These guys are visionaries who are not motivated merely by bottomlines. The younger/crazier founders bring in their own visions and dreams. They still act like teens/tweenies. This has a huge impact on silicon valley culture. In Boston, DC and Seattle where I have worked, there is a lot less pampering. Huge cost of context switching: Many other industries are slightly more transactional. You do a transaction (have a customer call, enter an accounting transaction, polish a presentation, etc.) and the cost of "context switching" (interrupted by another task) is not terrible. In coding, you need long hours of uninterrupted thoughts and there is a high cost of context switching. By the time you locate a restaurant and have a lunch, you might have lost your new idea to optimize a heavy query, you had in the morning. Thus, companies provide you everything (from lunch to laundry) to avoid you from taking a random task & switching context.