★Elon Musk: What does, "My context switching penalty is high and my process isolation is not what it used to be," mean?
I have thought about this question for over month, content in the knowledge that others had answered it. Lately, however, I think Elon is referring to something else: 1. Elon started with science fiction goals and gamer tactics. 2. He started filling in the broad brush strokes with college engineering text books. 3. He has done hundreds, perhaps thousands of interviews and he's received hundreds if not thousands of technology related pitches adjacent to his investments in energy, transportation, virtual reality, materials, 3D printing, batteries, evacuated tubes, etc. 4. In the past, Elon has seen each of his companies as doing very different things, in different industries. 5. Elon's RAM (Random Access Memory) is huge and via the pitches and interviews so well reinforced that there are no more silos or separate categories ("process isolation") and Elon had reached a sort of synesthesia with respect to the Union of the Venn diagrams of the Sets Engineering Business Government Full Public Disclosure so that he never stops seeing the Big Picture as a virtual hologram, one that no matter how deep or granular he dives down, he still keeps the whole in mind. 5. When Elon talks about "context switching", he's not actually referring to Tesla being switched to SpaceX, but, rather, having to narrow the description of this vast hologram web to something an ordinary human can make sense of, without all of Elon's mental hyperlinks. The more he knows, the more effort it takes to simplify it for others. Consider a person whose nervous system is accelerated and has a 50 millisecond reaction time rather than then normal 500 millisecond reaction time. That person has to expend effort not to go too fast and become incomprehensible. 6. Elon Musk now has a cognitive advantage of being able to see systems within systems in a way that process isolated companies will not see, or not see as rapidly.