★What are some good use cases of predictive analytics in the hospitality sector?I'm keen to know how hotels can leverage the power of predictive analytics to provide a better experience for guests. If you are aware of any case-studies, please do mention them as well.
Hospitality industry including hotels can leverage predicitve analytics in a variety of ways: 1) Customer segmentation: Based on a variety of attributes including income, average spending, nationality & location, etc. customers can be clustered to different groups. A businessman could fall into a different cluster than a couple on vacation. Students could fall into another. Even vacationing couple could have sub-clusters within, for instance richer one and slightly less rich ones. If you can detect such clusters, you can leverage different leverage tactics. A business man could benefit from better wi-fi, and news channels. A rich couple would be interested in a new addition of exquisite wine. Students could be interested in a recently made club. A middle-income couple would be interested in a money-saving off-season deal. From a marketing perspective, you can modify newsletters and email-campaigns to target each group. 2) Decision tree and supervised methods: Based on customers spending habit and past records, we could predict behavior of news customers. Say, our goal is to predict people who will stay more than a week. Decision trees could reveal things like ( if recently married -> if in their late 30s -> from Europe ) couples tend to stay more than a week. The same decision tree could also tell: (if recently married -> in recent 20s), couple tend to stay only for 1-2 nights. The obvious revelation is that the latter group stays lot less. We can examine why that happens, and what about the hotel is pusing couples on their late 20s away. 3) Association Mining: This algorithm is mostly used by supermarkets to predict the group of things that people tend to buy together. For example, people tend to buy milk and cereals together. Supermarkets can group these things together so people have to walk less to fetch cereal when they buy milk. Hotels can use this algorithm to predict food-orders of customers. If association mining revealed that a lot of people eat salmon, white wine, and tomatoes together, waiters could ask their customers --who ordered salmon and tomatoes-- if they would be interested in a new variety of white wine. etc. etc. I do not work in hospitality industry, so be cautious of my examples. However, data mining methods have tons of use cases, and are extremely versatile in their uses. No wonder, they are getting very very popular. Edit: Look into casinos and how they leverage data mining. Its really interesting.    Embed Quote