★What are the latest 'breakthrough' methods in predictive analytics?Much of data science seems to be revolving around several old warhorses like k-nn, ML, Bayesian methods etc. What are some fruitful lines of enquiry in the field at the moment?
I'm a little surprised to see that you've lumped both ML and Bayesian methods in with k-nn in the "old warhorses" category.  These are both very large categories of methods, rather than particular methods themselves, and there are many approaches within each that are 1) quite promising for predictive analytics applications, and 2) have not yet made it into the market.  Keep in mind that machine learning is a branch of AI that encompasses pretty much all of the methods by which computers can learn a model of the world based on observations of it (i.e., data), and then act (or suggest actions) based on that learned model.  I would argue that a particular method or approach can be termed an old warhorse (k-nn, classical neural networks), but ML itself is evergreen. One thing to note is that "predictive analytics" is mostly a marketing term to describe machine learning methods as applied to particular prediction tasks in commercial settings.  Over the last several years, PA has become synonymous with the array of ML methods that have been available in the marketplace from standard vendors like SAS, SPSS (IBM), KXEN, and so on -- mostly classification methods like logistic regression, neural nets, SVMs; and clustering methods like k-means, agglomerative clustering, etc.  But to my mind, predictive analytics is an umbrella term that will likely be expanded to include other methods that become widely applied to enterprise data. By Bayesian methods, you might mean the Naive Bayes classifier, a very particular and simple Bayesian approach that has had a ton of success in spam filtering and some other classification applications. Bayesian methods are in fact much, much more diverse, and indeed there is an entire research field called Bayesian machine learning.  One long-running barrier to wider commercial adoption of these methods has been scaling: it has been difficult to "solve" these models on commercially-relevant scales.  But that is changing rapidly (here's where I'll plug my company, Prior Knowledge http://www.priorknowledge.com -- our offering is a predictive database that is backed by a Bayesian model and inference engine that is significantly more sophisticated than other Bayesian methods that have made it to market thus far). There are other companies taking new approaches, and I'm sure many of them will make their presence known in other answers to this question.  Given the current, intense interest in extracting more value from big (and not-so-big) data, there are many companies working to bring new methods to bear.  I'd argue, though, that these are very likely to fall in the category of "machine learning" (if not Bayesian machine learning) -- just not the canonical methods that we've all come to know and love. One major challenge in identifying up-and-coming approaches is that, while there are many new methods introduced in the academic literature, many of which seem highly promising in commercial applications, there is a ton of work and risk in translating these into viable commercial implementations and products.  Will the method work on real-world data? Will it work at scale? Can it be made into a product that a non-PhD can use? Conferences to keep an eye on for the latest and greatest (though untested in the real world!): ICML, UAI, NIPS.    Embed Quote