★Could predictive analytics eventually replace exams?If the outcome of decision making exceeds 90% would that be sufficient to estimate a persons chance of passing an exam, and thereby assess them without the need of exams? If so, it might be that it would also eliminate cheating, and revolutionise education.
The short answer is: yes, of course. The way an educational system chooses to asses how much knowledge a student has accumulated is fairly arbitrary. The most common choice is known as 'high stakes testing', where a whole semester or year of learning has to be reproduced in one sitting. With a final exam at the end of the up to six years in school to asses whether this student is qualified to move on to the next level of education, or even to start practicing in real life what they have learnt in school. High stakes, indeed, and cheating is not uncommon under those circumstances. There are better alternatives, and (predictive) learning analytics, if done right, is certainly one of them. If all learning sessions are followed by short tests that both help students improve their understanding and at the same time measure the depth of that understanding, a good picture emerges of the proficiency of the student. You can then say with a fair degree of certainty whether or not a student actually has absorbed the lessons. If not, you could redirect the student to remedial or additional instruction, and reach a certain proficiency level for all students. If you achieve that goal, adding 'high stakes tests' does not really bring any additional benefits, and they could be abolished. Cheating would be much more difficult, because the evaluation is not based on a snapshot but on many measurements over a longer period of time. But the true 'revolution' in education would not be the elimination of cheating, but the ability to tailor the learning paths of individual students to ensure that all students achieve a good understanding of the subject in the way best suited to their abilities and learning styles.    Embed Quote