★Which predictive analytics tools require the least amount of user sophistication?
I would say Alpine requires the least user sophistication. It's got a very nice, pretty, easy-to-use interface. Unfortunately, you lose a fair amount of functionality to gain the simplicity. In particular, you lose most of the data preparation capabilities, and you lose a fair amount of analytics flexibility in general just because the list of operators is fairly short. KNIME is my own favorite (For lots of reasons: The Measure of an Analytics Tool.) Short explanation: It has a nice drag, drop, configure kind of interface, but doesn't sacrifice breadth of functionality. It has more than a thousand open source operators you can just drop in, and has consistently the highest ratings in the Rexer Analytics surveys of any open source data mining software for usability, among other things. (Plus, if you need to scale up and do distributed processing, like on Hadoop, you can use the Actian Dataflow products my company makes, plug into KNIME, and use the same familiar interface to develop analytics, test, and then deploy on a cluster, without ever writing code.) RapidMiner is also a relatively easy tool to use from what I hear, but I have no first hand experience with it. RapidInsights sounds like a good tool from what I read above, but no personal experience there either. I'm not very familiar with Orange either. SAS Visual Analytics, I have also heard good things about, but haven't tried myself yet. Will do soon, actually. It's on my radar to do a project with. From second hand information, I know it has very deep and extensive analytics capabilities, but painfully slow data preparation capabilities. Someone mentioned Tableau, which I think is stunning software, but I wouldn't call it a tool for predictive or advanced analytics. That's not really what's it's meant for. It's a brilliant data exploration tool with some very sophisticated BI drill down capabilities. If that's what you need, then it also has a really sensible, straightforward interface and gorgeous visualization capability. But if you're trying to do predictive analytics or machine learning, Tableau is the wrong tool for the job. Really, which tool you go with is far more a matter of what you need to do with it than what your skill level is. There was a time when you just had to learn to program in Python or R or something, or hire someone who could. There wasn't any real choice in the matter. (R is very easy to learn as programming languages go, btw.) Now, you have user interface options, but don't just look at the interfaces, and pick the prettiest one. Learning new software isn't that hard. Good docs and a quick training can make any user interface into an easy one. First, figure out what you want to accomplish with the software, then look at some functionality comparisons. Then, lastly, if you find a couple of options that seem to both have the functionality you need, pick the one with the best interface. If you get software that is super easy to use, but doesn't do the job you need to do, you haven't done yourself any favors. Paige    Embed Quote