★What is the typical success rate when using predictive analytics for e-commerce?Any Quora members currently using predictive analytics in e-commerce I'd like to hear about your application and success rates?
We utilize predictive analytics methods (data mining, statistics, and machine learning) across client to identify pattern and correlations in customer and non-customer attributes, interactions and behavior. These capabilities are fundamental to real-time marketing, allowing us to target the right user segments at the right time with the right offers. Predictive analytics also allows us to accurately measure ROI and optimize future performance and more effectively budgeting spend between channels, tactics, ads and keywords. Typical Predictive Analytics projects for eCommerce: Customer Micro-segmentation and Targeting: Through undirected and directed clustering (using decision trees) of customer or subscriber databases, we identify key customer segments and recommend messaging based on purchase drivers, typically via email, and direct mail. Product & Content Recommendations: By applying Market Basket Analysis and Association Rule Mining to identify frequently co-purchased/co-viewed products and co-viewed content, we serve product and content recommendations to end users on product pages, landing pages, content articles, and via email. Forecasting: We use multiple linear regression modeling to forecast revenue and optimize media spend allocation. Attribution Modeling: We typically utilize logistic regression models to analyze converting and non-converting user paths, to provide accurate ROAS measurement and conversion credit by marketing tactic. Churn Analysis and Optimization: We usually quantify retention differences using survival curves, and optimize email and logged-in website content messaging to reduce customer inactivity and drop-off. Other Predictive Analytics Use Cases for eCommerce and Retail: Location-based marketing Natural Language Processing & Sentiment Analysis Assortment optimization Pricing Optimization Improved inventory management Some interesting eCommerce Predictive Analytics nuggets from our experience: Customers who return or exchange products with you are potentially your most valuable customers. Treat them well. For our eCommerce Retail clients, manual product recommendations (based on Merchandiser intuition) rarely, if ever, beat algorithmic based product recommendation strategies. If they do, it's always on sites with small catalogs (limited SKU quantity). Oftentimes, the most tedious or time-consuming part of a Predictive Analytics project is not creating and testing Models. Outcomes are generally delayed by a lack of agreement on the technology or templates to deliver the real-time messaging to users.    Embed Quote