★What are direct examples that show predictive analytics to be highly reliable?
There are many direct examples of how predictive analytics are highly reliable. The most well-known is the FICO credit score relied on by businesses and financial institutions as a means to predict relative risk of financial transactions. FICO was created by Fair Isaac Corporation (NYSE: FICO) as a means to predict the relative risk of investments in the banking and financial services industry, and today is used pervasively across nearly very industry.  Fair Isaac relies on a series of constraint-based and rule-based modeling technologies to create analytics-based measures of risk.  Taken together the constraint- and rules-based analytics software that calculates FICO scores are designed to capture complex patterns and interpret them, predicting relative outcomes.  Fair-Isaac has created the following e-book that explains their technology and results achieved, Understanding Predictive Analytics (http://www.fico.com/en/FIResourc...   Page 6 of this guide lists a series of results attained.  Here is a slide deck from FICO on their technology and results attained: http://brblog.typepad.com/files/... The U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) is recognized in the analytics and business intelligence industry for having one of the most complex yet accurate predictive analytics frameworks there is.  Their focus is on finding pockets of revenue not reported, under-reported and also looking at millions of returns quickly to see variations against constraint-based models.  When a return exceeds their parameters the person gets audited.   The IRS uses their predictive analytics tools and applications as a first step in investigating potential tax evasion, fraud, under-reporting and money-laundering.     Not much is known about the architecture or platform, but they are hiring right now for an Information Technology Specialist with heavy data mining and predictive analytics experiences.  See the job posting below: http://it-jobs.fins.com/Jobs/111... There are many, many more examples of predictive analytics across business, education and government.  In marketing there are many direct examples and this article highlights a few: http://www.targetmarketingmag.co... SAS is a market leader in the area of predictive analytics and you can find their analyst relations page here, which lists all the reports they make available to the general public published by industry analysts: http://www.sas.com/news/analysts/   SAS Also gets much recognition from analysts in the area of predictive analytics because they often dominate entire categories of applications with customer references.  You can find their customer reference page for predictive analytics and data mining here: http://www.sas.com/technologies/... Predictive analytics continues to prove its value in crime fighting too. Here are two stories of how the Cities of Memphis and Chicago is driving down their crime rate using predictive analytics:  Memphis fights crime with predictive analytics http://www.kmworld.com/Articles/... To Predict and Serve http://policeledintelligence.com...    Embed Quote