★What are the best predictive analytics software programs?Can be software for any organization/business Or can be industry specific: health care, government, etc...
Hello, I know the following packages: R - The R Project for Statistical Computing Mahout - Scalable machine learning and data mining Weka - Weka | Pentaho Community SAS - Statistical Analysis Software, SAS/STAT SPSS - IBM SPSS Software - Deutschland MATLAB - MATLAB - The Language of Technical Computing - B Spark MLib - MLlib | Apache Spark Python (Scikit) - scikit-learn: machine learning in Python Oryx 2 - OryxProject/oryx HANA PAL - SAP HANA Predictive Analysis Library (PAL) I worked in the past with R and Mahout on a daily basis. So R is very good at prototyping and I would say it is the best predictive analytics package for general purposes. It has thousands of packages on CRAN (The Comprehensive R Archive Network) and a lot of researchers are first developing their algorithms in R. When deciding which product you should use the most important thing is that you understand your problem and know which algorithms might work best. I build most of my prototypes in R. When I see that they are working I try to imaging which technology might support my algorithms best. Most of the time it turns out that all packages are missing something and that the algorithm has to be adapted in a certain way e.g. there are currently not a lot of packages that can use GPU optimization for matrix operations. NVIDIA® cuDNN - GPU Accelerated Machine Learning is brand new and seems to have this ability. It is integreated into BVLC/caffe by Yangqing Jia. Nevertheless I am quite sure that it currently only supports a limited set of algorithms e.g. Neural Networks. So to give you a step by step tutorial how to find your best predictive analytics software: Understand your problem very well Select algorithms that you want to use to solve this problem Use R to write a prototype implementation Check where your prototype has problems Implement your algorithms on a framework that promises to solve them Hope that helps     Manuel    Embed Quote