★What are promising approaches to predictive analytics in soccer?Baseball's analytics movement is very solid with some clear predictive analytics. Basketball's is coming along but is less clear, mostly due to the continuous nature of the game and the lack of stringently defined positions. Soccer, though, seems to take these two roadblocks and extend them a mile high.
From a fan's perspective, football (soccer) has remarkably few statistics. If you look at a relatively comprehensive "box score" from a football match, you'd see goals, assists, shots, shots on goal, fouls given and received, cards, offsides, saves, time of possession, and in rare instances passes completed and running distance. There are some wildly subjective post-match "player ratings" provided by journalists, but these ratings seem to have more to do with emotion and intuition than with statistics. Nevertheless, analytics in football definitely exist and its importance is growing. There is a public database, the Castrol Football Rankings (http://www.castrolfootball.com/) that tracks individual player stats at a deeper level and has rudimentary prediction tools. From a US sports perspective, it's pretty opaque, but it does allow for interesting comparisons. There are some great blogs like Zonal Marking (http://www.zonalmarking.net/) that analyze tactical data for select matches. The main problem with football analytics is the lack of a generalized "game model" that ascribes predictive value to a common set of statistics. For example, a player can have tremendous impact on a match without scoring, completing a lot of passes, making tackles, or covering a lot of distance on the pitch. In fact, a player with poor box score stats could be the consensus man of the match. Despite the lack of generic, comparative player or team statistics, there are companies like Prozone (http://www.prozonesports.com/ind...) that have been amassing data by tracking movement, positioning, passing, and a variety of other player and ball telemetry for almost all English Premier League and Championship matches. This tracking data is incredibly granular and goes well beyond what most US sports measure.  Because of the fluidity of the sport, this tracking data has generated the most promising predictive analytics. However, it's almost entirely private, secret, and used internally by the clubs for competitive advantage. This new data has begun to make its way onto the training ground. Many clubs use the data from Prozone and other business intelligence systems to assess their own players and performance, and to scout opponents, primarily at the coaching level. The data has made less of an impact in football front-offices. There's little equivalent in football to baseball's front-office sabermetricians like Theo Epstein or the Moneyball-era Oakland A's making player transfer decisions based on numbers. Finally, there's some decent macro-economic analysis starting to happen in football.  As an example, check out Soccernomics by Kuper & Szymanski.    Embed Quote