★How does Predictive analytics help to understand the future?
This perspective is from a professional who has been using predictive analytics in the industry for a few years, rather than a theoretical or research oriented perspective.   At its core - predictive analytics is a term used to describe a variety of techniques which study the past to predict the future, thus helping in making businesses informed decisions on what they can expect to happen in the future. Predictive analytics techniques are typically data driven - which means that they work best when there is a lot of data about what has happened in the past - and borrows ideas from statistics, mathematics, computer science, economics and other fields to use this data and find patterns which explain past behaviour, with the assumption that similar behaviour can be expected in the future (of course, this assumption is not always true - more on that later).   Let's say that you work for a store who sells computers to various businesses. You are now given a database of 1 million businesses who are your potential future customers, but you have the budget to contact only 10,000 of them. A very naive way would be to just select 10K out of the 1M randomly and contact (mail, call) them to check if they are interested in purchasing computers from you. However, given intense competition in this field, it is very likely that most of them will not be interested. So how can you do better? You contact your database administrator who thinks he can help - he is able to provide you with a list of 120K businesses whom your store has contacted in the past, along with a 'flag' to indicate whether they purchased from you or not. Note that this 'flag' is typically time-bound, meaning that the business purchased from your store within 3 months of being contacted. Your database administrator also provides you with data about each of these 120K businesses - for example, the type of business they are in, their revenue, demographic information, their credit rating (whether they pay their bills in time or not),etc. You hire a data scientist who claims that she will be analyze the data for you. The first thing that she finds with your data is that out of 120K businesses, 20K were in lines of business who is hardly expected to make a major purchase - say fisheries, farms and painting services. They are called 'exclusions' - whom there is no point of contacting. Then your analyst uses a technique called 'logistic regression' - using the 'flag' and the data about the remaining 100K businesses - to build a model. For a layman, the model says something like this - in the past, if the business whom we contacted were in a close proximity to an area known for tech (Silicon Valley, New York, etc.), had at least $5m in revenue, are known to pay their bills in time and have at least 4 different offices - then they had a much higher likelihood of purchasing from us. So now you apply your old rule - what has happened in the past is also likely to happen in the future. So you take the original list of 1M businesses, exclude those who will never purchase (similar to 20K exclusions of 120K which was used to build the model) and then find out all those who satisfy the model (like having at least 4 offices, $5M in revenue, etc.) provided by your data scientist. For each, you will have a probability that they are going to purchase. You choose the 10K businesses with the highest probabilities.   Note that this is just an example of how predictive analytics is used - if you want to master the subject, it requires years of work and reading lot of books. Also, note that the underlying assumption is that past predicts the future - which sometimes breaks like during the GFC - and wreaks havoc on all models being used for predictive analytics.    Embed Quote