★Could Azure Machine Learning really disrupt the data science space by making predictive analytics ubiquitous?
Here is my (biased) opinion: Absolutely! Let me start with a brief description of Azure ML: Azure ML lets you build machine learning workflows in the cloud from your browser using a drag and drop interface. These workflows could include modules for ingesting the data from a variety of sources, generating features, training, scoring and evaluating ML models. Further, in addition to a lot of built in state-of-the-art modeling modules, Azure ML also lets you run any R scripts. As an example, let us consider that we are training a model to classify email as spam or not. Once you have trained the model, you can setup a scoring workflow, that can use the model you trained earlier and classify the emails in your test set as spam or not. Now, with a click of single button, you can create a highly scalable webservice that can classify an incoming email as spam or not. Further, if you as a data scientist would like to share your method for spam classifier with the rest of the world, you can publish your webservice on Azure Marketplace, where other folks can use it and you can get paid.Now finally onto the real question of why I think Azure ML would make predictive analytics ubiquitous: Let me explain with potential examples: ·If I am a retailer: I have a website listing the products I see, however, I do not know of how to show related products for each product. A simple web search shows me that such a webservice is already available in Azure Marketplace which I can directly integrate with my website. I need to forecast the demand for the products I sell for me to be able to do inventory planning. My data is in excel spreadsheets and I find that there is a webservice already available in Azure Marketplace I can directly call from within Excel and visualize the results back in Excel. If I am an enterprise with servers in the cloud serving my business needs. I need to monitor those servers. I find that there is a service for anomaly detection in Azure marketplace that I can call to track any anomalies the telemetry data from the servers. This scenario can be extended to tracking anomalies in real time sensor data that is flowing into Azure. If am a mobile app developer and have come up with an idea of a great app but it involves image classification. I find a webservice in Azure ML that I can directly call from my app for this.I can enumerate a lot more scenarios but I think I have conveyed my point :) The world is moving to where every decision is data driven and I believe Azure ML can power a lot of those decisions :)    Embed Quote