★How does Predictive analytics help to understand the future?
I'd start by asking what does it mean to understand the future? We can formulate a mental model of whatever the system we are talking about is, but this isn't enough. How do we discriminate between "good" models that describe the real world and "bad" models that describe a world that doesn't exist. The answer is given by the scientific method: we use our model to make quantifiable predictions whose accuracy can be tested. We don't really require that every single prediction come true, just that they come true with some stated probability. The difference between predictive analytics and science, is that we aren't confining our models to describe the laws of nature. We don't require them to apply to ALL systems, just the one at hand. So, it's completely fine to make predictions about human behavior (what movies you might rate highly) or about physical systems whose initial configuration is happenstance or interdependent with social behavior (eg: predicting weather/climate or predicting disease propagation). Predictive analytics is the process of creating models for a system that are informed by observed past behavior of the system. There are various analytic/mathematical conditions under which we can expect "good" models to have reasonably good predictive value. For example, if the observations we have are based on a sample chosen from some probabilistic mechanism, then the law of large numbers can help us out. Also, if we pick algorithms that have been verified to obey certain mathematical properties, they converge "well" to a single answer and don't "overfit" data, then theory can help us know that our model's predictions will have good predictive value. This is what separates people with predictive analytics skill from those without it: those with will produce models that make good predictions much more often. Short answer: predictive analytics helps us understand the future because its skillset, if mastered, can help its practitioner create data-trained models for systems that make statistically significant predictions about their behavior, not by accident, but because of a body of mathematical theory.    Embed Quote