What were Quora's best answers of 2014?
Following Murali Krishnan's format from last year, here are some of the best answers from Quorans in 2014 (capped at a maximum of 2 answers / Quoran; names in alphabetical order by first name; Anon answers at the end) (I am sure I have missed out many good ones. Feel free to suggest edits or leave a comment and I will update the same in the answer) Ladies and gentlemen, presenting 365 of Quora's best* answers. *chosen by an idiot ​ EDIT (29 Dec 2014): 365 days of 2014. 365 answers. Yay! Aaron Ellis' answer to It's March 2014. Is Jared Leto regarded more highly as an actor or musician? Abraham J. Layon's answer to What was it like practicing medicine in the early 1980s when people first started dying from HIV/AIDS-related illnesses? Abhinav Sharma's answer to Is the Apple Watch really a breakthrough user interface? Adam D'Angelo's answer to Why was Erlang chosen for use in Facebook chat? Adisa Nicholson's answer to Do you think that "gender equality" really seeks equality or it is just a movement for discrimination against males? Adriana Heguy's answer to Do all living organisms on Earth share one ultimate common ancestor? Or did life begin more than once in separate places? Advait Kamat's answer to Why are movies such a prominent component of the American and Indian cultures? Why did these countries spawn large scale movie industries, namely Hollywood and Bollywood? Aditya Verman's answer to What are some Indian traditions that have scientific reasoning behind them? Agratha Dinakaran's answer to What's the bravest thing you have ever done? Ahmad Ali's answer to How can I study more effectively? Aishwarya Nair's answer to What is the  general state of women in Kerala? Ajim Bagwan's answer to What is the most awesome paradox? Akand Sitra's answer to Are Ramayan and Mahabharata real? Akash Randheer's answer to What can I learn/know right now in 10 minutes that will be useful for the rest of my life? Akash Selvaraj's answer to Is it safe for a single American woman to travel in India? Akash Shah's answer to What is string theory? Alaka Halder's answer to How is methylglyoxal produced in ketosis? Alex Wilson's answer to How can an independent artist (music) increase chance of being discovered? Alok Sharma's answer to What are the fascinating things that happen once in a year? Alon Amit's answer to How can one visualize 4-dimensional space? Alon Amit's answer to What does it feel like to have your sibling die? Amanda Tendler's answer to What advice would you give a 21-year-old American woman traveling to China for the first time? Amin Ariana's answer to What kind of jobs do software engineers who earn $500k per year do? Amir Memon's answer to Why does Mark Zuckerberg have a 99% approval rating from his employees? User's answer to What does it feel like to be poor? User's answer to What elements of 'Mahabharata' make it timeless and what are the basic lessons we can learn from it? Andrew Hamada's answer to Why do people think Apple Pay is so innovative when an equivalent feature has been part of Android for more than two years? Andy Lee Chaisiri's answer to Video Games: What are the characteristics of a multiplayer opponent that makes their multiplayer opponent remember them, even after 10-20 years? Ankush Saxena's answer to What are some possible reasons for Arvind Kejriwal's resignation as Chief Minister? Ankush Saxena's answer to What is the significance of WhatsApp for Facebook? Why did Facebook acquire WhatsApp at such a hefty price of $19 billion? Anne K. Halsall's answer to Are things getting better or worse for women in Silicon Valley? Anita Sanz's answer to How does one go about truly forgiving someone for doing something to them that has adversely affected their life? Antariksh Bothale's answer to Should Sanskrit be made a compulsory subject in schools as suggested by RSS to Smriti Irani? Anya Deason's answer to Economics: How does Canada have more economic freedom with nationalized health care than the USA? Archie D'Cruz's answer to How does Emirates manage to rake in profits from their A380 flights operating to so many destinations? Archie D'Cruz's answer to How come British India did not develop a football culture whereas cricket flourished despite the fact that both sports were equally popular in England? Archie Ward's answer to What it is like to quit your job and travel the world? Ariel Williams' answer to Transsexuality: What is it like to transition gender socially, legally, and/or physically? Ariel Williams' answer to What would a competent alien invasion force do differently from the normal Hollywood portrayals? Aurora Weston's answer to What is it like to burn out as a student at MIT? Austin Li's answer to What is it like to be in Hong Kong during the protests (Occupy Central)? Ayushi Mona's answer to What's the best book reading tips you've ever got? Balaji Viswanathan's answer to What are the best ways to fight corruption in India? Balaji Viswanathan's answer to What would happen if 1 USD = INR 1? Ben Skirvin's answer to Who says "aluminum" outside of the U.S.A., and who says "aluminium" outside of the UK and Australia? Which word is the original and which is the derivative form? Bhuvi Jain's answer to I'm Indian (22). I don't know much about the Ramayana or the Mahabharata or Indian history and I'm very poor in GK. I think my life is a waste. What should I do? Boz Bundalo's answer to What are the best programming languages to learn today? Brandon Lee's answer to What's an efficient way to overcome procrastination? Brian Collier's answer to Whenever I drink whiskey all I taste is the alcohol. How can I learn to detect flavors and differences in whiskey, scotch, bourbon, single malt vs. blended, etc.? Brian Farley's answer to What does DNA taste like? Brian Roemmele's answer to What is the farthest human-made object? Brian Wong's answer to What are some methods or algorithms I can use to make doing laundry more efficient? Burton Malkiel's answer to How should a young person invest money? C.V. Krishnakumar's answer to What are the top 10 most powerful weapons in Mahabharata? CamMi Pham's answer to What can I do to read more books in short time? Carrie Cutler's answer to What is it like to have an autistic child? Carter Moore's answer to How much climate damage can we really do before fossil fuels run out? Carter Moore's answer to What would happen if the 20 biggest cities of the US were wiped out by nuclear weapons? Carter Page's answer to Financially speaking, which computer languages can earn the most for the programmer? Catherine Beale's answer to Did people jump from the WTC towers on 9/11 because their rooms were on fire and they were about to be burned alive? Chang Lee's answer to What are the some books that expand our mind? Charlotte Lang's answer to What are the tricks employed by casinos to attract and retain gamblers? Chloe Shani Malveaux's answer to Kim Kardashian Featured in Paper Magazine (November 2014): Why do some people think Kim's cover photo on Paper was racist? Chloe Shani Malveaux's answer to Ferguson Grand Jury Decision (November 2014): How do African-Americans feel about the grand jury's decision not to indict? Christoph Marschall's answer to Why is making a round touch screen so difficult? Christopher Pollock's answer to What are the ten most important things about personal finance someone without a finance background must know? Christopher VanLang's answer to Why did Brazil lose to Germany in the 2014 World Cup semifinal? Chrys Jordan's answer to What does it feel like to have Asperger's Syndrome? Clayton C. Anderson's answer to Why do astronauts need to shower in space? Clayton C. Anderson's answer to Does the ISS's structure ever creak or groan? Craig Montuori's answer to What are the most challenging computer war games? (Please no "first-person shooter" games) Cristina Hartmann's answer to What is it like to go blind? Cristina Hartmann's answer to Why did it take The Great Gatsby 20 years before becoming recognized as an American masterpiece? Dan Rosenthal's answer to What is the best thing to do when a grenade is thrown at you? Daniel Da Vinci's answer to What are common items that savvy travelers bring with them that less-savvy ones don't? Daniel McLaury's answer to How does the thinking or talent of a top 99.999% percentile math person differ from a 99% percentile math person? Daniel McLaury's answer to What would happen tomorrow if coffee were banned? Daniel Viljoen's answer to Is there any organism that can change shape, colour or form to resemble its own predator? Dave Cheng's answer to What are the greatest Chinese sayings? Dave Cheng's answer to What are the biggest cultural differences between Yale and Harvard? David R. Carpenter's answer to Which is the world's oldest religion? What is the evidence of it? David Cole's answer to What questions should I ask when interviewing for a product design position at a startup? David Cole's answer to What can software product designers learn from game designers? David Ding's answer to What do physicists think about Interstellar (2014 Movie)? David Karger's answer to What qualities characterize a great PhD student? David S. Rose's answer to Why are there crushed stones alongside rail tracks? Deba Jyoti Khawas' answer to What are some reviews of Interstellar (2014 movie)? Debarghya Das' answer to What are some interesting startups in India? Debjyoti Banerjee's answer to Why do people adore celebrities but not intellectuals like scientists, researchers, etc.? Deepak Mehta's answer to What should every person be knowledgeable about or be proficient in by the age of 20? Deepak Mehta's answer to What are the most common mistakes businesses make with their social media strategies? Denis Grammakov's answer to What are some remarkable facts about Switzerland? Denis Oakley's answer to Ukraine: What would be a good strategy for Ukrainian leadership to take at the moment? Diana Crețu's answer to What are some of the best examples of people getting what they deserved? Diane Meriwether's answer to How do I drive a car while I am drunk? Dolly Singh's answer to What are the best-kept secrets of successful business people? Drew Eckhardt's answer to Why do so many CS graduates flunk simple interview questions in algorithms? Dustin Moskovitz's answer to How large, typically, does a Silicon Valley company have to be before it has an in-house kitchen and staff to prepare meals on site? Edmond Lau's answer to What are the best tricks to keep yourself motivated? Eivind Kjørstad's answer to Why do we try the impossible? Eivind Kjørstad's answer to Why is everyone on Quora smarter than I am? Emmanuel Fabella's answer to How can the Oculus Rift be used for healthcare? Eric Pepke's answer to Question That Contains Assumptions: Why do many feminists refute the alpha-beta classification of males even though it is scientifically valid? Erica Friedman's answer to How can someone support gay marriage and believe in evolution? Erin Parker's answer to Is it too late for an X-year-old to learn how to program? Eva Kor's answer to What was it like being in Josef Mengele's twin experiments in the Holocaust? Eva Kor's answer to What was Josef Mengele like as a person? Evan Asano's answer to What is the most effective yet efficient way to get rich? Evan DeFilippis' answer to Daily Life: What are some good habits to follow? Faisal Abid's answer to What is it like to be in a train crash? Feifei Wang's answer to What are people's initial impressions of Destiny? Gabriel Seah's answer to Why is Ebola so difficult to contain in Western Africa? Garima Pandey's answer to Norway: What is it like to live in places with 24 hours of complete daylight or darkness? Garrett Reisman's answer to What do the astronauts think about the movie Interstellar? Garrick Saito's answer to Why don't people eat turkey more often than at Thanksgiving? Gayathri Sitaraman's answer to What are some interesting startups in India? Gayle Laakmann McDowell's answer to How do atheists explain the appearance of design in the universe? George Moromisato's answer to Now that Watchmen and Ender's Game have been made into movies, what are some "unfilmable" books that you would love to see as a film? Gerard Danford's answer to What are the best-kept secrets of successful business people? Giordon Stark's answer to What should a Ph.D. student look for in a thesis adviser? Giordon Stark's answer to If a person is born deaf, which language do they think in? Glenn Anderson's answer to Are there any "transitional life forms" which have not been debunked by modern science? Glyn Williams' answer to Is Android doomed? Graeme Shimmin's answer to What are the topics I should mute to get a knowledge centered feed on Quora? Graeme Shimmin's answer to What makes a writer great? Gurudutt Mallapur's answer to Should we respect Sarita Devi for her action at the podium? Why or why not? Hadi Partovi's answer to What was the one line JavaScript that president Obama wrote as part of the Hour of Code 2014? Hamid Shah's answer to What is the reason that Buddhism diminished in India while Jainism still exists? Hans Zimmer's answer to How did Hans Zimmer get involved in Interstellar? Hans Zimmer's answer to What is it like working with Christopher Nolan? Hari Kumar Jayan's answer to Who are the 'they' in the movie Interstellar? Haricharan Vijayaraghavan's answer to Why is Hanuman ji so popular among Hindu gods? Harish Pavan Kumar Tatavarthy's answer to In Interstellar, it is shown that through black holes we can travel to the future. How? Harold Kingsberg's answer to Why was Japan so aggressive during World War II? Harold Kingsberg's answer to How was Hitler able to rebuild Germany so quickly? Howie Reith's answer to Is someone else getting poorer when I make money? Ian York's answer to Why did dinosaurs have feathers? Ilter Canberk's answer to What do they teach in Y Combinator? Inna Vishik's answer to If there is a sentient species 1% smarter than humans, what could it do? How probable is its existence? Inna Vishik's answer to If there is a sentient species 1% smarter than humans, what could it do? How probable is its existence? Ivan Mazour's answer to What happens to the founder of a company backed by angel investors if the company fails? Jaap Weel's answer to What are some lifestyle changes that save money? Jae Starr's answer to What does a person with Alzheimer's disease typically experience on a daily basis? Jae Won Joh's answer to What do doctors think of HealthKit? Jai Parimi's answer to Isn't the Jan Dhan Yojna the biggest scam by the prime minister? How is it helping the people? James Altucher's answer to How is the game of chess similar/dissimilar to life? James Altucher's answer to What is success if you don't know your main goal in life? Jane Chin (陳盈錦)'s answer to What does it feel like to get stuck in a PhD? Jane Dinh's answer to What are some of your best experiences while traveling? Jason M. Lemkin's answer to Is Microsoft's layoff a one-off case or are there other major tech companies likely to follow suit? Jason M. Lemkin's answer to How do I reject a VC without spoiling my relation? Jay Mehta's answer to What 10 things should we expect from a completely reformed education system of India (if it happens)? Jay Wacker's answer to Is the outrage/mockery of Black Friday and Thanksgiving day shopping a form of classism? Jay Wacker's answer to What explains the disappearance of a significant chunk of dark matter since the Big Bang? Jawwad Farid's answer to Peshawar School Assault (December 2014): What is the ideology behind the inhuman terrorist attack on children in Peshawar? Jeff Darcy's answer to What are the best-kept secrets of great programmers? Jeff Meyerson's answer to How can I overcome the discouragement from being rejected by all the top tech companies I have applied to? Jeff Nelson's answer to What was eBay the company's route to the top? If you were in charge of it would you have changed their path to benefit the company more? How so? Jeffry Brickley's answer to My boyfriend doesn't like me talking to guys, controls me and is extremely jealous. What should I do? Jim Cantrell's answer to How did Elon Musk learn enough about rockets to run SpaceX? Jim Stone's answer to What are some trippy thought experiments? John Chesire's answer to What is it like to have an anti-aircraft missile chasing your aircraft? John Hudak's answer to What, if anything, can President Obama do this late in his presidency to spur some Congressional cooperation? John McCain's answer to What is it like to be a prisoner of war? John Renfroe's answer to Chinese characters: What are some Chinese characters with a great story or interesting etymology behind them? John Savidge's answer to In "The Lord of the Rings", why didn't the dwarves who were given Rings of Power turn to the dark side like the nine men did? Jon Davis' answer to What are the top survival tips in a warzone for a fresh recruit? Jon Davis' answer to How can we destroy the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIS)? Jon Mixon's answer to What is the likelihood of evading a manhunt? Jonathan Brill's answer to Why did Nest Labs buy Dropcam? Jonathan Weinberg's answer to What did it feel like to be inside the World Trade Center at the time of the 9/11 attacks? Jong-Moon Kim's answer to If Steve Jobs were handed a pen and told, "sell me this pen", how would he go about it in your opinion? Jose Maldonado's answer to What is it like to be kidnapped? Joseph Misiti's answer to What skills are needed for machine learning jobs? Joshua Kaplan's answer to What was it like meeting a Holocaust survivor? What was her/his story? Joydeep Sen Sarma's answer to Why has India failed to produce tech giants like Apple, Google, Facebook, Twitter, etc.? Judith Meyer's answer to If two polyglots could communicate in several languages, how would they choose which language to use? Julien Vaché's answer to What is it like to eat at "41º Experience, by Albert Adrià"? Julien Vaché's answer to What is it like to be on Top Chef? Justin Freeman's answer to Why do police officers often come across as arrogant? Kah Keng Tay's answer to What are some of the best ways to learn programming? Kai Peter Chang's answer to How do I break up with an old boyfriend whom I have dated for 4 years, for a new, better guy I've known for 1 year? Kaiser Kuo's answer to Why do many people feel that Chinese can't possibly be basically ok with their government or society? Kamal Hassan's answer to What are some policies that would improve millions of lives, but people still oppose? Kamal Kishor Sharma's answer to Personal Productivity: What are the most productive ways to spend time on the Internet? Kåre Lohse's answer to What is it like to be in Hong Kong during the protests (Occupy Central)? Kartik Ayyar's answer to What is the significance of WhatsApp for Facebook? Why did Facebook acquire WhatsApp at such a hefty price of $19 billion? Kate Simmons' answer to Why does chewing gum give me a headache? Keith Shannon's answer to How did game developers pack entire games into so little memory twenty five years ago? Ken Miyamoto's answer to Who would win in a fight between Wolverine and Freddy Krueger and why? Ken Miyamoto's answer to Academy Awards: Is the legendary "Best Supporting Actress Curse" real? Ken Rosen's answer to If Steve Jobs was such a bad boss, why did so many people work with him? Kettner Griswold's answer to What is the story behind Evolutionary Solutions? Kevin Suttle's answer to What are the best programming languages to learn today? Kim Huynh's answer to What's the craziest thing you've done to get a job? Komal Charan's answer to What is something electrical engineers know that others don't? Krishna Bindu's answer to What are some lesser-known must-see movies of the 21st century? Krishnanand Bhat's answer to What are some things that mechanical engineers know and others don't? Kshitij Salgunan's answer to What do you think about Modi's visit to Siachen to meet soldiers on Diwali? Kshitij Salgunan's answer to Why does Kerala have a higher crime rate even though most of the population is well educated? Kyle Murao's answer to Narcissistic Personality Disorder: What are the most epic acts of narcissism? Kyle Murao's answer to What are some societal norms in France that Americans would find strange? Kyle Pennell's answer to Is India a good travel destination? Leonard Kim's answer to A lot of people want "to be rich" when they grow up. Is this possible? What are realistic ways for one to "become rich"? Leonard Kim's answer to What are the best bargaining techniques when buying a car from a dealer? Leonardo Moran's answer to How do people describe Che Guevara? Leonardo Moran's answer to What is it like to be an ethnic minority in a place where there are none? Levi Wilder's answer to What does it feel like to be a prison guard? Logan Forbes' answer to Handedness: Is trying to become ambidextrous a good idea? Why or why not? Lukas Tencer's answer to What's the best way to visualize high-dimensional data? Madalyn Zimbric's answer to What are some of the most important key concepts to grasp that can truly help you understand the world around you? Manas J Saloi's answer to What are the best travel hacks? Manoj Memana Jayakumar's answer to What are the best Python scripts you've ever written? Manoj Memana Jayakumar's answer to What has Xiaomi done right? Marc Bodnick's answer to Why is WhatsApp's CEO joining Facebook's board? Marcus Geduld's answer to Interpersonal Interaction: What is the quickest way to get people to trust you? Marie Stein's answer to Failure: What's it like to have attended an elite school and then be an utter failure afterward? Mark Eichenlaub's answer to What shaped object if dropped into a still body of water would produce the highest splash and why (keeping all other variables the same e.g. mass, volume)? Mark Hughes' answer to The Killing Joke: Did Batman kill the Joker at the end? Matt Johnson's answer to To what extent do admissions officers at elite universities believe in stereotypes about Asian Americans? Mattias Petter Johansson's answer to Will the iPhone 6 be the most technologically advanced phone on the planet so far? Melissa Lorenzen Smith's answer to What does it feel like to be pregnant? Melissa Stroud's answer to How physically intense is ballet? Michael Brandt's answer to What is it like to work as a PM (product manager) at Google? Michael Forrest Jones' answer to Is it stealing if you take certain items in your already paid-for hotel room like soap, shampoo, stationery, etc? Michael Morton's answer to What is it like to be wrongly convicted? Michael O. Church's answer to Question That Contains Assumptions: Why do the bad guys get the good girls, and the bad girls get the good guys? Michael O. Church's answer to What kind of jobs do software engineers who earn $500k per year do? Mick Stute's answer to What is a coder's worst nightmare? Mike Barnard's answer to Which is more scalable, nuclear energy or wind energy? Mike Leary's answer to I'm THIS close to achieving my dream. Should I take this once-in-a-lifetime opportunity ? Mikkel Ramzuiv Pittmann Wilson's answer to What is the most effective way to memorize vocabulary of a foreign language? Mikko Tikkanen's answer to What's something that is common knowledge at your workplace, but would be mind-blowing to the rest of us? Mills Baker's answer to Would Steve Jobs have allowed the iPhone 6 to have the protruding camera and plastic bands on the back? Mira Zaslove's answer to Will Apple Pay be able to kill PayPal? Is it a threat? Mohamed Riyaz's answer to What's an efficient way to overcome procrastination? Muhamed Halilovic's answer to What are the top 10 websites computer science students must visit? Murali Krishnan's answer to What are some small facts that might save your life one day? Amit Jadhav's answer to What are the most inspiring short stories? Neha Jha's answer to What does it feel like to be poor? Nikant Vohra's answer to Life Advice: What can people start doing now that will help them a lot in about five years? Nikant Vohra's answer to What's an efficient way to overcome procrastination? Nikhil Panikkar's answer to How can any rational person believe in the depiction of god in various forms by the Hindu scriptures? Nikunj Bhatia's answer to Why does Indian Railways still use the same dot-matrix printer? Noam Kaiser's answer to What does it mean when soldiers say 'actual' in a radio conversation? Noam Kaiser's answer to Sam Harris believes that atheists should cultivate a “conversational intolerance” toward unsupported, nonsensical claims in everyday conversation. Why do you agree or disagree? Oliver Emberton's answer to How do you know if you've discovered your passion? Oliver Emberton's answer to What are Oliver Emberton's tips for running a blog? Pat Cash's answer to What is your favorite tennis moment? Patrick Diamond's answer to What are some good ideas for interesting physics-related simulations to code as a side project? Paul Denlinger's answer to Why did the Roman Empire break up into smaller principalities and eventually become nation-states, while different Chinese dynasties were usually able to unify China again? Paul Denlinger's answer to Why was China able to abolish the hereditary nobility and establish the absolute authority of the emperor and the dynasty around 200 BCE (when it was first unified), while Europe was never able to do so? Paul King's answer to Visual Perception: Is everyone's experience of color the same? Peter Baskerville's answer to K-12 Education: What should teachers teach more of? Phillip Remaker's answer to How did Internet Explorer lose to other browsers such as Chrome and Firefox? Phillip Remaker's answer to Whose fault is the Heartbleed bug? Pragya Mishra's answer to What is it like to be a Brahmin? Pranav Kulkarni's answer to What are some of the best roads/routes in India? Prateek Keshari's answer to Personal Productivity: What are the most productive ways to spend time on the Internet? Purwa Rojindar's answer to What is the craziest experience you've had when a prospective groom/bride had come to see you for the first time (before the wedding)? Rakshit Kothari's answer to Would it be possible to build Barad-dûr? Rakshith S Ponnathpur (ರಕ್ಷಿತ್)'s answer to Who are/were the badass leaders in Indian politics and why? Ralph Lengler's answer to Kurdistan region: Why didn't the Kurds get their own country? Ramzi Amri's answer to Is it true that bananas are radioactive, and if you eat too many they can kill you? Ratnakar Sadasyula(రత్నాకర్ సదస్యుల)'s answer to Why is the Mahabharata more popular than the Ramayana? Raymond K. Cunningham, Jr.'s answer to How do people live in North Korea? Rhonda Mitchell's answer to Why are the people who answer 911 calls so relaxed? Rich Young's answer to Do people with Down Syndrome have lives that are worth living? Richard Henry's answer to What are the best resources for learning iOS development? Richard V. Reeves' answer to What are some measures of social mobility? Rick Frothingham's answer to Why don't atheists take into account varying human intellect and the very fact that science is not complete still, while using it as a tool to refute God and religion? Rishabh Srivastava's answer to What's the difference between a Shatabdi Express, Jan Shatabdhi Express, a Rajdhani Express, a Duronto Express,the Golden Chariot and a Garib Rath Express in Indian Railways? Rizwan Aseem's answer to How should I start investing my money as a 26 year old with no related knowledge? Robert Cezar Matei's answer to Has anyone declined an offer to work at Instagram? Rob Weir's answer to Is capitalism a zero-sum game? Robert S. Chen's answer to What is it like to be a United States Presidential Scholar? Robert Frost's answer to Why can I jump in the airplane cabin without flying to the back of the plane? Robert Frost's answer to Why do movie franchises make 3 movies (trilogy) as a standard? Why not two or four? Robert Walker's answer to Do math and physics geniuses really jot their calculations everywhere in the room? Roberto Medri's answer to Does the shootout in soccer make a mockery of the sport? Are penalty shootouts a good way to resolve ties? Ron Paul's answer to What is Ron Paul's stance on cannabis? Rony Gao's answer to What were your impressions of visiting Cuba? Rory Young's answer to How smart are elephants? Rory Young's answer to Do elephant graveyards exist? SivaShanmugam Kannan's answer to How does it feel to travel alone? Rupert Baines' answer to Are Germans content to earn 19% less than Americans in 2014? Russell Gold's answer to When did the energy industry begin fracking? Ryan Carlyle's answer to How much downward force does a spoiler produce, and is it significant enough to make a positive impact on acceleration? Ryan Chew's answer to Why is Europe considered a separate continent from Asia? Ryan Holiday's answer to What software do published authors use to write their books? Sachin R Kamath's answer to Why do we see a red color when we hold our palm against a light source? Sahal Kaushik's answer to If I wanted to add a cup of water into the ocean to make the ocean boil, how hot would that water have to be? Sai Ramanan's answer to How worried should Android users be about the secret keys found in Google Play? Sam Sinai's answer to What are some of the most misunderstood parts of American culture? Sanda Golcea's answer to As a person with English as my first language, what would be the most useful foreign language that I could learn? Sanda Golcea's answer to Is German one of the toughest languages to learn? Sander Daniels' answer to What is it like to work at a startup that's on fire? Sandhya Ramesh's answer to How did ISRO conduct a Mars mission with a much lower budget than NASA? Sandhya Ramesh's answer to Did Dumbledore and Voldemort both die virgins? Sanjay Nandan's answer to What's X Person's Typical Day Like?: What's a day in the life of an IAS officer like? Sanjay Sabnani's answer to What are the five toughest things every father needs to talk to his daughter about? Sarah Chang's answer to What are the best travel hacks? Scott Danzig's answer to What should someone who's getting interested in photography know? Scott Lowe's answer to Why do some say the United Nations failed in Rwanda? Sed Chapman's answer to What is the difference between great sushi and the best sushi in the world? Shakti Amarantha's answer to What guidelines should apply in debates between theists and atheists? Shan Kothari's answer to What is the evolutionary history of the Venus flytrap? Shashwat A. Bansal's answer to Who is the most interesting person you've ever sat next to on an airplane? Shikhar Agarwal's answer to Why are the majority of Hindus confused about their religion? Siddharth Bhattacharya's answer to Why is an openly racist leader like Winston Churchill still celebrated? Siddhartha Lal's answer to Why is the cure for cancer so elusive? Sireesha Pilaka's answer to How can I convince my wife to leave her job to raise our child? Soumadeep Mazumdar's answer to How can one keep oneself updated about all the things happening around? Sparsh Mittal's answer to What are the most surreal places one can ever visit in China? Stan Hayward's answer to How do you approach getting older in an optimistic way without deceiving yourself? Stephen Tempest's answer to What is the most humiliating demonstration made by a country to another during war in history? Steve Harris' answer to If we pour water on the sun with a bucket as big as the sun, will the sun be extinguished? Steven Mason's answer to What's it like to have a 150 IQ? Is life easier? Subha Iyengar's answer to Which movie or book can change your life forever? Sunil Abhilash's answer to What it is like to quit your job and travel the world? Sunil Kumar Gopal's answer to Do the people of Westeros follow a particular calendar? Sunny Mewati's answer to How is the Indian Government using the leverage they're getting due to record low global oil price? Suzanne Sadedin's answer to What is the evolutionary benefit or purpose of having periods? Tanya Shrivastava's answer to Lists of Top Quora Content: What are some of the best answers on Quora? Tejasvita Apte's answer to What are the implications of the uproar against a group eulogizing Nathuram Godse? Terrence Yang's answer to Barack Obama: What was President Obama like at Harvard Law School? Thomas Pilgaard's answer to How can it be understood that the universe is 93 billion light years across and yet only 13.8 billion years old? Thomas Snerdley's answer to What powers does Gandalf possess? Thomas Snerdley's answer to Why does Gandalf the White choose to fight with his sword, instead of casting spells? Thomas Wier's answer to Have people noticed the similarities between the first 3 numbers in Proto Indo European and in Proto Austronesian? Tikhon Jelvis' answer to What does one mean by 'elegant' code? Tilek Mamutov's answer to How is Project Loon doing? Tim Bushell's answer to What happens if you urinate into a particle accelerator? Tim Dees' answer to Is it ever legal to resist arrest? Tim Hibbetts' answer to What is it like to work on the deck of an aircraft carrier? Tim Hibbetts' answer to What is it like to fly in formation? Tim O'Neill's answer to What are examples of things that are "common knowledge" about history that historians almost universally consider incorrect? Tommy MacWilliam's answer to How did Tommy MacWilliam solve Neil Patrick Harris (actor)'s Twitter puzzle? Tony Li's answer to How does a visually impaired computer programmer do programming? Tracey Bryan's answer to Can anyone offer one serious, credible reason why I should consider a belief in your god (see details)? Tymon Kapelski's answer to What is it like to get hit by an IED? Umang Bhatia's answer to What are the top ten things I should experience in life? Vaibhav Sharma's answer to Interstellar (2014 movie): What are some of the flaws, scientific errors, and plot holes (scientific or otherwise) in the Interstellar movie? Vijayraj Kamat's answer to What did it feel like to be in Bhopal on the gas tragedy day in 1984? Vinati Singh's answer to What is it like to live in a chawl? Visakan Veerasamy's answer to What are some common beginner mistakes in content marketing? Vishal Kale's answer to In last 1000 years, India (then the most prosperous nation in the world; 1000 AD), has deteriorated in every walk of life. What are the possible reasons for this? Vishal Khandelwal's answer to How should a young person invest money? Vivek Mehta's answer to Life Advice: What is the best way to stop feeling lonely? Waqas Ahmed's answer to What technologies should one learn to stay ahead in the IT industry for the next five years? Will Wister's answer to Why are oil prices falling and how long will low oil prices continue? William Chen's answer to How can I become a data scientist? William Chen's answer to What should everyone know about making good charts and graphs to represent data? Xu Beixi's answer to Feminism: Why is there so much concern about rape culture and not about murder culture? Yash Bhatnagar's answer to What images will change the way a person sees the world after viewing them? Yishan Wong's answer to Why did Yishan Wong resign as Reddit CEO? Yishan Wong's answer to In a growing tech company, what are the most valuable things on which an engineering manager should spend time? Yogesh Indolia's answer to What are the most surreal places one can ever visit in India? Zach Elko's answer to What is the best comment in source code that you have ever encountered? Zoletta Cherrystone's answer to Do women like unintelligent men? Anonymous' answer to What is it like to talk to a serial killer? Anonymous' answer to What is it like to be wrongly convicted? Anonymous' answer to What is it like to find out you have HIV/AIDS? Anonymous' answer to What does it feel like to live in the U.S. as an undocumented immigrant? Anonymous' answer to What does it feel like being the CEO of a startup? My Quora Q&A Lists: Technology |Entrepreneurship | Books | Book Recommendations | Hinduism | Travel |Cooking | Google I keep a running tracker of all such lists and resources in my post Bookmarks by Deepak Mehta on Arbitrary Thoughts. Updated 37w ago • View Upvotes