Can we build an universal influence graph that would give insight into how an individual personality is formed by media consumption, social interactions, and daily experiences?
Of course you could do it. It probably wouldn't be that hard, even. The question is how you would interpret the data. You want to make some kind of qualitative interpretation of quantitative data. Since it is quantitative data, I'd suggest analyzing it with quantitative tools. There is, of course, enormous amounts of qualitative data on social networks. To analyze it, you'd probably have to resort to some quantitative tools. You could do some qualitative analysis if you had enough people to do it, or if you only did a small enough sampling of the data. The way to do it is to plunge into it. Start looking at the currently available data, and figure out how to interpret it. See what its strengths and weaknesses are. Modify the data you collect. Modify your analysis, and see whether it improves. The key, as always, is to have a good research question. Why are you doing this? What do you want out of it? What do you want to know about how someone becomes the personality they are? What is your definition of personality? What processes do you theorize influence personality? There is probably a lot of work done about personality. The Myers-Briggs folks have done a lot. I'm skeptical that people really have a good definition of personality that can be used in a practical way. I think the M-B stuff is mostly a parlor trick. And I suspect that anything developed from the social networks will be similarly weak. We just don't know enough about personality and we don't have good definitions of what we are talking about. If we did, we'd be able to help a lot more people a lot better than we can now. The issue of personality is an ancient one, and I doubt that using the information from social networks is going to help us much more that the existing data sources. I hope you prove me wrong, though. Good luck with your research. 