Tips and Hacks for Everyday Life: What are some very useful websites one should visit every day?
Grooveshark - For listening to music. Print Friendly & PDF - Makes any page printer-friendly. TED: Ideas worth spreading - Interesting and informational videos on a whole range of topics. Explore more. Web pages, photos, and videos - Finds websites based on what you're interested in and how other people's ratings. Slickdeals: The Best Deals, Coupons, Promo Codes & Discounts - For finding good deals/freebies/contests. BugMeNot: share logins - Usernames/passwords for sites requiring registration. Mailinator - Temporary e-mail for when you want to sign up for something and not get spammed. Page on google.com - Google torrent search Pipl - People Search - Looking up people based on username, name, email, or phone #. Free Online Course Materials - MIT OpenCourseWare - entire courses, often including lecture videos available for free online. Install or Update Multiple Apps at Once - Great website to create an installation package of applications for when you're reinstalling your OS or have just purchased a new computer. RetailMeNot.com Coupon Codes and Discounts - Coupons KAYAK - flight, hotel and car rental search - Awesome site for when you're planning a trip. NoPhoneTrees.com - Get directly in touch with a human when you're calling customer service/support. Scribd - Read Unlimited Books - Ebook search. OVGuide - Search engine for movies/tv shows TinEye Reverse Image Search - Reverse image search. Down For Everyone Or Just Me -> Check if your website is down or up? - self-explanatory. Page on popurls.com - link aggregator. Know Your Meme Get High Now (without drugs) - audio and video illusions. Television Tropes & Idioms - "Tropes are devices and conventions that a writer can reasonably rely on as being present in the audience members' minds and expectations. On the whole, tropes are not clichés. The word clichéd means "stereotyped and trite". In other words, dull and uninteresting. We are not looking for dull and uninteresting entries. We are here to recognize tropes and play with them, not to make fun of them." Find your people - Meetup - Meet up with a local group that share your interests. More of What You Love - Web-based chat without downloading the actual client (AIM, Yahoo, MSN, etc.) The Big Picture - The Boston Globe - Amazing, high-quality, pictures from around the world. Wikipedia - Wikipedia - in layman's terms. OpenDNS: Cloud-Delivered Security Enforcement and Intelligence - Safer surfing. Can block sites and protect your network. STUDYBLUE | Find and share online flashcards and notes from StudyBlue. Any subject, anywhere, anytime. - Great site to get notes/past exams for college students. What Is My IP - The IP Address Experts Since 1999 - Tells you your IP address. Online Audio Cutter - Cutting/splitting mp3s. CeeVee - Book the best! - Build/maintain a resume. Cut My Pic! The Free online image and photo editor, resizer, cut, crop, round corners, drop shadow and colorize tool! - Crop a picture. Mein Technology-Blog - Technologienews - Magazines online. Page on tinychat.com - Create a chatroom. Has web-cam and microphone support. Mint: Money, Bill Pay, Credit Score & Investing - Money management. The largest online art gallery and community - For anything art-related. Good site to get wallpapers. Page on whatshouldireadnext.com - Gives you book suggestions based on books you've liked before. Woot: Daily Deals for Electronics, Computers, Home, Tools, Garden, Sport, Accessories, Kids, Shirt, Wine, & more - Posts one good deal per day. Amazon Filler Item Finder - Finds filler items for Amazon so you have enough to get free shipping. Page on google.com - Looking for more parts of a set of words (i.e. Entering Mars, Earth, Venus, Jupiter will yield Saturn AND MAYBE PLUTO) Tip of My Tongue - GOOD LORD MAN WHAT IS THAT WORD. Well now you know. Whois Lookup & IP - Finding the WHOIS info of a domain a community driven visual potluck - Amazing food and amazing recipes with amazing pictures. Go indulge your mental stomach while you plan on indulging your physical one. Discover Music via Samples, Cover Songs and Remixes | WhoSampled - Who sampled what music Down For Everyone Or Just Me -> Check if your website is down or up? - Is that website down for every-ah you get it synchtube Resources and Information. This website is for sale! - Watch youtube with your friends (syncs youtube between multiple viewers) Livemocha - Free Online Language Learning - Free Lessons Online - Learn a new language. Page on passcracking.ru - Crack hashes. Some links maybe repeated. Use the best, ignore the rest. 