Keith Rabois said that "the better the Internet idea, the more difficult it is to sell it to others." Why and how is this true?
Disruptive innovation is usually difficult to grasp and understand because of how antithetical it is to the rules that govern the existing business.   There are essentially three camps who you'll ever need to sell an idea to and there are various reasons why a good new idea won't appeal to them: Customers: Customers anchor their evaluation based on a current experience. As a result, they can never fully grasp the potential of an entirely disruptive idea until they start using it because they tend to compare it with the closest equivalent in their current usage set. Investors and Managers: For an early stage investment, most VCs try to hedge their bets and end up investing along themes which are popular with the VC market. This assures them of willingness of other VCs to participate in a subsequent round of their protfolio company. Given this, it is often contrarian for a VC to invest in an entirely ddisruptive idea even though, ironically, that is exactly what they are supposed to do. For well-managed mature companies, selling new ideas to investors is equally difficult as modern management principles make a science out of improving marginal growth. There are still no clear rules for managing and architecting disruptive growth. Managers and investors at large companies, hence, end up rejecting disruptive ideas as they evaluate them using parameters to evaluate sustaining ideas (e.g. market potential, 3-year projection etc.) Partners: Partners typically want to make the most of their relationship and cannot afford to invest in new ideas with ambiguous future outcomes where the ambiguity is largely controlled by your company or by external market factors. Note: It is interesting to note how most disruptive ideas see a lot of VC rejections before being funded whereas spins on cliched ecommerce implementations find investor money real quick. Updated 198w ago • View Upvotes