Tips and Hacks for Everyday Life: What are some very useful websites one should visit every day?
How to:- How Products Are Made Explains and details the manufacturing process of a wide variety of products, from daily household items to complicated electronic equipment and heavy machinery. Animated Knots by Grog Helpful animated knot-tying images for boating, climbing, fishing, scouting, and arborists. DIY Home Improvement InformationOffering information and supplies for home improvement and repair, remodeling, redecorating, and plumbing. TrickLife.com TrickLife.com is a how-to video site http://www.explainthatstuff.com Hard stuff... made simple! eHow | How to Videos, Articles & More - Discover the expert in you. Learn how to do just about anything, and find out what you'll need to do it. Includes how-tos and tutorials on auto repair, careers, computers, health, fitness, home, and garden. Welcome to Make-Stuff You can make it yourself... craft projects, homemade remedies, recycling crafts, and more. ... Crafts · Free craft projects, ideas and tutorials using on Cut Out + Keep Learn how to do whatever you want do with this collection of how-tos and tutorials... Intresting:- OpenStreetMap Free editable map of the whole world. Amazing Places, Wonderful People, Weird Stuff The sheer variety of topics available for surfing will ensure that time flies by. This Blog Rules | Why go elsewhere? You are sure to get your daily dose of info, giggles, and fun lists. World Panoramic Photography Finding a Panorama · Sharing A Panorama · Create a Panorama · Selling Panoramas · Explore. Online Photo Editor | Pixlr Editor | Autodesk Pixlr Pixlr is a free online photo editor. Fix, adjust and filter your images. Manage your images in your browser, no registration jump right in! Silk - Interactive Generative Art Relax, play, and create beautiful flowing art with Silk. Highly Accurate Personality Test by Learnmyself learn about yourself Wordle - Beautiful Word Clouds Create beautiful word clouds from text, URL, or RSS feed. Educational:- wisegeek-clear answers for common questions Giving clear answers for a wide variety of common questions. Topics include home and garden, manufacturing and industry, technology and gadgets, and crafts and do-it-yourself. 750+ Free Online Courses From Top Universities | AE.org Free video lectures and college courses from the world's top scholars. alison-Free Online Courses Offers interactive multimedia courses in a range of subjects, including computer skills, touch typing, health and safety, and financial literacy. Courses are free for individual use. scitable-Learn Science at Nature Scitable is an open online teaching/learning portal combining high quality educational articles authored by editors at NPG with technology-based community features .. Learn Genetics How does genetics affect our lives? Online activities, labs, experiments... Home Explains the science of everyday life. LiveScience offers news stories and in-depth articles covering news and current events in the animal world, technology.. ScienceWorld Comprehensive online encyclopedias of astronomy, math, physics, scientific biographies, and scientific books, with many equations and formulas. wolframalpha- Computational Knowledge Engine Wolfram|Alpha gives you access to the world's facts, without searching. See what everyone is talking about. Vocabulary, Vocabulary Games - www.localhost/vocabulary A free site that allows students at high-elem., junior high and high school levels, teachers and life-long learners to acquire and retain vocabulary. SAT Vocabulary Building for ACT SAT and GRE Preparation Vocabulary Videos and Flash Cards for SAT, ACT and GRE Computer Glossary, Computer Terms  The Tech Dictionary and IT Encyclopedia Online Tech Dictionary for IT Professionals Resource for information about PCs. Includes links to web pages related to each term. Science, health and medical journals, full text articles and books.ScienceDirect is a leading full-text scientific database offering journal articles and book chapters from nearly 2,500 journals and 26,000 books Essortment | Free Online Articles on Health, Science, Education & More.. Health, science, business and other topics for free on Essortment. Browse the educational articles online for free and learn recipes... The History Blog It’s a blog about history Tech:- MakeUseOf Blog that features cool web sites, software, and Internet tips. Links provide snapshot home page previews. Gizmodo - Everything Is Technology Blog dedicated to news and rumors Mashable Blog focusing exclusively on social networks. Tech tips to make you smarter Technology news, software reviews, and personal computing tips. Engadget | Technology news, advice and features  Blog covering gadget news 