Who are some of the best faculty in Thapar University?
Dr. V.P. Aggarwal This incident happened today (3/12/14). Since EST's are nearing so there were only 5 or 6 students in a class of nearly 80 students, in a class from 10-11 am. And I, as usual reached 15 minutes late for KOM (Kinematics of Machines - UME 302) class. And as usual, sir, was enthusiastically explaining; Freundstein equation, function generators today. And when the lecture ended, he said that: 'Please bete, question puccho, jo man mein aaye, wo puccho, mai aapke liye hi yahan aaya hun'- Please, ask questions, whatever comes in your mind, ask it, I'm here for you. We few students thought it to be just a regular class, and were sitting like lazy bums on our seats, since sir used to say the same thing in his every lecture, so, how was today special? Well, it was. Sir repeated the above statement many times, and we were like, nothing new, he does that everyday. Then he told, that he specifically came back to university at 4;45 am on the same day, so he could take this class. He added that he'd gone to Jabalpur, for some personal function, and that he immediately took the first flight back to New Delhi, and from Indira Gandhi International Airport to Thapar University in a taxi, a seven and a half hour ride. I don't know about other students, but I was amazed, totally. This 70 something professor, who was visibly very old, specifically came to take a lecture, which he knew would be attended by hardly 5-10% of his class, most of which comprises of non-serious students (with no offence). Here's he: God bless him! I've never seen anyone so committed to his/her work, at least in Thapar. When the class got over, I asked sir, 'Is it justified?- What you did?' And the answer he gave me filled me with immense happiness- 'Even if one student gets to learn, or dispel his doubts, I am satisfied. If I wouldn't have come, and that student would have had doubts even in one question, I would not have justified myself as a teacher.' Everyday, he proclaims, that- 'You just need to be highly motivated. I only need your motivation, I'm there to help, it's my duty to help.' His actions comply with the ideal way of doing one's own Karma, according to Bhagavad Gita, Chapter II, Verse 47: कर्मणये वाधिकारस्ते मां फलेषु कदाचन । मां कर्मफलहेतुर्भू: मांते संङगोस्त्वकर्मणि ।। Your right is to work only, But never to its fruits; Let not the fruits of action be thy motive, Nor let thy attachment be to inaction. He's definitely one of a kind. With 47 years of teaching experience, in IIT-D, BITS, and now, Thapar University, he's a hero. I hope so I'm passionate about something when I'm 70! I would like to say that he has been the best teacher I've ever met, or will ever meet. God bless Him! I will update the list, write about Karamjeet Kaur Cheema Mam soon... Updated 18w ago • View Upvotes