How can I study more effectively?
Studying is not a 'one size fits all' skill. It needs to be tailor-made. Based on the individual, the subject and the exam. Here's what I believe to be a fairly comprehensive plan on making sure you study more effectively: State your objective. Why are you studying? Is it for an exam, self-fulfilment or both? Whatever you objective is, make it S.M.A.R.T. By doing this, you have a benchmark that you want to beat. For an exam, say you want to average 90% when you do 3 practice exams in the weeks before your final, that's easier to measure and attain than throwing a hail mary. 2. What type of exam is it that you're studying for? If it's fact-intensive, you can use techniques such as spaced-repetition. If it's about how you argue multiple points, use self-explanation or re-teaching. Lastly, if it's method based, use re-teaching and doing. Based on your exam, you should adjust your studying-technique and study-schedule accordingly. 3.  "A study conducted by Specific Diagnostic Studies found that 29 percent of all students in elementary and secondary schools are visual learners, 34 percent learn through auditory means, and 37 percent learn best through kinesthetic/tactile modes." The study can be found here. This study allows us to realise that people have different ways to learn. Take advantage of this by using multiple methods e.g. videos, reading notes, self-explaining etc... 4. On the topic of studying techniques, here is a photo which illustrates some different methods: Now to look at external factors: Try to constantly use the same place for studying. If your study-area resembles your exam-room, even better! De-cluttering that area is key as well. Take advantage of our short attention spans by using the Pomodoro Technique. When you take a break every 25 minutes, you allow your brain to recollect information. It would be a good idea to go for a walk or do some dynamic stretching during your 5 minute breaks - This would be beneficial for both your health and studying. Stay hydrated, eat well and exercise. By taking care of yourself, you can optimise your brain's performance. You also get the added benefits of looking and feeling good. Psychology is key. Even if you don't like the subject, ask yourself questions about it and make sure you're curious. Malcolm Knowles' theory on adult-learning exemplifies how important your attitude is, when trying to retain information. Lastly, have fun. When learning is enjoyable, it's normally more effective.  Further reading - Barbra Oakley's MOOC on learning how to learn. 