What is Facebook Graph Search?
With the old search, if you want to find out all female friends of your friend, You have to go to his account and look for his females friends. There is no way to see only female friends as a list But with graph search you can just type Female friends of <Friend's Name> in the search box from your home page itself and it will show all female friends of your friend. You don't have to go to his Facebook page or you don't have to click anywhere. Just type and hit enter. If you want to find out all female friends of your friend that is not your friends and studying in the college that you and your friend studying. You can find out that with Graph search. Let us take an another simple example. My friend living at Los Angeles said that he need a graphic artist to design his website but have no time to search. So what? how can I help? I'm living at a small village in India with a laptop, internet connection and my Facebook account wide opened. I don't know anyone at that place except my friend and I don't know where is LA, what is LA and How it is looks like. No I couldn't help earlier. but now I have graph search. Just search 'Graphic artists in Los Angeles' and hit Enter. Bhoom! More than thousand Graphic Artists who are working at LA in front of me just a message away distance. I don't know anyone but some of them have mutual friends with me. So I can message them about this. Then I can also message to those mutual friends to know more about these artists. Select the one that got green signal from those mutual friends and I can give my friend's phone number and asked them to call him. So now you know how powerful is Graph Search. You can do very complicated searches very easily with a lot of parameters in Graph Search. It is so powerful. It will become more easy to search and connect with people once it is fully released. In graph search you will only get the information that is shared as public or shared with you. You can filter your results with all these parameters. See below 