How can I study more effectively?
One of the most difficult aspect while studying is 'self-diversion'. Generally, we are good starters but we don't finish what we start. We tend to divert ourselves by inventing frivolous reasons inside our head. Some reasons that comes to mind are: Checking the clock and telling oneself that we will study at a particular time (rounded number 15/30/45) Reading little and feeling dejected if the concept is tough. Reading little and feeling very satisfied as if the whole chapter is easy. Checking some diagrams/pictures and getting diverted. Hearing some tv noise, mobile phone call, listening to what others talk, feeling hungry, drinking water, making frequent trips to fridge/loo....and so on... Hence, I wish to share a small advise my grandfather used to repeatedly tell me. He would ask me to take "Sankalpa" ( Sanskrit: संकल्प: means conception or idea or notion formed in the heart or mind, solemn vow or determination to perform, desire, definite intention, volition or will ). In practical terms, the word, Sankalpa, means the one-pointed resolve to do something from beginning to end. That is to harness the will-power and the tool to focus and harmonize the complex body-mind apparatus (Sankalpa (Hindu thought).) SANKALPA MUDRA* In short, it is a commitment to start an activity with a "self promise" that one will continue till the end of it. (Image: Sankalpa Mudra  Source:  Internet). Hence, the biggest challenge would be to take "sankalpa". Without committing to oneself, however small and easy it might seem, one cannot finish anything. Having said that about the right attitude, here are two effective Psychologically proven study methods: PQRST method (Preview, Question, Read, Self-recitation &  Test) SQ3R method (Survey, Question, Read, Recite and Review) The PQRST Method of Studying PREVIEW an assignment by scanning it.  Read the chapter outline at the beginning of the chapter.  Pay attention to the headings of the sections and subsections.  Read the summary.  The point is to get an idea of the main topics and sections of the chapter. (Numbers 2, 3, and 4 are done at the same time) QUESTION yourself by making questions of the headings of each section and subsection. As you READ the assignment, look for the answers to the questions you have made. SELF-RECITATION requires that you try to remember the main points of each section and that you say them out loud (if possible) to yourself. You TEST yourself after you have finished the entire chapter.  How many of the main ideas from the chapter can you remember? Now you are really starting to store your studies into long-term memory! The SQ3R Method of Studying If you're looking to be a more efficient reader, try the SQ3R Method. It's designed to help you read faster and retain more. SQ3R stands for the steps in reading: Survey, Question, Read, Recite & Review. Survey Before reading, survey the material. Glance through the topic headings and try to get an overview of the reading. Skim the sections and read the final summary paragraph to get an idea of where the chapter is going. Only spend a few minutes surveying the reading to get a background knowledge, an initial orientation that will help you to organize the material as you read it. It eases you into the reading assignment Question Look at the first heading in the chapter. Turn it into a question. Ask questions to be answered in your reading. This step requires conscious effort, but is worth it as it leads to active reading, the best way to retain written material. Asking questions focuses your concentration on what you need to learn or get out of your reading. Read Read the first section of your reading assignment to answer your question. Actively search for the answer to your question. If you finish the section and haven't answered the question, reread it. Read reflectively. Consider what the author is trying to say, and think about how you can use that information. Recite Once you've read an initial section, look away and try to recite the answer to your question, using your own words and examples. If you can do this, it means that you understand the material. If you can't, glance over the section again. Once you have the answers to your questions, write them down. Review After reading the entire assignment, test your memory by asking yourself the questions that you've identified. Review your notes for an overview of the chapter. Consider how it fits with what you know from the course, experience, and other classes. What is the material's significance? What are the implications or applications of this material? What questions are you left with? How many of the steps you follow is up to you. As you become more efficient you may find that you can read more - and retain more - with less effort. Regardless, if an assignment is important, be sure to take notes so that you don't have to reread it later. Source: Want to Read Faster and with Better Retention? Try the SQ3R Method The PQRST Method of Studying Some additional tips to study in terms of relevance is also mentioned in this answer: Prasanna Madhavan's answer to Tips and Hacks for Everyday Life: What can I learn right now in just 10 minutes that could be useful for the rest of my life? * Mudrā is a symbolic or ritual gesture in Hinduism and Buddhism Updated 44w ago • View Upvotes