Personal Productivity: What are the most productive ways to spend time on the Internet?
There are many websites that can help you spend your time in a better way on the Internet. My personal favorites are- 1) University of Reddit- It provides step by step learning on multifarious topics; whether be it Computer Science, Art, General Studies, or anything else of your interest. You name it, they have it! The only prerequisite is that you should have a Reddit account. My personally recommended alternative to Khan Academy. 2) University of the People- It is an online, accredited university that gives eligible high school students a golden opportunity to earn either an Associate or Bachelors degree in Business Administration, and Computer Science. So, this means if you are willing to put in hard work, you can earn a degree from the convenience of your home or internet cafe. I suggest this as an alternative to edX. 3) Digital Photography School - Digital Photography Tips and Tutorials - Are you a budding photographer keen on becoming an expert in clicking pictures, and editing them? Or, are you an amateur photographer who enjoys learning the nuances of photography? Well, if your answer is an enthusiastic and resounding YES, then this is exactly the website you should be looking for. 4) The long read | News | The Guardian- For the news that we get to see on the TV or newspapers, I would say- 'There is more to than meets the eye'. If you are curious about knowing the complete truth about the latest happenings from across the world, this is the right place for you. It has podcasts on relatively unknown sections from the annals of history as also essays on non- conventional topics. 5) Learn R with R tutorials and coding challenges | DataCamp- Data is becoming increasingly important to companies for improved decision making and to better understand their customers. So, Data Science is fast emerging as one of the hottest new professions and academic disciplines. DataCamp provides tons of tutorials to equip yourself with the necessary skills to get good at data analysis and visualization. Don't worry if you are a beginner. It lucidly explains various aspects of data processing and management. 6) Justin Guitar | Hundreds of free guitar lessons - Guitar is one of the most accessible musical instruments, and also, quite easy to learn. No wonder, it is a good way to impress your girl and tug at her heartstrings. Justin Guitar is essentially a website with archived lessons on playing guitar in different styles. 7) Anki - powerful, intelligent flashcards - As the name suggests, it is a friendly and clever way to learn  new things efficiently and easily using flash cards. A welcome departure from traditional study methods, these flash cards is a boon for those who struggle in remembering things. You can embed audios, videos, images and countless other things in the flash cards. 8) couchsurfing.com- I shall call it a mini- Facebook where you can connect with fellow travelers around the world. Couchsurfing is a brilliant way to make lifelong friends from various countries and also get hosted in their home if you are planning to visit their native land. Not only do you get to save a lot of money on traveling, you can also mingle with the locals, which is otherwise not possible if you are travelling through an agent. Thank you Aqsa Tariq for the motivation! :) 