What is social learning? How can social media, technology and innovation make the greatest positive impact on higher education?
I've been running a subject as part of a Masters' course in Information Systsms at the University of Melbourne in Australia entirely taught around widely available social media services. Part of the motivation was to see how far the most well-known services - Facebook and Twitter - could be adapted, and also out of frustration with the now ubiquitous BlackBoard LMS which is looking increasingly antiquated and creaky in a world of cloud-based and social-engagement-driven services. In our subject - which is on Entrepreneurialism - we are using a mix of Facebook groups, Twitter, and a network of Wordpress blogs - to create and sustain a conversation around the subject. All students are encouraged to post to a 'learning stream', made up of a variety of online social resources, to comment on each others' posts, to share insights, post resources, and offer help - all in public for the group (our Facebook group, open until the subject enrolment, was closed to allow students to share in-confidence insights about their subject). The learning stream - the totality of resources students' have posted and used - as the primary way assessment is done. Formative and summative grades are delivered via confidential Facebook messages, but other feedback is public. Each student blog is also linked to the group via an aggregator blog - so at a glance, students can see what each other are thinking and doing. We meet to discuss the learning streams, and contribute to them as part of, and during, these meetings - for example a student who interviewed CEOs as part of her research posted the video interviews for us to see and discuss as we were meeting. In this approach, all learning is effectively social learning. Because what students do is shared almost immediately - and sometimes before it has been completely analysed and placed in a learning context  -  students get the benefit of the group's engagement quickly. Some of that engagement wil contribute to learning - some of it won't - and it's often hard to tell ahead of time. The term 'social learning' isn't perhaps the best one to use about learning that happens like this. A more appropriate way to think about it is 'organic learning' - where the emphasis is on learning that happens as part of a set of interlinked activities which foregrounds social media engagement with a close group of colleagues (or a larger group of interested observers) but is primarily not driven by individual assignments and assessments. As a educator, this requires a quite different approach to planning, creation and use of content, management of activities, and assessment and student support: it initially looks difficult - but is however a more efficient use of resources (and more interesting to do); as a student, the process can be disorienting and difficult to grasp, but once experienced, leads to much deeper learning. The parallels, pointed out by the students in this subject themselves, are with 'agile' and 'lean' software development practices that feature constant and early customer feedback, rapid iteration, and a focus on building core features well. In this approach, content - in the form of blocks of material to be learned -  isn't the interesting thing: instead it's moment-by-moment learning - as evidenced in the learning streams - that is important. Of course in a small group setting - our subject is 14 students - it has little friction; but the efficiencies are magnified as the number of students increase - making it a viable approach for most educational settings. 