What is social learning? How can social media, technology and innovation make the greatest positive impact on higher education?
I think connectivism http://www.connectivism.ca/about... offers some ideas  relevant to technology and social learning. I like to throw in a little constructivism http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Con...  and some of Krumboltz social learning theory when considering the post-industrial education system. With the use of web 2.0 technology and social media networking there is an ability to gather both emergent and convergent ideas through interactive engagement. Ideas can grow and change as people interact with the ideas and each other. This can allow education to cultivate new ideas and move away from disseminating only what has been known (not that there is anything wrong with disseminating what has been known).  The ability to contribute to a blog or wiki or have a live twitter stream in a classroom may lead a group in a new direction. Yes there is repetition and noise within social media but with experience it becomes easier to filter the noise and find the emergent ideas. Most learning has traditionally occurred outside the classroom. Social media can provide opportunity for contribution when it is convenient - that includes when individuals may be at their creative or insightful best. Not everyone finds inspiration at 10:00 in the morning when sitting in a lecture. Not everyone finds inspiration sitting in a room with 200 others. Not everyone learns the same. Social media can enable different learners to learn in different ways. Of course there is a dark side to social media. With silos being created and filter bubbles - another TED video http://www.ted.com/talks/eli_par... (TED a great place for new ideas). It can be easy to manipulate content and engagement - creating idea contagions that can spin out of control. The issue of control is a big ones for educational institutions and faculty to embrace. With social media tools you must often be prepared to embrace the Chaos of those emergent streams and sometimes lose control. Social media can provide more access to education, ideas, people then was available through the traditional post secondary education system. Those who embrace the chaos may learn to leverage it and break down barriers and access to ideas and so much more. 