What is Facebook Graph Search?
It is good to see that Facebook has kindled many a curious mind with its Graph Search. I would like to take you through this step by step. Graph: First let us define what a graph is. In simple terms, a graph is nothing but a set of connected (or non-connected) points. Let us give it a name G. Each point in the graph is known as a Vertex. Let the set of all vertices be denoted as V. Vertices in the graph can be connected with the help of edges. Let each edge be denoted as e and the set of which can be named E. Here the blue points are the Vertices and the lines connecting them are the edges. Now that we have defined a graph, we will see how it plays a role in the day to day life of Facebook. Facebook is a giant graph: Now that you know how a graph looks like, let us go ahead and construct one. Imagine you are throwing a new year's eve party. You want this party to be huge and hence you have invited a lot of your friends and have generously asked them to bring their friends too to the party. At the same time, you have placed a board outside your house saying that there would be a party and everyone's welcome. The day arrives and all your friends, their friends and friends of friends start walking in one by one. Also your neighbors and their friends and their friends of friends and so on. The party begins and you are happy that it is a great success. Now, you decide to sit with a drink and observe the party for a while. You observe two kinds of people. 1) Your friends and neighbors whom you recognize. 2) Others whom you're assuming to be your friends' and neighbors' friends. You suddenly remember the definition of graph you learnt earlier and decide to play a game. You decide to stand up and make all your friends and neighbors you know stand around you in a circle. In other words, people whom you are directly connected to. Their friends in the next circle. In other words, people whom you are separated from by one person. Their friends in the next. In other words, people whom you are separated from by two persons. The arrangement would look something like this. (Sorry about the bad choice of colors) The red dot would be you. The blue circle would be people whom you are directly connected to and so on. Now you have constructed a graph. Let us call this graph Facebook. Graph Search: Let us merge the friends and neighbors category into one category - Friends. Though Facebook is pretty complex from what we have constructed, the underlying idea is the same. Every person is a vertex and there are graphs pertaining to every single Facebook user. So if you consider yourself as the centre the graph would be something similar to what we have constructed. Facebook's graph search works based on this graph. Facebook demonstrated four search queries: People, Places, Photos and Interests. Lets see them one by one. Places: Facebook's graph search is all about personalized results. For example, you might want to eat out on new year's. You could choose your restaurant in two ways. 1) You can pick a restaurant at random. 2) You can ask these people who are at your party. Let us assume you want to make use of this beautifully constructed graph to pick the restaurant. First you are quite skeptical about the search results and hence you pose a simple question. You ask "Dear Facebook, please list all the restaurants that my friends have been to." Once you post this question, the people inside the blue circle list all the restaurants they have been to. You are amazed by the quality of the results this question brought forth. But you have a lot of friends and you still have a lot of restaurants to choose from. So now you ask a better question which would possibly help you narrow down. Now I am going to tell you an interesting fact about yourself. You went to college at a particular University and the people who graduated from that University are great at choosing restaurants. (Perhaps except yourself ^_^ ) So you decide to ask only those friends who went to college with you. So you ask "Dear Facebook, list all the restaurants that my friends whom I went to college with have been to." 10 of your friends whom you went to college had come to the party and Facebook lists about a handful of restaurants. Tada! Your job just got easier. People: Though you are ok with friends' of friends' and their friends attending your party, you would like to know more about them. (The whole point of the  party is meeting new people and making new friends, right?) You think you can understand people better if you know whose friends they are. Instead of going around asking questions like "Hey there, who are you friends with?" which would be taxing and time consuming (also outright rude in some cultures). So you decide to use this beautiful graph you have constructed. You ask "Dear Facebook, list all the people who are friends with <insert friend's name>" You can also use this to avoid becoming friends with someone you don't like. Now, you are a bit shrewd and want to implement what you learnt in searching for the restaurant to search for people also. You think that you might have missed meeting and becoming friends with some great people from the University. (More awesome restaurant choosers). So you ask "Dear Facebook, list all the friends of my friends who went to <insert University name>" Photos: You have picked your restaurant for the next day. You have met new people. Now you want the party to get more exciting. So you decide to share photos and talk about them. So first you show all your photos to them. You want to use your graph to find all the photos you took with your friends. You ask "Dear Facebook, show me all the photos I am tagged in with <Insert friends name>" You can use this to untag yourself from the photos with people whom you don't want to be seen with. (or burn them and leave no evidence) Interests: You have seen enough photos. Now you want to get to know your friends better. For instance you want to know your friends' favorite bands. You could either ask them one by one or use this beautiful graph you have constructed. You decide to use the graph. So you ask "Dear Facebook, list all the bands that are liked by my friends." All these queries (ignoring the Dear Facebook part) can actually be used as search queries as the Graph Search is mostly built on SQL. The upside of SQL is that you can also combine many queries and ask things like "Dear Facebook, list all the friends of my friends who went to <insert University name> and who have been to <insert restaurant name> and have visited Paris in 2004 and like The Beatles and also can speak Mandarin" Images taken from Page on Theverge.com Updated 158w ago • View Upvotes