★What is something electrical engineers know that others don't?
Electrical engineering: 1. ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Above are some trolls about various methods of generating power. Fact: They are impossible An electrical engineer knows how difficult it is to generate 1 MW power. 2. ​ ​ ​ Many would have seen this, its a cooling tower present in the power plant. This is not used for cooling the water that runs the turbine rather it is used for cooling the water that is used in the condenser. 3. Generally we use to say 'current is cut', which is technically wrong. We cannot cut current. It should be 'power cut'. 4.Minimum of 1 tonne of coal (lignite variety) is required for generating 1 MW (Mega watt) .It varies with the type of coal used. 5. Generated power will be in MW but we measure it in units. 1 unit= 1 kwhr (one kilowatt hour). Unit of electrical energy is Mwhr, kwhr. 6. Size of microprocessor was 10^-6 m when it was invented, but now its much smaller than that.   7. Current does not flow from positive to negative, it is other way round. ​ ​ ​ Movement of charges is said to be actual current. We generally use conventional current (assumption). 8. We need DC to charge the batteries. We get that from the chargers we use. All adapters are mini transformers which steps down the input voltage and converts ( rectifies) it to DC. 9. We cannot stop the generated power. We do not have enough batteries to store the generated power. 10. In the 4 years of study we are not taught how a bulb glows or how a fan rotates (we just know what is used in it). 11. I have heard people saying they have inverter in their home, which is technically wrong. It should be 'we have UPS (uninterrupted power supply)'. Inverter is just a part of UPS which converts DC back to AC. 12. Power saved is equal to power generated is actually wrong. Power can be transmitted to various places if its used less in some parts. 13. Without potential ( voltage ) current will not flow. 14. Voltage will not harm, current will only kill. 15. Equipments in train run in 110 V AC. Edit- Thank you all ..my first 200+ upvotes ...