★Where is the Fourier sine/cosine series ever used in the real world?While studying maths I had a lecturer tell me that the only place he'd ever seen the sine series used was in a biscuit factory where it was/is used used to check the roundness of biscuits (cookies) on a production line. Any more examples?
Your lecturer is oddly ignorant. This is hugely important and is used just about everywhere in signal processing, advanced telecoms. The idea of the Fourier Transform is at the heart of WiFi (specifally of OFDM used in 802.11 g & n), ADSL & VDSL, of WiMAX and LTE. [EDIT  After Yunquing's comment I have updated my answer to be more complete, rather than comment to a comment. So his comment may look odd, this is why] Fourier Transorm is the mechanism for turning one signal (time domain) into its frequency domain equivalent - which is Fourier Series. The FFT works on a set of samples which is finite time (say 250us) usually called 'a frame'. It creates the periodic equivalent to that set (only that set) as if it were periodic by adding a cyclic prefix that helps the FFT into thinking that sample repeats ie a periodic waveform with period 250us (4KHz -- I use that example because that is the frame duration/symbol period of ADSL). You do the FFT of that 'periodic' waveform to create sin/cos frequency domain (Fourier series) as your OFDM symbol set - each sin (nW) corresponds to a different frequency, which is a different bin or subtone, which you modulate and transmit. So you have taken a time domain (250us) and tranformed it to frerquency domain which is your transmitted symbol. The next sample set (next 250us) will have a different pattern (as you say, it appears random) so the sin/cos output series will be different, but uses same process. And so on. eg for ADSL The downstream and upstream data channels are synchronized to the 4 kHz ADSL DMT (Discrete Multi Tone) symbol rate, and multiplexed into two separate data buffers (fast and interleaved). ADSL uses the superframe structure shown in figure . Each superframe is composed of 68 ADSL data frames, which are encoded and modulated into DMT symbols. From the bit-level and user data perspective, the DMT symbol rate is 4000 baud (period = 250 s). Because of the sync symbol inserted to the end of each superframe, the transmitted DMT symbol rate is 69/68 * 4000 baud. http://www.cs.tut.fi/tlt/stuff/a...