★What is the exact difference between continuous fourier transform, discrete Time Fourier Transform(DTFT), Discrete Fourier Transform (DFT) Fourier series and Discrete Fourier Series (DFS) ? In which cases is which one used?
Continuous Time Fourier Transform is for signals which are aperiodic and continuous in time domain. It's Continuous and aperiodic in frequency domain. Continuous Time Fourier Series is for signals which are periodic and continuous in time domain. It's discrete and aperiodic in frequency domain. Discrete Time Fourier Transform is for signals which are aperiodic and discrete in time domain. It's periodic and continuous in frequency domain. Discrete Time Fourier Series is for signals which are periodic and Discrete in time domain. It's periodic and discrete in frequency domain. The basic rule of thumb is , if a signal is discrete in one domain( T or F), it's periodic in the other domain.  (F or T) If it's continuous in one domain, it is aperiodic in other domain. As a matter of fact, no naturally occuring signals in this universe last forever. So CTFS and DTFS are purely mathematical tools. It helps our understanding. If you notice, CTFS and DTFT are the dual of each other. Quite apart from all this, there is Discrete Fourier transform which is for doing Fourier analysis on Real world analog signal. The problem however with real world analog signals is that they require infinite memory. How do we solve that? Nyquist steps in here to help us with his sampling theorem. If we sample a signal at a high enough rate( we are making the signal a discrete signal), then we can do Discrete fourier transform and get the information. However, sampling means we have fundamentally altered the signal from continuous to discrete and it means we have changed from something that looks like CTFT in both domains to DTFT. The frequency domain will look periodic now but it doesn't matter as we have sampled at a high enough rate. So DFT is strictly a tool to do Fourier analysis on CTFT or DTFT.