★Why do we need a complex frequency domain? How can I better understand the results of Laplace Transform?
In arithmetic, taking logarithms converts multiplication into addition and division into subtraction. Think of Laplace transforms as a special way of "taking logarithms" that converts time-domain convolution of functions into algebraic multiplications/divisions of their transform terms. Laplace Transforms are useful in figuring out how linear systems behave. Linear systems have impulse responses that can, for example a) decay with time b) grow with time c) be oscillatory with time d) be a  combination of oscillation and decay / growth over time The Transfer Function (TF) of a Linear system, stated as a Laplace Transform, allows one to state and understand all these behaviours, defined by where the poles of the transfer function (i.e. roots of the denominator) lie in the s-plane. Specifically, a real pole can show a decaying response if it is in the LHP; or growing response (b) if it is in the RHP.  A pair of pure imaginary poles in the TF indicates an oscillatory impulse response c); if these complex poles have negative real parts, the oscillatory impulse response decays; with positive real parts,  it grows with time. So consider a metal cup placed on a table and struck with a spoon. The impulse-like blow creates a ringing sound ( oscillation, vibration) that dies down over time. So the cup could be represented by (atleast) a complex pole pair with a negative real component as in -A + j B and -A -j B where B defines the frequency of sound heard and A defines how rapidly it dies down. ( The denominator of the transfer function will have atleast two terms  as in (s+A-jB) and (s+A+jB). ) Fill the cup with some water and you may feel the sound change, decreasing in pitch and decaying more rapidly than before. So the pole pair may move more to the LEFT ( A becomes more negative)  and also inch closer to the Origin ( B may reduce). Hope this clarifies some of the concepts for you.