★What is the exact difference between continuous fourier transform, discrete Time Fourier Transform(DTFT), Discrete Fourier Transform (DFT) Fourier series and Discrete Fourier Series (DFS) ? In which cases is which one used?
1. Discrete Time  Fourier Transform The DTFT(Discrete Time Fourier Transform) is nothing but a fancy name for the Fourier transform of a discrete sequence. It is defined as: The frequency variable is continuous, but since the signal itself is defined at discrete instants, the resulting Fourier transform is also defined at discrete instants of time. The number of  time points will still be infinite.Its just that between any two time points you would have a finite number of points. We also know that the Fourier transform of a sampled signal is a series of replications of the spectrum of the original signal at frequencies spaced by the sampling frequency. Mathematically, this is expressed by Here T  is the sampling period. So this is an alternate mathematical expression for the DTFT. As we can see, the DTFT is periodic, with period equal to the sampling frequency. Hence we normally represent DTFT over a single period as shown below. This is implicit in the definition. Mathematically this periodicity can also be seen by noting the periodicity of the discrete(in time) exponential 2.Discrete Fourier Transform But the DTFT is difficult to evaluate on a computer, since a computer works only on finite number of  points. So to make the evaluation of the DTFT possible on a computer, we choose a finite number of frequency points. This is equivalent to sampling the Fourier transform at a certain number of points.This is called the Discrete Fourier Transform(DFT). The general convention is to use N frequencies separated by 2*pi/N radians. 2*pi corresponds to the angular frequency variation over one cycle of the original waveform(the cycle over which we take the N time samples) . We divide this into N frequency 'bins' which we index by an index variable k. Mathematically, this is expressed as Since the DFT is basically the sampled version of the DTFT, it is also periodic, with period N(the number of frequency samples taken). Hence the DFT is also represented over one 'period'(discrete frequency period - N). This is implicit in the definition. ... (more)Loading...