★What is something electrical engineers know that others don't?
CFLs, though energy efficient, are not that good, if used on a large scale. CFL has components which causes a phase difference, giving a low  power factor, impacting power quality. (In large scales.) From Wiki: The input stage of a CFL is a rectifier, which presents a non-linear load to the power supply and introduces harmonic distortion on the current drawn from the supply.[53][54] The use of CFLs in homes has no appreciable effect on power quality, but significant quantities of them in a large facility can have an impact. The power factor of CFLs does not significantly affect their energy-saving benefits for individual consumers, but their use in large numbers—such as in commercial applications or across millions of homes in a distribution system—could require infrastructure upgrades. In such cases, CFLs with low (below 30 percent) total harmonic distortion (THD) and power factors greater than 0.9 should be selected.[55][56][57] 2. Power Generation is real- time. Electricity can not be stored. It has to be generated according to the needs (or usage curbed to meet generation), because of this. Sure, there are inverters and batteries, but in large  scale, that is impossible. In India, hence, all the power lines are hence interconnected. I worked as an intern in a small hydro electric power plant in Kerala, India. Over there, they had to regulate their power generation every hour, send data to the main centre, and co ordinate. The power generated couldn't be sent as it is to the main grid, it has to be synchronized with the grid's frequency, and then sent. Example : State Load Despatch Centre (SLDC) 3. Instrumentation cables are twisted. (Twisted pair ) This twisting is done to cancel out the electromagnetic interference between the two. ​ 4. Single Line to Ground faults are more prevalent than Line to Line: ​ Which might surprise you, because it does seem like since the lines are close by, the fault occurrence must be higher. P.S. I am not sure of the % occurrence in the picture. I will update as and when I remember more. Edit: If you guys wanna about know the tl;dr of GTD( Generation, Transmission, Distribution) of power systems, let me know in the comments. EDIT2: This is the blogpost: Electrical GTD: A TL; DR by Aishwarya Nair on Random Musings :) Thanks for the A2A.