★What is the exact difference between continuous fourier transform, discrete Time Fourier Transform(DTFT), Discrete Fourier Transform (DFT) Fourier series and Discrete Fourier Series (DFS) ? In which cases is which one used?
n mathematics, the discrete-time Fourier transform (DTFT) is a form of Fourier analysis that is applicable to the uniformly-spaced samples of a continuous function. The term discrete-time refers to the fact that the transform operates on discrete data (samples) whose interval often has units of time. From only the samples, it produces a function of frequency that is a periodic summation of the continuous Fourier transform of the original continuous function. Under certain theoretical conditions, described by the sampling theorem, the original continuous function can be recovered perfectly from the DTFT and thus from the original discrete samples. The DTFT itself is a continuous function of frequency, but discrete samples of it can be readily calculated via the Discrete Fourier Transform (DFT) (see Sampling the DTFT), which is by far the most common method of modern Fourier analysis. Both transforms are invertible. The inverse DTFT is the original sampled data sequence. The inverse DFT is a periodic summation of the original sequence. The Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) is an algorithm for computing one cycle of the DFT, and its inverse produces one cycle of the inverse DFT . The utility of this frequency domain function is rooted in the Poisson summation formula. Let X(f) be the Fourier transform of any function, x(t), whose samples at some interval, T (seconds), are equal (or proportional to) the x[n] sequence, i.e. . Then the periodic function represented by the Fourier series is a periodic summation of X(f). In terms of frequency in hertz (cycles/sec):       (Eq.2) http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fil... Fig 1. Depiction of a Fourier transform (upper left) and its periodic summation (DTFT) in the lower left corner. The lower right corner depicts samples of the DTFT that are computed by a discrete Fourier transform (DFT). The integer k has units of cycles/sample, and 1/T is the sample-rate, fs (samples/sec). So X1/T(f) comprises exact copies of X(f) that are shifted by multiples of fs hertz and combined by addition.  For sufficiently large fs the k=0 term can be observed in the region [−fs/2, fs/2] with little or no distortion (aliasing) from the other terms. In Fig.1, the extremities of the distribution in the upper left corner are masked by aliasing in the periodic summation (lower left). We also note that    is the Fourier transform of    Therefore, an alternative definition of DTFT is:[note 1]       (Eq.3) The modulated Dirac comb function is a mathematical abstraction sometimes referred to as impulse sampling.[1] Periodic data[edit] When the input data sequence x[n] is N-periodic, Eq.2 can be computationally reduced to a discrete Fourier transform (DFT), because: All the available information is contained within N samples.   converges to zero everywhere except integer multiples of    known as harmonic frequencies. The DTFT is periodic, so the maximum number of unique harmonic amplitudes is  The kernel    is N-periodic at the harmonic frequencies,    So    is an infinite summation of repetitious values, which does not converge for one or more values of k.  But because of periodicity, we can reduce the limits of summation to any sequence of length N, without losing any information. The result is just a DFT. In order to interpret the DFT, it is helpful to expand the comb function, from Eq.3, which is now NT-periodic, into a Fourier series: which also shows that periodicity in the time domain causes the DTFT to become discontinuous and that it diverges at the harmonic frequencies. But the Fourier series coefficients that modulate the comb are finite, and the standard integral formula conveniently reduces to a DFT: which is an N-periodic sequence (in k) that completely describes the DTFT. Inverse transform[edit] An operation that recovers the discrete data sequence from the DTFT function is called an inverse DTFT. For instance,... (more)Loading...