★What advice would you give to an electrical and electronics student that you wish you were given when you started your course?All advice  are welcome!
Build more stuffI know, building circuits seems lame sometimes, the first time you try building a led flashing 555 timer circuit it will probably take many hours.  Theorising and designing circuits is one thing but the lessons seems to stick much more once you've spent 10 hours trying to solve the problem. Fail and fail oftenAs above, lesson's tend to stick when you fail.  You will learn more from a project that fails then from one that works first time.  Failure along the design process is an integral part of engineering so get comfortable with it. Learn to learnAt uni the main aim is to teach yourself how to learn.  If you learn nothing else at uni, learn what methods best suit you for learning. Learn the right thingsSome topics are worth more of you time than others.  Pick the ones that interest you and spend the most time understanding those.  I am of the view that it's better to get a real understanding of one topic whilst neglecting another a little than it is to only partially engage in both topics.  Obviously you need to pass your subjects, but just think about what really interests you.  What is going to matter to you when you are finished uni?  Grades will get you somewhere, but an instinctive and deep understanding a topic will most likely get you a lot further. Break the problem downIf a problem seems too large or complex for you to solve in one step, break it down into smaller problems and tackle them one at a time.  This is extremely important, it may seem obvious but remembering this can make your life a hell of a lot less stressful. Obsess over problems a littleAre you trying to learn a new concept but it doesn't seem to click?  If you spend a lot of time thinking about a concept of problem and obsess over the details a little, you'll find your subconcious mind seems to gain a desire to understand it.  You shouldn't let such an obsession overwhelm you or take over but a little obession can be very helpful.   I've gone to bed thinking about a problem many times to wake up in the morning and have the answer pop into my head.  It's like you subconcious mind is processing all of the information while you're asleep and when you wake up you get the answer for free! You actually can attain a proper gut-level understanding of every topic they teach you at uni.  In fact, no topic is too difficult to understand.  It's just a bunch of simple topics built on top of eachother, which can make it seem complex.  Also, sometimes the people explaining new concepts to you just suck at doing it.  It took me a while to learn this.  One thing I like to remember is that every new theory or law that you learn, at some point in time was discovered by a person.  They moved from a state of not understanding the topic, to one of understanding the topic through only their observations of the world, without someone else explaining it to them.  They didn't make giant uncomphrehendable leaps in cognition, they saw it in a way that made sense to them.