★What are things that electronics and telecommunication engineers (ECE) know while other engineers don't?
Answering my own question .... I am listing a few things that we know , but haven't been put up here as yet 1. We know how to use a semilog paper and its importance 2. We know why they specify the 3dB bandwidth of a system and why 3dB exactly , why not 4 or 6 or any other number 3. We are used to plotting the negative frequencies as well , others might want to ask ...does it even make sense. It does !! 4. That we can use the old huge TV set as a homemade CRO by tweaking it. of course it does not do things like the real CRO does , but it works. (your old TV set is not all that useless you see) 5. We can tell where your antenna might possibly have a blind spot just by looking at its shape 6. We know the importance of HEX and that's our favorite code. 7. Unlike other programmers , we care about warnings too ! After all we work on a layer that's closest to the hardware and any warning here can be fatal 8. That if you have a bike that does not use a button start, you can replace the battery with just a capacitor. (However, you won't be able to honk if your bike engine is off ) 9. that count starts with zero not one 10. We know the real meaning of the word "Logic"....We can code as well as realize a circuit 11. The difference between MB and Mb or Mbps 12. The reason why your data connection becomes slow or calls easily get disconnected while travelling in a train 13. We are not scared of anything that has 10,  14,  40 or even 256 legs. 14. To us fb means feedback not facebook EM refers to electromagnetics and not engineering mathematics or engineering mechanics Bw stands for bandwidth and not between 15. That electromotive force(EMF) has dimensions of Voltage and not Force  16. It pains every time we see an LED blown off due to absence of Current limiting resistor :'( 17. Your mobile camera can be used to check whether your infrared led is sending signals or not. Try doing it with your remote control   ​ 18. Imagine of it would feel if someone is not being considered for work because of their broken leg. We are forced do that to our ICs. :| ​I will keep adding more... also check Neha Shaah's answer to What is something electrical engineers know that others don't? Proud to be ECE.