★What is something electrical engineers know that others don't?
The standard aircraft power supply is of 400 Hz and not 50 or 60 Hz as is used in domestic/industrial settings around the world. Is there any particular reason, why the standard aircraft power supply is 400 Hz? As aircraft fly higher, faster and grow larger, the services that the power supply has to satisfy also grow more complex. In civil aircraft this means more power to the galley units, environmental control and passenger entertainment systems, while increased power demands for actuators, lighting systems, avionics and heating. The primary function of an aircraft electrical system is to generate, regulate and distribute electrical power throughout the aircraft. The aircraft electrical power system is used to operate (a) aircraft flight instruments, (b) passenger services. Essential power is that the aircraft needs to be able to continue safe operation. Passenger services power is the power that is used for cabin lighting, operation of entertainment systems and preparation of food. Aircraft electrical components operate on many different voltages both AC and DC. However, most of the aircraft systems use 115 volts (V) AC at 400 hertz (Hz) or 28 volts DC. 26 volts AC is also used in some aircraft for lighting purposes. DC power is generally provided by 'self-exciting' generators, where the power is generated by a commutator which regulates the output voltage of 28 volts DC. AC power, normally at a phase voltage of 115 V, is generated by an alternator, generally in a three-phase system and at a frequency of 400 Hz. However, higher frequencies are also more sensitive to voltage drop problems. There are two types of drops: resistive and reactive. Resistive losses are a function of current flowing through a conductor with respect to the length and size of the conductor. This is the most important factor in controlling resistive power loss and applies regardless of frequency.   A higher frequency also increases loss of power over long distances, so using it on long transmission lines would be a bad idea. Running at 400 Hz allows the use of smaller transformers. Less energy has to be stored in the transformer core per cycle, so the core can be smaller. A smaller core means a lighter transformer, and reducing weight is a good thing for the aircrafts to achieve higher lifts at lesser power. 400 cycles was chosen for reduced weight and size, both of the AC generator and the DC motor required to drive the aircraft. Source - Why we use 400Hz Power Supply in Aircraft?