★What advice would you give to an electrical and electronics student that you wish you were given when you started your course?All advice  are welcome!
I agree with almost all of the points made above, but I want to emphasize one piece of advice: Get practical experience and start it early.  Not only will it help you during your education, but it will surely give you an upper hand when applying for jobs after you're finished.  On the undergraduate side, many times students will focus all on the theory (mostly because it is very hard on its own and requires a lot of study), but then when they are thrown into a lab where they have to use that theory to develop or debug a circuit, they're clueless.  Often, labs can make or break your grade in a class, so if you can do well in them it will help you in the long run. Outside of school, practical experience is necessary in order to get a good job after you've completed your degree.  In my case, I landed a job with a great company almost purely because I did research during my undergraduate education.  Practical experience will give you something to talk about with potential employers at length and give them an opportunity to see how you would actually perform in a job.  The real world is very different from school; there is no right answer to anything like there is on a test.  You have to come up with the answer, test it thoroughly, and have the confidence that it is the best way to do things.  No one is sitting there with a key grading your work.  Applying your knowledge in some way will get you used to this sort of design process. You can get experience in many ways as people have mentioned above.  Join a club and work on a project, get a research position (what I did), or get an internship in the industry.  Many times, you can get units for these things (we were able to for internships and research), so it will help you complete your degree as well. Also, don't feel like as a lower division student (even as a freshman) you can't start getting experience.  My roommate got a research position the summer after his freshman year, and he could have gotten it earlier.  It's totally possible; you just have to find a professor who is willing to work with you. Hope that helps!