★What is something electrical engineers know that others don't?
Do you know why your electricity bill are so high?Go through this article you will find what is the cause of concerns and how you can reduce your electricity bills. Some Basics First. What is Power Factor? Power factor is the ratio between the kW and the kVA drawn by an electrical load where the kW is the actual load power and the kVA is the apparent load power. Simply, it is a measure of how efficiently the load current is being converted into useful work output and more particularly is a good indicator of the effect of the load current on the efficiency of the supply system.To understand power factor, we'll first start with the definition of some basic terms: kW is Working Power (also called Actual Power or Active Power or Real Power). It is the power that actually powers the equipment and performs useful work. kVAR is Reactive Power. It is the power that magnetic equipment (transformer, motor and relay) needs to produce the magnetizing flux. kVA is Apparent Power. It is the “vectorial summation” of kVAR and kW. Beer Analogy to understand Power Factor bette Let’s look at a simple analogy in order to better understand these terms…. Let’s say you are at the ballpark and it is a really hot day. You order up a mug of your favorite is represented by kW. Unfortunately, life isn't perfect. Along with your foam. (And let’s face it…that foam is represented by kVAR. The total contents of your mug, kVA, is this summation of kW (the beer) and kVAR (the foam). So, now that we understand some basic terms, we are ready to learn about power factor: Power Factor (P.F.) is the ratio of Working Power to Apparent Power. Looking at our beer mug analogy above, power factor would be the ratio of beer (kW) to beer plus foam (kVA). Thus, for a given KVA: The more foam you have (the higher the percentage of kVAR), the lower your ratio of kW (beer) to kVA (beer plus foam).  Thus, the lower your power factor. The less foam you have (the lower the percentage of kVAR), the higher your ratio of kW (beer) to kVA (beer plus foam).  In fact, as your foam (or kVAR) approaches zero, your power factor approaches 1.0. Our beer mug analogy is a bit simplistic. In reality, when we calculate kVA, we must determine the “vectorial summation” of kVAR and kW. Therefore, we must go one step further and look at the angle between these vectors. The “Power Triangle” illustrates this relationship between Real Power kW, Apperant power kVA, Reactive Power kVA. What does it do to my electricity bill? The power factor at your facility may be considered by your electricity provider in determining the demand, for billing purposes, that is used in calculating your monthly demand charge. This can have a significant impact on your total demand charges and your monthly electricity bill! While your power factor may vary over time, generally speaking, a high power factor indicates effective utilization of electrical power, while a low power factor indicates poor utilization. What Causes Low Power Factor? Since power factor is defined as the ratio of KW to KVA, we see that low power factor results when KW is small in relation to KVA. As in pure inductive circuit, Current lags 90° from Voltage, this large difference of phase angle between current and voltage causes zero power What causes a large KVAR in a system?  The answer is…inductive loads. Inductive loads (which are sources of Reactive Power) include: Transformers. Induction motors. Such as Ceiling Fans, Air Conditioner, Washing Machines, etc. Induction generators (windmill generators) High-intensity discharge (HID) lighting Single phase and three phase induction Motors (Usually, Induction motor works at poor power factor i.e. at:... (more)Loading...