★What is the meaning of frequency domain?
Bjarke Mønsted has already provided such a brilliant answer to this question, and I shall try to add to that using a little quirky tool in MATLAB. First, you should know that every sound is made up of waves. Every wave has a frequency characteristic to it. It just signifies the number of cycles of the wave that get completed in one second. Most sound waves we hear are composed by adding together sounds of multiple frequencies. Signal theory says that you can break any periodic wave into a sum of a number of waves in a series. For instance, a square wave like this: Is actually made up of summing many sine waves: If I were to see this square wave in the frequency domain, I would just see markers at the respective frequencies, their lengths being proportional to their amplitudes (like 1, 1/3 and so on in the above formula). This is a bit like providing a recipe for a mixture, like lemonade. As a final product, you taste the entire lemonade, but the one who has made it, can tell you, component by component, what all has gone into it. You can split the lemonade into: Water: 1 glass Lemon: 1 Sugar: 2 tablespoons Rock Salt: a pinch This is like breaking the lemonade up into the constituents that made it. Not an exact analogy but it helps you see the breaking up concept. Now, theory also says that if you have a non-periodic signal, you can break it up into a continuous sum of frequencies. For instance, the rectangular pulse function has a continuous frequency domain representation, unlike the above square wave, which was composed of discrete frequencies. Remember when you dial a digit on the phone, it gives you a sound? The above is a representation of the sound you get when you dial a '4'. The top graph shows the waveform of the sound in time. The bottom one shows the same in frequency domain. You can clearly see how this sound is made up majorly of two frequency components, one just below 800 Hz and one just after 1200 Hz. That is why this technology is called Dual-Tone dialing. Each sound you make while dialing a digit consists of two frequencies. The action of going from a time domain signal to its frequency domain counterpart is called a Fourier Transform. Engineers and scientists prefer to work in the frequency domain because computation becomes easier in the frequency domain. The response of a system to a signal can be computed by a simple multiplication in the frequency domain, whereas it would take a convolution integral (you can judge by the name), in the time domain. Also, differential equations become polynomial equations that can be solved easily in the frequency domain.