What is the simplest explanation of Bayesian statistics?
I love this quote from the beginning of Bayesian Data Analysis by Gelman et al (Amazon.com: Bayesian Data Analysis, Third Edition (Chapman & Hall/CRC Texts in Statistical Science) (9781439840955): Andrew Gelman, John B. Carlin, Hal S. Stern, David B. Dunson, Aki Vehtari, Donald B. Rubin: Books), the leading textbook on applied Bayesian statistics: The process of Bayesian data analysis can be idealized by dividing it into the following three steps: 1. Setting up a full probability model—a joint probability distribution for all observable and unobservable quantities in a problem. The model should be consistent with knowledge about the underlying scientific problem and the data collection process. 2. Conditioning on observed data: calculating and interpreting the appropriate posterior distribution—the conditional probability distribution of the unobserved quantities of ultimate interest, given the observed data. 3. Evaluating the fit of the model and the implications of the resulting posterior distribution: how well does the model fit the data, are the substantive conclusions reasonable, and how sensitive are the results to the modeling assumptions in step 1? In response, one can alter or expand the model and repeat the three steps. In that sense, I think a better term for the subject would be full probability modeling rather than Bayesian statistics. The basic idea is to create a full model for all the relevant quantities, then do the relevant conditional probability calculations (often using Bayes' rule) to quantify our uncertainty about the unknown quantities of interest, given the observed data. The details about how to set up, use, and validate the full probability model is a huge and growing subject, not easily explained in a few words or a few lectures. As references, I recommend Bayesian Data Analysis and, at a more basic level, Amazon.com: A First Course in Bayesian Statistical Methods (Springer Texts in Statistics) (9780387922997): Peter D. Hoff: Books and the free online books Think Bayes and CamDavidsonPilon/Probabilistic-Programming-and-Bayesian-Methods-for-Hackers.    Embed Quote 