Are we all Bayesians?
Frequentist guarantees are very transparent. If you correctly construct a 95% confidence interval of some estimated quantity then with repeated runs of this experiment/method, the fraction of times you capture the true quantity will approach 0.95. In this sense, we are frequentists. We think of probabilities as long-run quantities, because this is how we interact with probabilities in the real world. Bayesian statistics contains a lot of mind-boggling notions, in my opinion. Its goal (certainly for subjective Bayesians) is completely different to frequentist statistics. It's a platform to express beliefs in a coherent manner (where coherent usually refers to De Finetti Coherent) that ties together the way in which prior belief can be updated with evidence from the world to form posterior belief. Now if you give me a 95% Bayes interval (credibility interval) of an estimate of a quantity of interest - over multiple experiments and I look back after and calibrate the number of times in which the interval contained the true value... And I find that it never contains it... Then what am I to conclude? I'm to conclude that your prior belief sucked. The 95% suddenly becomes a secondary concern, because really I care about whether I believe you have a correct prior in the first place. Working with a system of belief is wholly different and so I'd argue that the two branches of statistics hold value for different tasks and you can't fully champion one over the other. On a concluding note, from discussions on the matter with Jay Kadane, a subjective Bayesian himself, he raises an interesting perspective. He argues that we are all subjective Bayesians. Belief is the ultimate commodity we deal with - if an experiment gives you anomalous results then you might conclude there's a bug within it, you re-adjust your experiment and you get something more acceptable. If it does not then you feel assured you did everything correctly. Is that not holding prior belief? Possibly we are all Bayesians but some are more honest about this than others.    Embed Quote Updated 30 Aug, 2013. 4,661 views. Asked to answer by Vladimir Novakovski.