What are the most significant flaws in Bayesianism?
From a theoretical or conceptual perspective one potential problem with Bayesianism is that its answers always depend on a choice of a prior, which makes the answers subjective and not objective. This is the most commonly cited "problem". However: In many cases one can pick uninformative priors which in some senses could be considered to be "objective". In many cases one can prove that given enough data, the posterior will converge and that the result does not depend on the prior in the limit. A "bad" prior can often be "beaten" by enough data. Depending on your specific problem or application, if you have enough spare data lying around, you can just confirm "experimentally" that the posterior does not depend too much on the prior. From a certain perspective, the subjectivity is a feature and not a bug; probability fundamentally depends on the state of one's information or knowledge (e.g. card games are completely deterministic; probability only applies in card games because the cards are face-down). So probability is fundamentally subjective, and it's better to embrace this rather than pretend it's not so.A similar issue is that Bayesianism requires the choice of a model — this should be considered as a part of the "prior" as well. You need to make sure your model's assumptions match up with reality to a sufficient degree. Such a judgement is also often a subjective one. (Of course frequentist approaches also require such subjective judgements!) As I see it, Bayesianism's issues are mainly pragmatic ones. Picking or developing or implementing an appropriate Bayesian model is often not trivial to do. Another thing is that if you're not using a conjugate prior then you need to use methods such as Markov Chain Monte Carlo which can be very computationally expensive. Frequentist approaches are, comparatively, often easier to implement and easier to compute — but there are cons also: they can be very easy to misinterpret and the results tend to be less robust and less useful.    Embed Quote Updated 20 Apr. 2,148 views.