What are the most significant flaws in Bayesianism?
Actually, I don't think Bayesianism has flaws. The prior issue that people keep bringing up is not an issue, it's the main reason to perform Bayesian stats!!! If you want to use prior information for estimation or prediction then you use Bayesian methods, if you don't want to then you don't. One does not say that the flaw of Newtonian mechanics is that is does not take into account quantum effects, they model different phenomena, and are therefore used in different places in science. If you have very little information (very little data) and have an expert with domain knowledge use it in your prior. If you're prior and posterior are very different then you've learned something! Which is great I think, no? As a Bayesian you can model a single data point and learn, which for me is at the heart of Bayesianism. I will admit it is difficult to explain Bayesianism to a scientist that has been working hard not to bias an experiment (as bias does not make sense in Bayesian stats.). A good example of this is to try and explain to a physicist that there is no true value (that is the parameter has a distribution and not the data) for the radius (or distribution of radius) for an electron cloud around a proton. Of course not all, but there are some that, for lack of a better phrase, view famous measurements as gospel. Lack of computational ease is not a flaw really, but instead a solvable problem (of course for some models it just has not been solved yet, which is definitely annoying). Another point is that Bayesianism actually solves theoretical flaws in frequentism. The greatest flaw in my mind of frequentism is in decision theory. It turns out that the only way  (iff) to make an optimal decision is if you take the expect value over the Loss function, that is your state (parameter) must have a distribution. I forget by who but it was proved by a frequentist in the 30/40's. There is a much better explanation in Berger's "Statistical Decision Theory". I would not say that Bayesianism has flaws, but instead that is can be annoying to deal with computational issues and having to spend, sometimes a considerable amount of, time thinking about how to make priors.    Embed Quote 