What is Bayesian inference in statistics?
The first key idea is to use new results to update existing estimates of probabilities.  E.g., Jurors at a trial are told to presume the defendant is not guilty until proven guilty beyond doubt.  So they assume he's not guilty.  Then they hear the evidence and the counter evidence and they keep adjusting their estimates of how likely it is that the defendant is guilty.  So far, this is something we all do. The second key idea is to use estimates of how likely the new evidence would be, given each of the hypotheses that you're testing.  E.g., if the defendant is innocent, it's slightly possible that his finger prints are on the murder weapon.  But if the defendant is guilty, it's more likely (but not certain) that his finger prints are own the murder weapon.  Similarly, guilty and innocent people are less or more likely to have alibis and good character witnesses, A guilty person is more likely to have been identified by an eye witness.  The third key idea is to use a particular formula for updating numerical probability estimates, in this example, of the defendant's guilt or innocence.  The problem for Bayesian analysis is that it requires estimating a lot of probabilities.  Does a juror really start with an estimate that the defendant is only 10% likely to be guilty?  Can the juror accurately estimate the probability that an innocent man would have an alibi, X, the probability that an innocent man would not have an alibi, 1-X, the probability that a guilty man would have an alibi, Y, the probability that a guilty man would not have an alibi, 1-Y, and so on for fingerprints, eye witness testimony, motives, etc.?  The more estimated probabilities there are in a calculation, the more uncertain the final estimate, e.g., of the defendant's guilt.  So jurors using Bayesian estimation of guilt or innocence is a bad example.  But there are other cases where the questions and the data are naturally numerical (like, is a customer more likely to buy this safari jacket after seeing advertisement A or advertisement B?)  In many cases customers can be automatically shown one of the two advertisements and their responses noted.  Both the estimate and the estimate's uncertainty can be updated automatically many times, very quickly, until a decision is made and all the customers see the more effective ad.    Embed Quote 