What is the main difficulty in parallel computing?
A key difficulty in parallel computing is that it must be performed in a physical space, where Parallel computing elements (server blades, CPUs, CPU cores, logic gates, whatever) have nonzero sizes. Communication speed between computing elements is limited (by the speed of light, and usually something smaller). The physical space has only [math]d[/math]=2 or 3 dimensions.These three assumptions imply that parallel runtime will be at least the [math]d[/math]-th root of sequential runtime. In particular, exponential speed-ups claimed in books and courses for matrix multiplication and other "easy" problems are impossible. More details and additional limits based on I/O can be found in this 4-page paper David C. Fisher: Your Favorite Parallel Algorithms Might Not Be as Fast as You Think. IEEE Trans. Computers 37(2): 211-213 (1988) Surprisingly few people understand the impact of physical constraints on parallel computing, even though these constraints are becoming more significant with every new technology generation. In particular, if you take one clock cycle of a (slow) 1GHz CPU, that would give you 1ns. Light can only travel for 1 foot during this time, but that's in a vacuum. On a silicon chip with copper wires, it is now impossible for the signal to cross the chip (even half of it) in one clock cycle. Whether or not interconnect dominates your particular application, depends on the application, algorithms, hardware, and the spatial organization of parallel units. Fast servers tasked with number-crunching may not need much communication and can ignore the physical space. For example, if you are using exhaustive search to crack a password, you can just send carrier pidgeons between the servers :) There are other limits to parallel computing that most people are just not aware of, such as P-completeness of certain combinatorial problems. These do not depend on interconnect speed, but are problem-specific. See this book review I wrote recently http://web.eecs.umich.edu/~imark... As for the bright future of parallel computing, it's just going to be a part of everyone's engineering toolbox. The magic in parallel computing is somewhat over-hyped. 