What are the best courses at Stanford?
Unsurprisingly the answers thus far are largely tech-heavy, but for those with more of a social sciences and humanities predisposition, Stanford offers phenomenal courses as well. Any course with Lanier Anderson, especially Existentialism, is a true joy: R. Lanier Anderson.  This course explores texts by eminent philosophers such as Camus, Sartre, de Beauvoir, Kierkegaard, Nietzsche etc. - and succeeds in intellectually transporting its students into a different cultural milleau.  For those out there who loved Holden Caufield, or identify with the concept of alienation and angst, this is the course to more deeply probe the origins and consequences of such instincts. Political Philosophy by Nadeem Hussein.  Ever sit back and systematically consider what it means to construct a just society?  And then proceed to attack the patchwork of your own thinking?  This course will afford you the opportunity to do just that, and for credit!  Stanford's version of Sandel's Justice course at Harvard covers authors ranging from Mills to Locke to Rawls, to more contemporary thinkers, and is every bit as enlightening and thought provoking. The Development of the Short Story by Elizabeth Tallent is a phenomenal course which explores the art of small scale fiction, covering traditional masters of the craft such as Alice Munro, as well as lesser known authors.  The most amazing part of this course however, is the exposure you'll get to the talent of your fellow students.  There is a rich subculture of creative writing talent at Stanford (e.g., this year's Pulitzer Prize winners in both Fiction - Adam Johnson, and Poetry - Sharon Olds are Stanford affiliates) and I have no doubt that some of my classmates will eventually become the next Fitzgeralds of our time. Econ 102B Econometrics: (& 102C Advanced Econometrics) with Edward Vytlacil (though I think he's left by now) OK call me a giant nerd but data collection and interpretation these days is king, and this methodological course was possibly the single most instrumentally (har-har, get it?) valuable course I took at Stanford. Updated 134w ago • View Upvotes