What is the reason for fewer selections from IIT, Guwahati in GSoC 2014 compared to other IITs, NITs, BITS, and IIITs?
Call me harsh, but I will put the blame entirely on the admins and the people in the selection panel of IITG. Studying courses for hours everyday and attending every class is not how people learn how to program, specially when most of the classes are not even distantly related to programming.    First of all, most profs hired by the selection panel don't have any interest in motivating the students for developing or programming. I've never heard a prof encouraging the students for stuff like this. They are too busy pointing out our attendance and low marks. They expect us to be learn all this stuff by ourselves, yet they keep on giving us countless assignments and force us to attend all the classes.  I am honestly disappointed at the way data structures and algorithms course taught to us(MA&C). We were barely taught anything about the data structures and we were never taught how to code any data structure. The hardest data structures I was told to code was a hash table. Nothing beyond that, They did teach us graph theory, but the TAs never bothered to look at the algorithm, they only looked at the answers. I implemented an O(n^3) or O(n^4) brute force solution and still got full marks. So basically I didn't learn anything about the actual algorithms. I got a good grade in the theory end semesters too, despite knowing nothing about data structures because we only had to calculate the expectations and complexities of various functions in the end semester. If I had learned all the data structures and knew how to code them and their complexities,but hadn't read the prerequisites(the chapters before quick sort in Cormen) thoroughly, I would have probably failed the course.  After that course, I had honestly lost interest. Because, most people coming here are not used to coding before joining the institute and 1st few courses are supposed to build an interest, not demotivate us. Later we had OS lab where we were never showed how to code but were expected to complete all the assignments.  Even those people with genuine interest in programming hardly get any support from the profs. The profs just want everyone to maintain 100% attendance and score at whatever subject they are teaching. Honestly I am about complete my 3rd year, and I have never had a prof giving me any algorithmic problem to think about or anything to develop. I am not saying this about all profs, but most of them think that B.Tech guys are idiots who have no interest whatsoever.  The fact is we all start the sem with genuine interest but lose it by midsem because of the way we are taught. Then they get frustrated and start asking why there are so few people in the class. Now if everyone is wondering why I put the entire blame on the selection panel, let me clear it. It is natural for any person with a Phd to try and become a prof at a prestigious institute, so we definitely can't blame the profs for choosing to become profs. And most people have their own way of thinking, it is really hard to change that. Most profs think studying is all about attending classes, taking notes, mugging up what's taught. May be that's how it works if you're studying history, but that's not how programming/maths is done. If someone thinks like this before becoming a prof, he will continue to think so even after becoming a prof unless some miracle happens. So I think it's the job of the selection panel to filter out people like this. The selection panel is the HR of this institute, if they don't hire the right people nobody can make it right.  As for the admin, may be they should remove the mandatory PT, NSO/NSS/NCC classes and make them optional. Also if they really wanted good engineers, they should organize optional workshops related to technical stuff. Most of the time, it's the students who keep trying for these stuff. If the profs are really good at these stuff, they can do these pretty easily. It's not too much to ask the profs to organize regular programming sessions or anything similar. But neither the admins nor the profs are interested in these kind of stuff, they leave it upto the students to organize these,probably because the profs themselves aren't too good at these stuff. The admin has been taking the profs side and listening to their complaints for a long time, if they started paying heed to what we have to say, may be they will realize that the profs are equally if not more guilty than us. They should take a lesson out of MIT's page and learn how creativity is encouraged. And mandatory obedience is definitely not the way to it.  Yes there are few profs who actually encourage people and try to interact with the students, IMHO, they should stop treating the students as spoiled brats and try to listen to their side of the story as well. 