What are the best courses at Stanford?
Most of the major contenders have been mentioned already: Sleep and Dreams, Social Dance I, d.school classes, CS 106a. Almost equally important as what you learn in these classes is the universality of them. I've found that they often serve as a connection for talking to alumni from previous years. It doesn't matter what major you come from, what dorms you lived in, if you can bond over the memory of the first time you were dragged to a Richard Powers Social Dance class. To round out the CS-heavy selection of courses in other answers, a few other suggestions: Psych 131: Language and Thought and Psych 50: Introduction to Cognitive Neuroscience. I could go on and on about the best psychology courses (and if interested, check out my list of the best psychology professors at Stanford) but these are two that I'd highlight. In general, the psychology department at Stanford is the best in the nation so taking lectures or seminars in it is a wise decision. Ling 150: Language in Society. The linguistics department at Stanford is also stellar and there's no single class in it that I've regretted taking.* This is a great class for anyone who has an interest in learning more about language. You'll learn about everything from the politics of language use to how and why differences in speech styles arise. Language classes. I really made use of the strength of the foreign language departments during my time at Stanford (I studied four languages while there). The classes are small, the teachers dedicated, and the curriculum well-suited to guiding you to competency. I personally recommend the Japanese and Mandarin classes most -- I found the teachers in each of these to be the best and the teaching strategies most effective. Art Studio 151: Sculpture I. This is one of the few outliers from my linguistics, psychology, and foreign language heavy transcript. I would never call myself an artist but I greatly enjoyed this course which was taught by a visiting artist and taught me not only about art but also how to weld, how to use a circular saw, and more. ------ * Social science departments at Stanford (and in general) tend to be really strong in terms of both research and teaching ability, likely because fewer candidates leave academia for industry meaning that the creme de la creme become professors. 