What is the reason for fewer selections from IIT, Guwahati in GSoC 2014 compared to other IITs, NITs, BITS, and IIITs?
While most of the answers here seems to concentrate on student's shortcomings, i would like to point out that most of the students (even the cream of the crop developers) in our institute prefer not to apply for GSoC, even though the stipend is very handsome. I would like to point out some facts which makes it difficult for students (not only from IIT Guwahati, but in general) to participate in GSoC,  which i think might give juniors also some idea about it. I ll go point by point. 1. Length of GSoC- This schedule was last year, when i was looking for applying, i don't know the scenario this year. GSoC projects were floated towards the end of April, with the first shortlist of students coming in mid May. If you get selected, the mid term evaluation is conducted in July end at the start of our semester and the end term evaluation is in September end during our mid semester exams. Now, the organisation for which you get selected demand a lot during mid term and end term evaluations and managing those along with mid semesters is a herculean task in itself. 2. It's basically a work from home internship - All said and done, GSoC, at the end of the day is a work from home internship. The organisations floating projects in GSoC are those who work on GPL (General Public License) open source license. The technologies they work upon are sophisticated to say the least. As opposed to an on site internship, where you could ask your mentor on every other problem that you face, in work from home, you are supposed to debug your own code primarily and the main communication between you and other developers working on the same project is IRC (Internet Relay Chat). 3. Lack of Code Quality by students - This problem is not specific to IIT Guwahati, but in general all institutes across India. As pointed out to me by Harshil Lodhi, the main emphasis on any coding assignment given to CSE students, here at IIT Guwahati, the entire grading is based on code execution and none on code quality. For sophomore year students, who have no prior industrial experience, this is a major drawback, which prevent them from getting selected, as the organisations demand a very high code quality. P.S. These were some of the problems i faced as an applicant for GSoC. Do point out if i m mistaken somewhere. 