What math concepts a programmer should know to make things easier?
I think the first thing is to understand the basics of numbers. How to convert from base 10 to other bases. Write a simple program which can convert a number to a string etc. Don't use the built in functions. This will give you some exposure to modular arithmetic which is very important in all sorts of programming problems. Also the relationship between bit shifting and multiplication and division. Another concept is floating point vs. integer numbers and at least a simple idea of the differences and pitfalls of these data types and where to use them. Important area is that of a tree and graphs. A tree is easy to understand visually and underlies a vast amount of programming. Writing programs to represent, traverse and construct trees should be your next aim. This will also give you exercise in concepts like recursion and binary logic and graph representation. Its also a fun part of programming. Complexity and how this is calculated and represented is very important. Sort of on the same level is at least a basic understanding of matrix operations and where these are used. Usually called linear algebra. If you want to know more about encryption then I would look at abstract algebra. concepts like rings, groups and fields come to mind. Another very important area is probability. Frequentist as well as Bayes probability is very important in many areas of programming applications. The relationship between probability and entropy is also the basis of data compression algorithms. I.e. shannon's theorem etc. If you have at least these firmly under control I would look to expand your grasp of dynamic programming and optimization. This is a good start to writing or at least understanding data compression algorithms. These together with probability are the basis of artificial intelligence and will prepare you for more advanced concepts like machine learning, route optimization,path planning, scheduling and certain kinds of graphics. 