What is the reason for fewer selections from IIT, Guwahati in GSoC 2014 compared to other IITs, NITs, BITS, and IIITs?
Here is the reason: CS 101             Introduction to Computing                  (3-0-0-6)   Introduction: The von Neumann architecture, machine language, assembly language, high level programming languages, compiler, interpreter, loader, linker, text editors, operating systems, flowchart; Basic features of programming (Using C): data types, variables, operators,  expressions, statements, control structures, functions; Advanced programming features: arrays and pointers, recursion, records (structures), memory management, files, input/output, standard library functions, programming tools, testing and debugging; Fundamental operations on data: insert, delete, search, traverse and modify; Fundamental data structures: arrays, stacks, queues, linked lists; Searching and sorting: linear search, binary search, insertion-sort, bubble-sort, selection-sort, radix-sort, counting-sort; Introduction to object-oriented programming -------------------------------------------------------------- This is the introductory course of Computer Science in IIT Guwahati. It has everything other than "How to program?" They start with system architecture and end with the analysis of algorithms. In between students encounter a programming language "C" with absolutely zero knowledge of programming paradigms. Students mug all codes and write in exams, get good grades... End of CS101. After freshman year, the accidents with programming haunts people and most lose interest in programming. Even worse, some develop fear from it. And this is the end of a programming career of 95% IIT Guwahati students. Rest 5% try and most of them are completing the "loads of assignments". A few appear in competitions. Fewer got selected. And professors blame fests and DC for distraction. PS: World is not run by programmers or coders. Fests are building other sets of qualifications and I think most of them are hired for the same. And to download a good IDE, DC is needed. Without DC people cannot survive in the restricted network service of IIT Guwahati (5pm to 2 am with 150mb maximum file size). Updated 59w ago • View Upvotes