★What are the best VOIP service providers and what distinguishes them?
Quite frankly, most VoIP service providers all offer the same services with some variation, of course. When analyzing the VoIP market, a few common factors seem to apply to every VoIP service: ·        Everyone is a leading provider in the industry. ·        Their service(s) are free* or boast “low rates.” ·        You’ll receive unprecedented service and award winning support. What it really boils down to, is the quality of service experienced, total cost and ease of use. Cost should be assessed through speaking representative from the company, not from a landing page on a website. Many hosted providers have an activation or start-up fee which drives up the first bill. It’s also worth mentioning that the final rate you’re billed on a monthly basis will be a little higher than the stated service fee because of taxes for services like E911. The quality of the service may be hard to assess as it is speculation until the service is truly in use at your location. Many times, factors attributing to call quality can be attributed to circumstances beyond the provider’s control such as the bandwidth provided from an ISP. This is why it is best to take advantage of a free trial or at the very least, don’t sign a contract until you know you’re happy with a VoIP provider. User reviews are usually one of the best ways to gain honest feedback about a service after a little prodding. There are a few sits that have user review sections for the more recognized brands in the VoIP. The review section here is a good, non-biased review forum for just about every kind of VoIP service in the market. There was blog posted too about disseminating information found in customer reviews. Basically, read commentary thoroughly as you’ll inevitably run into spammers which you will find almost everywhere. Personally, I use Broadview Networks for calling at my office. It’s a hosted service that’s cheap and simple. They don’t have a mobile app but I prefer Skype anyway.    Embed Quote