★Can VoIP ever have latency as low as a "regular" phone line?
No. As long as VoIP calls are routed to PSTN endpoints, the latency will always be higher than with the PSTN on its own. However, there should be no perceptible difference between VoIP and PSTN service. -- I suspect that the OP's latency issues can be attributed to jitter and transmission delay (caused by the lack of traffic prioritization). This can be resolved by enabling QoS in the router. Here's the long explanation: The traditional PSTN model guaranteed that each voice packet was sent/received in fixed intervals (time division multiplexing), so communications occurred in a deterministic way (fixed time division delay, minimal switching delay, etc.). PSTN one-way delay could be calculated as encoding time + 3ms switching time + 0.005ms/km + decoding time. However, the landscape is transitioned away from the traditional TDMA model; most PSTN carriers have moved to IP for voice transport over their own pipes; most of the PSTN is now technically VoIP, but is tightly controlled for latency and reliability. VoIP that is available to consumers, on the other hand, relies on the "best effort" Internet infrastructure; the interval between packets in a communications steam at the far end are not deterministic (can even arrive out of order). So, there are three related issues that I believe are causing the delay that the OP is experiencing: 1. VoIP systems need to compensate for jitter (variation in the delay between packets, caused by serial queuing and network conditions). To compensate for jitter, VoIP endpoints use buffers to delay incoming packets enough to create a steady stream. And though these should operate at 30ms or below, they are often dynamic. 2. VoIP service often gets connected to a PSTN, so there are IP network delays before the call is connected to the PSTN, and the endpoint that bridges VoIP to PSTN has to buffer packets to compensate for network jitter. 3. At the customer level, data usually flows through one channel, which means packets wait in sequential order to be transmitted. Once data gets passed on by the ISP, the amount and magnitude of jitter is significantly smaller; most of the jitter in VoIP is at the customer level, and is caused by non-voice data getting queued up between voice packets in the outgoing serial data stream. If 40ms or 100ms worth of data gets stuck in between voice packets, the jitter buffer on the far end is going to have to compensate by delaying all voice data. The most effective way to deal with this is to delay non-voice packets, and transmit them at regular intervals between voice packets. Many modern consumer routers include this functionality, and call it QoS or Traffic Shaping. QoS analyzes outgoing packets before they hit the perimeter (modem), and re-orders them to ensure lower transmission delay for time-sensitive data.    Embed Quote