★What is the difference between VoIP and VoLTE?So as I understand it voice calls can now be placed using LTE packet switching whereas before they had to use circuit switching and were therefore always defaulted to using 3G or 2G network. Since Skype/Hangouts etc already used packet switching internet protocol for their video/voice calling what is the difference/how is this new? Is it just the handoff between 4G and 3G/2G when required that is new?
Good question. VoIP is the generic term: anything carried over IP packets can count, including Skype, Facetime or other services. Packets are packets and the only thing that knows they are voice is the application that receives than & processes them eg your Skype app. As such that is Layer 7 and they go through L1-L6 exactly as every other packet. They could be going over LTE, over WiFi or over ADSL - it doesn't matter = packets are packets. VoLTE is a specific type of VoIP designed into the LTE standard, so it has lots of very specific optimisations and accelerations. In effect, the packets are treated as "special" by the whole LTE network. That means it will work better (lower latency, less power, etc) - and as you say, be able to handover to other LTE cells or to 3G/2G legacy networks. Signals Research Group (very good, very resprected consultancy) & Spirent did some testing and confirmed this. commercially deployed Voice-over-LTE (VoLTE) technology provides better service than 3G Circuit Switched (CS) voice and Internet calling services and Skype software. The analysis found that VoLTE users enjoyed considerably better call quality, faster connectivity and substantially less drain on the batteries of their mobile devices. and The report evaluates several attributes including call setup time, call reliability, call quality, network resource requirements, and the impact on battery life. The report’s highlights include: VoLTE call quality greatly exceeded that of 3G CS voice and was measurable higher than the HD voice service offered by Skype With network loading, and in particular with background applications running on the mobile phone and transferring data with the network, the VoLTE results were considerably better than Skype VoLTE call setup time was nearly twice as fast as 3G Circuit Switched Fallback (CSFB) call setup VoLTE used substantially fewer network resources than Skype voice, which in turn resulted in longer estimated device battery life for the subscriber and a more efficient network for the operator When leaving LTE coverage, VoLTE calls were successfully handed over to 3G CS voice. The network’s enhanced Single Radio Voice Call Continuity ensures calls continue without interruption“The clear choice for mobile network operators should be a no brainer,” said Emil Olbrich, vice president of Network Technologies for SRG. “VoLTE delivers a consistently higher call quality than OTT voice applications. Operators should also strongly consider the long-term network savings associated with VoLTE, given that it takes advantage of advanced features that allow it to use far less network resources when it comes to supporting a voice call when compared with current OTT voice applications.” Signals Research https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IWYfQ1-6ynI < Video describing the testing Signals Research Group study shows commercially deployed VoLTE service better than 3G and Internet calling services such as Skype™    Embed Quote