★Can VoIP ever have latency as low as a "regular" phone line?
How about you do a broadband QUALITY test like the one at The Global Broadband Quality Test Since a VoIP call using G.711 consumes under 90 Kb/s [other codecs need less] - bandwidth is NEVER going to be your issue. Latency is the most obvious problem which you can test with standard ping if you know the IP of the Ooma servers. If its no good [more than 80 ms] then that's your root cause. Reasons for this can be laid first with the ISP: Run a tracert on Oomas IP, how many hops is it [more than 10 is pretty awful]? Is your ISP being naughty blocking traffic they know is voice - that may compete with their products? Ask them if voice traffic is being given priority? Did they supply a router than manages QoS? Does their network respect the QoS tags? Are you using a DOCIS based provider - QoS is harder to manage? Questions to ask the service provider - Do you have an agreement for peering or prioritizing traffic with your ISP? Do they have sufficient capacity to deal with all of their customers? Can they verify the latency between them and national carriers? I have done some research on Ooma [not just looking at pictures of Ashton Kutcher - though A2A him on here]. I really doubt the problem is on their end - they are well funded and have a decent engineering team. Comcast have no interest in your experience with another supplier eating their bandwidth. Jitter - the VoIP killer - varying latency, packets arriving out of order - if the traffic for voice has no priority you are fighting against a changing tide constantly. Your device corrects for this by storing the stream in an ever increasing buffer so that it has time to reconstruct the stream into something that sounds like voice. This again would be an ISP quality issue - the test I linked to first will tell you about this. Call Ooma - they probably will be able to monitor and report on this. If - as I suspect - your ISP is the problem, get on the phone and batter them until they give you a service that is acceptable. Alternatively is change supplier. For ref - I experienced last month Average Latency - 28 ms Average Jitter - 0 ms Max Jitter - 9 ms I have seen ADSL 8/1 mb connections serve an office with 12 people with a faultless phone service. Also seen corporates with leased lines and MPLS get awful experiences. Its all about technical expertise and support.    Embed Quote