What are some good places to visit near Bangalore for about a week?
There's plenty of things 'in' Bangalore to keep you busy if you have a stipulated period of time. If you are the type who likes amusement parks and enjoy a scream or two, I would highly recommend Wonderla @Page on Wonderla.  If you do go in that direction, there are a couple of other things you could also cover in that stretch. One is Innovative Film City & the other is Grips Gokarting & Bowling Bangalore. All this is on Mysore road, and in one end of the city. Maybe you can pick two out of three of these depending on your interest and make a day out of it. If you like national parks, you're lucky there is one in Bangalore. It's the  Bannerghatta National Park. You can spend a good half day here and rest of that day, I suggest you to go to http://www.pyramidvalley.org/.  This is something different, unless you have visited the Pyramids in Egypt. These two places again fall in the same direction. If you are a foodie and want to try out an authentic Kannada style of street food. One has to visit VV puram chaat street. It's advisable to go in the evening after 5pm. You can see the street filled with people, all eating the famous "oobats", "panniyaram/paddu", many kinds of "dosas" etc all served steaming hot! Foodies are in for a treat when they arrive at Bangalore. You could try breakfast at places like Brahmins Cafe, Koshy's (Mg Road), Vidyarthi Bhavan (Gandhi Bazaar), Veena Stores (Malleswaram), Airlines hotel. Concept based places like The Egg Factory | All day dining, India's first online tea store are a nice visit as it's something different. There are many many more and would make a whole post on its own. If you're someone who enjoys nature and just wants to just have a long stroll in a park some morning, visit Lal Bagh! It's the largest park/botanical garden one can find right in the heart of the city. If you want to visit some heritage places in Bangalore, you have a bunch of them that you can visit "Bangalore Palace" , "Freedom Park, Bangalore" and there are many more. If you are a techie, and enjoy museums, you must visit the Visvesvaraya Industrial & Technological Museum Bangalore India. Planetorium @ Welcome to Jawaharlal Nehru Planetarium is really something everyone must visit. If you want to visit some good temples, there are many and these are some I enjoyed visiting:  Sri Radha Krishna Temple and International Society for Krishna Consciousness, Dodda Ganeshana Gudi, mahalakshmi layout anjaneya temple, bangalore, SHREE SURYA NARAYANA SWAMY TEPMLE. If you want to have an evening stroll where the streets are filled with people from all parts of the world, you must visit M G Road, Bangalore & Brigade Road, Bangalore. There are restaurants (of all possible cuisines) & pubs that would satisfy your every craving. Close to Mg Road is Commercial Street which is the hub for shopping. This road is packed on the weekends by shoppers who are on the look out for the perfect matching pair of clothes. You get a the wide range of variety in every possible thing that you can adorn yourself with. The new malls which have some good experiences are Orion Mall at Brigade Gateway and Phoenix MarketCity - Shopping Mall in Bangalore. These are known for their spacious walkaways and many shops to choose all kinds of items. They have a very good Bowling alley @ BluO. And, movies at the PVR ECX short for Enhanced Experience. For an IMaX experience, visit PVR IMAX in Forum Kormanagala. For a long drive craving, visit Rasta Cafe in Ramanagaram. These are all just to give you a heads up as to what you can do in Bangalore. There are places like Big Banyan Tree a.k.a Dodda Alada Mara, Nandi Hills which are about an hour outside the city. If you like adventurous places, there are some near Bangalore Welcome to the Rappa Masinagudi Skandagiri, famous amongst trekkers. Bandipur Gopalswamy betta If you want to move further away,  visit Mysore, hill stations such as Coorg, Wayanad (Kerala). Hope this helps! The suggested adds are: 1. A night outing should include a visit to UB city. The UB tower stands out in the night sky and looks lovely. The Plaza is the commercial part of the project, which has a lot of restaurants & shops. This is a hangout for the rich and famous. 2. Another place which is worth a visit is Vidhana Soudha, either during the day or night. Thanks Deshdeep Mandal. Updated 140w ago • View Upvotes