Which is the best place to visit in Bangalore?
If you got just 1 day, you ca visitn these places. These aren't really IN bangalore but are around Bangalore a few kilometers away . These can easily be visited in a day's time! Take a look... I love the mysterious vibe of this place... 1. Hassan Image Source Famous for: Mystery of Temples and monuments Distance from Bangalore: 187 kms Travel Time: 2 Hours 50 minutes An ideal weekend picnic spot near Bangalore for the history & cultural buffs, the city derives its name from its presiding deity Goddess Hassanamba. This place has many monuments and ancient structures, and is often referred as the temple- architecture capital of Karnataka. Some of the must-visit places are Ramanthaour temple, Gorur dam, Hoysala temples and Shettyhalli church. The Shettihalli church is unique because it is submerged in water during monsoons and emerges back after the monsoons. This place is simply stunning! 2. Yelagiri Hills Image Source Famous for: Hills and greenery Distance from Bangalore: 158 Km Travel Time: 3 Hours 5 minutes Yelagiri is a small hill station in Vellore district of Tamil nadu. This place is quiet, beautiful and ideal for relaxed weekends. You can do hiking, trekking and visit the telescope house, Punganoor lake and Nilavoor lake. Yelagiri hills is amongst the many one day picnic spots near Bangalore where you can relax and unwind away from the bustling city. A perfect place for nature lovers... 38. Kabini Image Source Famous for: Wildlife sanctuary Distance from Bangalore: 154 kms Travel Time: 3 Hours 5 minutes This area is abundant in wildlife and has a rich variety of flora and fauna. Once a private hunting area for British, this place attracts tourists from all over the country. You can go for a jungle safari or an elephant safari. You can also go for boating and visit the Kabini dam nearby. This place is full of cultural and architectural beauty... 4. Mysore Image Source Famous for: Palaces, Gardens, Temples and Galleries Distance from Bangalore: 143 Km Travel Time: 2 Hours 50 minutes Known as the city of palaces, this place has a rich cultural heritage. Some of the must visit places are Mysore palace, Brindavan gardens, Jagamohan palace and St. Philomena’s Church. You should also try the traditional sweet of Mysore known as ‘Mysore Pak’. Mysore palace is an ideal weekend picnic spot near Bangalore. Hey check out this list to read about more such places: 15 Fabulous Places To See In A Day Around Bangalore Hope I could help :) 