Magic: The Gathering: How is Fate Reforged impacting Standard?
There are a number of Rares and Uncommons from Fate Reforged that have already made an impact on standard, as well as several cards with potential. White: Monastery Mentor adds another must-answer threat to W/R/x Aggressive decks. Valorous Stance is appearing in the main deck and sideboards of W/x Heroic or Aggro Decks Mardu Woe Reaper could be a potent addition to a White Weenie deck (sort of as extra copies of Soldier of the Pantheon) Mastery of the Unseen gives White inevitability, which makes it possible in a W/x control deck. Citadel Siege (Outpost, Palace) have seen varying amounts of play. Blue: Torrent Elemental is another source of inevitability in a U/B/x Control Deck, as well as a resilient threat in Sultai Whip type decks. Frost Walker is a very powerful two-drop that has seen play already in U/x aggro decks. a 4-power two drop puts it in unique company, especially in blue. Supplant Form saw play in one top eight deck. Black Tasigur, the Golden Fang has not only seen Standard play, but has even cracked into Modern. Archfiend of Depravity is not very popular, but it has made top 8 appearances, even if not in large tournament settings. Soulflayer even has a deck named after it: Chromanti-flayer. Red Alesha, Who Smiles at Death seems play in a R/W aggressive shell. Humble Defector has a niche slot in a Jeskai Ascendancy combo deck as a card advantage engine, and seems to appear in a few R/W aggro brew Shaman of the Great Hunt is very powerful in a R/G Aggro deck along with Rabblemaster. Wild Slash is a cheap removal spell. Right now the decision to play Strike or Slash is a metagame call. Green Whisperwood Elemental is a solid card in a G/x Devotion deck Wildcall also finds a home there Warden of the First Tree appears in Abzan decks as an early threat that spirals out of control as the game progresses. Yasova appears in a number of Temur-colored midrange decks. MULTICOLORED Silumgar is awesome in UB control as a hard to deal with threat Atarka does good work in a RG deck, combining with Xenagos (the God) for an instant kill. COLORLESS Ugin has appeared in UB control, and even Sultai control or G/x ramp. 