What is the best less crowded place to hangout in Bangalore?
For answer, you CAN ALSO CLICK THIS LINK Bangalore tourist places | Pubs | Restaurants | Malls | Hang outs Hi, it’s very hard to find completely uncrowded places in Bangalore but i have put down some points. If you are hoping to avoid crowds, best to avoid festive season/weekends. Everything goes on sale and then every place is crowded. Also, a lot will depend on where you are staying.    Malls   1 MG Road is a very peaceful and crowd-free mall. Mid-end brands. There are coffee shops, bookstores and many good restaurants on the top floor like Blimey's, The Tao Terraces. Yauatcha & Fort Kochi. Food Hall is also in this mall – this is a supermarket with great imported stuff, a kitchenware section, bakery, salad bar and ready to eat meals.     UB City (Vittal Mallya road) is very peaceful as well but very high end brands. Great food court with nice restaurants like Shiros, Toscano, Cafe Noir, Fava, City Bar, Singkong and Sanchos. There is also a night club on top - Skye.   Phoenix Mall (Whitefield) - Huge mall with Indian and international brands to suit all wallets. Great restaurants. There is a multiplex as well. Very kid- friendly activities like rock climbing, trampolines. But gets very crowded in the evenings and on weekends.   Orion Mall (Malleshwaram) - similar to Phoenix mall. Orion mall has 4 floors of retail space which includes shopping zones and multiplex. Food & dining options include lakeside cafes and bowling & gaming zones. Crowded on weekends and evenings.   Garuda mall - (near Brigade road. Wallet friendly. crowded but centrally located) Has retail stores - Shoppers Stop, entertainment/activity centers, multiplex cinemas (Inox), multi-storey parking, food court & multi-cuisine restaurants.   Forum Mall (Koramangala) – Crowded but wallet-friendly and great shopping. Well located. It has retail shops over 5 floors, bookstore - Landmark (not very crowded),PVR Cinemas - 2,100 seating capacity, 11 screen multiplex. The Transit Lounge Food court houses a KFC, Pizza Hut, McDonald's.   Mantri Mall (Malleshwaram) - Departmental stores such as Lifestyle, Shoppers Stop, Pantaloon, Reliance Trends and Marks & Spencer. Spar hypermarket spread over 90,00 sq ft and a 6-screen INOX multiplex. Also, Amoeba bowling alley and gaming centre, food court and dining area spread over 1 lakh sq ft with 39 food & beverages outlets.    Decathlon - Gigantic sports and trekking gear store. There is one in Whitefield, one near the new airport and one in Sarjapur Road. Extremely reasonable and fantastic stuff.   Raintree (Sankey road opposite Windsor Manor) - a beautiful bungalow with a charming cafe. This houses Anokhi and some lovely home decor stuff.   Central Mall and Lifestyle etc are always crowded.   Other shopping districts - MG Road, Church Street and Brigade Road. Very crowded areas but Barton Centre has Cotton World which is very un-crowded.   Lavelle Road is also nice.   Indiranagar: 100 ft Road and CMH road are fabulous for shopping and eating out. No malls in this area but the entire road is full of apparel/lifestyle stores and restaurants. The Purple Turtle is great for home decor. Chumbak is here.   Koramangala - also good for shopping but again you can't escape crowds. The Purple Pony is great for home decor.    Bookstores Blossoms bookstore is a small but well stocked quaint second hand + new books bookstore where you will find anything you're looking for. It is on Church Street just off MG road. Semi-crowded but worth a visit for true book lovers.   Oxford Bookstore at the Leela (Old airport road) is very very un-crowded. Very peaceful, you can sit at their in-house cafe (Cha-bar) for hours reading a book and drinking all sorts of special teas. The Leela also has the Leela Galleria for shopping.   Bookworm (Shrungar complex MG road) - second hand books. Small but well stocked.   There is also Sapna Book House on 80 ft road Indiranagar which is not that crowded. Decently stocked. Also has stationery and toys.   Gangarams Book Bureau (Church street) Decently stocked. Not crowded.   Other bookstores include the usual Crosswords and Landmarks. These are not that crowded.    Parks   Cubbon park. The best part of Bangalore. It's so huge the crowd doesn't seem like much. Beautiful on Sundays. Though lots of people go there, still plenty of space for everyone.     Lalbagh - botanical garden and park. Again huge. There are guided tours and organised mornings walks but you need to book in advance.     Lakes - for boating Ulsoor Lake - they have boating but not much else. Centrally located. Pretty area. Not crowded   Sankey Tank. they also have boating. Again a very green nice area in Malleshwaram, attached to a mid-sized park. Not crowded.    There are smaller parks in residential areas like Richards Park and Coles Park but nothing special about them. Not very crowded   Museums   National Gallery of Modern Art showcases modern Indian art and houses paintings by Raja Ravi Verma, Jamini Roy, Amrita Sher-Gil,Rabindranath Tagore and a large number of modern and contemporary artists. You won't find crowds there but please check timings before you go.    Government Museum - is an archaeological museum and has a rare collection of archaeological and geological artifacts including old jewellery, sculpture, coins and inscriptions. The museum is also home to the Halmidi inscription, the earliest Kannada inscription (450 AD). Not crowded but please check timings before you go.   Karnataka Chitrakala Parishath - this is an art institute + gallery. Please check timings before visiting.   Theater Rangashankara - wide variety of theatre, dance and events. Check online for schedule. Need to book in advance.   Music (Very nice but avoid if you are avoiding crowds)   Blue Frog on Church street. Check online for schedules of gigs.   Humming Tree - check online for schedule.   Bangalore Palace   This is in Jaymahal. Centrally located. A lovely old palace with extensive area around. There is also a good restaurant there. Not crowded at all.   Restaurants and Pubs Bangalore is great for food. Advise you to book tables in the evenings and weekends. Lunch is not a problem. Also advise you to eat close to where you are staying. Distance are not bad but traffic can be terrible.   Indiranagar can't be missed. Great places like Fatty Bao, Mammagoto, Monkey Bar. Toit Brewery. Chianti (italian). Phobidden fruit (Vietnamese)  Sue's Food place (Carribean) and The Black Rabbit( restaurant by day, nightclub by night)   MG road area- Koshy's is the epitome of old world charm. Open through the day. Not crowded. There is an AC section but avoid it if you want the vintage experience.   Karavalli on Residency road is super coastal South Indian food. Not crowded. Great ambience.   Sodabottleopenerwala (Lavelle road) - Parsi cuisine - gets crowded in the evenings.   Sunny's (Lavelle road) - great food but please book in advance. Be careful while booking. Make sure you specify whether it is Indian or continental you want. Both restaurants are down the road from each other and there have been mix-ups in bookings.   Smokehouse Deli - one on Lavelle road, one in Indiranagar.   UB City - all good restaurants all sorts of cuisines.   1 MG mall - nice restaurants, not crowded.   Arbour Brewing Company (Magrath Road) - a brewery with decent food. Very big so you will always find a table. Try to get a seat in the outdoor section.   Biere Club - Lavelle road (Brewery plus restaurant)   Ente Keralam near Ulsoor lake. Great kerala food. make reservation before going.   Also try Coconut Grove on Church street. Not crowded. Authentic Kerala food. Nice ambience.   Harima (Residency road) - great Japanese restaurant   The Square (Vittal Mallya road opposite Cubbon park entrance) this is a premium cafe coffee day. Very nice. Very unlike other coffee days. Not crowded.    Spas   Generally spas are not crowded. But always better to call and make a booking. Most spas are around Central business district and Indiranagar. a couple in Koramangala.   Angsana - this is quite a drive from the city centre but you can make a day of it since it is a lovely place with nice restaurant and spa centre.    SPAce - Indiranagar   The 5th element - rest house road near MG Road.   O2 spa - there are many around the city Updated 14w ago • View Upvotes