What is it like to live in Bengaluru?
Bangalore is a city of relatively recent international importance. Therefore, the nouveau aspect of it shows up in the youthful phenomenon of gadget consumerism, brand culture, pub culture, the importance of perception and so on. It is not "cool" among the cosmopolitan youth to travel by the BMTC regular bus; whereas in a city like Mumbai, nobody cares even if you turn up to work in a bullock cart; if you can that is (you can’t, so substitute electric train instead). There is an entirely different side to Bangalore: parts of Basavanagudi, old parts of Ulsoor, Malleswaram et al., i.e., the parts accommodating a lot that likes to consider itself as a protector of culture. There is a lot of tradition attached with the aforementioned places. These may not be for the youngsters from other cities. Other fanatical elements are scattered across the city too. They are not a major problem, except for the bandhs and protests that occasionally affect work life and travel plans. Bangalore is sort of a trendsetter. Other cities have imbibed the Volvos, the three-bedroom apartments with swimming pool/jogging track and so on. For an expat with all amenities taken care of, Bangalore offers only traffic as a major obstacle. There are other problems such as the lack of a contemporary culture updated to the level of the west. You would find frequent staging of English plays that are considered passé in the west. It is the typical Indian problem: here, we are always catching up. It is not all bad though. Till 2005 or so, getting all the books/music albums that you desired in India was hard. You had to buy them in the west. Now, it’s not that big an issue. You can find a lot of what you want online (indiaplaza, flipkart, homeshop18, infibeam). With regard to music, art and theater, it is still backward here when expat tastes are considered. Living the American/expat way in Bangalore is more expensive. You pay for clean, mineral water, eat out at a price, and shop at places related to your requirements that cost much more than in the west (and one has to beware of being fleeced while doing art-shopping). Olive oil, for example, costs more than two times the dollar costs thereof in the US. You can catch up with jazz bands playing the trends of yesterday at places such as Herbs & Spices. For the regular citizens, Bangalore is overpriced, occasionally underpriced (electronic goods) and overstuffed beyond its capability. Unpredictable power cuts can make it hell. There are disconnected stretches of residential habitation. It is hard to find an excessively large area for comfortable habitation. The migrant nature of the population (e.g., security guards) makes it hard for one to get proper directions to even buildings that are only a couple of blocks away. One doesn’t even get to know the neighbours during prolonged stays in cosmopolitan areas. The climate is wonderful. However, even that is changing with extreme urbanization. Connectivity through public transportation is poor. There are a few places to see: Lalbagh, Cubbon Park (and the Bala Bhavan for kids), Bannerghatta National Park et al. and temples for the traditional; the problem of open-loving in the parks seems to offend the regulars. Cultural elements show up at Chowdiah Memorial Hall, Rangashankara, Ambedkar Hall et al. Bangalore provides lots of opportunities for travel: for the historically curious, for the religious, for the nature/animal lover, for the vacation-minded etc. There are occasions when you may feel that it is vacuous and characterless, but that’s the way it is in a major city. You are much better off in Bangalore than in most cities of India. PS: Real-estate is expensive, but not the most expensive in India. Rental return/EMI ratio is extremely good in Bangalore. Finding a good place to live/a reasonable owner/tenant is, however, a challenge. 