Why is the United States the only country that taxes its non-resident citizens on income that they make in other countries?
The US isn't the only country, but it is the only G-8 country and one of the few OECD countries. The US actually has both worldwide taxation (for US residents) and territorial taxation systems (for non-residents). It goes to the underlying theory of the tax. Worldwide taxation is based on who you are. The US feels that the citizens and residents of the US should pay to support the government, regardless of where it is earned. This is a much easier system because you don't have to get into arguments of where the income was earned or sourced. Trying to figure how much of a non-resident's income is subject to US tax is a real pain for everyone involved. Although territorial systems seem fairer, just remember that many of the countries have higher tax rates than the US. So unless you have substantial offshore income, you would be paying more taxes under a territorial system. That's probably why there is no push to remove worldwide taxation from the code. Additionally, the worldwide taxation regime captures income from anyone deemed to be a US resident, not just citizens. Lots of wealthy foreigners (especially those from Asia) have a green card, even though they reside elsewhere. Or perhaps they come to this country and stay too long. Well, they just became subject to worldwide taxation and their income is now subject to US tax law, even if earned in their home nation. The sweetheart tax treaties with their home countries won't save them. Some people think that renouncing their citizenship will help them avoid taxes. Well, there is an exit tax on the way out. Basically, they treat everything you own as sold for fair market value and the expatriate now owes tax on the gain. They will also be subject to income taxes for their activities conducted in the US. So many who expatriate just to sell their highly appreciated stock don't really avoid the taxes they think they do. 