Should the USA tax its nonresident citizens on their world-wide income as they now do, a practice which no other OECD nation engages in?
No. Aside from the moral arguments against taxation, it also essentially harms Americans who live in the US. American expatriate workers are conduits for international commerce. They facilitate international business operations to a degree that aren't possible otherwise. Double taxation and other regulatory issues make it more challenging for American expats to maintain their lives. When expats either return home or drop their citizenship, the planet loses valuable human intermediaries in international trade. 'Fixers' are fixtures (forgive the pun) in the history of global trade for good reason: even with international trade and telecommunications, complex global cooperation can't really happen without them. If you need to get something manufactured in a foreign country, for example, you need to either send someone to spend a lot of time there to become acculturated or to work through an already-acculturated trustworthy intermediary. That person will often be an expat or someone who spends many months of the year living overseas in that country. Expats are also cultural ambassadors that humanize Americans to foreigners abroad. The next time that someone is going on about how awful all Americans are in that country, if they know a counter-example expat, they'll discount all that ranting. Raving statists might say that expats benefit from the wonderful US Navy patrolling the oceans and all the bombs that the U.S. Air Force drops on primitive peoples around the world. I'd retort by saying that the burden of that proof is on them, and that it doesn't account for the possible alternatives. The US' recent turn towards more severe anti-expat policy (especially in regard to foreign banking) likely has larger impacts than can be accurately predicted. It means that Americans are more likely to miss out on developing trends overseas, which if recent history is any predictor, could be devastating. 