Why isn't the Bible being updated?
The  Bible's 66 books are complete and will  not be added to in the future.  How can we know? The strongest passage to  address this question is  found in Revelation 22:18-19:   "I warn everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this book: if   anyone adds to them, God will add to him the plagues described in this   book, and if anyone takes away from the words of the book of this   prophecy, God will take away his share in the tree of life and in the   holy city, which are described in this book." Additional warnings   against adding to or taking away from Scripture are found in Deuteronomy 4:2; 12:32, and Proverbs 30:5-6. Based  on these passages, it is clear we should not expect the appearance  of  another book to the Bible (or for lost books of the Bible to  appear).  What God has already given is sufficient for every need. Psalm 19:7-9 says: The law of the LORD is perfect, reviving the soul; the testimony of the LORD is sure, making wise the simple; the precepts of the LORD are right, rejoicing the heart; the commandment of the LORD is pure, enlightening the eyes; the fear of the LORD is clean, enduring forever; the rules of the LORD are true, and righteous altogether. If  the Scripture we already have is perfect, sure, right, pure, clean,   and true, why would we need more? Why would we seek more? Instead, we   are taught, "All Scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for   teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in   righteousness, that the man of God may be complete, equipped for every   good work" (2 Timothy 3:16-17). The Scripture already revealed by God can make us complete for everything He has called us to be and do in life. Isaiah 40:8 notes, "The grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of our God   will stand forever." The words of the Bible will not be added to in the   future, but rather will endure forever to accomplish God's purposes.  The  word of God will not return empty "but it shall accomplish that  which I  [God] purpose, and shall succeed in the thing for which I sent  it" (Isaiah 55:11).   The word of God will not be changed, but will accomplish its purpose.   Jesus said: "For truly, I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away,   not an iota, not a dot, will pass from the Law until all is   accomplished" (Matthew 5:18). We are called to read it, study it, and to apply it to our lives in order to honor God and impact those around us. Could more books be added to the Bible? As far as revising existing translations to more closely reflect the original manuscripts, the ESV makes these comments: Each word and phrase in the ESV has been carefully weighed against  the original Hebrew, Aramaic, and Greek, to ensure the fullest accuracy  and clarity and to avoid under-translating or overlooking any nuance of  the original text. The words and phrases themselves grow out of the Tyndale-King James legacy, and most recently out of the RSV, with the 1971 RSV text providing the starting point for our work. Archaic language has been brought to current usage and significant  corrections have been made in the translation of key texts. But  throughout, our goal has been to retain the depth of meaning and  enduring language that have made their indelible mark on the  English-speaking world and have defined the life and doctrine of the  church over the last four centuries. The ESV is based on the Masoretic text of the Hebrew Bible as found  in Biblia Hebraica Stuttgartensia (2nd ed., 1983), and on the Greek text  in the 1993 editions of the Greek New Testament (4th corrected ed.),  published by the United Bible Societies (UBS), and Novum Testamentum  Graece (27th ed.), edited by Nestle and Aland. The currently renewed respect among Old Testament scholars for the  Masoretic text is reflected in the ESV’s attempt, wherever possible, to  translate difficult Hebrew passages as they stand in the Masoretic text  rather than resorting to emendations or to finding an alternative  reading in the ancient versions. In exceptional, difficult cases, the Dead Sea Scrolls, the  Septuagint, the Samaritan Pentateuch, the Syriac Peshitta, the Latin  Vulgate, and other sources were consulted to shed possible light on the  text, or, if necessary, to support a divergence from the Masoretic text.  Similarly, in a few difficult cases in the New Testament, the ESV has  followed a Greek text different from the text given preference in the  UBS/Nestle-Aland 27th edition. The footnotes that accompany the ESV text inform the reader of  textual variations and difficulties and show how these have been  resolved by the ESV Translation Team. In addition to this, the footnotes  indicate significant alternative readings and occasionally provide an  explanation for technical terms or for a difficult reading in the text. Throughout, the Translation Team has benefited greatly from the  massive textual resources that have become readily available recently,  from new insights into biblical laws and culture, and from current  advances in Hebrew and Greek lexicography and grammatical understanding. Manuscripts Used in Translating the ESV 