What is it like to live in Bengaluru?
Bangalore, the "Silicon Valley of India" is a melting pot of cultures. Once considered a Pensioner's paradise, it has metamorphosed into a bustling metropolis, with a vibrant night life that blends in with a rich cultural heritage. Majority of people in the city now are those that came from outside Bangalore to find themselves a career. The number of people who know the historical significance of many Bangalore attractions are dwindling. For some mind-boggling facts about Bangalore and what it is like to live in Bangalore, check out 10 Things you didn't know about Bangalore and 10 (More) Things you didn't know about Bangalore - part 2 Bangalore is one place where you can live without a fan for most part of the year. Bangalore was designated a "Non-Fan city" for defence personnel, till about the mid-1950s. People working for the Indian army/navy/air force were not entitled to ceiling fans in their quarters because the climate was so cool. They also needed to use blankets during the rains, at night. Bangalore has a lot of connections to the literary world! You can find a lot of literary discussions happening all over the city. R.K. Narayan's fictional Malgudi town was named after Malleswaram and Basavanagudi. As per one of the writings in R.K. Narayan’s book, he loved Malleswaram and Basavanagudi, two prominent and old areas of Bangalore and used the first few letters from Malleshwaram (Mal) and last few letters of Basavanagudi (gudi) to create Malgudi. Bangalore is a great place for food lovers. Bangalore has always been a food lover's paradise with a plethora of cuisines to try out. With the growing number of folks getting hooked to motorcycling & cycling, motorcycle or bicycle ride for breakfast over the weekend has become ‘The Weekend Thing to do’ than laze around or meet up for a brunch in the city. For a list of great breakfast getaways in Bangalore, check out the blog - 5 Breakfast Ride Getaways From Bangalore Disclaimer: I'm the co-founder of http://www.ezroadtrips.com 