Should the USA tax its nonresident citizens on their world-wide income as they now do, a practice which no other OECD nation engages in?
No, because the operational difficulties associated with tracking foreign income impose substantial burdens on nonresidents. I generally agree with Ed Caruthers' point about double taxation - income earned abroad is taxed in that jurisdiction according to its laws.  Taxing the income again at U.S. rates seems quite unfair. John Morrow raises a good point as well - nonresidents aren't consuming services from the U.S. that would be paid for with their tax revenue, with the obvious exceptions for national defense and any embassy services.  But leave those aside for a moment.  Imagine that you're living in the U.K. and working for a British business.  They pay you in pounds.  How should the U.S. tax your income?  Your income is already being taxed by UK authorities (at least, that's my understanding - please correct me if I'm wrong).  But how would the IRS fairly determine how much income you made for purposes of taxation?  The single biggest complicating factor I can think of is... Exchange rate.  If the pound appreciates against the dollar, being paid in pounds works substantially in your favor, assuming you ever convert your money to dollars, as one pound is worth more dollars.  If the pound ever depreciates against the dollar, it's to your advantage to keep your money in pounds because they're worth fewer dollars.  But exchange rates are hugely variable. When should IRS determine the exchange rate for purposes of calculating your income?  On payday?  On April 15th?  If they catch you when the pound is worth more dollars, you're liable for more income tax, while if they catch you when it's low, you're arguably underpaying what you should owe in tax.  Neither is advantageous, and I'm willing to bet on the IRS taking a dim view of anyone underpaying their tax. Unfortunately, this issue is not likely to be specifically addressed except in the context of comprehensive tax reform.  And I'm still skeptical about that happening anytime soon. 