Does anyone have a list of data centers in the UK?
Below you can see a list of data centres in the UK, offering colocation and wholesale space, such as space in shared rack cabinets, complete rack cabinets, private cages and suites. Click on the name of a data centre, to view more details about the provider and their offerings. Aberdeen IFB Union Street Company: IFB 387 Union Street AB11 6BX, Aberdeen  Description: This facility in has provided 100% uptime for our clients since its introduction in 2001. Services range from single server requirements to larger of demands and we offer an intelligent hands' facility combined with the provision of key service management. » More details   Bedford Blue Chip Company: Blue Chip Franklin Court, Priory Bus PK MK44 3JZ, Bedford  Description: Blue Chip Highly Secure and Resiliant Data Centre in Bedfordshire Tier 4 Design. Managed Services, Colocation, Iaas » More details   Belfast Heron Rd Company: Atlas Communications Ltd. 2 Heron Road BT3 9LD, Belfast  Description: Hosting Solutions - with our data centres we offer high tech and local environment for hosting your servers, with extensive managed support services available. » More details  Biznet IIS Limited Company: Biznet IIS Limited 39 Dargan Road BT3 9JU, Belfast  Description: Biznet IIS offer datacenter space for individual servers, full racks and virtual setups. » More details  DCE Titanic Exchange Company: Data City Exchange within within 1 mile of Belfast City Centre  Description: Belfast Carrier PoP, data centre, cloud testing facility and interconnect point to Project Kelvin US fibre link. » More details  Lisburn, Backup DC Company: Xperience Group 11 Ferguson Drive BT282EX, Lisburn  Description: Backup and Disaster Recovery location - Xperience is a long established IT solutions providers covering the UK and Ireland. Specialising in IT Services including, Cloud hosting to IT Infrastructure and IT Support, » More details   Berkshire Amatis Reading Company: Amatis Networks Ltd 58 Portman Road RG30 1EA, Reading  Description: Amatis Reading is a carrier neutral tier 3 data centre offering a local hands on friendly service » More details   Pulsant Reading Company: Pulsant Ltd Cadogan House, Rose Kiln Lane RG2 0HP, Reading  Description: Reading data centres have been specified to the UK Data Centre Uptime Institute and EU Code on Conduct specifications for Tier 2 and 3 resiliency. » More details   Pulsant Maidenhead Company: Pulsant Ltd Priors Way SL6 2HP, Maidenhead  Description: The Maidenhead facility has been specified to the UK Data Centre Uptime Institute and EU Code on Conduct specifications for Tier 2 resiliency. » More details   Amatis Newbury Company: Amatis Networks Ltd Unit H, Pear Tree Lane RG14 2EZ, Newbury  Description: Amatis Newbury is a carrier neutral tier 3 data centre offering a local hands on friendly service » More details   Link33 Company: Everest Data Centres Unit 2, Smallmead Road RG2 0QS, Reading  Description: Tier 3/4 data centre in the Thames Valley area, offering from 1/4 racks to suites. » More details  The Bunker - Newbury Data Centre Company: The Bunker Venture West, New Greenham Park RG19 6HN, Newbury  Description: The Newbury Bunker is strategically placed outside the M25. The Bunker was built for the U S Forces on the Greenham Common Air base as a command and control centre protecting people and technology from Nuclear attack. » More details  Slough Interchange Company: Network-i Ltd within central Slough  Description: Network-i was the first company to offer carrier and vendor neutral colocation in the Thames Valley. Network-interchange is the company's second facility in Slough and features diverse fibre connectivity into Telehouse and other West London and Thames Valley colocation facilities. » More details  Pulsant - Reading East 1 Company: Pulsant Suttons Business Park RG6 1AZ, Reading  Description: Purpose built modern Tier 3 Data Centre in a technology hot spot - site is close to the M4 Junction 10. » More details  iomart Maidenhead Company: iomart hosting within with 5KM of City Centre  Description: From 1U to full managed data suites, iomart hosting offers a wide range of colocation options. » More details  Redcentric Reading Company: Redcentric Commensus House, 3 - 5 Worton Drive RG2 0TG, Reading  Description: Redcentric's next generation data centre in Reading has next generation 'energy efficient' technology and equipment throughout. It's built for efficiency in power usage, cooling and monitoring and maintenance. » More details  CentriLogic UK Company: Centrilogic No. 5 Arlington Square RG12 1WA, Bracknell  Description: CentriLogic provides full service Colocation, Cloud, and Managed Services. First Data Center in United Kingdom » More details  Easynet Bracknell Company: Easynet St James House Oldbury , Southern Industrial Estate, Bracknell RG12 8TH, Slough  Description: Easynet Connect can provide a Colocation service for the secure housing and connectivity of your critical equipment in over 30 locations around Europe » More details   Birmingham UK UKS North Company: UKSolutions Birmingham Road B80 7BG, Studley  Description: UKS North is a custom designed 10,000 sq ft 2N power and cooling facility built to latest standards and specifications in 2008 » More details  UKS South Company: UKSolutions Birmingham Road B80 7BG, Studley  Description: UKS South is a 7,500 sq ft N+1 facility with a decade track record of delivering business critical services » More details  Datatech UK Alvechurch Company: Datatech UK Ltd Bordesley Hall B48 7QA, Alvechurch  Description: Co-location services at our New Alvechurch site providing secure and reliable hosting 365 days a year in our brand new facility - ideally located on the M42 corridor, with links to the M5, M40 and the M6 Motorways. » More details  Netshield BSPA Company: Netshield BSPA, Faraday Wharf, Holt Street B7 4BB, Birmingham  Description: Netshield BSPA datacentre is located in the heart of Birminghams technology hub, Birmingham Science Park Aston » More details  DCE Central Exchange Company: Data City Exchange within within 2 miles of city centre  Description: bespoke, high security, scalable data centre delivered in design and build 96 rack Evo-PODs » More details  Workspace Technology Company: Workspace Technology Reddicap Trading Estate B75 7BU, Sutton Coldfield  Description: Workspace Technology have opened a new Colocation Data Centre facility in Sutton Coldfield, Birmingham, West Midlands. » More details  Midlands Technology Centre Company: VeloxServ Communications Ltd Broadlands WV106TB, Wolverhampton  Description: Our Wolverhampton Datacentre is built to Tier 4 Specification and boasts 2N Power with Diverse A+B UPS'. N+1 Generators and 10Gbps Connectivity » More details  Datatech UK Redditch Company: Datatech UK Ltd Prospect House B97 6EW, Redditch  Description: Co-location services at our New Redditch site providing secure and reliable hosting 365 days a year in our brand new facility - ideally located on the M42 corridor, with links to the M5, M40 and the M6 Motorways. » More details   Birmingham uk UKS North Company: UKSolutions Birmingham Road B80 7BG, Studley  Description: UKS North is a custom designed 10,000 sq ft 2N power and cooling facility built to latest standards and specifications in 2008 » More details  UKS South Company: UKSolutions Birmingham Road B80 7BG, Studley  Description: UKS South is a 7,500 sq ft N+1 facility with a decade track record of delivering business critical services » More details  Datatech UK Alvechurch Company: Datatech UK Ltd Bordesley Hall B48 7QA, Alvechurch  Description: Co-location services at our New Alvechurch site providing secure and reliable hosting 365 days a year in our brand new facility - ideally located on the M42 corridor, with links to the M5, M40 and the M6 Motorways. » More details  Netshield BSPA Company: Netshield BSPA, Faraday Wharf, Holt Street B7 4BB, Birmingham  Description: Netshield BSPA datacentre is located in the heart of Birminghams technology hub, Birmingham Science Park Aston » More details  DCE Central Exchange Company: Data City Exchange within within 2 miles of city centre  Description: bespoke, high security, scalable data centre delivered in design and build 96 rack Evo-PODs » More details  Workspace Technology Company: Workspace Technology Reddicap Trading Estate B75 7BU, Sutton Coldfield  Description: Workspace Technology have opened a new Colocation Data Centre facility in Sutton Coldfield, Birmingham, West Midlands. » More details  Midlands Technology Centre Company: VeloxServ Communications Ltd Broadlands WV106TB, Wolverhampton  Description: Our Wolverhampton Datacentre is built to Tier 4 Specification and boasts 2N Power with Diverse A+B UPS'. N+1 Generators and 10Gbps Connectivity » More details  Datatech UK Redditch Company: Datatech UK Ltd Prospect House B97 6EW, Redditch  Description: Co-location services at our New Redditch site providing secure and reliable hosting 365 days a year in our brand new facility - ideally located on the M42 corridor, with links to the M5, M40 and the M6 Motorways. » More details   Bournemouth C4L - South West 1 Company: C4L 300 Poole Road BH1 1AZ, Poole  Description: The C4L South West 1 Tier 3 data centre offers high capacity power & cooling with over 350 racks up to 32amps per rack. N+1 fully redundant 24x7 managed data centre connected to the C4L national 10 Gigabit network. C4L provides connectivity, colocation & managed services for many FTSE 250 companies. » More details   Bradford Legend Bradford Company: Net365 Ltd 167-169 Sunbridge Road BD1 2HB, Bradford  Description: Formally Legend Internet / Legend Communications / THUS / C&W. Established in 1996 at the start of the dot-com boom. » More details   Cambridge Fast2host Company: Fast2host Ltd Silvaco Technology Centre, Compass Point PE27 5JL, St Ives  Description: Fast2Host Limited is one of the UK's leading independent web hosting companies, providing the best in business and affordable web hosting solutions for thousands of customers worldwide. » More details  Telstra International - Cambridge Company: Telstra International St John's Innovation Park, Cowley Road CB4 0WS, Cambridge  Description: Telstra's Cambridge Hosting Centre is specifically developed for co-location services and managed hosting » More details  i-Dash Ltd Company: i-Dash Ltd 105 Great North Road PE19 8EL, St Neots  Description: St Neots Data Centre ideally suited for replication, off-site backup and data archiving » More details  Netservers Signet Court Company: Netservers Ltd Swann Road CB5 8LA, Cambridge  Description: Eco-friendly co-location available from 1U to multiple racks. Skilled staff on site. Full UPS and generator protection. » More details  OCSL Managed Services Company: OCSL Managed Services Ltd within Huntingdon  Description: OCSL/SANSource Huntingdon Data Centre - Carrier Neutral, IPV6, Hosting & Managed Services » More details   Cardiff Clearstream Centre Cardiff Company: Clearstream Group Station Rd CF38 1Af, Cardiff  Description: South Wales N+1 Data Centre offering co-location, web hosting, server rental and Internet backhaul » More details   Cheltenham Saxon Data Company: Saxon Data ltd Saxon House, Saxon Way GL52 6QX, Cheltenham  Description: Saxon Data Centre offer secure, low cost colocation, dedicated / managed hosting, and remote offsite backup in one of our data centres located in Cheltenham. » More details   Crawley A101 Company: MDS Technologies Ltd Ively Road GU14 0LX, Farnborough  Description: The A101 Data Suite is a Tier 3 Data Suite, situated in Farnborough, Hampshire, and is built to accommodate 60 racks. Each suite is furnished with heavy duty raised access flooring and separate areas for client services. » More details  A9 Company: MDS Technologies Ltd Cody Technology Park GU14 0LX, Farnborough  Description: The A9 Data Suite is situated in Farnborough, Hampshire, & is a highly secure, Tier 3 building which consists of four data suites, each built to accomodate up to 60 racks with an IT Power capacity of 200KW. » More details   Croydon Virtualapps UK Company: Virtualapps UK Purley Way CR0 0XZ, Croydon  Description: Virtualapps UK can provide you effective, stable and secure colocation solutions. » More details   Derby Node4 (Derby) Company: Node4 Ltd Millennium Way, Pride Park DE24 8HZ, Derby  Description: Since Node4 launched in April 2004, there has been a huge amount of rapid growth in the business. Our vast experience in a whole range of Data Centre, Communications solutions and commitment to meet and exceed our customer's expectations gives us the edge against any of our competitors. » More details   Dundee brightsolid online technology Company: brightsolid online technology Gateway House DD5 3TR, Dundee  Description: Tier 3+ Data Centre used by some of the UKs leading organisations and Government Departments. For more information please contact us on 0800 027 2027 and we will be delighted to assist you, » More details   Edinburgh Pulsant Edinburgh Company: Pulsant Ltd 7 Claylands Road EH28 8LF, Edinburgh  Description: The Edinburgh data centre has been specified to the UK Data Centre Uptime Institute and EU Code on Conduct specifications for Tier 3 resiliency. » More details  ScoLocate Company: ScoLocate Ltd The Clocktower Estate, South Gyle Crescent EH12 9LB, Edinburgh  Description: ScoLocate is Scotland's largest and finest commercial, carrier neutral, purpose built colocation facility, with over 3,300m² of Data Center space within our 4,900m² facility. » More details  Onyx Group Edinburgh Data Centre Company: Onyx Group Sirius House, Flassches Yard, South Gyle Crescent EH12 9LB, Edinburgh  Description: Onyx Edinburgh DC is one of the largest and most reliable DC's within the UK, providing an unmatched level of hosting and security. If you want hosting that will reduce your overheads, provide a highly efficient IT system plus give full access to your secure data then Onyx's Edinburgh DC is for you! » More details   Essex Chunky DC1 Company: ChunkyChips.net within 2 Miles from Basildon Town Centre  Description: Premium Tier 2 DR Data Centre Located in Basildon Essex. Basildon is already the DR Data Centre choice for the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE). Availability per U , quarter, half or full racks. » More details   Glasgow Iomart Glasgow DC1 Company: iomart hosting within Within 5km of city Centre  Description: From 1U to full managed data suites, iomart hosting offers a wide range of colocation options. » More details  Onyx Group Glasgow Data Centre Company: Onyx Group 24 Findas Street G22 5DT, Glasgow  Description: Constructed to the highest of specifications and supported by experienced engineers, our Glasgow Data Centre is the premier choice for businesses looking to host their mission critical servers. » More details   Hertford Vtesse Locate Company: Vtesse Networks Ltd John Tate Road, Foxholes Business Park SG13 7DT, Hertford  Description: A single storey 30,000 square feet data centre within synchronous replication distance of Central London » More details  Vtesse Cirrus - Hoddesdon Company: vtesse Geddings road en11, Hoddesdon  Description: Our Hoddesdon data centre provides a great home for customers looking to co-locate server, storage and networking equipment. It is designed from the ground up to support highly available, well-connected private and public cloud services. » More details   Ipswich IPswiTch Group Company: Ipswitch Group 43 Lowerbrook Street IP4 1AQ, Ipswich  Description: The IPswiTch Colo service can accommodate small devices from 1U high to entire IT infrastructures contained within multiple racks » More details   Kent The Bunker - Ash Data Centre Company: The Bunker Ash Radar Station, Marshborough Road CT13 0PL, Sandwich, Kent  Description: Our secure Colocation solutions are delivered from 30 metres beneath ground level, within armoured, military grade, ex-MOD, nuclear-proof facilities that are situated outside the perimeter of the M25. » More details  SotaConnect Data Centre Company: Sota Solutions Limited Kent Science Park ME9 8PX, Sittingbourne  Description: The SotaConnect Data Centre is a new secure facility located in the Kent countryside just 40 miles from London. It is located at the heart of a ring-fenced Science Park providing high levels of security, power and connectivity. » More details  Custodian Data Centre Company: Custodian Data Centre Maidstone TV Studios ME14 5NZ, Maidstone  Description: High Power Data Centre 35 miles from London in our own 150,000sq ft building, high power racks ready now » More details   Leeds SunGard TC4 - Elland Company: Sungard Availability Services within Elland  Description: The Elland managed Services data centre is designed to support customers who have a requirement for SunGard managed services in the North of England. » More details  Redcentric Harrogate Company: Redcentric Central House, Beckwith Knowle HG3 1UG, Harrogate  Description: Redcentric's Harrogate data centre has recently benefited from a £4m upgrade. It now boasts the latest in power management and cooling technology, as well as advanced access control and CCTV surveillance, and industrial standard fire protection and suppression systems. » More details  aql DC2 Company: aql aql, Hunslet road LS10 1JW, Leeds  Description: Specialist secure colocation facility with parking, build rooms. 2 minutes from the M1/M621 motorway in the centre of leeds. » More details  Computacenter - Leeds Company: Computacenter within 2km from the centre of Leeds  Description: Tier II equivalent facility, connected by high speed low latency fibre to our Manchester Data Center. » More details  Sleek Networks Angel House 1 Company: Sleek Networks Angel Court LS3 1BS, Leeds  Description: Sleek Networks Angel House Data Centre Leeds is a Tier 3 Data Centre with multiple fibre providers on-net. The Data Centre can accommodate higher power density demands per Rack, has ample secure parking for visitors and is 15 minutes walk from Leeds Train Station. » More details  LDC1 Company: 186k Ltd North Street LS7 2AA, Leeds  Description: Our Leeds based datacentre offering resilient connectivity with full power backup. » More details  CCS DC14 Company: C.C.S. (Leeds) Ltd Leeds Ring Road LS14 2AQ, Leeds  Description: Colocation - Our services start from shared rack space, dedicated rack space in quarter, half or full rack capacity or bespoke to suit your requirements including an innovative eco-friendly cooling system. » More details   Leicester iomart Leicester Company: iomart hosting within Within 5km of city Centre  Description: From 1U to full managed data suites, iomart hosting offers a wide range of colocation options. » More details   Leiston Interoute Leiston Company: Interoute Communications Ltd Eastlands Industrial Estate, Unit 5b IP16 4L, Leiston  » More details   Lincolnshire Smartbunker Company: GCI within Lincolnshire  Description: Smartbunker is the UK's only zero-carbon datacentre, uniquely housed in a military-grade ex Nato bunker deep underground. » More details   Liverpool AIMES DC1 Baird House Company: AIMES Grid Services CIC Baird House, Liverpool Innovation Park L7 9NJ, Liverpool  Description: Liverpool based owned and operated high-density, high-efficiency data centre offering colocation and managed services » More details  AIMES DC2 Kilby House Company: AIMES Grid Services CIC Kilby House, Liverpool Innovation Park L7 9NJ, Liverpool  Description: Kilby House demonstrates the very latest thinking in data centre construction, combining flexibility with high levels of energy efficiency. » More details  Getronics Services (UK) Ltd Company: Getronics Services (UK) Ltd The Babbage Centre, The Heath Business and Technical Park WA7 4QX, Runcorn  Description: Purpose-built Tier 3 facility based in Runcorn, Cheshire, comprising 2,800m2 capacity, with a mix of shared or dedicated Data Centre space » More details   London City Lifeline Company: City Lifeline Limited 80 Clifton Street EC2A 4HB, London  Description: City Lifeline is a leading and long established colocation data centre in central London, between Liverpool Street, Moorgate, Old Street and Shoreditch. The facility operates to Tier 3 standards, is carrier neutral, is exceptionally well connected, and provides 24/7 access and technical support. » More details   Pulsant South London Company: Pulsant Ltd Unit 1, 35 Imperial Way CR0 4RR, London  Description: The South London facility has been specified to the UK Data Centre Uptime Institute and EU Code on Conduct specifications for Tier 3 resiliency. » More details   Everest Central London Company: Everest Data Centres 34-35 Great Sutton Street EC1V 0DX, London  Description: Everest's prime location in Central London, close to St Paul's is a tier 3+ specification. » More details   UK Slough 1 Data Center Company: NTT Communications Corporation within 30 minutes by car from the Heathrow International Airport  Description: Equivalent to Tier III, fully redundant infrastructure ensures no single point of failure and business continuity » More details  Coreix Limited Company: Coreix Limited Unit 3 Trade City EN1 1TX, Enfield  Description: Coreix specialises in high availability managed hosting services and solutions for small, medium and enterprise-level businesses, Coreix was formed in 2003 as a customer-driven managed hosting provider with unparalleled expertise, cutting-edge technology and industry-leading customer service. » More details  Epsilon Global Hubs Company: Epsilon Telecommunications Telephone House, 69-77 Paul Street EC2A 4NW, London  Description: Epsilon Global Hubs - a newly built, modern colo facility located in London. The site is designed to meet growing space, power and connectivity demands of int'l carriers who are searching for a reliable and secure managed colo service, as well as multiple connectivity options to global networks » More details  Options Data Centre Company: Options Technology Ltd. 3 Waxlow Road NW10 7NU, London  Description: The Options Data Centre offers high density power and cooling with over 200 racks scaleable from 5kw to 30kw per rack. APC InfraStruXure close coupled cooling systems eliminates the potential for hotspots enabling organisations to consolidate their technology densely. » More details  Telstra International - Docklands Company: Telstra International 5-6 Greenwich View Place E14 9NN, London  Description: Telstra London Hosting Centre - Docklands is a nine-storey, 10,606m2 technical hosting space building » More details  6 Braham Street Company: Digital Realty 6 Braham Street UK E1 8, London  » More details  Equinix Park Royal Company: Equinix, Inc within the city of London  Description: Formerly known as IXEurope, now Equinix IBX LD3. Please see the profile for further details. » More details  Equinix London City Company: Equinix, Inc within the city of London  Description: Formerly known as IXEurope, now Equinix IBX LD1. LD1 provides excellent access to the City of London and to a broad range of network service providers. » More details  Equinix Heathrow Company: Equinix, Inc within the city of West Drayton  Description: Formerly known as IXEurope, now Equinix IBX LD2. Please see the profile for further details. » More details  Global Crossing London Datacenter 1 Company: Global Crossing Limited East India Dock Road 240 E14 9YY, London  Description: Datacenter designed to deliver business continuity and on-demand solutions for enterprise customers. » More details  London Technology Centre Company: Sungard Availability Services within 10 minutes form the M4 Jct. 3 / M3 Jct. 1.  Description: The London Technology Centre (LTC) is one of Europe's largest purpose built data centres for Information Availability. » More details  Interxion LON1 (London, UK) Company: Interxion within the City of London, 7 miles from City Airport, 25 miles from Heathrow and close to public transport  Description: Interxion's LON1 carrier-neutral London data centre provides the latest secure, scalable infrastructure for mission-critical IT systems, with a wide range of connectivity solutions. » More details  Easynet Brick Lane Company: Easynet 1 Brick Lane E1 6PU, London  Description: Easynet Connect can provide a Colocation service for the secure housing and connectivity of your critical equipment in over 30 locations around Europe » More details  TelecityGroup London (Meridian Gate) Company: TelecityGroup Memaco House, Meridian Gate, 215 Marsh Wall E14 9FJ, London  » More details  TelecityGroup London (Bellerive House) Company: TelecityGroup 3 Muirfield Crescent, Glengall Bridge E14 9SZ, London  » More details  TelecityGroup London (Sovereign House) Company: TelecityGroup Sovereign House, 227 Marsh Wall E14 9SD, London  » More details  TelecityGroup London (Bonnington House) Company: TelecityGroup Bonnington House, Millharbour 47 E14 9TR, London  » More details  TelecityGroup London (Harbour Exchange2) Company: TelecityGroup 8/9 Harbour Exchange, Isle of Dogs E14 9GE, London  » More details  TelecityGroup London (Harbour Exchange) Company: TelecityGroup 6/7 Harbour Exchange E14 9GE, London  » More details  Level 3 London #2 Company: Level 3 Communications 260-266 Goswell Road EC1V 7EB, London  » More details  Level 3 London #1 Company: Level 3 Communications 6 Braham Street UK E1 8, London  » More details  Verizon UK5 Company: Verizon Communications Inc. 2-6 St Pancras Way NW1 0QG, London  » More details  Telehouse Metro (London) Company: Telehouse Europe 65 Clifton Street EC2A 4JE, London  » More details  Telehouse East (Docklands) Company: Telehouse Europe 14 Coriander Avenue E14 2AA, London  Description: Telehouse London, Docklands East, is the second building built at Telehouse Europe's Coriander Avenue site. » More details  Telehouse North (Docklands) Company: Telehouse Europe 14 Coriander Avenue E14 2AA, London  » More details  TelecityGroup London (Powergate) Company: TelecityGroup Unit 1, Volt Avenue NW10 6PW, London  » More details  Global Switch London East Company: Global Switch within the city of London  Description: Large scale, carrier neutral, multi tenanted data centre providing resilient and scalable solutions » More details  Global Switch London Company: Global Switch within the city of London  » More details  SunGard TC2 - Docklands Company: Sungard Availability Services within Close to the City of London  Description: SunGard has invested several million pounds in TC2, which occupies over 60,000 square feet in London's Docklands. » More details  Centro Company: Gyron Internet Ltd 3 Centro HP2 7SU, Hemel Hempsead  Description: Centro is a 50,000 sq ft secure datacentre compound in Hemel Hempstead, owned and operated by Gyron » More details  Savvis LO1 Company: CenturyLink within 2 k from Slough Centre  Description: The new facility features 37,500 square feet of raised floor in the most advance datacentre Savvis has ever built » More details  iomart London (City of) Company: iomart hosting within Within 200 meters of city Centre  Description: From 1U to full managed data suites, iomart hosting offers a wide range of colocation options. » More details  BIS Anchorage Point Company: BIS within 2km from Greenwich  Description: BIS Ltd offers a state-of-the-art high specification commercial Data Center within the London Metro Area » More details  Datatech London Company: Datatech UK Ltd within 2 miles from the M11 A406 Junction  Description: Co-location services at our New London site providing secure and reliable hosting 365 days a year in our brand new facility - ideally located at the base of the M11, with links to the M11, M25 and the A406. » More details  Virtus 1 Company: Virtus Data Centres Ltd within 11 miles from London Liverpool Street  Description: Virtus specialises in the design, build and ongoing operation of mission critical Tier III data centre facilities. Virtus adopt a no-compromise approach to all elements of the data centre build and strictly advocate a core team of `best in class' industry recognised consultants and suppliers. » More details  Park Royal Company: Vital Group 900 Coronation Road NW107PH, London  Description: Vital is an established data storage and communications group, an early pioneer of data centre services and today capable of providing a broad range of technology and service based communications solutions to support client operations. » More details  Harbour Exchange Company: Daisy Communications Ltd 6 Harbour Exchange E14 9GE, London  Description: Daisy Harbour Exchange is housed within a purpose built building that offers extremely high levels of physical security. » More details  6-7 Harbour Exchange (Docklands) Company: Unknown Company 6-7 Harbour Exchange E14 9GE, London  » More details  Computacenter - Romford Company: Computacenter within 30 minutes from the City of London  Description: State-of-the-art, highly secure and Tier 4 design-certified, carrier-neutral Data Center » More details  Redwire DC Company: Redwire DC 22-24 Uxbridge Road W5 2ST, London  Description: A mixed use facility with five data halls over five floors providing 1615 SqM of the state of the art technical space & 714 SqM of open plan office space. The power infrastructure provides each Data Hall with a total density of 600KW with full resilience to meet the UI Tier III standards. » More details  WRN Broadcast Company: WRN Broadcast within Wyvil Road  Description: We understand the importance of maintaining your equipment. That is why we have built our new secure Broadcast Data Centre (BDC) that allows you to host your own equipment within our purpose-built facility. » More details  Tutis Point Company: Docklands Data Centre Ltd 5 Greenwich View Place E14 9NN, London  Description: Located in Docklands London the building has over 23,160 sq. ft. of space divided between hosting space and disaster recovery suites. » More details  Cogent London Company: Cogent Communications, Inc. 20 Mastmaker Court E149 UB, London  Description: This is a brand New Cogent Data Center opened in May 2011. Located at 20 Mastmaker Road in the Docklands area. » More details  City Reach Company: Ogden Properties Ltd 5-6 Greenwich View Place E14 9NN, London  » More details  Unit 3 Foxboro Park Company: Digital Realty 3 Foxboro Park, St Anne's Blvd, Redhill RH1 1, Surrey  Description: This is a 96,000 sq ft multi-tenant facility, housing Turn-Key Datacentres® ranging from 720KW-2160KW. » More details  Metro Point Company: Sovereign Data Connect Ltd Metro Point, 1a Chalk Lane EN4 9JQ, Cockfosters  Description: Resilient data centre facility plus IT services readily available as standard with teams of technical and multi-disciplined staff on site to offer level 1, 2 and 3 support 24/7/365. » More details  Sentrum Colo Hayes Company: Sentrum Colo Ltd Beaconsfield Road UB4 0SL, Hayes  Description: Highly secure location 5 miles from Heathrow with UK Government List X rating. Very flexible contract options and highly competitive rates. » More details  Netwise Hosting London South Company: Netwise Hosting Group House, 52 Sutton Court Road SM1 4SL, Sutton  Description: Netwise Hosting´s highly efficient, accessible London South facility - the new home of personable hosting services in South London. » More details  LDeX1 Company: LDeX Group Oxgate Lane NW2 7JA, London  Description: London's newest carrier neutral colocation facility - LDeX1. Outer london pricing for London Colocation » More details  Romford North Company: Infinity SDC within Ease of access to both Docklands and The City  Description: Romford North provides unparalleled power and data connectivity in a state of the art data centre » More details  Slough Company: Infinity SDC within in the heart of the Thames Valley  Description: A brand new facility to the west of London. Everything about this data centre is world class. » More details  iRack Networks Limited Docklands Company: iRack Networks Limited 14 Lanrick Road E14 0JF, London  Description: Two x Suites with capacity of 500 Racks each, 32amps per Rack Availability, multiple carrier, resillient fibre connectivity,N+1 Generator Backup, 500m from Docklands » More details  VDC2 Company: Virtus Data Centres Ltd Trade City, Weston International Park UB3, Hayes  Description: Our second site is presently under development and will provide 20MW of power and 64,000ft² of net technical space in Hayes West London and is due for completion in June 2013. » More details  Savvis LO4 Company: CenturyLink within the city of Mill Habour  Description: Savvis, a CenturyLink company, is a global leader in cloud, managed hosting, and colocation solutions for enterprises. » More details  Savvis LO6 Company: CenturyLink within the city of Reading  Description: Savvis, a CenturyLink company, is a global leader in cloud, managed hosting, and colocation solutions for enterprises. » More details  EconDC Company: OSHS Ltd Unit 1, Globe House, Bentinck Road UB7 7RQ, West Drayton  Description: EconDC is a budget low cost datacenter offering cheap server colo and rack space colocation in London and the UK » More details  Interxion LON2 (London, UK) Company: Interxion within the City of London, 7 miles from City Airport, 25 miles from Heathrow and close to public transport  Description: Interxion's LON2 carrier-neutral London data centre provides the latest secure, scalable infrastructure for mission-critical IT systems, with a wide range of connectivity solutions. » More details  Volta Data Centres Company: Volta Data Centres 36-43 Great sutton street EC1V0AB, London  Description: Volta Great Sutton Street (GSS) provides businesses requiring a central London Location with a highly flexible, secure and scalable IT and hosting environment on their doorstep. » More details  Tata Communications Stratford Company: Tata Communications 78-102 The Broadway, Stratford E15 1NG, London  Description: Our colocation facilities are built on global standards to ensure the highest level of security for your critical applications and data. » More details  Tata Communications Cressex Company: Tata Communications Phoenix House, Cressex Business Park, High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire HP12 3TA, London  Description: Our colocation facilities are built on global standards to ensure the highest level of security for your critical applications and data. » More details  TeliaSonera HEX/A Company: TeliaSonera International Carrier 1 Harbour Exchange Square E149GE, London  Description: Colocation for customers, who value high availability, high security, flexibility and convenience » More details  Exchange Tower Company: CBRE 1-2 Habour Exchange Square E14 9GE, London  » More details  Datum FRN1 Company: Datum Datacentres Ltd Cody Technology park GU140LX, Farnborough  Description: 1000 Rack Tier 3 carrier neutral Colocation facility, Highly energy efficient, PUE of 1.2 and Highly secure locatio on an ex MOD site. » More details  Colt London, Princes Court Company: Colt Technology Services within the city of London. For more info please contact dcsinfo@colt.net  Description: Colt Data Centre Services: a smarter and timely solution to your data centre needs » More details  Colt London, Powergate Company: Colt Technology Services within the city of London. For more info please contact dcsinfo@colt.net  Description: Colt Data Centre Services: a smarter and timely solution to your data centre needs » More details  Colt London, Welwyn Garden City Company: Colt Technology Services within the city of London. For more info please contact dcsinfo@colt.net  Description: Colt Data Centre Services: a smarter and timely solution to your data centre needs » More details  Netwise Hosting London Central Company: Netwise Hosting Netwise House, 24 Old Jamaica Road SE16 4AW, Bermondsey  Description: Netwise Hosting´s new 11,000sq ft London Central facility - flexible hosting services in the heart of the capital. » More details  abstation Company: thames network limited Unit 50, New lydenburg street se7 8ne, London  Description: We are providing A to Z data center services from our privately own London base data center. » More details  ServerExperte London Company: ServerExperte 45 King William Street EC4R, London  Description: London Based Data Centre with remote hands, 24/7 access with 1 hours notice. Co location with FREE Quote » More details  Bitcanal London Data Center Company: Bitcanal 91- 95 Brick Ln, London E1 6QL E1 6QL, London  Description: Our London carrier- and cloud-neutral data centres provides the latest highly secure, scalable infrastructure for mission-critical IT systems » More details  Spacetel London Company: Spacetel Managed Services Ltd 15 Bowling Green Lane EC1R 0BD, London  Description: Small TIER II+ facility just off of Farringdon Road, in the heart of London. For customers requiring additional IT capacity, Spacetel are able to accommodate Hosting with Cloud Infrastructure for a private hybrid solution. » More details  VelocityDC Company: Velocity Datacentre 190 Great Dover Street SE1 4YB, London  Description: A Carrier Neutral Tier3+ Aligned Central London Data Centre. 700 Rack capacity offering Private secure pods of 30 racks or individual 42u Dual 32a Racks » More details   Luton ONI Company: ONI (plc) 16-24 Crawley Green Road LU2 0QX, Luton  Description: 19,000 Sq. ft. Tier 3+ data centre based 35 miles from central London. Offering Colocation, Managed Hosting, Cloud Services, and Data Protection for Virtual Environments » More details   Manchester Data Centre Plus Company: Data Centre Plus Missouri Avenue M50 2NP, Manchester  Description: Independent datacentre in heart of Manchester's Media City. Rack colocation, single 'u' colocation and dedicated servers all with commitment-free contracts* » More details   Data Centre Plus Company: Data Centre Plus 4 Quays Reach Carolina Way M50 2ZY, Manchester  Description: Facility offers Build Area, Meeting space and Kitchen and Bathroom Facilities 24/7 onsite security and CCTV key card access door entry system » More details  Teledata UK Company: Teledata UK Delta House, Wavell Road M22 5QZ, Manchester  Description: New Manchester datacentre with emphasis on power availability with power and cooling for 320 x 16A racks as well as HD (22KvA) racks. » More details  Synergy House Company: The UK Grid Network LTD Greenheys, Pencroft Way, Manchester Science Park M15 6JJ, Manchester  Description: Synergy House, tier 2, colocation, carrier neutral bandwidth, 1u to full private suites, secure 24 x 7 data centre space. » More details  TelecityGroup Manchester (Kilburn House) Company: TelecityGroup Kilburn House, Lloyd Street North M15 6SE, Manchester  » More details  TelecityGroup Manchester (Williams House) Company: TelecityGroup Williams House, Lloyd Street North M15 6SE, Manchester  » More details  Icecolo Company: IceColo 1 Ball Green M32 0QT, Manchester  Description: N+1 aircon and UPS, backup generator, 247 remote hands, excellent location close to the motorway » More details  Reynolds House Company: Digital Realty Reynolds House M15 5RN, Manchester  » More details  Melbourne (Turing House) Company: Melbourne Server Hosting Archway M15 5RL, Manchester  Description: Datacentre for Shared Co-Located Servers, Dedicated Servers & Virtual Server Hosting » More details  IFL2 Company: IFL 4 Archway M15 5RN, Manchester  Description: IFL2 - Manchester's largest Data Centre - 24,000 sq ft premium colocation space. Suites, cages, single racks. Carrier Neutral » More details  IFL3 Company: IFL within 5 miles from IFL2  Description: IFL - Manchester's newest business class data centre - over 1000 racks for 2011. Located in a prime manchester location » More details  Sandbrook Park Data Centre Company: Zen Internet Sandbrook Park, Sandbrook Way OL11 1RY, Rochdale  Description: Situated in a low risk location on the outskirts of Manchester, and just 1 mile from junction 20 of the M62, Zen's purpose built data centre facility provides the ideal hosting environment for your critical IT services. » More details  ServerBank Company: Daisy Communications Ltd Faulkner Street M1 4EH, Manchester  Description: Server BankTM is situated in a former Bank of England bullion vault, which has been converted into a premier data centre to offer an extremely high level of physical security and resilience required to attain TIA-942 Tier 3 + ranking. » More details  Computacenter - Manchester Company: Computacenter within Media City in Salford Quays  Description: Tier 3+ Carrier-Neutral Data Center which is located next to Media City in Salford Quays » More details  MANOC 4 Company: Managed Hosting | Dedicated Servers & Cloud Hosting | UKFast Limited 7 Adbaston Road M32 0TB, Manchester  Description: UKFast's MANOC 4 facility is fully owned and operated by us. Providing a wide variety of colocation services to clients. » More details  Melbourne (Reynolds House) Company: Melbourne Server Hosting Archway M15 5RL, Manchester  Description: Datacentre for Qtr Racks, Half Racks and Full Racks with unlimited HelpingHands - We also offer some dedicated server options from this facility » More details  Salford Company: GCI within Manchester  Description: GCIs data centres offer industry leading security both physically and virtually. The Manchester location offers colocated servers as well as managed servers for all of your IT needs. » More details  iRack Limited Belle Vue Company: iRack Networks Limited 545 Hyde Road M12 5NQ, Manchester  Description: Brand new state of the art multi million pound data centre, Belle Vue data centre houses 165 racks over 3 floors. » More details  DataCentred MediaCity Company: DataCentred Michigan Park M50 2GY, Salford  Description: DataCentred's MediaCity facility provides 2,000 sq m of data centre space and 2 megawatts (MW) of customer capacity. We offer power densities of up to 20 kilowatts (kW) per rack in our secure, highly resilient site and can provide flexible contract terms to suit customer needs. » More details  LDeX2 Company: LDeX Group Unit 6, Waterside, Trafford Park M17 1WD, Manchester  Description: LDeX2 - 600 Rack / 4MVA Carrier Neutral Data Centre in Trafford Park, Manchester, UK » More details   Middlesbrough Onyx Group Teesside Data Centre Company: Onyx Group Longbeck Trading Estate TS11 6HB, Teesside  Description: Local, cost effective data hosting centre in unique location with direct connectivity to Europe » More details   Middlesbrough Onyx Group Teesside Data Centre Company: Onyx Group Longbeck Trading Estate TS11 6HB, Teesside  Description: Local, cost effective data hosting centre in unique location with direct connectivity to Europe » More details   Milton Keynes MKDC-1 - Bletchley Company: nuco technologies ltd within the city of Bletchley  Description: New full specification data centre in Bletchley/Milton Keynes. Northampton data centres also available. » More details   Pulsant Milton Keynes Company: Pulsant Ltd St Neots House, Rockingham Drive MK14 6LY, Milton Keynes  Description: The Milton Keynes facility has been specified to the UK Data Centre Uptime Institute and EU Code on Conduct specifications for Tier 3 resiliency. » More details   MKDC-0 - Milton Keynes Company: nuco technologies ltd Brick Close, Kiln Farm MK11 3EJ, Milton Keynes  Description: Milton Keynes Data Centre - Tier 4, 4MW, 600+ Rack capacity within a secure 3.25 acre site with 130+ parking spaces. » More details  Safenames Milton Keynes Company: Safenames Ltd Safenames house, Sunrise Parkway MK14 6ls, Milton Keynes  Description: Safenames can provide Dedicated Servers, Co-Location, Virtual Servers, Shared Hosting, Email Antispam Antivirus, SSL and VOIP. With dedicated account management via Email & Telephone. An alternative option to Hosting in London yet saving on travel and Hosting costs » More details  Bletchley Cloud Company: Bletchley Cloud Bletchley Park MK3 6EB, Milton Keynes  Description: Tier 2 Datacenter based in the historic location of Bletchley Park, providing hosting, virtual servers, Rackspace, collocation and more » More details  MyServerPlanet Ltd Company: My Server Planet Ltd within 2 miles from M1  Description: our data centre is based on the outside of milton keynes, in a small town called Newport Pagnell. » More details   Newcastle ZebraHosts Company: Zebrahosts 65 Westgate Road NE1 1SG, Newcastle Upon Tyne  » More details  Onyx Group Newcastle Data Centre Company: Onyx Group 5 Stepney Lane NE1 6PN, Newcastle  Description: Custom Build datacentre located within the Telecoms District of Newcastle, fitted with multiple redundancies and N+1 Standards » More details  NE5 Datacentre - Newcastle Company: Wildcard Networks Wingrove House, Ponteland Road NE5 3DE, Newcastle upon Tyne  Description: The NE5 Datacentre opened in September 2009, located 5 minutes outside of Newcastle upon Tyne city centre with excellent transportation links nearby. » More details  Knowledge IT North Tyneside Company: Knowledge I.T within 3 miles from Newcastle  Description: Knowledge's newest Data Centre based in North Tyneside (near Newcastle), is a quality, accredited facility and ideal preferred partner for organisations nationwide. » More details  DC1 Cobalt data Campus Company: Highbridge Properties within 0.5 miles from the A 19  Description: DC! completed in 2010. Tier 3+ Uptime standard & BREEAM Excellent accreditation. 4 halls of 1,066 m sq and power @ 1,400 watts per m sq » More details  NE6 Company: Independent House Limited Unit 3, St Michaels Workshops NE6 1QU, Newcastle  Description: Secure Data Centre offering budget floor, rack, colocation and web hosting space in Newcastle. » More details  Reliance House - Newcastle Company: Wildcard Networks Skinnerburn Road NE4 7AN, Newcastle upon Tyne  Description: Reliance House is located within minutes of the city centre, providing well connected, cost effective, and reliable colocation services » More details  Aspire Technology Solutions Ltd Company: Aspire Technology Solutions Ltd Heworth Hall NE10 0UX, Gateshead  Description: Tier 3 Data Center with access to 3 Datacenters inside our business based in North East England with Two facilities in Central London » More details  NE11 Company: Independent House Limited Independent House NE11 0HF, Gateshead  Description: Secure Data Centre offering budget floor, rack, colocation, cage and office space near Newcastle. » More details  Evolve Business Centre Company: PCI Services Rainton Bridge Business Park DH4 5QY, Sunderland  Description: Data Centre in North East UK - Rackspace, Co-Location, 24x7 Security, Redundancy, Generator » More details   North Wales OpticDC Company: NW Colo Ltd OpticTechnium LL17 0JD, St Asaph  Description: 15 rack high security micro facility in the heart of North Wales, Managed services available from single servers up to full racks with 24/7 support. » More details  Hosting UK - North Wales DC Company: Hosting UK Unit 24, Ffordd Richard Davies, St Asaph Business Park LL17 0LJ, St Asaph  Description: Hosting UK's 40 rack mini facility provides local co-location and managed services with resiliant high speed connectivity for North West and the North West » More details  Capital Court Company: NW Colo Ltd 44B Capital Court LL17 0JG, St Asaph Business Park  Description: Phase 1 delivers 36 racks of secure colocation and racks with high speed Internet access close to the A55 » More details   Northamptonshire Host-it Company: nuco technologies ltd Unit 1 Northampton Science Park NN3 6LG, Northampton  Description: Established full specification data centres (Tier 3/4) located in Northampton UK. Milton Keynes/Bletchley data centre also available. » More details  Node4 (Northampton) Company: Node4 Ltd within Northampton  Description: Node4 Northampton Data Centre - Due to launch in early 2011 colocation | connectivity | communication » More details   Norwich MigSolv Data Centre Company: MigSolv Data Centre 40 Barnard Road NR5 9JB, Norwich  Description: Located close to Norwich, with excellent access via road, rail and air, (just 2 hours from London), The Gatehouse is one of the most outstanding data centres in the UK. The 60,000 sq ft facility offers clients unparalleled security, reliability and environmental credentials. » More details   Nottingham iomart Nottingham Company: iomart hosting within Within 5km of city Centre  Description: From 1U to full managed data suites, iomart hosting offers a wide range of colocation options. » More details  CWCS Managed Hosting Company: CWCS Managed Hosting Portland Street NG9 2LP, Nottingham  Description: CWCS Managed Hosting specialise in dedicated server hosting, managed hosting and colocation hosting to small and large businesses all over the world. » More details  Timico Newark Company: Timico Ltd Brunel Business Park, Jessop Close NG24 2AG, Newark  Description: Brand new tier 3+ 144 rack data centre with resilient 10Gbps connectivity, cold aisle containment » More details   Poole Blue Chip Company: Blue Chip 19-25 Nuffield Road BH17 0RU, Poole  Description: Our tailored data centre services enable you to run your business your way, on our cost efficient infrastructure. No longer will cost stop you getting the high level of operational technology your business needs. » More details   Portsmouth Fareham Company: SSE Data Centres 18 Brunel Way PO15 5TX, Portsmouth  Description: Our Data Centres are high capacity, high availability facilities offering modular suites/PODs with excellent communication and core fibre links across multiple carrier networks. » More details  Redstation Company: Redstation Limited 2 Frater Gate Business Park PO13 0GW, Gosport  Description: Colocation facilities from 1U, secure half racks and secure full racks. Short contracts available. Privately owned UK data centre. » More details  Altaire Core NOC Company: Altaire Limited Quay Point PO6 3TD, Portsmouth  Description: The only Tier-3 Datacentre in the south of England - hosting some of the countries largest web sites. » More details  Delme Place Company: ServerHouse Ltd Delme Place PO16 8UX, Fareham  Description: What a Data Centre should be - ServerHouse understands the needs of IT and IP providers and is uniquely equipped to meet and exceed those needs » More details  Walled Garden Company: ServerHouse Ltd Walled Garden PO16 8AB, Fareham  Description: Tier III - Data pods offering a high power value colocation service inside a secure walled garden » More details  West Barn Company: ServerHouse Ltd West Barn, Cams Estate PO16 8UT, Fareham  Description: The West Barn offers high density Tier II Colocation up to 5kW per rack in Hampshire » More details  Internet House Company: Elite Limited Internet House, Kingston Crescent PO2 8AA, Portsmouth  Description: A diverse and resiliently connected Data Center, located on the South Coast of England. Diverse connections to multiple London Locations. » More details   Redhill NaviSite Redhill Company: NaviSite Europe Ltd Unit 3, Foxboro Park, St Annes Boulevard RH1 1AX, Redhill  Description: Tier 3+ Carrier Neutral Datacentre in close Proximty to London with flexible rack and power options » More details   Reigate Comtec House Company: Sargasso Networks Inc. 46a Albert Road North RH2 9EL, Reigate  Description: Resilient data centre just outside the M25, easy access from London - Managed Hosting Services: Reduce costs and optimise service delivery » More details   Sheffield Ask4 DC1 Sheffield Company: Ask4 Data Centres Brompton Road S9 2PA, Sheffield  Description: Ask4 Data Centre - 1.5MVA, Carrier Neutral, 200 Racks, 10 GB/s Network to London and Mancester » More details  Sheffield Data Centre Company: High Availability Hosting Ltd within Sheffield  Description: The Sheffield Data Centre - Tier 2 colocation and server hosting in Sheffield, South Yorkshire » More details  NDS Sheffield Company: Northern Data Solutions Ltd Clubmill Road S6 2FH, Sheffield  Description: Northern Data Solutions - Sheffield - Tier 2 Data Center Facility 1.5 miles from the City Center » More details  Onyx Group Yorkshire Data Centre Company: Onyx Group Unit 1, Pioneer Close, Manvers, Rotherham S63 7JZ, Sheffield  Description: Our South Yorkshire data centre is ideally situated to service the hosting needs of all major Yorkshire cities. Constructed to the highest of specifications and supported by experienced engineers it is the premier choice for businesses looking to host their mission critical applications. » More details  Parseq managed services ltd Company: Parseq Managed Services Ltd Lowton way , Rotherham S66 8ry, Rotherham  Description: Tier 2 facility circa 12,000 , carrier neutral . 1MW .ancillary rooms housing the transformer and associated plant (UPS, batteries etc.). The building has a power supply of 1Mw which can be increased if necessary and is served by four carriers, BT, Verizon, Virgin and Cable & Wireless » More details   Shropshire Rockford IT Company: Rockford IT Suite 1.06, Grosvenor House, Central Park, TF2 9TW, Telford  Description: State of the art ISO 27001 hosting facility boasting the latest security and high speed communications including 24 hour manned security, N+1 redundant monitored systems and diverse connectivity. » More details  Entanet HQ Company: Entanet International Ltd Stafford Park 6 TF3 3AT, Telford  Description: Entanet operates an extensive MPLS-based network and boasts 99% geographical coverage in the UK. It comprises a heavily redundant 10 Gigabit network across nine major London data centres and 1-10Gbps connections into key London exchanges including LONAP, LINX, and LIPEX and Manchester exchange, MaNA » More details   Slough UK Hemel Hempstead 2 Data Center Company: NTT Communications Corporation within 45 minutes by car from Heathrow International Airport  Description: Tier 3 compliant Data center with ISO9001(Quality Management)/14001 with multiple access fiber providers on-site. » More details  Slough Trading Estate Company: Network-i Ltd within central Slough  Description: Limited space is available at Network-i Slough Trading Estate facility. For larger requirements, please consider Slough Interchange, the brand new, high power, facility owned and operated by Network-i Ltd. » More details  Equinix LD4 Slough Company: Equinix, Inc within the city of Slough  Description: Formerly known as IXEurope, now Equinix IBX LD4. Please see the profile for further details. » More details  Pinewood Studios Data Centre Company: Pinewood Studios Ltd Pinewood Road Sl0 0NH, Iver Heath  Description: Pinewood Studios, brand new, purpose built Data Centre offering full colocation and managed services. » More details  Equinix LD5 Slough Company: Equinix, Inc within near the city of Slough  Description: Equinix LD5 is a network neutral IBX Data Center opened in 2010 built on the same campus as the exisitng LD4 facility in Slough. » More details  RRDC01 Company: Red Rooster Data Centres within 15 minutes from train station, Slough Trading Estate  Description: Red Rooster Data Centres - Tier 4 - delivering service, solutions and support to all our customers » More details   Somerset Tata Communications Highbridge Company: Tata Communications Lawrence Close, Isleport Business Park, Highbridge TA9 4JP, Highbridge  Description: Our colocation facilities are built on global standards to ensure the highest level of security for your critical applications and data. » More details   South Wales Next Generation Data Company: Next Connex Celtic Way NP10 8BE, Newport  Description: Next Generation Data is Next Connex's South Wales Co-location Centre. Next Connext supplies racks and network connectivity including Layer 1 waves. » More details   Southampton Vostron Company: Vostron Enterprise Road SO16 7NS, Hampshire  Description: Southampton Data Centre, protected Data and Power, N+1 HVAC, CCTV, Fire Suppression. Multiple Carriers, Fully Managed Service or Co-Location. » More details   Stevenage SC-1 Data Centre Company: ServerChoice Unit H, J and K Gateway 1000, Whittle Way SG1 2FP, Stevenage  Description: A state-of-the-art green data centre in Stevenage, Hertfordshire. Offering a variety of IaaS. » More details   Surrey 4D - Sirius 2 Company: 4D Data Centres Ltd 122 Oyster Lane KT14 7JU, Byfleet  Description: Modern datacentre located in Surrey near junctions 10/11 of the M25 and just 30 minutes from London Waterloo station. Offers 7,000 square feet of high quality data centre space with 24x7 onsite staff, manned security and N+1 redundancy. » More details  Aegis One Company: Aegis Data Limited Catteshall Lane GU7 1LB, Guildford  Description: Brand new 30,000 sqft purpose built carrier neutral data centre located outside Guildford, Surrey with 9.4MVA power » More details   Swindon Eduserv Company: Eduserv Eduserv SN25 6PD, Swindon  Description: Swindon based data centre built to Tier 3 specification with 100% uptime since launch in 2009. Designed for public sector with dual 10GB JANET PoP. Eduserv provides colocation, IL0-IL3 cloud hosting and a range of managed services. » More details   The Lizard Cornwall Data Centre Company: Cornwall Cloud Services Goonhilly Earth Station TR12 6lq, Helston  Description: Cornwall Cloud Services provides Cornwall's only data centre based at the iconic Goonhilly Earth Station on the Lizard, Britain's most southerly point. We protect the mission-critical data of our business customers. » More details   Wakefield Node4 (Leeds) Company: Node4 Ltd within Leeds  Description: DC3 continues with, and also improves on, the high standards. Node4 already have in their existing Data Centres with many features being N+1 and in some cases N+N. The Data Centre has a total capacity of 450 racks and is conveniently located near Wakefield's major routes. » More details   Walsall Netshield Company: Netshield Enterprise House WS9 8TP, Aldridge  Description: Fully Hosted and Managed Services, Network Support and Professional Services, Secure Back up and Recovery Services, through to Network Infrastructure services » More details  Netshield Company: Netshield Shenstone Drive WS9 8TP, Aldridge  Description: Fully Hosted and Managed Services, Network Support and Professional Services, Secure Back up and Recovery Services, through to Network Infrastructure services » More details   Welwyn Garden City SC-2 Data Centre Company: ServerChoice BioPark Interactive, BioPark, Broadwater Road AL7 3AX, Welwyn Garden City  Description: Tier 4-standard, secure Data Centre in Herts (UK) with private suits and bunkers available, we well as on-site DR and business continuity suites » More details   Wherstead Interoute Wherstead Company: Interoute Communications Ltd Park Farm IP9 2BB, Wherstead  » More details   Wiltshire Corsham SQ2 Company: MDS Technologies Ltd Spring Park, SQ2 building SN13 9GB, Corsham  Description: SQ2 is sited in a quasi-military environment with the highlest levels of resilient power, security and connectivity through multiple Tier 1 carriers » More details  SQ17 Company: MDS Technologies Ltd Spring Park, SQ17 building SN13 9GB, Corsham  Description: SQ17 is designed to be the most environmentally sustainable data centre in Europe. » More details  P1 Company: MDS Technologies Ltd Westwells Road SN13 9GB, Corsham  Description: P1 is a highly resilient, Tier 3 data center which is located in Corsham, Wiltshire. The data suites have been designed in such a way which segregates the technical and facility maintenance staff to ensure that un-authorised personnel do not access areas that are not relevant to their duties. » More details   Woking SunGard TC3 - Woking Company: Sungard Availability Services within 5 minutes from Woking in Surrey  Description: SunGard Availability Services opened a new Technology Centre in the Spring of 2009. The data centre facility in Woking initially provides around 25,000 sq ft of managed services data centre. » More details  Telstra International - Woking Company: Telstra International Goldsworth Park Trading Estate, Kestrel Way GU21 3BA, Woking  Description: 10,000 square feet of hosting space for customers looking for the latest in secure co-location, managed hosting and network solutions. » More details  NaviSite Woking Company: NaviSite Europe Ltd Goldsworth Park Trading Estate, Kestrel Way GU21 3BA, Woking  Description: Secre Tier 3+ Datacentre offering services from colocation through to fully managed servers and storage » More details  CyrusOne London Company: CyrusOne Goldsworth Trading Estate, Kestrel Way GU21 3BA, Woking  Description: CyrusOne's 200,000 square foot London data center is one of the most secured locations in the region with 24x7x365 onsite security, SEAP 3 rated, vehicle lock, 4 meter secure perimeter fencing with trembler wire, x-ray scanners and intruder detection systems. » More details  Goldsworth Park Company: Unknown Company Goldsworth Park Trading Estate, Kestrel Way GU21 3BA, Woking  » More details 