What is it like to live in Bengaluru?
Having been born in Bangalore and lived here for most of my life, I might be able to do justice to this question. In the early 90s, Bangalore was a paradise. It was small compared to Delhi or Mumbai, had a lot of trees, good roads and most importantly, water regularity. What I remember most of the Bangalore in the 90s is the people - there was amazing togetherness in neighborhoods and communities. After the IT boom, Bangalore expanded concentrically. This resulted in not only a higher human density but also tremendous stress on infrastructure. Shiny buildings cropped up in the (then) edges of the city, trees were cut for construction and road widening, and there was an inflow of people from other places that led to the realty boom and hence the price. As the city expanded at an exponential rate, water connections became a hassle coupled with the problem of water sufficiency from the supplying reservoirs. The good points about Bangalore prevalent even now! Weather: Undoubtedly the absolute best thing about "namma Bengaluru". Local people: Helpful; would go out of their way to come to aid of someone in need. Simplistic people with a beautiful, ancient culture. Cubbon Park and Lalbagh. Language while communicating when around the city: English is standard, along with Hindi, Kannada and Tamil. City seems welcoming to outsiders. The following points might summarize what it was like to live in Bangalore in the 90s and now: Then: Pleasant weather. Now: Pleasant weather for 9-10 months of the year with extreme, un-Bangalore-like summers between March and May. Then: Well-maintained, clean (narrow) roads with trees lining the sideways. Now: Tremendous stress on roads in central areas with muddy-asphalt roads in expansion areas that crumble at the first drop of rain. Then: Not-so-good regulation of land. But things were still better as the expansion was maintainable. Now: Inappropriate allocation of sensitive land (lake shores, environmentally-protected land, etc). Happened as realty market exploded; still happening. This could be looked as a function of corruption - everyone wants a piece of the cash cake. Then: Water sufficiency and connection from the reservoir for the most part of Bangalore. Now: Lack of water from the reservoir in most parts. Density of bore wells reaching a point of saturation. The water board recently announced that they have no plans of laying reservoir water connections to expanding areas for the next 10 years. Then: Water could be found in bore wells at the depth of less that 200 ft. Now: Bore wells in the city go to the depth of 1200 ft and beyond for water. Then: Number of lakes > 160 Now: Number of lakes < 90 - due to encroachment Then: Well-managed traffic - obviously owes to lesser number of vehicles. Now: Terrible traffic. Narrow roads make it tougher. Potholes and bad roads add to the friction. Inability - an perhaps apathy - of the BBMP (Bruhat Bengaluru Mahanagar Palike - the organization that has the responsibility of maintaining roads, among other things) to keep pace with the expansion fueled by inappropriate allocation of land. Then: No flyovers. Happy commuting. Now: Apart from the Hebbal flyover (and to some small extent the Domlur flyover), which I believe has added to some good, most other flyovers look like a road from the ground level lifted a few feet up with added congestion. Here I point out the Outer Ring Road flyovers near Sarjapur and Agara which add to the woes of commuters and locals. Then: Weekend hangouts were Cubbon Park, Lalbagh and the museums. Now: Malls with shiny stores for window shopping and multiplexes for 2-D and 3-D cinema viewing. The list can go on. But what can we look forward to? The new MG Road Boulevard! But on a more serious note, I am not very sure how to answer this question. Some things seem to be looking up, like the traffic regulations. The Bangalore Traffic Police seem to be more interactive with people online and respond within record time to queries and complaints. Traffic is growing as a pain point and frustration is increasing. Bus Days were announced a few months back to incline people to take the local buses (which are very good now compared to 5 years ago). However, people don't seem to be buying into the option yet. The metro expansion could mean something. However, the construction does seem to never end in many areas. And this might seem like a joke but it isn't: The rains this year in Bangalore and surrounding areas. Last year this time, Bangalore Rural and Urban areas were declared to be in a drought state due to the lack of rains. Suggestions for edits welcome. 