In allegedly helping numerous Americans evade taxes, did Swiss financial institutions such as UBS and Credit Suisse violate RICO?
Credit Suisse 'helped US customers hide billions' Tax evasion carried out by 1,800 employees serving US clients read more: Tax evasion is a crime; Any person who willfully attempts in any manner to evade or defeat any tax imposed by this title or the payment thereof shall, in addition to other penalties provided by law, be guilty of a felony and, upon conviction thereof, shall be fined not more than $100,000 ($500,000 in the case of a corporation), or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both, together with the costs of prosecution. Aiding and abetting in the commission of a crime is a crime; Aiding and Abetting is classified as the criminal act including any nature of assistance offered by an individual or individuals to another individual or entity in order to engage in criminal activity Conspiracy: The involvement and participation of two or more individuals with regard to the creation and arrangement of a plan to commit a crime. An individual charged with conspiracy does not necessarily need to be at the scene of the crime to be found guilty. Commission of crimes on an organized scale is a violation of R.I.C.O. Passed in 1970, the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) is a federal law designed to combat organized crime in the United States. It allows prosecution and civil penalties for racketeering activity performed as part of an ongoing criminal enterprise. Such activity may include illegal gambling, bribery, kidnapping, murder, money laundering, counterfeiting, embezzlement, drug trafficking, slavery, and a host of other unsavory business practices. To convict a defendant under RICO, the government must prove that the defendant engaged in two or more instances of racketeering activity and that the defendant directly invested in, maintained an interest in, or participated in a criminal enterprise affecting interstate or foreign commerce. Swiss banks have admitted helping thousands of Americans hide billions of dollars from the IRS. They refer to it as a "mistake." A few blow-hard politicians who need to appear to be doing their jobs "chastise' these criminals for being naughty. Hundreds of thousands of tax-evaders freely roam our streets, enjoying the fruits of their crimes receiving very little; if any, notice from politicians or law enforcement. The excuse heard; as lame as it is, is that the Untied States just doesn't have the resources to go after these criminals and recover the billions of dollars they have (and continue to) stolen from the government and the American people. I laugh to think how anyone could justify this warped reasoning. We throw away trillions of dollars at failed ventures like the last 2 wars over nothing we financed, not including the billions we still dump into the mess with no return on the dollar for the American taxpayers but plenty of profits being harvested by the "non-working" class who then take their loot and hide it from the IRS. Imagine what would happen if these corrupted policies were reformed by merely applying the R.I.C.O. statue.  Tax evaders held accountable to pay what they hid plus nice hefty fines and possibly some jail time (great deterrent). Banks barred or shut down and prosecuted under R.I.C.O. (great deterrent) and made to surrenders all profits made from the criminal enterprise or involving their tax-evading clientele.  America's coffers would fill up in no time at all given the scope ans scale of these crimes. Working tax-payers would see their tax dollars being spent on services and projects that benefit them and their communities. Our jails would actually be housing real criminals rather than underprivileged people who are unable to survive in a society that ignores them and turn to drug addiction and committing the petty crimes to support their addictions. So, my question is; where are the perps? Why are we not seeing these tax-dodgers and bankers dressed in orange jump suits, cuffed, and carted off to jails all over this country? The saying "the fruit never falls too far from the tree" applies here. Except, in this case it's rotting fruit falling from a rotting tree. Our tax code was written so that it could be effectively enforced on those who actually "work" for a living; they punch in, punch out, collect a pay check from which their taxes are deducted; a pay as you go if you will, and then have to sit down at the end of each year and do whatever they or their computer program can to try and get some of what they have usually overpaid back.  These are the "working class" who are the backbone of our economy and the determining force behind it's growth. Then, there's a much smaller, but much more powerful group of people who don't "work" for a living and actually "take' rather than give to the economy.  There's no time card, no pay check or prepaid taxes, and a tax code that is written to allow them to avoid, exempt, delay, or hide, what they take. These people complain about paying taxes and point to the rates, but very few of them actually ever come close to what the rates they point at are because they and the armies of pencil pushers that do their bidding spend their time creating a "loophole" for every conceivable scenario that might generate a tax dollar. Recently, one ex-hedge fund manager who ran for President was forced to disclose his actual tax liability which was somewhere around 13% at least for the few years he was forced to disclose. Asked to disclose 10 years of returns like his father had done when running for office was quickly responded to with and astounding, "no." I wonder why. When all that fails, they do the next best thing and "hide' what they took. And there are plenty of pencil pushers and money shufflers there to do there bidding.  Some are so determined to avoid paying something to support their country that they will spend more than they owe to avoid doing it and even go so fr as renouncing their citizenship. The stench created by this rotting system continues to grow as witnessed at these congressional hearings where bankers who aid and abet tax-dodgers refused to name the criminals and apologized for it.  When in the history of jurist prudence could someone admit to premeditatedly and repeatedly committing a crime and be excused for these crimes by just simply apologizing for "making a mistake"? When? Only when the tree itself is rotten. Senate probe says bank helped hide billions from IRS 