How does the Theros block work in Magic: The Gathering?
So, as Theros is beginning its final run in Standard, lets look at how Theros has worked. THS-Block Limited: Mainly about building up one or two large threats and killing your opponent with them by attacking. As the other expansions were released, there was the possibility of going wide and killing them, but UG Tempo was one of the most successful deck types. This was largely thanks to the power in Limited of Heroic, Bestow, and Monstrous, while there were only a few fringe successful devotion strategies (Monoblack with Gray Merchant of Asphodel) RTR-THS Standard: This was really devotion's time to shine. Monoblack Devotions with Pack Rat and Gray Merchant dominated the field for almost the entire time. Monoblue Devotion with Tidebinder Mage, Thassa, and Master of Waves was another major deck. RG Devotion (and other RG types) capitalized on Burning-Tree Emissary to create an explosive start. Then there was UWx control, which faded in and out of effectiveness based on the Metagame, utilizing the ridiculous power of Detention Sphere, Sphinx's Revelation, and Aetherling. Some fringe decks include UB Heroic with Hidden Strings, BW Midrange with Blood Baron of Vizkopa and Obzedat Ghost Council, and THS-KTK Standard: Only Green based devotion decks have survived the rotation of RTR block out of standard, with Gb and Gr being the most popular. With devotion being less of  a powerhouse, the Heroic aspect of Theros has had its chance in the sun. UW Heroic is the most popular, though GW and RW variants exist. Courser of Kruphix is a staple of every single Green deck, and combined with Sylvan Caryatid forms the core of most decks being played (Abzan, Sultai, Gx Devotion, Temur). With Dragons of Tarkir yet to be released, it is unclear whether or not there is some aspect of Theros yet to be explored, or maybe revisited (a UUU creature might be enough to push Monoblue Devotion back into Standard).  THS In Modern: I do not follow modern nearly as much as Standard or Limited, but Eidolon of the Great Revel seems to have made Burn a very viable archetype in Modern. Keranos, God of Storms gets included in some URW control decks. Anger of the Gods is a powerful sideboard card against many of the aggressive decks, and Mana Confluence is an alternate City of Brass for decks that want that effect. Given how diverse the format is, I am sure to be missing some cards (The White Eidolons seem pretty powerful, for example). THS In Eternal Formats: No clue, hopefully someone who follows Legacy can chime in here. STAPLES: White Chained to the Rocks Elspeth, Sun's Champion Glare of Heresy (Sideboard) Gods Willing Last Breath (Metagame Call) Blue Dissolve Black Hero's Downfall Thoughtseize Whip of Erebos Bile  Blight Drown in Sorrow Red Anger of the Gods Lightning Strike Stormbreath Dragon Green Nylea's Disciple (Sideboard) Polukranos, World Eater Sylvan Caryatid Courser of Kruphix Multicolored Lands Temples Nykthos, Shrine to Nyx Mana Confluence 