Should I buy gold?
Here is a full explanation of why gold is still a massive buy... If you don't own it, you are likely to suffer in the next few decades. Why gold and silver are the best commodities to own:  They are money “Gold is money.  Everything else is just credit…”  John Pierpoint (JP) Morgan. At a fundamental level, you should buy gold. It is going to be worth a lot more than this in the years ahead for the reasons I outline below.  However, if you want to get your entry right (e.g. buy at c.$1600 an oz. vs. $1800 or $1900) you will want to learn a little bit about timing your purchases using technical indicators.  I find the 14 day RSI very useful in that respect. A previous commentator is correct about gold being "real money".  What does that mean? Gold has been used as money for several thousand years.  It also has industrial and retail applications (for example in jewelry) but an increasingly large part of the demand for gold from all over the world derives from its use as a financial asset, as money. Please note in the discussion that follows that all the points I make about gold hold doubly true for silver.  Silver amplifies what gold does.  If the price of gold goes up by 10%, silver will tend to go up by two or three times that amount.  This is true when the price goes down, which is why the prudent investor will always own more gold than silver. In order to understand why gold and silver are particularly important to own we should look quickly at exactly what “money” is.   What is money? It might seem ridiculous to have a section explaining what “money” is but most people actually don’t understand enough about what money really is.  I would argue that failing to understand what money is will have a big negative impact on your ability to make it.  I hope, therefore, that you will persevere with what follows and trust that it is important in helping you grow your real wealth.  Bear with me for a few minutes here.  It isrelevant.   To really get to grips with what money is, we need to go back a little bit in history to understand why it was invented:  In early human societies the “economy” such as it existed, worked with a barter system.  An individual with food would exchange some of that food for clothing or for a weapon, for example.  This system enabled early human societies to significantly improve their productivity through specialisation:  One group could focus on food production (farmers, fishermen) and another on the production of other relatively vital goods such as clothing (tanners, weavers) or tools and weapons (blacksmiths).   As you can imagine, a barter system had severe limitations:  A farmer who wanted some new clothes or shoes for his family would have to find someone with those products available who, at that precise moment in time, wanted what the farmer had just produced.  This was particularly problematic when you consider how perishable and seasonal most of the farmer’s products were and how difficult they were to store and transport.   As a result, several thousand years ago, some bright spark came up with the idea of using something as a medium of exchange and store of value, what we now describe as “money”.  It is important that we think for a moment what qualitieswere required to perform the function early societies required money to perform.  They are reasonably self-evident.  Whatever they chose to use needed to be:   Portable:  A key feature of anything which would serve the purposes required here would be the ability to carry enough of it with you.  Portability was one of the key problems with a barter system:  A farmer might have needed to carry large animal carcasses into town, or a wagon full of crops just to have enough to exchange for something reasonably “expensive” such as a plough or some good boots.  Portability also enabled people to travel further than ever before, secure in the knowledge that they would be able to buy vital supplies far from their homes rather than having to face the uncertainty of hunting or foraging for food and fresh water.   Reasonably readily available, yet relatively scarce:  There would have been no point in choosing to use something which was virtually impossible to find or that would require a large percentage of the population to work to produce.  It is probably for this reason that precious gemstones, despite coming to be highly valued, were never used as a common currency for day-to-day transactions such as buying food.  On the other hand, choosing something which was extremely common (timber, for example) would have resulted in the use of something insufficiently portable:  Using the example of timber, people would have simply chopped trees down to the point of then having to carry a pointlessly large amount around with them, no better than a barter system.   Durable:  For something to act as a “store of value” it was crucial that it would last for long periods of time and not be too fragile and easily damaged.  There would be no point in using something that would rot away or easily be broken in two.   Fungible:  To really work, money also needed to be reliably the same within the society that was using it.  Some early societies in the Pacific islands and elsewhere used seashells and feathers as “money”.  Problems clearly arose when one islander had a particularly large seashell or unusually beautiful feather:  How much more was a big seashell worth than a small one when exchanging it for a quantity of fish for example? More advanced societies ensured that the size and weight of their “money” was standardised to avoid such issues.   When you consider the above requirements it is unsurprising that in almost every human society in the world “…metals such as gold, silver and bronze were … regarded as the ideal monetary raw material…“[1]   Precious metals were made into coins as early as 600BC, possibly earlier.  Metal coins were then used pretty much universally for several centuries before the next major development:  The arrival of paper money.   For the first few hundred years of its existence, paper money was very simply an IOU:  Another bright spark realised several centuries ago that rather than taking the high risk and paying the significant costs (soldiers, ships, sailors) of transporting large amounts of gold and silver over long distances, it would be easier to leave the physical metal in a vault somewhere safe and use a piece of paper representing that metal to perform transactions.  These pieces of paper became the original bank notes.   This is why it says on a British banknote:  “I promise to pay the bearer on demand the sum of…” What this originallymeant was that someone holding a one “pound sterling” note could go to the bank of England and demand one pound (weight) of “sterling” silver (92.5% pure silver) in physical form.[2]   The point here is that gold and silver have been used as money by countless human societies over thousands of years for all the above reasons.  Preciousmetals came to be used almost universally across human civilization because they possessed these key characteristics of portability, relative availability, durability, divisibility and fungibility. It is precisely because they possess these characteristics that precious metals constitute a superior “money” to paper or, for that matter, zeros invented by a government in a computer.   More on gold and silver specifically and why they are not “in a bubble” As we have just seen, for the first few hundred years of its existence; paper money was only ever an IOU backed by a precious metal somewhere.  In 1971, faced with the enormous cost of the Vietnam war and unable to pay America’s creditors in gold bullion (real money), President Nixon suspended the convertibility of the US$ into gold and America’s creditors had to accept being paid back in paper $s. The result was that the gold price (in paper $s) went up by a factor of 24 times in the following nine years – from $35 to $850.   Today, people are saying gold is "in a bubble" because it has gone up approximately 5x in eight years.  This is very simplistic analysis made by talking heads on television and journalists who have no idea what they are talking about. History teaches us that big structural bull markets can go up far further and longer than this.  Saying that something has gone up a lot is not a real analysis of whether it is in a bubble.    In considering the gold market today, it is perhaps more instructive to look at the following points:  As I have mentioned above, the 1970s bull market in gold was a vastly higher percentage increase than we have seen this time around.  We are nowhere near it today.   To repeat:  Between 1971 and 1980, the gold price increased from around $35 to $850. That is to say it went up by a factor of approximately 24 times.  If the gold market achieved the same growth in this bull market as it did in the 1970s this would imply around $250 x 24 or $6,000 compared to the price at the time of writing of about $1,600.  Interestingly $6,000 is roughly consistent with the average market peak in gold (in 2010 $ terms) for as far back as data goes (several hundred years).   The current bull market started at about $250 in 1999.  It is perhaps worth nothing that this is around the level that Britain’s ex Prime Minister, Gordon Brown, sold most of the UK’s national reserves when he was Chancellor of the Exchequer.  This is a fine example of a politician fundamentally not understanding the points we are making in here.    It might be tempting for anyone reading this argument to say that “hindsight is 20:20” and Gordon Brown can’t be blamed for failing to see what might happen in the gold market.  This might seem like a fair comment but therewere plenty of commentators at the time highlighting the likely long term value in gold and ways of looking at gold’s value which positively screamedthat it was cheap.  One such commentator was Jim Rogers who’s track record of correctly calling every major market theme since the early 80s and delivering 4,200% growth as a result at George Soros’s Quantum Fund should have suggested he was worth listening to.  As we shall see, just as with all asset classes, there are ways of working out whether gold is inherently expensive of cheap over the long run.    There are strong arguments to suggest that this time the rise in the price of gold should be even more dramatic than in the 1970s. Let’s look at why:   The Demand for Gold and Silver In the 1970s bull market there were a tiny fraction of the possible buyers there are today.  Buying came almost entirely from "sophisticated", "professional" investors and basically only from Europe and the USA. There were no Exchange Traded Funds in gold and essentially no other gold funds.  In terms of private individuals, only the very richest people in the developed world could be involved in the market through their private bankers.  The market was a physical market and you owned ingots or coins in a vault.   With China and the USSR under communist rule, effectively no one in either of those enormous countries could invest in gold.[3]  The only people permitted to do so were a tiny elite in the ruling parties.  The situation today is 180 degrees different with today’s authorities in China proactively encouraging their vast population to own gold through a national advertising campaign.    In addition, in the 1970s, developing countries with massive populations such as India, Brazil, Indonesia et al were all immeasurably poorer than they are today, putting gold as an investment out of the reach of all but the tiniest minority.   There was some government or central bank buying from many of these countries but remember how incredibly poor they were compared to the US and Europe in that era.  They were tiny economies.  Even a concerted effort on any of their parts to buy gold was fundamentally irrelevant to the global market and to the price of gold as a result.   Even in the developed world it was very hard for the private individual to own gold compared to today. Today, people all over the world can buy gold with the click of a mouse button (and more and more are).  As a result, the potential market is a significant multiple of what it was in the 1970s.   Despite this reality, actual allocation of overall investment assets to gold even now is historically small.  Even after the incredible price move of the last eight or so years, gold as a proportionof total invested assets is actually at historical lows.  It currently stands at less then 1% compared to more like 3-5% historically.  If, as I suspect will be the case, gold takes back its long run share or more of invested assets globally, this will constitute nothing short of a tidal wave of money chasing an ever shrinking supply of the yellow metal. The implications of this for the price are extremely bullish.      This fall in the percentage allocation to gold has happened because of how much paper money has been printed all over the world and ended up in stocks, property and bonds.   Another consideration here is that looking at the $ price of gold is a terribly simplistic approach to trying to work out its value.  A better way of looking at many assets to establish value is to compare them to other key assets over time.  I would love to know to what extent Gordon Brown considered any of these ratios when making his decision.   Ways of looking at the inherent value in gold and silver: (1)  Gold vs. Oil A great way of measuring the value of something like gold is to look at its ratio to things like oil, property or stock markets. The average ratio of the gold price to a barrel of Brent crude (oil) since 1970 has been about 16x.  At the time of writing this is almost exactly where gold is trading ($1678 for gold against $107 for Brent crude = 15.68x). This would indicate that gold is in no way “expensive”.  For gold to be “expensive” using oil as a valuation tool, that ratio could double, as has been the case in the past on several occasions.  This implies that oil will half in price or gold will double in price from here.     (2)  Gold vs. House Prices Another excellent and useful ratio, when considering both property and gold prices is the ratio of gold prices to house prices.    The purchasing power of a pound or dollar has fallen by about 90% since 1971 and this, more than anything, accounts of the increase in the price (if not value) of UK property.  Gold is arguably a much better long term store of value.  If we look at the price of UK houses in terms of oz. of goldwe can draw some very interesting conclusions:   First that going back no less than eighty years, 2002 was a terrible time to sell gold given it was as cheap as it had ever been historically compared to house prices.  Without wishing to sound like a broken record, I really would love to know if Gordon Brown and his advisers were looking at charts like these when they took their decision.    The point here is that the smart money will always be looking at long run relative value.  Folks like the aforementioned Jim Rogers could never guarantee that a British house costing 700 oz. of gold was inherently totally the wrong price but there was most certainly a very good chance that it was.  You simply can’t escape mean reversion in any market.   People are forever suggesting that you “can’t time the market”.  I would argue that if you are prepared to spend a little bit of time looking at the relative value of a wide variety of assets you have a good chance of making better long-term decisions about your finances.  This chart tells you that the smart money sold property in about 2006 / 2007 and purchased gold.  If UK house prices get back down to less than 100 oz. of gold as they have done in the past, this implies either that gold will double from here or UK house prices will halve.  My best guess is that it will be a combination of the two and they will meet somewhere in the middle, at which point a UK house will be good value again and a bar of gold will be inherently expensive.     (3)  Gold vs. Stock Markets Another metric used by the smart money is to compare gold to a stock market index such as the Dow Jones Industrial Average.  At the time of writing the DJIA is trading at 11205.  With the gold price at $1678, the current ratio of gold to the Dow Jones is about 6.7:1. This ratio has been as low as 1:1 on more than one occasion in the last century. If we were to see a 1:1 ratio again, this could imply gold increasing to, say, $10,000 p. oz. with the Dow at 10,000 or, more likely given current circumstances, a significant crash in the Dow and rise in the price of gold with them meeting at something like $6,000 or $7,000.   I am not alone in believing we could see a 1:1 ratio again.  Many of the financial commentators who best predicted the gold bull market and the financial crisis of the last few years see the end game as a likely return of the gold to Dow ratio to 1:1 or worse (read “better” for gold investors).  These include New York Times bestselling writers such as Bill Bonner, Jim Rogers, Doug Casey and Peter Schiff to name but a few.   Their views are controversial but I would highlight that the mainstream financial commentators who argue they are crazy to believe the Dow and gold could ever trade in line are the very same people who have argued against their bullish call on gold for the last eight years, have been wrong the entire time and have missed out on about 600% so far as a result. In my experience precisely none of them do the comparative analysis against other assets we are looking at here. Many of the conditions that we are discussing in this chapter which exist today are those that caused this ratio to be reached in the past.  If anything, many of the arguments for us seeing a 1:1 ratio again are stronger today than on the previous occasions it has occurred.   I think there is a very strong likelihood that people who see the a 1:1 ratio as completely insane and beyond the realms of possibility will prove in the long run to be very wrong. As you should be able to see, considering these ratios suggests we are not yet near “bubble” territory for gold.  There is still vastly more money in other assets. Net central bank buying Another very important argument when looking at the demand side of the gold equation is the resurgence of gold buying by central banks (those outside of Europe and the US that actually have any money left, anyway). An article published in June of 2011 highlighted that China had sold out of 97% of its US Treasury (government) bills.[5]   China has been selling dollar assets and buying gold more or less quietly for several years and has bought at least $700 billion worth of it in the process.    The Chinese are not the only country to have been substantial net buyers of gold.  Central banks all over the world have been buying gold where possible (Turkey, Indonesia, India and on and on).  As a whole they became net buyers of gold in the second quarter of 2009 and have been buying increasing quantities ever since.[6]  Net central bank buying of gold from all over the world is obviously very positive for the gold price with very little new supply being found.   Interest rates The final demand-side argument for continued strength in the gold price concerns global interest rates.  Although I expect the global bond market to drive interest rates up in the years ahead, real interest rates today are basically at a three hundred year low.  In nearly every corner of the world real interest rates are negative as inflation, even on the science fiction government numbers, is higher than the interest rate.    Bear in mind that one of the biggest negatives about holding gold in the normal run of history is that you do not earn any interest.  When interest rates are high, owners of gold miss out on this return.  Economists call this the opportunity cost of holding gold.  This is the main reason gold performed so weakly in the early 1980s.  At that time, Paul Volcker became Chairman of the Federal Reserve and instituted high interest rates in a bid to control inflation.  Inevitably a great deal of money left gold chasing what were the historically high interest rates it could now earn elsewhere.   With the negative real interest rates we have today there is no such downside to owning gold and, given where realinflation is, nominal interest rates could increase by several percent before this was no longer a bullish argument for gold.     The Supply of Gold We have, hopefully, established quite a strong case for the growth in demand for gold above.  Let us now turn our attention to supply: Simply put, it is falling significantly.  It is getting harder and harder to find and extract gold.  Finding one wedding ring's worth of gold involves mining no less than twenty tonnes of ore today.   All major mines in the world are seeing supply fall.  The largest mines in the world in South Africa are finding it harder and harder to extract gold and their production is going backwards.  It is perhaps also worth mentioning that all the gold in the world ever mined could fit into two Olympic swimming pools. If you don’t believe me, Google this fact. There seem to be strong arguments to suggest that there is likely to be much more demand for gold in the future.  At the same time the supply picture for gold is far from rosy.  As I have mentioned before, one of the fundamental truths of economics is that when demand of something is rising yet the supply of that something is fixed or falling, price will rise.   Finally, as mentioned already, there is one further factor to consider:  The supply of paper money.   The supply of paper money The supply of paper money all over the world is increasing at quite a clip (QE, TARP, LTRO etc).  If there are 3x the number of dollars in the world and the same amount of gold, then all other things being equal, the price of gold in dollars should be 3x higher before you even begin to consider the demand and supply figures I outlined about gold itself above.   In actual fact the dollar money supply has grown so much since it was last linked to Gold in 1971 that the implied price of gold today should be many thousand dollars.  I'm not saying the price will get there any time soon but it is an interesting ratio underscoring the potential in the long term.  For those of you who would like more detail please check out the article in the footnote below[7] or this excellent video.[8] A final point to note for anyone wanting to make money from precious metals, is that pretty much everything we have said about gold is relevant to silver.  Silver has traditionally played the same monetary role as gold and I see no reason why it will not continue to do so.   In fact the outlook for silver is arguably significantly more positive than for gold.  There are a number of reasons for this:  First, silver has significantly more industrial uses than gold and so there is more non-monetary demand for it.  It is also worth noting that there is roughly sixteen times more silver in the world than gold.  This implies, all other things being equal, that the long run price of silver should be roughly 1/16th of the price of gold.  As such, with the gold price at $1600 at the time of writing, silver “should” be trading at about $100. The actual price today is about $27.[9] [1]  This quote is taken from Professor Niall Ferguson’s superb book: “The Ascent of Money”, an extremely good history of the development of money for anyone interested.  See the bibliography below for more details.   [2]  As I write, you would be able to exchange £1 for 1/310th of a pound of silver. IE the £ is 310x less valuable. That is what inflation does to your money. [3]   Precisely why the famous James Bond villain, Goldfinger, plotted to get his hands on America’s reserves in the film of the same name. [4]  These excellent charts come from a superb article by MoneyWeek magazine’s resident precious metals expert, Dominic Frisby:  http://www.moneyweek.com/investm... [5]http://cnsnews.com/news/article/... [6]  Have a look at the link below for an interesting November 2011 article on central bank gold buying.  Perhaps most instructive is the UBS analyst’s estimate for the last quarter was 1/3rd of the real number.  Is it any surprise that mainstream analysts keep underestimating the gold bull market with assumptions like these? http://online.wsj.com/article/SB... [7]  This is one of the best articles I have found on line summarizing this argument:  http://www.caseyresearch.com/edi... [8]  http://theelevationgroup.net/gol... [9]  I would also repeat that many veteran commentators on the silver market are genuinely concerned it could entirely run out at the current rate of industrial consumption (by 2020).  If this is even a vague possibly the price of silver will skyrocket very soon. 