What is an exhaustive list of the most important things a versatile piano player should know/be able to do?
You asked for an exhaustive list -- so that's what you're going to get! Here are the things I am asked and (most of the time) paid to do as a fairly versatile pianist in the course of, say, a given year: Maintain my overall technique to a professional standard. Much of this I now get as a byproduct of miscellaneous pianistic activity, but I also regularly focus on solo concert literature music for my instrument both because it's fun and rewarding and because it helps keep me sharp. I don't know that there are any "must know" pieces, although of course there are certain warhorses in the literature that practically every classical pianist can produce at any time. The Chopin Études are wonderful; they are in no sense either a starting place or a necessity. The math is far from rigorous, but I would say most pianists will need at least five to ten years' solid playing experience before even opening Opp. 10 & 25. I've been playing for thirty years and still haven't gotten through them all. I regularly sight-read difficult literature, chiefly vocal and chamber music, to a performance-ready or almost-performance-ready standard and often under high-pressure circumstances. The ability to do this comes with many, many years of careful practice and experience under often less-than-ideal conditions, as Yvonne said. Many factors go into it: a strong ear that has developed both analytical and predictive faculties, definitely a certain technical command, and familiarity with the literature itself: because at the same time one is translating ink blots into physical movements and thus sounds, one must also cultivate and project a style and musicality that is appropriate to the music and that is rarely directly notated in the score itself beyond certain hints. In the numerous cases in which I'm not really able to satisfactorily "read the music down" and perform it as-is, I have to know how to fix the technical stumbling blocks and solve the musical issues quickly and efficiently. There's no time for lollygagging. I'm performing about fifty different pieces of music in the next few weeks alone, along with two full-length musicals and other large projects. In the case of vocal literature, I am often asked to transpose music into different keys with little notice or sometimes none, at sight. It's in G -- she'd rather do it in E today, but might be up to try F tomorrow. How this happens, I cannot clearly explain; it's somewhat magical, and I don't take credit for it. I am able to do it through a combination of my ear, my knowledge of keyboard geography and topography, and music theory. The rest is stardust and overclocking my brain's CPU a bit when needed. For chamber or large-ensemble piano playing, the pianist is required to be comfortable cooperating as part of an ensemble. This is a separate world from the typical isolation experienced by the pianist as soloist. I have to be able to follow a conductor, to communicate and cooperate with other musicians using my eyes, ears, and facial expression in a chamber music setting, and to understand the role of my instrument within a larger context. These skills are facilitated by practice in developing them, like any others; more generally, they are underwritten by strong core musicianship abilities -- active listening, an unshakable inner pulse, strong reading ability and a facility for score study, et cetera. For chamber music especially, articulate and efficient verbal communication is essential for a smooth rehearsal process. Much of my work centers on coaching classical singers. This requires that one be a good singer in one's own right, with a sound and diverse knowledge of vocal technique and pedagogy across many stylistic periods and various genres. It also requires that I be fairly conversant in French, Italian, German, and Latin, and that I have at least nominal familiarity with other languages such as Spanish and Russian. When accompanying opera, musical theatre, and instrumental concertos, I am often working from reductions -- orchestral scores which have been (sometimes quite carelessly) "reduced" so as to be playable on the piano. Generally, they are not very playable and thus I have to make choices about what to include and what to leave out in real time as I read. This calls for knowledge about orchestration and theory, and prior aural familiarity with the music in question certainly helps -- knowing what it should sound like without the help of the hastily thrown-together score, in other words. As a choral accompanist, I must work just as hard as the conductor (when I am not also the conductor) to analyze in real time what the choir is and is not having trouble with, so that I can adjust to help with the troublesome places as needed. Choral accompaniment also requires being able to read and reproduce systems of music with as many as eight or ten staves, some of which may be in odd clefs. I sometimes read soprano, alto, tenor, and bass clef simultaneously. Then I have a drink and go to bed for a couple of days. I teach. This subject is complicated enough for twenty full-length books, so I'll just leave it at that for now. For jazz and "cocktail" playing, I need to have in my head at any given time somewhere between a few dozen and a couple hundred tunes which are considered standards. I need to be familiar enough with them so that I can play them as a soloist, as an accompanist for a singer, or as part of a rhythm section. I need to be able to reproduce any of them, in any key whatsoever, at any time and in any style (within reason). Yesterday "Ain't Misbehavin'" might've been a stride tune in E-flat; tonight, though, it's a bossa in C that will then rise a half step and transition into a walking blues once the saxophonist starts his solo. I also need to be able to improvise on any of these tunes, as well as on tunes I have neither seen nor heard before. More stardust and overclocking, basically. For jazz ensemble playing -- be it in a combo or big band -- it is necessary to know how to read the types of arrangements which such groups usually play, which are often written in a kind of short-hand consisting of chord symbols, slashes, and occasional ambiguous rhythmic notation. I also have to be able to coordinate with the rest of the rhythm section to know who's filling and who's comping at any given time -- these considerations are not normally notated in the charts and require constant listening and adjustment in real time. (Golden Rule: don't step on the bass player -- stay off the chord roots.) Although I don't listen to very much truly contemporary pop music, I have to be familiar enough with it so that if someone requests a certain currently popular song for a wedding, for example, I can sneak outside, listen to it a couple of times on my phone, and then walk back in and play it as if I've known it since the day it came out. That's a combination of pianistic skill and listening ability. Today's world is technology-driven. While I'm certainly no expert, I have to be familiar enough with both analog and digital recording, engineering, and production techniques so that I can run my own small projects. This stuff is its own cosmos -- the fact that I have been around both microphones and computers since shortly after birth certainly helps, but the technology changes so rapidly that it's very difficult for anyone other than dedicated career sound tech people to really keep up. Familiarity with notation software (Finale, Sibelius) also gets me extra gigs (and responsibilities); much of that experience comes from my composition and arranging activities. Every now and then I like to randomly hop on stage and sit in with a live bar band. I especially enjoy doing this when I have no idea what they're playing -- all I know is it sounds like country, or ska, or psychedelic rock, and I just go with it. "Maybe I'll actually know the next tune they call." An experience like that can, when the stars are properly aligned, teach you more about musicianship in five minutes than any teacher can impart in a month. I'm sure I've left some things out, but this is a bullet-point distillation of what it is that I essentially do at the piano. It looks both sort of jumbled and rather intimidating in this format -- but you have to consider that it's the amalgamation of decades of student and professional experience. We all get there one day at a time, and we're all still growing and learning. If not, we're dead meat. This is not the life of a concert pianist, which has its own problems, stresses, and glories. It's the life of the kind of pianist who makes the musical clock of his community tick day in and day out, which is quite another matter. 