Men, what are the three most off-putting qualities you find in women?
I try not to run through life with some sort of checklist with which to condemn people to irrelevance. In particular, checklists have poor specificity and reliability. That is, lots of false positives and false negatives. That said, there's a few things that really get under my skin. So, loosely speaking, and gender-neutral: Temperament. People who are unironically nasty, conceited, or mean are no fun at all. Same goes for racists, sexists, bigots, nationalists, fundies of all stripes, and so on. Some of this comes under the general banner of intelligence, but I'll take a sincere, nice person of average intelligence over a genius asshole any day. Also under temperament would be general personality. It's really important to have some sense of humour in common. Outlook on life/philosophy. To me, this comes down to an algorithm for honesty. For deciding what is true or real, and what is not. I'm a scientist, so I can be pretty brutal in my own self-assessment, and sometimes I expect the same in return. An obvious incompatibility in this area might manifest as a belief in the supernatural or god, or in immaturity, jealousy, or people overly obsessed with their appearance. More serious deal breakers would manifest as an obvious disconnect between reality and a person's actions, or an inability or unwillingness to engage in the real world. Lying is also a part of this, though some lies are probably necessary. My cooking is bad enough without commentary! Lifestyle problems. These are often related to the first two, but are again my personal preference. I'm extremely wary of people who suffer from addiction or a propensity to addiction, whether it be drugs, alcohol, gambling, gaming, etc. At one extreme it marks an inability to engage with reality. At the other extreme, it is a sign of an inability to engage in self-criticism. Obviously many of my friends enjoy alcohol and a trip to Vegas, but I'm somewhat more discerning when it comes to dating. STDs and other health issues probably come under lifestyle problems as well. 