Guitars: How should a beginner learn music theory?
The first thing you need to do is learn the fretboard. A couple good exercises include playing each note and saying what it is, then playing a random note, naming it and playing all other instances of that note on the fretboard. Next, learn your scales - starting with the major, minor and pentatonic. Most songs are in a major or minor key - which essentially means the notes follow a major or minor scale. Since the basic major and minor scales are closely related, learning these two gets you a good understanding of the theory behind most songs. Learn to transcribe music. Tools like riffstation and Transcribe! can be very helpful. Learn the chords and the melody played over them. Study how they relate and how the chords and bass lay the harmonic foundation, the feel, of the song. Then learn chord theory, starting with the basic major and minor triads and the various 7ths. At this point, you can also easily explore blues and even basic jazz theory, if it interests you. Improvise using scales over basic blues backing tracks (there are tons of great ones on YouTube. Actually watch what you're playing and understand how it relates to the chords you're playing over - this is especially easy with blues, since most blues songs follow a very small number of patterns. There's a great video called "Blues with Brains" which, if you can get a hold of, helps expand your horizons beyond playing in a straight scale. This step is critical. Learning to listen and play along will likely teach you more about theory at a very intuitive level than formal learning. Your ears and hands will start to gravitate towards playing something in the pocket when you're jamming without thinking too hard. By the time you've done this, you already know more about music theory than most guitarists... but if this interests you, you can learn a whole lot more. Now you can learn how to harmonize a note in a key, two-, three- and four- part harmony, learn the various musical modes, the melodic and harmonic minor scales, synthetic and exotic scales, play more technical blues, explore jazz theory and chord substitutions, especially the II-V substitution - possibly the most popular one of all times ... the list is endless. Finally, bring it a whole circle. Learn to forget about the theory and just trust the instincts you've built p through all the learning - go with the feel, and you'll rarely go wrong. 