Who actually uses Palantir Finance?
I am an embedded analyst with Palantir Technologies working on commercial deployments out of our New York office. Well, for starters, one of the world’s largest hedge funds, with also one of the most sophisticated quant teams, is an outspoken user of Palantir Metropolis - the new name for Palantir Finance.  Why?  Because Palantir Metropolis and advanced quant tools are meant to be used in tandem.  They are not mutually exclusive and they are not direct competitors. I agree with the earlier post that many people in banks and hedge funds are not quantitative and do not know how to program.  This does not mean they’re incompetent, or bad analysts.  In an ideal world more qualitative people would be able to coordinate with quant teams to answer basic questions (is buying stocks with lower PE than their peers a good idea?).  In reality, such collaboration is rare, difficult and even non-optimal because people ask for studies without trying to understand what they want.  That’s where Palantir Metropolis comes in – it’s a way for analysts to apply more quantitative rigor to their work while also referencing resources they would never have available to them via Metropolis’s collaboration system.  Palantir Metropolis is good at very quickly  identifying opportunities that quants/programmers can drill down into as well. In financial analysis, Palantir Metropolis can provide the big-picture, collaborative structure, which allows sophisticated users to target their advanced quant deep dives more effectively. Here is why Palantir Metropolis is an excellent addition to other quantitative tools, especially in Capital Markets: 1. Palantir Metropolis organizes users into tribes while Matlab/R encourages users to work in parallel but not together.  Palantir Metropolis allows real-time collaboration with  permissioning that helps people feel safe about their data.  Once a user makes a metric to run a Bollinger band trading strategy, for example, that metric instantly becomes usable to all other Palantir Metropolis users which makes a big difference vs. having to import an R library.  In practice, you can reach out to people who have created metrics and ask them questions directly, which encourages pollination of ideas across an organization and captures efficiencies from use of each other’s’ repeatable work. Screenshot – real-time view of someone else’s public work helps me generate ideas and learn from their coding/indicator list.   2. Palantir Metropolis distributes learning to new “tribe members”.  I’ve operated in Palantir Metropolis across many different fields/applications.  There is a lot of  embedded knowledge in Metropolis deployments that you typically won’t find in any public R library. A couple of examples: Example 1: a new director on an ETF desk wants to know all the tickers for central bank rates (not easily found on BBG).  He looks at the metric “GetCBRatediff” and gets his answer in less than 5 seconds. Example 2:  A mortgage executive wants to understand how his team defines a HARP loan.  He searches for a metric called isHARP and quickly defines the  exact logic, and decides it needs to be changed to incorporate new regulation. Example 3: Comp groups.  One of the most basic tasks for banks and hedge funds is to define peer groups. Several competitors’ sector classifications are notoriously dodgy. Palantir Metropolis allows you to find your bank’s definition of a stock’s peers instantly without having to ask anyone. 3. Palantir Metropolis distributes bank data in a centralized fashion to quants and non-quants.  The status quo without Palantir Metropolis is that different teams get permissioned to use giant stacks of data, then never do because it is cumbersome to integrate and transpose on top of their existing data.  An example is internal vol-surface data relevant to trading options.  Structuring desks might use the data in sophisticated ways but salespeople have no useful access to the data.  Palantir changes that and lets salespeople analyze basic requests (find cheap skew), or even make proprietary screens that they wouldn’t want to share with the quant  team.  One example I saw of this was a distressed stock vs. options relative value screen—the bread and butter of a very successful salesperson.  The status quo at many hedge funds and banks is a custom integration of data every time you want to use it.  That eats up valuable time that could be spent on analytics. 4. Palantir Metropolis scales survivor bias and date matching.  Anyone who has ever run a  backtest in R, Matlab, or VBA knows that it can be difficult to identify and align historical equity index members.  The following Palantir Metropolis chart shows the impact of survivor bias on the NASDAQ.   5. Palantir Metropolis lets non-quants analyze low-hanging fruits without relying on the quant team, which frees up the quants’ time.  How can a relatively non-senior  person without technical skills ask a quant team to backtest basic trending on EM currencies?  He/she simply cannot. Screenshot - Split 400 potential currency crosses into those that are showing the greatest trending behavior and allocate accordingly. Factor Builder   Results: a meaningless jumble. The factor builder returns the answer that trend-following has not been particularly efficient when cross applied to FX assets in general (though you can data mine to make it look good as most technical analysis books do).  Now the analyst does not need to ask the quant team for help finding  good trend-trading opportunities – he has answered his own question and the firm has become more efficient.   (Time this took: 3 minutes) A senior person who actually had the clout to do that would be wasting the quant team’s time.  While trading floors often have effective analytic quant teams, that’s less likely to be the case in other areas, even though those areas also have a need to analyze big data – for example, internal risk management groups. Palantir Metropolis is a lot more than just a trading application, and what might seem like a basic analysis to an arbitrageur may be a completely novel strategy at an accounting firm. 6. Palantir Metropolis is hugely scalable in the long term because it’s a common language for firm-wide synergy.  Building off point 4, imagine if the firm-wide risk management  group was able to capture all the business intelligence of the trading group, and the trading floor was able to capture all the statistical  clustering from a marketing group, and so on.  This is only possible with a shared language.  The world has too many consulting slide decks that talk the talk of synergy without real possibility of implementation. Palantir Metropolis, in my view, is the next generation of firm-wide data and knowledge integration. Remember it’s not just about predicting stock returns.  Data-driven prediction markets are turning to things like employee behavior, loan default rates, and credit card delinquency.  Integrating all these data types in one platform and using their power in full conjunction across an enterprise is the long-term possibility of Palantir Metropolis, which makes it a very different animal from traditional quant platforms. Updated 180w ago • View Upvotes