Is linear algebra generally less intuitive than other mathematics?
Actually most undergraduate mathematics, at least the first 3 years, have the intuitive and non-intuitive portions which depends on the way the pedagogy is styled. And it depends on what you mean by "intuitive": do you mean that something is intuitive when there is geometric picture? Or, do you mean it as something which you are familiar with? Or other notions? Calculus is normally intuitive in geometric terms. Meaning there are clear pictures you can draw using pencil and paper and illustrate the theorems visually (for most, if not all practical purposes). Intermediate value theorem and continuity, for example, is most often illustrated by help of "drawing a graph without lifting a pencil". Very intuitive geometrically as we probably have drawn such graphs before some time in our education. Same for multivariable calculus in up to 3 dimensions: we know surfaces, solids, etc. Notions of surface area and volume sits well geometrically with our daily usage. Linear algebra is often considered less intuitive for two reasons: (1) first typical starting point for real rigorous proofs, and (2) normally, nothing like calculus can be drawn. But is it really the case? It depends on your definition of intuition. For instance, the notion of linear independence, basis and dimension are pretty intuitive if you image usual vectors in 3 dimensions (the ones usually used in physics courses), because they can be geometrically represented. And once you get the hang of writing down the matrices for various linear algebra objects, sometimes even the matrices and column vectors become intuitive - because we know we can associate them with the usual intuition of vectors as arrows and stuffs. Concepts like linear transformations etc simply brings things to higher level. Even math courses like discrete mathematics, graph theory, logic are pretty intuitive at the beginning, if you are accustomed with their conventions. Logic, for instance, looks like very abstract way of writing mathematical statements. But once you are used to it, you realize you are doing nothing more than translating daily usage, just less ambiguously. Graph theory proofs are often dependent on our intuition of vertices, edges, faces of geometric objects. Let me suggest one possible reason why most people may agree that calculus is the most intuitive while linear algebra is one of the least. I personally find that is due to our education system in secondary school/junior and senior high schools being geared towards computations which are more relevant to future uses. Most high school mathematics do not teach basic mathematical logic, nor do they teach linear algebra or graph theory and the likes. Then surely more advanced stuffs like abstract algebra, topology etc. will be out of the question. They do teach vectors in 3 dimensions but mostly "the physics way". Calculus on the other hand are pretty complete and thorough, minus off the proofs and stating facts in theorems. Calculations in calculus lessons in high school are mostly correct and accurate. So in a way, calculus is more intuitive simply because we have more experience with it, by default, even if it is true that high school mathematics is not rigorous. That extra exposure makes a lot of difference, I think. 