Can we implement an AI search algorithm other than a tree or graph structure?
Well, Gradient descent is a search algorithm (local I admit) and does not have explicitly a graph structure or a graph. Mainly because it does not assume that your search space is graph itself but instead accept continuous search spaces which just have an objective function which is to be maximized or minimized. In general when the space you have to explore is hard to convert accurately into a graph structure your search algorithm may not rely directly on such graph to explore it. I can envision a search, again not necessarily complete, based on particle filter or monte carlo to go toward an approximate solution (gosh many approaches for POMDP are based on this: https://scholar.google.com/schol..., and the list could probably go on). Of course it can be at times faster to transpose a graph on your complex search space and Rapidly exploring Random Tree (RRT) has proven very efficient to solve complex search problems such as motion planning in high dimensional continuous spaces. Although the completeness of RRT is only guaranteed toward the infinity and problems with narrow passages in your search space makes the chances to have asample fall in this narrow passage pretty small in a reasonable time. So in short converting this complex continuous space into a graph allow in general to allow more efficient search (still PSPACE though) but this can come at the cost of having very small chance to guarantee completeness in a "tractable" duration (at least better than infinity). So in general we know very well how to do complete search on a well defined discrete graph structure and often if your problem can be reduced to this you may have a better shot to do so and remain complete. But if your space is difficult to properly represent as a graph (either due to its very large number of nodes -- with the extreme of continuous which then mean a literal  infinity of node -- or the difficulty to identify properly the edges between your nodes) then maybe some alternate approaches can come to play which do not involve -- explicitly at least -- a graph structure. Most local search approaches do not involve explicitly  graph structure and, as far as I am concerned at least, they are still search even if they do not provide the same guarantees as a complete search through  graph structure. 