Do different keys in music (Eg, Ab, C, E) have different moods/atmospheres that are a result of anything other than association and what we're used to?
This idea seems to appear more in discussions concerning Western Classical music than other types. I would hate to write it off as there have been many composers that seem to feel this is the case. Before I get into my answer, I want to mention my experience in music has been concentrated around Jazz, Funk, Rock, Soul, Pop, Blues, and any related styles. That said, let's delve into it! I have wondered about this myself, but my answer would be a resounding no if I were put on the spot. From my experience, individual keys carry no individual feels or moods. If you were to play a song in E major and then transpose and play the exact same song in G major, I'm not sure that anything inherent in the key would change for how I hear it. You may play the song differently on a subconscious level and influence how it comes out, but it isn't the key itself that changes the tone/mood/feel. That said, the key will influence how you play a song on your instrument. For instance, playing a song in E major on the bass will give me a different set of options and tools than playing a song in F# major. In E major, the lowest note on a standard-tuned bass (open E string) can be used as a root note. In F#, I might use an open E as more of a passing tone or as a muted note. I do believe that these differences in approach will influence how a song sounds, but that is more instrument specific than it is key specific. Were I to tune my bass up a whole step (so that the lowest note is F# instead of E), I would now be able to play the song in F# the same way I do in E. Also, changing keys will have an effect depending on the range of the instrument being played. This will be especially true of wind instruments and singing. If a vocalist sings a song in the key of A and they decide to rearrange the song for the key of Bb, the song will have more energy as the vocalist is now pushing harder to reach the right notes. Vocalists with a range that would end in the key of A would have to drop an octave to sing in Bb, and this might bring the overall energy level down. Same change, but different vocalists will have to attack this change differently. Again, all of my answer is based on personal experience in performing, composing, and listening to others. This idea, to me, is part of the "mythology" department in music. If you told me that Eb minor denotes sadness, I could write several melodies that exhibit a whole range of emotions that wouldn't be classified as sad. As instrumentalists, all composers find keys that they enjoy playing in. As a bass player, I feel most comfortable in keys like G major, C major, and their relative minors. As a sax player, I enjoy playing in keys like (concert) Bb major, C major, F major, and their relative minors. I think it is entirely possible that particular composers could chart their own particular keys to certain emotions. Finding a universal rule for key/mood pairings? I highly doubt such a law of nature exists. 