Do different keys in music (Eg, Ab, C, E) have different moods/atmospheres that are a result of anything other than association and what we're used to?
The short answer is, Yes. I remember being taught that classical composers were informed by different keys having different affects.  Some examples.  C major was thought to be pure and innocent.  C minor thought to be about love or unhappy love.  B major was about anger, rage, jealousy and despair while B minor was about patience and God.  At the time (I think this was a music class in high school) I thought the idea was simply a convention.  If everyone at that time agreed on the affects of the keys it would simply be a self fulfilling prophecy.  I used to think that the whole idea of keys having different emotions was untrue; it's the relationship between the pitches we hear within music that defines what the music will feel like.  I primarily compose on piano.  A couple years ago I made it a point to practice in a different key every week.  Now when I am working on something I'll get ideas from trying things in many different keys until I find the key or keys that fit what I want to express. Doing this with my own music I am slowly coming around to believing that I was wrong.  (Those who know me will not be surprised.)  I'm sure that I wouldn't want to try to generalize the affects of all possible keys.  I'm sure that whatever words I tried to use to classify the affect of key would be wrong - that is, at least for me, music expresses much more than words.  So, again, I believe the answer is; yes, keys have moods/atmospheres but I'm not sure anyone could describe exactly what they are.   Simon Kurpas's answer brings up a great point about tunings.  I talk to lots of people about music.  Frequently people will tell me they see notes as colors.  For example; an A minor chord has a different 'color' than a C minor chord.  I was recently talking to someone who told me that A432 tuning is the purest because in his experience that tuning is where he sees colors most distinctly.  I tuned a bunch of stuff to A432 and I do hear/feel a difference. 