If I transpose a piece of music to a different key in equal temperament (where all half-steps have the same size independent of the key), does the piece feel qualitatively different to people without absolute pitch?
Certain keys have a certain energy.  I've posted other answers referencing this but I can't exactly scientifically explain it, Jim Davis' answer to How does a songwriter or composer choose which key to use for a piece of music? I just know from experience that it exists.  Example: I was in a band back in College and we covered a few Evanescense tunes.  Our singer was good, but for "Going Under" we had to transpose it down two half-steps for him to be able to hit all the notes.  "no big deal." we all thought.  Audiences won't know the original key.  Well we transposed it and it sounded odd to us at first.  But we rehearsed it and got so used to hearing it in the lower key that it didn't faze us anymore, but the first time we played it live people were almost scowling at us.  It was as if they either hadn't heard the song before or as if we were doing something horribly wrong to their ears.  We played it correctly.  Didn't miss a beat or a note.  Tempo was right, lyrics were on, all the parts were there.  But we were in a lower key.  The energy the audience was used to feeling when they heard it on the radio just wasn't there.  It felt psychologically like it was dragging more slowly even though we played it at the correct tempo.  This was the last time we ever transposed a song.  ...in THAT band. Years later I'm in a different group and the bass player really wants to sing Katy Perry's "I Kissed A Girl".  Our guitarist could have done it in the correct key but the bassist just wanted to do it himself.  So we transposed it down two half-steps.  uggggggh.  The song was at the top of the charts at that time but our version left the audience standing there staring and wondering what the hell they'd just witnessed.   They recognized the song, but the "energy" just wasn't there.  We never played it again. To me this just shows that the mind remembers the key certain pieces are in when it's been exposed to them over and over again.  It's not so much that we "know" what key it's in, but that we know when it's slightly off.  I can recall intervals much better than keys.  I have a friend with perfect pitch, and if he sings a note I can sing any song in that key.  But if I sing a recognizable song first, and it's not in the original key, he can tell.  This is a strength and a weakness.  For instance he's unable to adjust and sing in the given key when his brain is used to hearing/singing it in the correct key.  He'll go so far as to sing it in the correct key while the different key is playing behind him.  Sounds horrible, but I admire how he's able to maintain his pitch that way.  Everyone's brains are wired differently. To me certain keys are perfect for certain pieces.  I can't figure out any scientific reason for it, but I've learned from writing and composing that some things just sound better in certain keys than they do in others.  I'd love to discover some measurable connection between key and emotional recall. 