Could we as musicians consider guitar to be the hardest instrument of them all?
Hardest in what sense? I play a number of instruments.  I can say that the guitar is hands down the hardest instrument for learning to read standard notation: unlike most instruments, guitarists have to read chords, and unlike the other chordal instruments, guitars can produce the same pitch in more than one place.  While we don't have to deal with multiple clefs, the fact that we can get most pitches in several places makes reading a decision making process rather than a simple translation of writing to sound. But in other aspects, the guitar is far easier than many instruments.  Fretted instruments can transpose in a flash - if I'm reading a chart in D and the singer wants to try it in Eb, I just move up one position and read it as if I hadn't changed positions - in other words, I still read it in D, but I play it in a different place.  Any other instrumentalist would have to actually transpose, which is a difficult skill to acquire. The guitarist must produce pitches by coordinating the hands, and that's a skill that most instruments require.  But woodwinds have to coordinate ALL their fingers - the plectrum guitarist only has to coordinate the left hand fingers with the pick, and the classical guitarist has to coordinate eight fingers... the bassoon needs to work all ten.  Imagine holding your guitar "lap style" and tapping chords with both hands, and incorporating both thumbs.  That's what most of the woodwinds deal with - nine or ten fingers at once. The guitar is a fixed intonation instrument.  Like the piano, if you put your finger in the right place, you get the right sound.  Orchestral strings and trombone are free intonation - they can play the microtones.  While guitars can do that with a quarter step bend, imagine having to bend EVERY note up by a quarter step, and having to do it precisely every time.  That's what a violin or viola needs to do. While a guitarist has control over tone, most electric guitarists (and many acoustic guitarists) ignore the nuances available.  Those nuances are the heart and soul of instruments like the French horn. Guitars don't have limiting factors like wind - it doesn't matter when we breathe.  A guitar can charge ahead and play fifty measures of sixteenth notes - the flute or oboe has to worry about breath management.  Guitarists don't have to worry about what we do with our tongue while playing, while all woodwinds and brass get their articulations that way. In terms of how you think about the instrument, brass players need to know the overtone series.  Imagine having to play a piece using ONLY natural harmonics and you'll begin to appreciate what this knowledge entails. In terms of music theory required to play at a high level, guitar ranks right up there with piano.  The guitar has more chord voicings available, so it might be a tad tougher - but the fundamentals are identical. So the only two aspects where the guitar can be seen as the "hardest" instrument are in reading standard notation and understanding music theory.  These are also the two areas where guitarists are generally considered weak by other musicians.  That's not a coincidence. 