Men, what are the three most off-putting qualities you find in women?
Entirely my own subjective experience: 1. Having a chip on your shoulder about being an intelligent/ambitious woman. I like smart, driven women. I've also dated enough of them to know that a lot of bright, ambitious girls take a lot of sexist heat for being interested in science, wanting to study engineering, or starting a business in their formative years. It sucks, but I wasn't the jackass that was judging them/giving them a hard time for being awesome. I love feminine women who are math-saavy, better at me in science, run/own kickass businesses. What I dislike is that a lot of math savvy, science-smart women who have endured a lifetime of sexist condescension from other men, develop an understandable but unpleasant chip on their shoulder about being a female engineer/scientist/entrepreneur. Please don't punish me for the sins of sexist jerks who talked down to you because of your gender. I wasn't there - and that wasn't me. If we date, I assure you that I will screw up and commit my own mistakes with you in time. And I will own them and make amends for them. But I will not be held to account for the crimes of others, just because we share the same gender. 2. Expecting men to be mind-readers. Communication is the foundation of any healthy relationship - but the unhappiest relationships I've been in were ones in which there was an underlying expectations that I "should just know [X]." Especially when [X] is something she's never verbalized; it is a deeply infuriating experience to realize that I am in a heated argument with a girlfriend because she expected me to be a mind-reader. Ladies, I know it can feel deeply unromantic, but spit out what you want. If we are in a loving relationship, I guarantee I will try my damnedest to fulfill any reasonable request! If a male friend of mine does something annoying I want him to stop, or I wanted to hit him up for a favor to do something, I ask. I don't drop hints, I don't insinuate, and I don't get angry at him if he fails to pick up on insinuations and hints. Men know to ask, because we know men are terrible mind-readers. Being mad at us for being crummy mind-readers is like being upset at a blind person for not appreciating art. 3. Entitled behavior/attitudes. Pretty women have had men defer to them their entire lives - men have offered them cars, apartments, trips and cash to grace them with their company. This is the unpleasant reality when youth and beauty meets age and money. Some come to understand that this is toxic and exploitative behavior, and rightly find such offers distasteful. Others internalize the financial/social offers they've been showered with since they were sixteen years old on account of their beauty, and enter every relationship with an entitled sense of demands. The attitude is summarized thusly: "I turned down so many offers of fancy cars, exotic trips and other financial boons to be with YOU, so you better step up and deliver the goodies, or I can just go back to one of my other suitors who will deliver what I 'deserve.'" Men - if you have the experience of date one of these entitled beauties, you know what I'm talking about: whatever you offer, it's never enough - there's always a richer man, someone with higher status, a suitor with a nicer vacation property - who seek to buy her affections and the moment you have a disagreement, she's gone, fleeing to his arms. Any gesture you offer is met with a simple "well, that's what I expect/deserve." You get none of the pleasure of gratitude that comes with someone who genuinely appreciates you thinking of a clever gift, a thoughtful note or a romantic trip you planned and paid for. All of that is just your JOB, and you should be damn grateful for it. No, thank you. Updated 105w ago • View Upvotes