If I transpose a piece of music to a different key in equal temperament (where all half-steps have the same size independent of the key), does the piece feel qualitatively different to people without absolute pitch?
Absolute pitch Why are songs written in the key that they are? Absolute pitch (AP), widely referred to as perfect pitch, is a rare auditory phenomenon characterized by the ability of a person to identify or re-create a given musical note without the benefit of a reference tone.[1][2] AP can be demonstrated via linguistic labeling ("naming" a note),  auditory imagery, or sensorimotor responses. For example, an AP  possessor can accurately reproduce a heard tone on their musical  instrument without "hunting" for the correct pitch.[3][4] Researchers estimate the occurrence of AP to be 1 in 10,000 people.[5] I'm not a musical expert, but I found something about absolute pitch that might be relevant. Musicians with absolute perception may experience difficulties which  do not exist for other musicians. Because absolute listeners are capable  of recognizing that a musical composition has been transposed from its  original key, or that a pitch is being produced at a nonstandard  frequency (either sharp or flat), a musician with absolute pitch may  become distressed upon perceiving tones they believe to be "wrong" or  hearing a piece of music "in the wrong key." This can especially apply  to Baroque music that is recorded in Baroque tuning (usually a half step  down from standard concert pitch).[53] An absolute listener may also use absolute strategies for tasks which are more efficiently accomplished with relative strategies, such as transposition[74] or producing harmony for tones whose frequencies do not match standard equal temperament.[75] It is also possible for some musicians to have skewed absolute pitch, where all notes are slightly flat or slightly sharp[citation needed].  When playing in groups with other musicians, this may lead to playing  in a tonality that is slightly different from the rest of the group. If I'm reading this correctly, then the answer to your question is no.  Most listeners can't tell the difference, but you can.  It says that you can tell when a piece is tranposed from it's original key, but the average listener can't.  This sounds like what you are talking about with your piece of music.  The second article seems to be suggesting that there are some differences that are instrument dependant. 