If I transpose a piece of music to a different key in equal temperament (where all half-steps have the same size independent of the key), does the piece feel qualitatively different to people without absolute pitch?
In general terms, just or harmonic temperament is according to the harmonic overtones of a given note(which when rearranged according to their letter names produce the pentatonic scale).  Equal temperament divides half tones into 'equal' intervals, based on a number which gets you from one octave to the next in 12 equal steps. These note systems are very close but do not match up.  You won't hear this difference so much from note to note in a melody, because the notes do not overlap.  A musician with any non-keyboard instrument will perhaps unconsciously 'bend' a note to sound better.  This has nothing to do with hearing in perfect pitch, which means that when I hear a note, I can go over to the piano and hit it.  If you can hear, you can hear the difference between harmonic and just temperament. Listen for chords, when two or more notes are played together.  Even temper sounds 'busier, mushier (to me).  Just (harmonic) tempered chords sound clearer, simpler, and more up front.  Many people prefer the even tempered sound with its conflicting harmonics, calling it more 'energized.'  Organ players deal in the even tempered realm.  A single note on an organ combines different notes in the background to produce a 'setting.'  So an organ, like a Hammond, is a harmonizer.  The rock 'n' roll organist with one finger on one note and the other hand waving in the air is energizing the whole song. When I tune a guitar, I use a tuner like everyone else, but then change a note or two very slightly.  Violin seems to really need this retuning.  Plucking a string give little clue as to to how the bow is going to change its pitch. The difference between just and even temperament might be why people like the Blues sound, because the melody is pentatonic, and bending of notes is widely approved, almost required.  Plus, blues and folk tunes are often played on acoustic guitars, with the natural harmonics of each note shimmering in the background. Ultimately the notes of a tune are highly contextual.  Also one chord in one key might also exist in another key, but with a different name.  So what 'comes before and what comes after' determines how the note in the middle sounds - on or off pitch.  Then, the notes overlapping in our memory determine whether a song is happy, sad, hopeful, or uplifting.  Also, the note we expect versus the note we get  influences the meaning we give a song, or the feeling we get from a tune.  But that's a whole new topic. 