Why do recording artists that sing cover versions always sing them in exactly the same key as the original? Have they never heard of transposing software?
You seem to have some misconceptions about 1. Keys 2. Transposing software The key of a song is usually determined by the range of the most important element. So if it's a vocalist singing a tune, the key will have to be chosen based on how the melody of the song fits into his/her range. Most people who do a cover don't change the key because it's already written in one that works well for that melody, and changing it would make it difficult to sing, and wouldn't add anything positive. Sometimes if it's an instrument, the key is chosen based on what the player prefers. For example, on violin, some keys are just easier to play in than others, so it makes sense to write for them. Choosing a difficult key to play in doesn't make the song better, just harder to play. Some instruments, like guitar, are essentially immune to key preference, but most are not. There are no particular keys that are better than others, so changing the key isn't necessarily going to improve the song. Note that two songs in the same key can be very different for a vocalist to try and sing. One might work perfectly while the other, because of the melody, would be awful. I believe that for a cover to be worthwhile, it should bring something new and fresh to the tune, be it some awesome instrumentation or production quality, or some new vibe or what have you. But changing the key won't improve the song. Perhaps if the singer has a higher range than the original artist, and would like to show it off, that could be a cool choice. As for transposing software, it doesn't really apply here. If an artist is going to produce a cover, they're going to record or create all of the elements from scratch, and would do so in the correct key from the get-go. So there would be no need to transpose it after-the-fact. It would only reduce the quality of the final product. I suppose you could be asking, why doesn't an artist sing in the original key and then use transposing software to shift their recorded vocals into a different key, but that's almost pointless, and never quite sounds convincing, even with current technology. 