Could we as musicians consider guitar to be the hardest instrument of them all?
I hate to tell you this, but there is only ever one answer to the question of which instrument is hardest that anyone ever gives: "Well, mine of course." And it's always wrong. The reason "my" instrument is always hardest is the same as why everyone else's life always seems to be easier, and everyone else always seems happier than we do. Everything always looks easier from the outside. The simple fact is that everyone's life is a struggle, no one is as happy as they look, and everyone's instrument is the hardest instrument. Every instrument is pushed to the furthest extent it can reach.  As Jeff Nelson remarked, "Trumpet is easier than French horn ... but because of that, they wrote harder music for the trumpet, so it all evens out." Piano is "easier" to get one note out of, so they wrote music that requires you to play 16 notes at once in rapid fire, and you're back to having one too few arms. Violin is "easier" than viola because it's smaller and lighter, but that's why violin music has way more 16th notes than viola. Believe me, guitar is a hell of a lot easier than almost any double reed instrument in the universe, because double reed instruments actively resist being played.  You don't play an oboe.  You overcome its natural resistance to being played.  It doesn't want you blowing down it. That said, one of the main issues with the guitar is the same as with the harp: the avoidance of surface noise.  Sure, you don't have to fret a harp, but you don't have 47 strings and seven pedals to keep track of on a guitar. All instruments are equally difficult, because the human mind has one scale, and as Randall Munroe said, it resizes its experiences to fit that scale.  The music played on each instrument will push it to its absolute limits.  There are no hard and easy instruments, there are only instruments with high or low expectations. So basically ... stop looking for validation at how hard you have to work, and get back to work.  :-) 