Why are the frequencies of musical notes in geometric progression?
Let's start by reinstating the facts about the frequencies of musical notes in  geometric progression. The following equation gives the frequency f of the nth key on a piano : where n denotes the key number of a standard piano ( n=1-88) . The equation would have given you some clarity as to why the frequency of musical notes is in geometric progression.  If you didn't get it right away the geometric progression that has been lurking in the equation. Here's a step-by-step approach:  Writing the above equation in simpler form, we get: [math]f(n)=k*{ (2) }^{ n/12 }[/math] and finally: [math]f(n)=c*{ (2) }^{ n }[/math]( obtained by eliminating all the constants in the equation ) where c= constant. And voila ! The geometric progression.. The following graph done in Mathematica, shows a polar graph of the frequencies for the octave from middle C 3 (261.63) to C4 (523.25). Each point has as its distance from the origin (or radius) the pitch or frequency, and the angle from the starting position is (360/13)*n, starting with n=0, going counterclockwise. And this is the polar plot of a geometric progression: This further reinstates the fact that the frequencies are indeed in geometric progression.. Before we go any further, lets ask a fundamental question about music: Why are there only 12 notes in an octave, and why not 14 or 20 or 8? Answering this fundamental question underlies the answer to your question about the physics of sound. Because knowing why only certain frequencies were chosen to be a part of the octave is pivotal to understanding the origins of the geometric progression, that has been concealed in the musical notes ... Here why there are only 12 notes in an octave : This requires an excursion into musical history. Originally, instruments were made to simply play notes that sounded "right" together. Why some notes sounded right and others wrong wasn't of great concern for most of humanity's history, until Pythagoras, (yes, the guy with the theorem) noticed that it had to do with intervals, and made a music theory based on perfect fifths. This theory had its problems, however, and was improved upon by later people, eventually ending up on what is called a "just intonation" Basically, notes sound harmonious if the frequency of the notes is close to a simple interval, like 3/2 or 5/4. These theories were important because it meant it was possible for different instrument makers to make instruments that could play scales together, thereby making orchestras. But just tuning has a problem: you can basically only play the scale that the instrument is built for, because the intervals between the notes are different. If you play a tune on the wrong scale, it will sounds out of tune. This means that if you want to sing along with the instrument, you have to find a singer whose range fits the song in the scale the instrument is built for. You can't transpose the song to fit the singer. Also, musicians were exploring the limits of what you could do with just intoned instruments. So out of this came then the equal temperament. It splits the scale into equal intervals, meaning you can transpose a tune into other keys, and also means you can do dramatic chord changes and other interesting things. You can indeed split the octave into 11 or 13 notes if you should wish to do so, but to most people it will sound out of tune. But when you split it into 12 notes, you get close enough to the seven notes of just intonation for it to be bearable, except to some unlucky few supposedly burdened with overactive perfect pitch. The five tones that are in between the basic seven are, as expected, called "half-tones". There are equal temperaments other than the 12 tones per octave that will sound fine, but they don't generally have a integral number of notes per octave. Wendy Carlos experimented a lot with this, and made such scales as the Gamma scale with a slightly mind boggling 34.29 notes per octave. ( Why are there twelve notes in an octave? ) The geometric progression obtained has nothing to do with the physics of sound per se, but more to do with the harmony of sound. And why we humans find only certain frequencies to be "in tune", while the rest to be"out of tune". ( Further Reading: Geometric Sequences and The Frequencies of the 88 Keys on a Piano Equal temperament Why are there twelve notes in an octave? ) 