Guitars: How should a beginner learn music theory?
First, I commend you for wanting to go deeper and learn the theory (the logic) behind the music you play, not just the notes (e.g. tab).  (That said, don't discount tabs as "cheating".  They are a very useful tool!)  But understanding theory is important.  Music Theory is very helpful because its an integral part of how musicians communicate with each other and learn - its the language of music. Here's my advice: 1. You should learn by doing.  Just trying to learn music theory by reading a book at this early stage will likely become boring and not "stick".  Using a book as a reference, as you play & learn, is better. Start by understanding the theory behind chord progressions.  (e.g. knowing the number names of the chords you are playing.)  This page on wikipedia (Guitar chord) gives you some basics.  If you like Blues, its a great place to start.  The most common Blues progression is a standard I, IV, V progression.  If you get together with some musician friends and "jam", its common to start with a basic Blues progression like this in common keys like E or A. (see theory already) If you're jamming, and someone is going to solo over your progression, you'll discuss (or simply know based on the chords) whether the progression is major or minor.  This "mode" is just as important as the key, because the soloist will use different scales or make different note choices based on this information.  (Similarly the composer of the song likely chose a scale from which to determine the notes of the melody.) Jazz also has some standard progressions like ii, V, I, but Jazz is a more advanced and complicated genre so that should come later. Pop music can be a bit all over the place as it steals from various genres, but many songs follow standard progressions like I, IV, V or I, V, IV, ii. Learn chord scales as you become a more proficient player you should learn "chord sales" playing the chords in various keys in sequence. You should also learn their number names.  But this is very advanced for a beginner as you begin getting into 7th and diminished chords.  Stick with learning the number names behind the chords in progressions.  After this becomes pretty comfortable for you, move on to chord scales. 2. You're guitar teacher should be teaching you theory. If you have a guitar teach (which I'd recommend at this early stage), they should be teaching you music theory as they are teaching you the mechanics.  This comes pretty early in my experience.  When I am teaching someone chords, I am also teaching them chord progressions.  And its common to refer to progressions by their name.  e.g. the first progression is commonly I, IV, V, so I'll call it that and explain what that is. 3. As you get into "soloing" (if you do), you'll dive into more theory. When you solo over a chord progression, the scale you use needs to match the chord progression (or it won't sound good).  The music theory behind soloing goes from simple to advanced to mind numbing.  But there's no need for you to learn this now. Its great that you want to learn theory.  But don't get ahead of yourself.  If you try to learn theory for theory's sake, you'll likely get bored and you might get turned off from it.  Rather, focus on learning the guitar and songs you like, but seek to learn the theory behind those songs.  Specifically, what chord progressions the songs use, what key they are in, and whether they are major or minor.  This should be sufficient for now.  You want to learn the theory in context to what you're learning on the guitar.  In this way, you'll see theory at its best -- as a tool to communicate and learn music. 