Why do recording artists that sing cover versions always sing them in exactly the same key as the original? Have they never heard of transposing software?
Performers don't always sing songs in their original keys. However, there are reasons one might choose to keep the same key: Artistic reasons: songwriters and composers often choose a key for an artistic reason: perhaps because the key lends itself well to particular mood, perhaps because certain instruments play important roles in the song and produce the desired timbres in that key, or perhaps for some other reason. A performer (or producer or arranger) might then choose to stick with the same key in order to preserve those qualities. Performance reasons: perhaps the song is a good match for the cover singer's voice, because that voice is similar enough to that of the performer for whom the song was initially written. Good singers know their voices well and deliberately choose songs to match. Technical reasons: it might be harder or more awkward for the instrumentalists to play their parts raised or lowered by one or more semitones. On the flip side, one might choose to transpose to a different key for similar reasons: Putting the song into a better key for the new singer's voice. Putting the song into a better key for a different group of accompanying instruments or voices. Changing the key to change the mood and feel. By the way, transposing software doesn't usually enter the picture, except maybe to initially transpose the melody when preparing sheet music for the instrumental accompaniment. For example, when I write for barbershop quartets, I actually transcribe the melody by hand in a key-independent manner -- I write scale degrees -- and then choose my key and write it out in the new key. Transposition software is only necessary if you change your mind about key after having written the score. Once the performer is in the studio, decisions about key would most likely have already been made. Thanks for the A2A. 