Guitars: How should a beginner learn music theory?
The difficult part in playing the guitar is learning where the notes are. Unlike the keyboard of a piano, the fretboard of a guitar isn't as easy to figure out at first because you jump between the strings. There is a pattern, but it is not easy to spot. Since you are interested in learning music theory as opposed to playing a specific genre of music on the guitar, I would suggest you do the following if you wish to play using standard notation rather than guitar tab. This will also help you start playing quickly "by ear" as well": (1) Get a piece of paper and a pencil and draw out a large representation of the fretboard. You just need to have the first 12 frets as the pattern repeats itself after that. You can do more if you want, but I'd suggest you start with just the first 12 as that represents an octave for each string. (2) For each of the strings, label the notes that correspond to the different frets. The open notes of a guitar (in standard tuning) are EADGBE from lowest to highest. On your chart, write out the notes so that you can view the pattern. I suggest that you use a DIFFERENT color pen or marker for each string as the color coding will help you see the pattern. (3) Since your question indicates you don't wish to use tab but rather standard notation, you'll then need to connect the notes with the proper pitch on the music staff. So, get out your staff paper and on the first line note the pitch of the lowest E string, on the second note them of the A string, etc. For reference, use the same color that you used to note the pitches on the fretboard diagram. (4) Finally, on another sheet of standard notation manuscript make a "master chart" showing the all the pitches you can play on the first 12 frets of all six strings. This is essentially a combined chart of the individual strings set forth in step #3. Note all of the pitches from lowest to highest, writing them on the staff using the colors. You will find that there are a lot of overlapping pitches. Indicate them all on the staff, from lowest string to highest, making sure to use the separate colors so that you will be able to see how the fretted notes interweave. So, for instance, the 5th fret on the 6th string (an A) is the same note as the open 5th string. Indicate them both on the staff, putting the 6th string first (in its color) and the 5th string second (in its color). This will be helpful later on when you are trying to play a standard notated piece on the guitar and wonder what your options are for playing that specific pitch. (5) After the above, look at the side of the guitar's fretboard where you will find little dots denoting the frets. Mark those on your diagram. Those are what you use to quickly find your place on the fretboard as you don't want to be counting frets during a song!! Now it is just a matter of looking at your master chart and start playing simple scales so that you become comfortable playing the notes while looking at the notation. At the same time you'll start to get some idea of when it makes sense to remain on a string and when you should jump to a higher or lower string to continue on. Each string's pitch also has a slight variance, something very important in classical guitar music. which may or may not be a factor for you. The above will teach you note theory. As for chords, there are lots of good chord charts available. Start with the majors and minors at the first, open position. That will help your ability to fret the notes clearly and cleanly. After that, you can start learning the barre chords, that is using your index finger to hold down all six strings while forming the chords with the other fingers. That will open up the entire fretboard for you. You'll find that some simple open chord shapes (E,A,C,G, D and their corresponding minors) can be run up and down the fretboard so that you can play chords in multiple places. Your knowledge of the fretboard will also allow you to play chord inversions, which many guitar players don't know because they lack the music theory. Finally, from your question I gather that you also want to learn to play "by listening" rather than tab. I understand this to mean that you want to be able to listen to someone playing the guitar, perhaps a solo, and be able to recreate it by ear rather than reading the music. That is simply a matter of listening to whatever you want to play and trying to replicate it using your knowledge of the fretboard gained from above. Some suggestions: (a) Make sure your guitar is "in tune" with the guitar you are trying to replicate. That means that your guitar is tuned to itself but also that your tuning pitches correspond to theirs. Sometimes they might use a lowered pitch tuning, an alternate tuning or simply not have tuned to a standard pitch but might be flat or sharp. (b) When you start, try simply finding a note or two that matches. Most guitarists play in part of the fretboard and don't jump around a lot, so if you can figure out where the heart of the solo is played you'll be off to a good start. By looking at your master chart you'll also get a quick idea as to other places on the fretboard where that note could be played. 10 minutes drawing out the chart will save you hours of trying to figure this out by ear! (c) Then it is just a matter of listening and playing along, again and again, each time trying to figure out the note you missed, etc. Playing along with recordings is a great way to learn how to play guitar. 