What is concert pitch?
This has different meanings depending on the audience. It generally refers to the mutually-agreed upon pitch within an ensemble, that by which all other instruments will tune.  In a western orchestra, this usually means an A set to 440 or 442 Hz. The word "concert" also helps clarify certain situations. A great example: a trumpet player (playing Bb Trumpet)  in an orchestra asks for clarity from the conductor about a pitch he has written in his part at measure 12. The conductor might respond by saying "the correct note in measure 12 is a Concert A."  In this case, he says this because the trumpet player's music will have to be corrected to show a written B since he's playing a Bb (transposing) instrument.  If the conductor hadn't qualified his response with the word "concert," it would be ambiguous whether he meant the right pitch is "a trumpet A" or a "concert A." In a jazz context, a different situation happens. It may be ambiguous to the player what type of music he is looking at in a "lead sheet" type of situation. For example, let's say the drummer wrote a new song for his quartet. Chances are, he wrote the tune in "concert pitch."  If the part doesn't clarify what pitch it is written in, the trumpeter probably assumes it is a "concert" pitch chart (in this case, it is known as a "C" chart appropriate for guitar, piano, bass, etc.). The trumpeter might however, ask another member, "Do you know if this is a Concert part?" If it is a "concert" or "C" chart, the player now knows he needs to transpose all the notes up a whole step in order for him to sound correctly in the band.  If the drummer was nice enough, he might respond by saying "Oh, it's transposed already" or "it's a trumpet part," and the happy trumpeter now doesn't have to do as much work to mentally transpose as he is reading. His part is already set up the way it would be in a classical orchestra whereby players do not typically have to transpose their own music. Sometimes we drummers like to make trumpeters work harder though. See WikiPedia: Concert pitch 