Who is the world's greatest living badass, and why?
Sir Ranulph Fiennes? Here are his qualifications: Served in British army for 8 years. Served in the SAS. Became an explosives expert. Plotted to blow up a dam near his house that he didn't like the look of. Evaded capture for a while after plot was discovered. Sent to Oman. Led numerous raids into rebel-held territory. Didn't die. Decorated for bravery. Leader of only expedition to ever circumnavigate the world along the polar axis. Been to both poles (obviously). Was the first to do so. Crossed the Arctic Ocean and Antarctic Ocean. Was the first to do so. Took a hovercraft the length of the Nile. Discovered a lost city. Others had spent 26 years trying. Was the first to complete an unsupported crossing of Antarctica (with one other guy). Attempted to walk to the South Pole alone. Took a stroll through the Arctic without help. Cut off his own frostbitten fingers because he couldn't be bothered to wait for the operation. Had a heart attack, went into a coma, then had a double heart bypass. Ran seven marathons in seven days on seven continents, only four months after aforementioned heart attack and operation. Those 7 marathons were in Patagonia, The Falkland Islands, Sydney, Singapore, London, Cairo and New York. In 7 days! Climbed the north face of the Eiger. The man is scared of heights. Raised a couple of million for charity in the process. Became oldest British person to climb Mt. Everest. Raised a couple of million for charity in the process. Became oldest British person to climb Mt. Everest again. Raised a couple of million more for charity in the process. The only person to cross the Arctic, Antarctic and climb Everest. Survived a car crash. Continues to run marathons, and the odd ultramarathon, as a hobby. He's 68. Described as "The World's Greatest Living Explorer" by Guinness World Records. Here is a list of his expeditions:   1967 - Jostedalsbreen Glacier Expedition 1969 - The Nile Hovercraft Expedition 1970 - 2nd Jostedalsbreen Glacier Expedition 1971 - The Headless Valley Expedition 1976 – 78 - Greenland: Hayes Peninsular Expedition 1979 – 82 - The Transglobe Expedition 1986 – 90 - The Unsupported North Pole (Canadian) Expedition 1990 - The Unsupported North Pole Russian Expedition 1991 - The Discovery of the Lost City of Ubar 1992/1993 -  The Unsupported Antarctic Continent Expedition 2000 - The Arctic Solo Expedition 2003 - Seven marathons in seven days on seven continents 2005 and 2008 - Everest Tibet and Everest Nepal summit Attempts 2007 - North Face of the Eiger 2009 - Everest Nepal Summit 2013 - Plans to make the first ever winter crossing of Antarctica (see http://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-196...) (he had to abort this due to another case of frostbite - Ranulph Fiennes evacuated from Antarctica | Showbiz | News | Daily Express) 2015 - Plans to run the Marathon des Sables, a 156-mile run across the Sahara Desert. He's 71. See: Is it harder to run in the Sahara Desert or the North Pole? Updated 55w ago • View Upvotes