What is it like being bullied in school?
Fortunately, I can't remember much of it anymore unless I make a conscious effort to revisit that Hell. It's not important why I was bullied. I was smart, cute, and not afraid to say what I thought about a person. I even wouldn't swear at someone much less start a fight. Yet I was always in a fight and for some reason the school thought I started those fights. What I vaguely remember is being the shortest kid in the class, plus being nearly 1 year younger than everyone. My birthday is in November and school started at the age of 7 in September. I started school at the age of 6. Today I am 5'11, as a point of reference. My clothes were always dirty because I was often dragged across the hardwood floor covered in floor wax. I commonly found myself defending against 2 or more attackers simultaneously without the skill or desire to defend myself. This often would happen several times a day and after school. I was raised as a kind person and that probably was what restrained me from actively defending myself. In retrospect, I probably could defend myself, but at the time it seemed impossible. That is why adults sometimes fail to understand why kids permit themselves to be bullied. Even if they can stand up for themselves, there is a mental barrier that prevents them from doing it. It also forced me to go through several personality changes. At one point I became very loud and volatile. It has taken me many years to eradicate that. The common element of these stories is that bullying ends when the bully fails to realize he no longer is much stronger physically and gets a very rude awakening to that fact. In my case, I used a very fat book to fracture someone's fingers over his head. Someone else tripped and hit his head on the desk. School shootings make national news and people act surprised. There are probably plenty of other events occurring daily where victims finally snap into action after years of abuse that do not involve firearms and thus stay under the radar. I grew up in USSR and there were no repercussions to bullying there. The police deterrent was non-existent and the school administration didn't have a process to address students' complaints. At least in USA we have recourse. Where I grew up there was absolutely none. So what can be done? Anti-bullying needs to be an integral part of the curriculum starting at age 3. Anti-bullying messaging needs to be exposed on pre-K-8 oriented mass media. There needs to be a process to painlessly file complaints and to automatically escalate resolution after a certain threshold is reached. Make the bully's family financially responsible for the damage. The messaging shouldn't be "Bullying is bad". It should quantify specific aspects and what happens to the person who is being targeted and go as far as assign dollar amounts to these damages. "Would you steal $50,000 today from the girl you don't like? That is what her psychiatrist bill will likely look like in the future directly because of your picking on her today." I mention pre-K-8 because that is when the problem is most prevalent. Talking to high school students has limited impact. We should talk to elementary students and pre-schoolers to make real impact. I will probably setup a non-profit for this cause later on. 