What is it like to be chased by a cow down the street?
Mine was not in the street, but I was next to a car, so close enough. My husband is from San Francisco and, despite being in 4H, had never been on a farm. (4H is an agriculture club version of the Boy Scouts, but he didn't know that. I have no idea what they were doing in SF.) I am from Missouri and my grandparents live on a small farm, so we went to visit them. My grandpa was a mechanic and has some really interesting cars rusting out in the field. That field also was home to a herd of black angus cattle. My husband, I, and my grandparent's two labs went out to check out the cars. The cows were grazing a good distance away, and I was taking photos of grass growing through the floor of a Metropolitan Nash. I looked up, and realized the biggest of the cows was glaring at us. Not idling chewing it's cud, but seething. It started for us, slowly at first. "Roger..." I swatted my husband on the arm, "we'd uh... Better go." We started backing up, then the cow picked up the pace. It charged. We ran. I ran off to the side, figuring it wouldn't change direction very quickly; Roger ran faster than I've ever seen him, and scrambled over the gate, moving like he was on fire. The cow stopped just past the car and kept eye contact with Roger. I took it's picture, I'll try to find it. After a few minutes and a lot of laughing, the cows had slowly made their way over to the fence where we stood, but the biggest was still miffed. The labs taunted her, barking and growling, when she reared up as much as a cow can and came down hard on her front hooves. I laughed, maybe I was being dumb but I didn't think she'd cross the fence, but then I turned to see Roger and both dogs hiding in a line behind me. We went inside to tell the folks, I told them how the bull had chased us and my grandpa said they didn't have a bull. Roger was a little miffed that we had run from a cow and said, "Well, when an 800lb animal is chasing you, you run!" My grandpa replied, "Oh, it was a baby?" Tl:dr When a 1500 lb animal is chasing you, you run. 