Why would you choose to have more than one child?
We chose to have four kids because we wanted our kids to have several siblings. Both my husband and I came from families of five and four respectively. I was just explaining this to a friend the other day - four is a lot of work, but not hugely more than three. And Four is a lot of work for *me* as a mother, but me as the child with three siblings - that was great. There's not one of my siblings I'd give back. I cannot imagine being without one of them, and I really think four is a nice number. I can't help but feel that only children miss out sometimes - it's true that they get a lot of adult interaction and have amazing relationships oftentimes with their parents that my four kids may not have as much (at least in ways of one-one), but ... when my parents pass (hopefully not for many many years), my "family" is still pretty big - with three siblings, we form a little tribe of our own. I wanted that for my kids, and we have it. I don't go out and playdate as much as many other stay at home parents I know, but that's because four IS a lot of work to take out (especially with one special needs child). However - my little tribe is a mini-playdate all on their own. They fight constantly (and so did my siblings and I), but they PLAY constantly. They pair off nicely for games and rides at amusement parks. They never have to sleep alone if they don't want to when they're little and moved out of our bed and room. My siblings and I are simultaneously closer than anyone else in our lives and also pretty separate and private. We're just all really different, and each of our lifestyles right now are foreign to each other. Still, when I need them, I know they all will be here for me in any and every way they can. When I was in the hospital having our fourth baby, Kat Li drove over an hour in the middle of the night to come and sleep with my three boys (we coslept) so they wouldn't be scared with both Dan and I gone. Sabrina Li is always around when I need some company, whether it's in a tough point of life or just yet another long boring evening when Dan's working late. My brother Chris drove with us from CA to ND to help us get both of our cars out there for Dan's four years of medical school. They've all taken stints helping me clutch babysit or be my extra support to take the crew out. We may go a couple of weeks without talking, but pick up chats where we left off immediately. We tease each other, we drive each other crazy, and yet we're one of our most base forms of ourselves around each other - something I think we generally aren't with even the closest people in our lives. They know the best jokes and stories, they have had the same crazy experiences growing up, etc. They're here, when I need them and when I don't. When the bad stuff happens, it's them I'll call or message, and when things happen to them, they message me, sometimes even before our parents. That's what I wanted for my kids. They get each other. I love all my four kids and they're a load of fun for me personally, but the main reason I had more than one was for them. I wanted them to have a tribe of sibs the way I do. And they do. They're even closer together in age than my siblings and I (a five year spread for them, a nine and a half year spread for us), and I anticipate this to cause even crazier wars and chaos, but also an even stronger bond and camaraderie. When I watch the four of them playing together or sitting in a heap reading or playing kindles, it makes me feel really choked up. I love that they have each other, and I love even more that someday (*sob*) when I'm not with them, they'll still have each other, a group small enough to still be close, but big enough to not be lonely. That's why I chose to have more than one child. Fun: 10 Reasons to Give Your Child a Sibling Updated 21w ago • View Upvotes