Why does my husband hate me so much for wanting to use my brain?
My heart breaks for you. I lived with a guy that sounds a bit like your husband, and it took me years to recover and feel like myself again. The other people here have covered his behaviour pretty well, but I would add that there is help for you. If you don't have friends or family that will help you, there are groups that can help. Judging by your English, I'm assuming you're in the US. If so, you can call the National Domestic Violence Hotline for help: 1-800-799-7233 You can also contact them here: The National Domestic Violence Hotline They list these red flags for abuse on their website: Telling you that you can never do anything right Showing jealousy of your friends and time spent away Keeping you or discouraging you from seeing friends or family members Embarrassing or shaming you with put-downs Controlling every penny spent in the household Taking your money or refusing to give you money for expenses Looking at you or acting in ways that scare you Controlling who you see, where you go, or what you do Preventing you from making your own decisions Telling you that you are a bad parent or threatening to harm or take away your children Preventing you from working or attending school Destroying your property or threatening to hurt or kill your pets Intimidating you with guns, knives or other weapons Pressuring you to have sex when you don’t want to or do things sexually you’re not comfortable with Pressuring you to use drugs or alcohol This is how they define emotional abuse: Calling you names, insulting you or continually criticizing you Refusing to trust you and acting jealous or possessive Trying to isolate you from family or friends Monitoring where you go, who you call and who you spend time with Demanding to know where you are every minute Punishing you by withholding affection Threatening to hurt you, the children, your family or your pets Humiliating you in any way Blaming you for the abuse Gaslighting Accusing you of cheating and being often jealous of your outside relationships Serially cheating on you and then blaming you for his or her behavior Cheating on you intentionally to hurt you and then threatening to cheat again Cheating to prove that they are more desired, worthy, etc. than you are Attempting to control your appearance: what you wear, how much/little makeup you wear, etc. Telling you that you will never find anyone better, or that you are lucky to be with a person like them You didn't give more information, but I hope that reading this list will open your eyes to what he's doing to you. It is not your fault. 