What is it like being bullied in school?
As a child from age 11 to graduation from High School I was the constant  target of bullies. Taunts of Fag, Fagot, Queer, Fairy, Sissy Boy, SuzyQ, Girl, and many more were daily occurrences. In Middle School the bullying moved on to physical bullying pushing shoving, hitting in the back of the head with a book, garbage thrown at me. I complained several times before I learned that that made things worse not better. If the teacher cared enough to say something to the offenders it was never enough to make them stop and now they knew that I had spoken to the teacher so the bullying increased as pay back. But the average response of teachers and one Vice Principal was to put the blame on me. I was told to "be more masculine" or to "man up" so they would leave me alone by the male teachers. The female teachers would usually say something like, "You make it worse by letting them know it bothers you. Just ignore them and they will leave you alone". This told the younger me that I was not important and that my feelings did not matter. I felt it was my fault that I was being bullied and stopped asking for help. By the time I got to High School I was not willing to face up to the fact that I was gay but at the same time I knew I was. So then I could not ask for help (this was in the early 1970's) because that would require talking about the gay issue which was something I was terrified of. My concept of what it meant to be gay having grown up in a rural Washington State farm community was dirty old men who hung around public mens' rooms, this was something that I wanted no part of so coming out was not an option in my mind. The bullying was so bad in High School that I was suicidal most of my Junior year and made one half hearted attempt by taking a half a bottle of my father's high blood pressure medicine. The ER doctor figured out it might be a suicide attempt and talked to me in private. Lucky for me he was an understanding young intern who was able, during his talk with me, to get me to tell him what was going on and who took me at my word when I told him it would not happen again if he did not make an issue of it on his report. It was that act of kindness that finally made me think that life might be worth living and that there were people in the world that did not hate gay people. My high school years were the worst time of my life. I dreaded going to school each day to the point that I had a bleeding ulcer by my sophomore year. I learned to fake migraines as a way to skip school and figured out how to avoid the hallways during class changes by voluntarily working for the teachers doing their photo copying and other things they did not like to do. I was also the tech of those day which meant I know how to use the film projectors and movie cameras and sound systems. I hated myself, hated the fact that I had to deal with the gay thoughts I was having, hated the bullies and teachers and staff at the schools. I was terrified of my parents finding out what was going on and learning about the gay aspect of the bullying. I thought of running away, and as I said was suicidal for a period of time. And in the end I figured out how to work the system such that I was able to have enough credits to graduate by the end of my third quarter of senior year. So I made a deal with the school I would attend the local Junior College and not formally quit the high school so they would not be penalized financially and they would graduate me at the end of the year even though I had not attended any classes during the last quarter of my senior year. I did this all without my parents knowing about it and met a professor at the Junior College who was someone I could finally talk to about being gay. I dealt with the effects of that bullying well into my adulthood, It was not until I was 30 years of age that I was totally comfortable with being gay and totally out of the closet to all my friends and family. My father basically disowned me and we never had a good relationship again after that but that was the only real bad experience of my coming out. But during my 20's I had lots of self esteem issues to deal with as a result of the years of bullying and that led to bad decisions about promiscuity and alcohol use during my first few years in the gay world of Palm Springs and San Francisco. Per a request from Katie Bremer, I am adding this addendum: If your dealing with issues like those I disscussed above do understand that my experiences were in 1960's and 1970's things have progressed a great deal since then. There are things like the Gay Streight Alliance programs in many High Schools. PFLAG Parents, Families and Friends of Lesbians and Gays you can find the nearest chapter here. http://community.pflag.org/page.... There is also the It Gets Better organization designed just for LBGTQ youth who are having a hard time coping with the results of homophobia. Also things did get better for me, I met a great guy had a successful career  and a generally good life and I am sure it will be even easier for you to find support and allies in your efforts to come to terms with and to be proud of your sexuality, good luck be proud. Updated 243w ago • View Upvotes