Who is the world's greatest living badass, and why?
This answer is now in 2 parts: May I present to you Christopher Lee To those who are younger, this guy Christopher Lee WAS Dracula for over 15 years and over 7 movies He's also a 6'5" tall world champion fencer, speaks eight languages, does  all of his own stunts, has participated in more on-screen sword fights  than any actor in history, served for five years defending democracy from global fascism as a British Commando in World War II, and became the oldest person to ever record lead  vocals on a heavy metal track when, at the age of 88, he wrote,  performed on, and released a progressive symphonic power metal EP about  the life of Charlemagne (because why the fuck not?). His mother was an Italian Countess actually descended from Charlemagne and as such wore the royal seal of Barbarossa. He attended Wellington University and majored in Ancient Greek and Latin, then in 1939 moved to Finland to fight off the Soviet Invasion of Finland. In 1940, he enlisted in the Royal Airforce as an intelligence officer with the Long Range Desert Group (the forerunner of the SAS) cracking German ciphers. He was also trained as a pilot in South Africa, but ended up stationed in North Africa working for the Special Operations Executive (an association that dealt with espionage against Axis Units in WWII). He also spent time chasing Nazi war criminals with the Central Registry of War Criminals. He retired from the RAF with the rank of Flight Lieutenant to pursue acting in 1947. His service records are sealed and Lee doesn't talk much about his  service (when pressed on the subject, he reportedly asks his  interviewer, "Can you keep a secret?".  When they excitedly say yes, he  leans in close and says, "So can I.") He played bit part roles in the film industry until he got a break playing Frankenstein's monster in 1957. He won the Dracula Role the next year, and played this repeated this role over the next 10 years, virtually cementing his role in film history. In addition to his iconic, definitive role as Dracula, Christopher Lee  has also portrayed some of the most memorable villains of all time.   Sure, everyone knows him as Sauroman the White from Lord of the Hobbits: Return to Fellowship Towers, but he even played the ultimate Bond  Villain in The Man with The Golden Gun -- a role he got thanks in  no small part to the fact that Bond creator Ian Fleming was not only  Lee's cousin, but the two men had fought together in the SOE during  WWII. He's portrayed Englishmen, Egyptians, Spaniards,  Transylvanians, Frenchmen, Greeks, Poles, Chinese, Indians, Italians,  Wallachians, Romans, Germans, Arabs, Gypsies, and Russians, played the  lead role in the biography of Mohammad Ali Jinnah, the founder of  Pakistan,  English, Italian, French, Spanish and German, and moderately proficient in Swedish, Russian and Greek,  can do any English accent he wants, and sings everything from opera and  death metal in a hardcore bass voice.  IMDB credits him with 274 acting  roles, Guinness Book of Records says he's appeared in more films than anyone ever, and  the Oracle of Bacon lists him as the Center of the Hollywood Universe  because anyone in history links to him in 2.59 steps (he links to Bacon  in 1).  If that's not enough, Lee's movies have grossed more than any  actor ever – his top five alone grossed $4.4B (number two is Harrison  ford with $3B) and that doesn't even include the new Hobbit films.  He's such a veteran pro  that he filmed every single scene in Star Wars 3 in a single day, and  even though he's never received a Best Actor nomination he's been in 4  movies nominated for Best Picture. Lee also belongs to three stuntman unions, does all of his own stunts,  once busted his face smashing head-first through an actual plate glass  window for a scene, injured himself falling into an open grave while  portraying Dracula, and once had his hand slashed open during a drunken  sword fight with Errol Flynn. Lee has appeared in  more on-screen sword duels than any other actor ever.  A masterful  fencer, he's been in everything from cutlass fights on the decks of  waterlogged pirate ships to rapier duels in seventeenth-century France  to taking on a couple guys one-third of his age with a lightsabers. A classically trained singer, Christopher Lee also released a heavy  metal hardcore symphonic power metal concept album about Charlemagne  when he was 88 years old.  He's played with Rhapsody and Manowar, and on  his 90th birthday he released a metal single called "Let Legend Mark Me  as the King" with music written by some of the guys from Judas Priest. Christopher Lee is also a master golfer who once played with Jack  Nicklaus and is the only actor to be a member of the Honourable Company  of Edinburgh Golfers, the most prestigious country club in the world.   He's been married to the same Danish model since 1961, is a  Commander of the Order of St. John's of Jerusalem, a Knight Bachelor of the Order of the British Empire, and was knighted by Prince Charles STANDING UP. The government of France made him a Commander of the Order of Arts and Letters in 2011 He's still acting today at 91 years of age. Sources: [1] Badass of the Week: Christopher Lee [2] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chr... -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- ADDENDUM: After reading about this guy I had to add on to this answer! May I present to you Aki Ra Aki Ra is a former child soldier who has defused thousands upon thousands of landmines throughout Cambodia. He was conscripted at the age of 10 by the Khmer Rouge, and then 10 years later was conscripted into the Vietnamese army upon being captured. He then served stints in the Cambodian army and trained was in a UN land mine clearing program. The craziest thing about Aki Ra is that he clears landmines with only a shovel, stick and knife! He can digout, clear and defuse a landmine in only 2 minutes as compared to the hour a UN bomb team would take. Between 1994 and 2007, Aki almost single-handed cleared out all land mines surrounding Angkor Wat (Cambodia's main tourist attraction) before turning his attention to farms and playgrounds that had been off-limits for decades. Eventually Aki had collected so many landmines he opened the Cambodian Landmine Museum. He has now registered an NGO, and has trained a team of 1,000 people to work in de-mining operations nationally. He claims to have removed over 50,000 land mines personally over his 16 years of demining. He also cares for 29 homeless and land-mine mutilated children; feeding, clothing and schooling them. He is the true definition of a Bad-ass! Updated 116w ago • View Upvotes