What are the best grilling tools?
Best grilling toolsWhether you're an outdoor cooking novice or a seasoned barbecuer, trying to figure out which grilling tools you actually need can be completely baffling. In our quest to determine which items are truly the best, we turned to unbiased product testing reports, user reviews, and grilling experts to create the ultimate tool kit. http://... "The grill master's mantra is keep the grill hot, keep the grill clean, and keep the grill lubricated," says Steven Raichlen, BBQ guru and author of the new Man Made Meals: The Essential Cookbook for Guys. "Modern grilling tools are all about compensating for the mercurial nature of fire." First, we asked Raichlen to define the categories of grilling tools that are absolutely essential. Then, we did a deep unbiased dive into the hands-on product testing research reports by the Consumer Reports National Testing and Research Center, the Good Housekeeping Research Institute, America's Test Kitchen, Cook's Illustrated, Underwriters Laboratories, and BBQ equipment tests from mega-grilling blog AmazingRibs.com. We also combed product user reviews and best-seller lists on Amazon.com and HomeDepot.com, AND considered the advice of pitmaster Chris Lilly of Big Bob Gibson Bar-B-Q in Decatur, Alabama. We also considered Raichlen's recommendations, including his own creations of the tools. Here, 11 grilling tools that come highly recommended: 1. Charcoal Grill: Weber Performer Charcoal Platinum Grill Raichlen and other professional barbecuing experts like Chris Lilly of Big Bob Gibson Bar-B-Q in Decatur, AL prefer charcoal grills over gas grills. America's Test Kitchen tested 7 charcoal grills and chose this top pick for its "sturdy cart," "built-in thermometer," "lid-holder," "tool-hooks" "ash-catching bucket," and "easy to adjust" vents. $350,amazon.com. 2. Gas Grill: Weber Spirit SP-320 46700401 Since not everyone wants to cook over charcoal, we did a deep dive to find the top-rated gas grill. Testers at the Consumer Reports National Testing and Research Center couldn't find a single "performance flaw" with this grill. It's "easy to use" and "preheats quickly and evenly." Plus, it's "superb on high and low heat and indirect cooking." $650, amazon.com 3. Spring Loaded Tongs: Oxo Good Grips Locking Tongs "A pair of tongs is the single most important tool you can buy," says Raichlen. These "easy to use," "comfortable and controllable" tongs come in 9-, 12-, and 16-inch lengths and have been the top pick of the Good Housekeeping Research Institute since 2010. Amazon.comusers agree, praising its "stay-cool rubber handles" and "great balance and tension," and have made it the site's #1 bestselling tongs. $15 for 16-inch tongs, amazon.com 4. Stiff Wire Grill Brush: US Forge Welding Stainless Steel Wire Brush #00303 "To clean the grill properly, it needs to have a long handle so you won't burn your hands and the stainless steel bristles need to be firmly attached so they don't get in your food," says Raichlen. Although Raichlen likes the Grill Daddy, Consumer Reports was not impressed by the tool at all. Instead its testers recommend "using a spray bottle of water in conjunction with a regular grill brush." AmazingRibs.com andAmazon.com customers are fans of US Forge's inexpensive version. The bristles are able to "dislodge stubborn carbon deposits" and the brisles "never pop out." 5. Instant-Read Thermometer: Splash-Proof Super-Fast Thermapen This grilling thermometer's "very slender probe" and "accurate read" makes it the tool of choice for BBQ pros like Chris Lilly of Bib Bob Gibson's in Decatur, AL, Harry Soo of Slap Yo' Daddy BBQ in Santa Ana, CA, and Raichlen. It's not only the #1 bestselling device on Amazon.com, it's also the highest rated one by users who call it "dead accurate" and praise its "digital display with large numbers that are easy to read." $96, amazon.com 6. Paper Towels: Bounty DuraTowel  "Keeping your grill lubricated is key so your food doesn't stick or burn," says Raichlen. "Instead of getting a grill oil brush, just use your tongs to swipe the grill with a paper towel dipped in oil." A Consumer Reports top pick, these paper towels won in a "landslide" during testing and got the top scores for "absorbency, scrubbing, and wet strength." They're almost a "no-brainer" pick, because they're "about twice the price" of other paper towels. Bounty towels also scored high with the Good Housekeeping Research Institute because they "won't shred" and "speedily sop up liquid." $12.50 for a pack of two rolls, amazon.com 7. Chimney Starter: Weber 7416 Rapidfire Chimney Starter "If you're a charcoal griller, a chimney starter is the most efficient way to light charcoal," says Raichlen. Reviewers of this top-rated, bestselling device on Amazon.com call it "the gold standard of chimney starters," and say that it's "bigger, faster, and more durable" than other devices on the market. It's the top pick of the Good Housekeeping Research Institute and BBQ whisperer Craig "Meathead" Goldwyn ofAmazingRibs.com. Goldwyn calls this starter "my fave" for two reasons: "it lasts longer than cheaper models" and "it's an excellent temperature controller for your cooking because it is also a measuring cup!" $15,amazon.com 8. Heavy Suede Grill Gloves: G&F 8113 Cowhide Suede Leather BBQ and Fireplace Gloves "Suede is more resistant than cloth in fire and you want a pair that goes past your elbows," says Raichlen. These gloves with a 15-inch extra long cuff get 4.5- and 5-star ratings in user reviews on Amazon.com andHome Depot.com, respectively. Users enjoy the "comfortable cotton interior" but most importantly they're "great for protecting hands and forearms." Also, they've been rated #1 by Cook's Illustrated, andAmazingRibs.com's equipment tester raves "you can even use them to pick up hot coals!" $20, amazon.com   9. Grid Lifter/Grate Grabber: Charcoal Companion Steven Raichlen Grill Grid Lifter "It enables you to lift a hot grill grate," says Raichlen. "Many companies make them, but I think I make the best one." The Good Housekeeping Research Institute agrees: "it will save you from struggling with a hot grate." $18, amazon.com. 10. Grilling Basket: Brinkmann Steel Flexible Grilling Basket 812-9012-S "This is a necessity for foods like fish, shrimp, and vegetables that that are hard to turn and are prone to breaking or sticking," says Raichlen. "I look for sturdy construction, an insulated handle, and one that holds the food firmly so it doesn't slide around." Consumer Reports' favorite version "can flip over lots of food with one turn." It's also a user favorite and best-seller on HomeDepot.com, with one user calling it "simple ease to the max!" $16, homedepot.com 11. Fire Extinguisher: Amerex #B402T ABC 5 lb Multi-Purpose Fire Extinguisher "You hope you'll never need to use one, but you should always have it on hand," says Raichlen. This May, Consumer Reports tested three brands of fire extinguishers and none of them passed its rigorous tests. Since The Good Housekeeping Institute and the U.S. Fire Administration don't test fire extinguishers, we turned to Underwriters Labratories, an independent organization that calls itself a "not-for-profit product safety testing and certification organization." This version by Amerex is just one of the multi-purpose Class ABC fire extinguishers that's certified by UL. See a complete list here. $89, google.com. 