Is it sexism that companies' dress codes permit women (but not men) to wear sandals?
I'd like the OP to provide me with a list of companies that permit women but not men to wear sandals. ( I am serious about that.) I happen to know a thing or two about dress codes in different industries. Below, you will find examples of what I am talking about. Hospitals - All the staff have to wear proper foot wear that cover all of the feet. You see, sick people need needles, vomit, poop, bleed and for health reasons, you do not want any needle, blood, vomit, poop or blood to contaminate you by having those body fluids touch your skin or worse, your skin with an open wound like a scratch, hangnails, etc. Police officers, firefighters- Not sure that seeing firefighters and police officers in sandals would be efficient for them to do their job, no matter their gender. ( It's common sense really.) Construction - Steel toe boots are the norm. In fact, in my country, it is mandatory. If ever there is a construction accident and the construction worker, no matter his or her gender, did not wear proper boots or equipment the construction company will be fined and the construction might lose a limb in the process. ( Again common sense prevails again in this situation.) White collar types of jobs - I believe it all depends on the company's cultural image it wants to project. Also, depending on the level of management, the type of attire, not just the shoes might be part of the cultural filters of that company. For example, in my line of work, it was not seen as being professional to wear sandals at work. At the level I was at, it was expected that I look professional at all times and that meant to wear shoes that were classy either with low or high heels but the toes were not shown. Employees that wore sandals were those that had low ranking jobs. I know it seems snooty but that is how it was. Teachers or anyone in the education field - In my area, there are no restrictions for males or females concerning shoe attire. Casual clothing seems to be the norm. Of course, those that teach shop courses or art courses dress accordingly depending on the types of projects they are working on. I believe your question has the penchant of a straw man type of situation. Your question does not really make sense when applied to different fields or types of work. Again, I ask you to name companies that only permits women to wear sandals and forces men to wear shoes that cover their feet. 