What is it like to be chased by a cow down the street?
Not down the streets, but I've had some experiences with cows in the fields.  Cows are almost always tied up to a wooden log half buried in the ground called khuti. On some auspicious day, some cow of a nearby household either manages to pull it out completely or somehow exploit the carelessness of the person who has just tied her metal chain incorrectly - but finally she sets herself loose. I like to think a passing bullock-cart might also be a reason, but we hardly have them around these days. But whatever, she's loose. U wot m8? After a long time of being tied up and living at one place, she is finally free. The glorious event is announced by all the jobless dogs of the neighbourhood with an enthusiasm rivaling that of Bhadrapad (mating season) with them following her religiously, accompanied by the melodious barking. They don't usually go near her though, a cow is a formidable beast especially in the freedom mood. The freedom mood - erstwhile silent and peaceful looking cows conjure energy from somewhere and go insane. They dance crazily and show off some incredible moves (as in I like to moo it moo it), and enthusiastically run helter-skelter in whatever direction they can, which is often in that of the fodder or the farm. They don't usually go far, owing their lack of local geographical knowledge and incentives, but they do scare the hell out of little children wherever they go. I was once on a just-harvested field adjacent to our house when I saw a free cow (of some nearby owner) running in my direction. I was always afraid of cows, and it sent a shiver down my spine. It was an energetic creature, and in spite of lack of horns, frightening. I ran towards the toilet which was the nearest safe place, and the cow probably found it amusing and followed. I successfully got inside, but the cow still was really interested in me (or so I like to think). Finally our dog came to my aid and started barking. Barking isn't always pleasant to the ear, so the cow decided to explore the world further and have bigger adventures. After I got out (a long time), I relayed the news, but her run of freedom had already ended. The owner had to run a lot with ghaas (not the hindi ghaas, the marathi ghaas means a special kind of fodder) in his hand as lure and cows aren't really intelligent to know the trap. Older cows are peaceful and are usually caught earlier, and catching little calves too isn't difficult - but if it's a young, adolescent one, gods save you! But then even the gods live in the cow's belly, and are proven to be partial - leaving all the efforts to only yourself. When the cow comes home, she boasts of her marvelous adventures and narrates her experiences - how she roamed through a farm full of food, and a shed full of food, and other food, and how there is a big transformer just beyond that shed that we never get to see, and how there was this interesting human somewhere. 