Why does my husband hate me so much for wanting to use my brain?
Most of the answers already here are good ones, but I have a few points to add. However -- first, a caveat: I am almost never plainly brutal in my advice here, but I may come across that way in the next paragraph. The situation you are in is one of the few that enrages me, and that may colour how I sound when I say what I'm going to say. Just keep in mind, I am attempting to give you the best advice I know how -- even if I sound like a rude, angry, shrew. ;) Your husband is an idiot. I mean that in the old-fashioned sense -- his intellect, at best, is minor. And it's for that reason that he denigrates your intellect. He is one of those people, because they are dim bulbs, can't stand to have anyone with any sort of brightness around them. That would call attention to his lack of intelligence and sophistication. He can't have that. So he instead calls intellectual people names (smarty) and accuses them of trying to egotistically impress others at his expense (admirers). Because if the intellectual (you) is the problem, then there's nothing wrong with his idiocy. He magically becomes "average", and you become "a snob". He hated and drove away your friends because quite likely they were also pretty smart cookies. Intellectual people are like that. They tend to gravitate towards people that can stimulate them and make good conversation. He couldn't have that, either. Every friend you had that was smarter than he is was just another reminder to him of his inferiority. So they had to go. And I imagine his way was simply to be a person they couldn't stand being around. So they left. Instead of seeking ways to improve his lot, his intelligence, and his savvy by engaging, he preferred to isolate you so you and your friends couldn't make him feel as small as he obviously does. That you took down your answers on Quora to satisfy his bruised and tiny ego is a real shame. You seem like a terribly intelligent person to me, and I would have loved to read your answers. Please note that intelligence and education are not the same thing. I suspect your have lived your life in a place where basic high school education is the norm, and few go on to college. That is okay. There's nothing wrong with that if you continue to expand your mind in other ways, as you obviously have by reading books and engaging with others on the internet in meaningful discussion. You are not "dumb". Let me say that again: You are not "dumb". You have done with your means exactly what you should do -- never stop learning or growing. He is the dumb one. Like many people in circumstances that limit their education, he has decided that "education is for snobs". Rather than do what he can with what he has, he has chosen the Aesop's "Sour Grapes" approach: "Well it's not worth it anyway. Those educated folks are just snobby bastards that think they're better than me anyway." And that's why he's an idiot. I'm not calling him that just to insult him. I'm calling him that because he cannot see the advantages to learning. His intellect is either so small or so atrophied from lack of exercise that he can't even imagine the possibilities. That in itself would not be a crime. But that he takes his lack out on you most certainly is. You ask what you are doing wrong, and as far as I can tell, it's only one thing: you are dumbing yourself down to sooth his anger and his ego. That is a crime against yourself. Never ever hide your intellectual light under a rock. It is a gift and you should use it gloriously, happily, and with abandon. Anyone who objects isn't even worth the time it might take to argue with them. Your husband is not only an idiot, though. He is, as others here have noted, an abusive ass. No one who really loves you would want you to be less than you are just so their ego can grow. If he really loved you, even with a smaller intellectual capacity than yours, he would want you to shine. Why? Because a person who truly loves you feels they are shining with you, not that you are outshining them. Please, please consider leaving this stifling jackass, as others here have urged you to do. If you stay, eventually you will become "dumb". Intelligence drains away and dies from lack of feeding. And so does one's heart. You will become no more than a plodding, dull bovine, cropping the grass, thinking nothing, and caring for nothing but the next mouthful. You will die inside. It doesn't even matter if his abuse is only verbal and he's never hit you and never does. He's killing you by inches anyway. Please save yourself from that fate. Even if your options are limited without him, it would be far far better than what is happening to you now. If I seemed overly harsh above, I am sorry, but I had to call it like I see it. I wish you luck in whatever path you decide to take. 