What is it like being bullied in school?
I was a fearless, spunky young child with a rebellious streak.  My parents said that I had "sparkle".  Growing up on 25 acres in the country in Tiny Town, Nowheresville, I would chase snakes and frogs and leap across rivers - my feet expertly navigating the slick, moss-covered stone paths through the mucky waters.  When the weather turned cold and snow began to fall, I would build ramps and sail over them on an inner-tube with a huge, ridiculous grin frozen onto my red face.  I was passionate and loved life.  I was happy.  I loved running wild through the woods and getting lost in the trees.  I loved sewing and playing the flute.  I loved riding motorbikes.  I loved staying up late reading after "lights out".  I was sparkly. Everyone gets heckled a bit in school.  A rite of passage even.  But bullying.  Bullying is a different beast.  And I do mean beast.  Bullying grabs on and forcibly rips the sparkle and happy right out of a girl.  Bullying gifts you nightmares and panic attacks 20 years later.  Bullying is the ugly side of human nature. I have tried my very best to suppress the memories of my youth, but Satan insists that I reminisce occasionally.  Randomly, I'll be cruising along in my little sports car, feeling the warm California air rush through my long blonde hair and, suddenly, I'll hear, "snaggletooth!!" or "your face is fat and gross" or "you're Jumbo not Dumbo because Jumbo is fatter!"  Nothing takes the wind out of your hair like flashbacks of being bullied. The name-calling was really the appetizer, though - the bullying amuse bouche.  What really wet my pillow at night was being excluded and shamed; being made to feel as though I was some lesser species.  Bullying dehumanizes you to the extent that you actually forget sometimes that the things that are happening to you are wrong.  You just accept them.  You put on your shoes every morning and you do it again. I fantasized about jumping out of the window (no worries, guys, it was the first floor) when teachers asked the class to form groups.  Forming groups or pairing off is every bullying victim's worst nightmare.  Similarly, lunch hours, passing periods, and assemblies; any free, unstructured time is stressful and potentially dangerous. During these dangerous times, when your "aloneness" is on display like the homecoming queen, I did my best to hide in the bathroom.  When my hand ached and froze from applying lip gloss repetitively, I walked the halls with purpose in my hips - as though I had a destination, in the hopes that I wouldn't look so alone and I could avoid stray bullets or sniper attacks.  Invisibility would have been a merciful gift.   I was never invited to parties or football games or to social activities.  Unfortunately for me, I played varsity soccer (a good way to get your aggression out), so I got to hear all about the popular girl events that I was missing out on.  From my single seat (where I pretended to be busy studying or sleeping - see aforementioned re: avoiding attacks) toward the front of the bus I could hear them chatter away excitedly about the night's activities.  The other girls did things like sneak beers, have bon fires, gather at a popular boy's house, parties and debauchery.   Boys?  Really?  Ha!  Once someone suggested that I ask Brian (name changed) to the school's annual Tolo dance.  Shaking in my doc martins and Calvin Kleins, I admitted that I might be open to the idea (I'm an eternal optimist even though I realize it's a bit silly).  Big mistake.  HUGE.  That afternoon when I got home from the bus, my mother was waiting for me with a snack.  My mother never waited for me.  Or made me a snack.  She told me that Brian's mother had called her and said, in as nice a way as possible, that everyone (the entire school) was laughing at me for having the audacity to think that I might have a chance with Brian.  Rachel Laine might have a chance with Brian? Muahahahahahahahahha.  Cue the laughter.  My mother attempted to comfort me, but it was much more condescending than comforting. Damn.  And up until this point I thought that watching my "friends" pass notes in front of me was embarrassing.  These notes, of course, contained beyond-horrible things written about me in a code that only an 8th grader thinks is clever and unbreakable.  Not being accepted by your peers throughout your school years and being bullied necessarily changes you (I have written about only the most minor of incidents here).  It changed me, certainly.  Changed me from sparkly and happy to anxious and awkward.  While being an outcast undermined my self-confidence, it also perhaps made me a much stronger, more empathetic, better person. Gives me a perspective that most gossipy women just don't have.     I still grapple with anxiety related to the way that I was treated in school.  For example, even though I have grown out of my terribly awkward stage (fingers crossed), whenever I'm looked at by men, I assume it's because they are thinking negative things.  When I feel the "looks", suddenly a wave of anxiety rushes over me. I wish very badly that I could conclude this answer with a half-decent proposal to end bullying in schools.  Unfortunately, I can only tell you how kids are mean, not how to stop them. Updated 99w ago • View Upvotes