What are some tell-tale signs of a cargo-cult start up?
Methodology Pair Programming applied as an institutionalized distrust artifact. Ghetto Agile: Scrums are uncomfortably long and people are brainstorming out loud at scrum time. No specs are written, well because it's agile, specs are time consuming. Sprints are confused with milestones. Continuous integration system is never green. Unit Test Coverage Obsession: sigh... Choice of Tools & Environment Pivotal Tracker: Clumsy and abusive usage of it practically as a todo list. TextMate, Sublime Text 2: ...and other hip editors are the predominant editor choice among the engineers. No vim or Emacs neck beards to be found. Choice of technology MongoDB: Doesn't matter if the data to be juggled is tiny or relational by its nature. Mongo is what cool kids are using so it should be good. node.js: These questions get a staring face: "Is the application really I/O bound?" "You know it's single threaded and you run this on your 16 hardware thread box?" "How will you prevent this turning into a huge callback spagetti?" Redis: ...In use because directly allocating some heap and doing set operations were deemed too hard. Virtualization: Using IaaS (AWS, Rackspace, ...) might be OK at the early stage but all you hear from the CTO and the infrastructure guys is plans to virtualize the virtualization in the clouds. People you meet at the interviews Founder with a book deal, BFF with MG Siegler: (S)he is the one who sets the sprint date because the company will launch the product/feature in SxSW. Advisor: a non-fulltime employee of the company, probably who wrote a self help book, interviews you. Founders recite the names of their advisors and investors when they are pitching the company. Top Coder warmup questions for the whiteboard: ...because if you can wrangle binary trees and get all the edge cases of the problem on a whiteboard in 10 minutes, you can actually write code which will use remaining 15 cores of the server from the single thread of node.js. TLAs (Three Letter Acronyms) SEO is the most frequently heard TLA in the company and at the interview. No one in the company can tell the difference between TCP and UDP but can talk an hour on why ZMQ is better. Workplace Expensive Office Furniture and Decoration: ...despite the company only raised a modest amount at their seed round, engineers are sporting $2K standing desks in an office with couches from C&B, custom murals on the walls, LED lighting in the restrooms and the gourmet kitchen. Updated 132w ago • View Upvotes