Why would you choose to have more than one child?
Having children is the most chaotic and uncontrollable thing you can do. Right from the start. Pregnancy can't be scheduled. As a matter of fact it usually hits you, when you least expect it. Like a preparation to what will follow, if you try to become pregnant, you will not. If you forget about the whole thing and get enthusiastic or enormously angry about something else: bang ! There it is, the little line in the test stick, that slowly envades your whole being. The first child changes your life. When he gets to his second year, the social pressure for another one begins to be felt.  Don't fall into that trap. Absolutely the worst reason to have a baby! Thinking about yourselves on a short or even long term basis, it is sheer madness even considering it. And if you do think about yourself mostly, I strongly advice you not to have another child -  in fact not to have children at all.  Thinking of the baby you find yourselves finding several good reasons : getting company  - a friend for life not being brought up as a spoilt only child, getting things in proportion not having to take care of elderly parents alone etc.,etc. Or against all odds you just biologically crave for a number two, because of the way babies smell, because you've forgot the foggy months after he was born, when you didn't even have the time to dress before three in the afternoon, and because he is cunningly just reached the age , when he smiles at you with only two tiny teeth in his lower jaw. You'll also find that it is Easier to to take care of two kids, because you skip having to entertain a bored first born, you gain back your position as an adult, Great fun to listen to their conversations together   Looking at a picture of a hummingbird.  - Look, a terring! -  (With contempt) It's a tummingbird.      (2 and 6 years) My second spoke a nonsense language to her little brother. "He doesn't understand me anyway." quite a different experience to parent a girl and a boy. Getting more children you eventually have both sexes. a relief to notice, how different children are. There is not much you are responsible for, when it comes to their character traits. Most of their personality they are born with. Upbringing can only help them become what they wish to be and give them the tools to cope with other people and society ( an easier task, if they have siblings). Realizing this, a new pregnancy is like getting a surprise present. You just might want it out of pure curiousity. 