What are the most beautiful yet inexpensive places in the world to travel to?
Go to Nepal my friend, it will be good for your soul, your mind, and your wallet! Nepal is one of the, if not the cheapest places on this earth to travel to right now however, that is hardly the only reason you should go!  Nepal is still vastly unexplored and full of some of the most wonderful people I have ever encountered, pair that with  the culture, lanscapes, the internationally renowned mountain treks, ancient temples,  exploring jungles atop elephants, tracking rare tigers in the depths of a national forest, heart pounding rafting, world class paragliding, yoga, and meditation.  No matter what level of exploration you seek, you'll surely find your place among the Himalayas. I spent nearly six months living and traveling around this wondrous land and probably paid a total of $1600 USD  (excluding my flight and Visa). Expenditures are mostly for big ticket tourist items like treks to Everest Base Camp or completing the Annapurna Circuit ($600-$1500usd). Albeit, I spent much of that time volunteering in a village named Sarangkot, thus I was given room and board. If you stay in guestshouses ($3-$10usd/night), and eat off the beaten path ($1-3usd) travel locally, volunteer and WWOOF,  you will undoubtedly save loads of money. Not to mention  the longer you stay in one place the more  you inevitably save because transportation and board are always your highest expenditures. If you are moving frequently you are spending frequently. Perhaps my biggest tip on saving money no matter where you travel to is to..LEARN A BIT OF THE LOCAL LANGUAGE!!  Many countries in Asia and various other parts of the world,  have a bargening/haggling system to purchase goods and services, including your accommodation! When the local people see that you can speak some of their language; 1)They have a higher level of  respect for you, and appreciate your attempt to understand the culture. 2) They will be very cautious when negotiating items with you because they will assume you know what they are saying, if only a little,  and will be less likely to give you a terrible charge. A good rule of thumb is to start the negotiations at %50 percent of their initial asking price and scale in %5 increments from there. The markup on toursits is about %50 -%100 if not more (depends how easy you look ).  Remember to always be respectful, and have the best interest of both you and the merchant in mind. You need to be mindful that  you are a tourist not a local, and it's imperative to  understand that difference. Regardless of how you look at it it takes money to travel, even if you are on a strict budget, so that does make you wealth in comparison to the majority of individuals in a developing nation. Don'tbe cheap, don't exploit them for your own gain.  Make sure you are trying to get the best deal for both of you! Bartering is tough if you come from a western culture,  but once you learn to have fun with it, it becomes  an extremely enjoyable and rewarding experience! Hell, it may turn you into a master negotiator! 3)  They will have a hilarious look on their face when they see that this toursist dressed in goofy odd's and ends haphazardly thrown together from various countries around the world,  is speaking their native tongue! They find so much joy  conversing with you that once they figure out that you have a few words under your belt! They will often befriend you, and then chat your ear off! When negotiating I have had people I spoke Nepali too, instantly drop my price more than half without me ever asking for a discount, in Nepalese they  would say "I am giving you Saahti Price!" or "friend price". Before you know it, I have a crowd of locals standing around me asking me to speak more! That's when the phrase "Ma ali ali, Nepali Bolchu" comes in handy! When you speak the language, if only a few words, you drop barriers and discover more than you could imagine about the people and their way of life. I have countless experiences of being invited into peoples homes for lunch, or dinner. I have celebrated traditonal festivals and was even blessed as a brother in the Tihar festival. Where the Didis (older sisters)  and Bahinis (younger sistere) create garlands, and give their brothers Tikas to show love and respect.  I was moved by their purity and generousity and to think, none of this may have happened, had I not made the small effort to learn some phrases, and open my heart to thier country. It's safe to say Nepal is absolutely one of the most incredible places on earth! I say this ad nauseum!  It's notorious for the highest mountains in the world, the antiquity, the deep rooted culture, the colors, the sounds, the smells, the food! I trekked, paraglided, searched for tigers and rhinos in Chitwan National Park, lived in a monastery located in Lumbini, the birthplace of Gautama Siddhartha (The Buddha),  but without question,  it's the people that will capture your heart.  The relationships I forged with the Nepalese and the  acts of kindness from some of the most  kind-hearted individuals I have ever been blessed to  come into contact with, and they have forever touched my life and I will cherish my time spent with them. It's these moments  that far out weight any of the "touristy" things I crossed off on my bucket list.  "Their smiles will light up your spirit like the sun! "  I do suggest going there SOON before it changes drastically!  Right now the ancient culture is still somewhat preserved, but Globalization and outside influence are quickly moving into these once cut-off civilizations. I fear that they will never be what they used to and all that wonder and joy will be lost to the ages. India I would like to include India in this list, because you can travel in similar fashion as Nepal,  although one should be aware, that Nepal is a good place to start before ever going to India, particularly if you are a less experienced traveler.  Places like Varanasi, Agra, Rajasthan, Bombay(Mumbai), GOA, Kerala will change you forever  by testing your mind, body and soul, and challenge you in ways that you would have never known had you otherwise gone elsewhere.  Bhārata is a place  you should ease into like a hot bath, once you are adapted you will find much enjoyment. Did I mention the food? The food is from the Gods themselves! Both places offer cheap travel along with seemingly unlimited  experiences that are nothing short of miraculous!  If you want the most beautiful spectacular, breathtaking scenery paired with rich history, culture, palatable cuisine fit for royalty, music that is invites the soul to frolic with bliss then the decision is easy, by a ticket to the Indian sub-continent. South East Asia Places like South East Asia are also awesome, however,  they are extremely congested with tourists. You will often find yourself standing in outside queues for hours just to see a temple or get through a border,(100f temperatures to boot). The influx in tourism mostly due to Asia's growing middle class has brought a rapid increase in modern development, such as super malls, 5 star amenities, infrastructure and technology.  I am not saying these  are good or bad, however I can say that an unfortunate by-product has been the decimation of  native culture, and the destruction of nature. Pollution and trash now cover the once untouched landscapes (the beaches are destroyed by the millions of party goers coming and going each year), and there are so many foreigners(tourists) at any given time. You'll  find yourself asking "did I even leave my country? " With that being said there are still heaps of outstanding places to visit in S.E.A. Bagan, Angkor Wat, Halong Bay, these are all wonderful places worth seeing regardless of their popularity. As cliche as it sounds do your own research and venture to the least travelled bits, forge your own unique path, take control of your destiny and unleash the explorer within, it will enrich your experience drastically. To conclude, every country has something unique to offer so ultimately your choice is dependent on the level of adventure you want, the type of traveling you are comfortable with and your budget of course~ Hope that helps! Happy Travels! *UPDATE* I wrote this exactly one week before the great Earthquake. I am absolutely devastated for my Nepali people. Some of these places I spoke about such as Durbar square have been destroyed. IT's heartbreaking. I ask that if you are reading this, don't give up on Nepal, they will need you more than ever. I beg of everyone to give in the relief efforts they need support, please visit this link How to help Nepal: 7 vetted charities doing relief work following the earthquake *View from then village house I lived in. Annapurnas  8091M  or close to 29,000ft peaks! ​ another view from the village ​ Paragliding in Sarangkot, Nepal. $35usd ​ *holding a Cobra: 100npr tip! ​ ​ ​ *Dubar Square Kathmandu an infinite sea of beautiful Saris, and ancient wood carved buildings. Home to the Living Goddess. *Free if walking * 150-300 npr for Taxi ​ Monkey Temple, View Pricesless, sometimes you will be stopped to pay, but I got in for free, because they did not ask. I made donation at the top though.  Great views of the Kathmandu Valley, Lots of monkeys to laugh at, peaceful buddhist monks to meditate with. ​ Priceless experience in Chennai! I loved these dudes! Updated 40w ago • View Upvotes