What are some mind-blowing facts about the Sun?
It's even more ginormous than you might have imagined. The sun is so big, in fact, that one million Earths could fit inside it. It weighs a mind-boggling 4,385,214,857,119,400,000,000,000,000,000 pounds, and makes up 99.8 percent of all the mass in the solar system. It's EXTREMELY hot on the outside -- and thousands of times hotter on the inside. The sun's visible surface, or photosphere, is roughly 10,000 degrees Fahrenheit, while the core's temperature is about 27 million degrees. That's more than 40,000 times as hot as boiling water. The energy produced in the core generates essentially all the heat and light we receive on Earth -- you would need to explode 100 billion tons of dynamite every second to match the sun's energy output. Copernicus WASN'T the first to place it in the center of our solar system. In fact, Greek astronomer Aristarchus of Samos proposed the first known heliocentric (sun-centered) model in the third century B.C., nearly 1,800 years before Copernicus did. Portrait of astronomer Nicolas Copernicus, 1580. It's VERY far away. The sun is 93 million miles from Earth. It takes eight minutes and 19 seconds for sunlight to travel through space and reach us. If it were possible to fly a plane all the way to the sun, the trip would take 26 years, according to NASA. You'd be really heavy if you walked on the sun. In fact, a person who weighs 150 pounds on Earth would weigh about 4,200 pounds on the sun because the sun's gravity is 28 times that of Earth. Of course, no one is ever going to walk on the sun, as Buzz Aldrin explains in the silly interview with Ali G below. It's middle-aged.  The sun is about 4.6 billion years old now and is expected to last another five billion years before it starts burning helium and expanding into a red giant. At that point it will swallow up Venus, Mercury, and maybe Earth too. It will spend approximately one billion years as a red giant before it shrinks into a white dwarf. It "flips" every 11 years. When the sun reaches its so-called solar maximum -- its period of greatest activity -- its magnetic field reverses polarity, meaning the north and south pole essentially switch. Scientists observed the field reversal begin in August this year. It's something to sneeze at. A third of the population experiences what's called the photic sneeze reflex -- sneezing when exposed to sunlight or another bright light. Why does this happen? Aristotle thought it was because the sun warmed the nose. Today scientists think the culprit might be "crossed wires" in the brain -- the trigeminal nerve, which senses irritations in the nose and triggers sneezing, lies close to the optic nerve, which senses light entering the retina. When the optic nerve fires, the trigeminal nerve may pick up those signals and mistakenly activate a sneeze response. Solar Missions: One of the most important solar missions to date has been the Solar and Heliospheric Observatory (SOHO), which was designed to study the solar wind, as well as the sun's outer layers and interior structure. It has imaged the structure of sunspots below the surface, measured the acceleration of the solar wind, discovered coronal waves and solar tornadoes, found more than 1,000 comets, and revolutionized our ability to forecast space weather. Recently, NASA's Solar Dynamics Observatory (SDO), the most advanced spacecraft yet designed to study the sun, has returned never-before-seen details of material streaming outward and away from sunspots, as well as extreme close-ups of activity on the sun's surface and the first high-resolution measurements of solar flares in a broad range of extreme ultraviolet wavelengths. Evolution: The sun was born about 4.6 billion years ago. Many scientists think the sun and the rest of the solar system formed from a giant, rotating cloud of gas and dust known as the solar nebula. As the nebula collapsed because of its gravity, it spun faster and flattened into a disk. Most of the material was pulled toward the center to form the sun. The sun has enough nuclear fuel to stay much as it is now for another 5 billion years. After that, it will swell to become a red giant. Eventually, it will shed its outer layers, and the remaining core will collapse to become a white dwarf. Slowly, this will fade, to enter its final phase as a dim, cool theoretical object sometimes known as a black dwarf. Magnetic field: The strength of the sun's magnetic field is typically only about twice as strong as Earth's field. However, it becomes highly concentrated in small areas, reaching up to 3,000 times stronger than usual. These kinks and twists in the magnetic field develop because the sun spins more rapidly at the equator than at the higher latitudes and because the inner parts of the sun rotate more quickly than the surface. These distortions create features ranging from sunspots to spectacular eruptions known as flares and coronal mass ejections. Flares are the most violent eruptions in the solar system, while coronal mass ejections are less violent but involve extraordinary amounts of matter — a single ejection can spout roughly 20 billion tons (18 billion metric tons) of matter into space. 