What is it like being bullied in school?
My Senior year of high school started off pretty standard. By April of my last year of high school, I was just ready to graduate and move on. Little did I know that my entire life would change the day after I turned 18. It was a day like any other as I hung out with my fellow seniors in the photo lab of my photo class. Pretty soon most of the students filed out because class was almost over, except for myself and a male classmate. At this point in my life, I pretty much hugged everyone and was a natural flirt, so I had a bit of a reputation of this without actually being overtly physical. When this classmate, who I considered a friend, was about the leave the room, I hugged him goodbye like usual, but when I thought the hug ended, he pulled back and kissed me. Due to my overwhelming lack of self esteem in regards to all things relating to men, I let it happen, thinking it was just one of those weird things that happened between friends and didn't give it much thought. Unfortunately for me, it escalated fairly quickly (into what would later be labeled as sexual battery), until I finally protested and stood up for myself, saying "no" and my words were unheeded. The bell rang, and as he left the room he said "See you later", to make it seem like nothing had really been going on. I stood alone in that room, stunned and unable to process what had just happened to me. As I tried to figure out how to even articulate it, I spoke with female friends of mine, who encouraged me to report it to my counselor because what had happened was wrong. I was ashamed and nervous for a few reasons. One, I had a perfectly nice boyfriend at the time and was embarrassed that it had even happened. The other reason was that he was a football player. At my Orange County high school, football was (and still is) king. I didn't know what was going to happen if I reported him, and frankly I didn't want to go through the hassle. One of my friends threatened me and said if I didn't tell my counselor, she would, so two days after the assault, I reported him. What happened next was a whirlwind of police interviews and drama, but one thing was for certain: from that day forward, I was bullied. It started off immediately. "WHORE!" "SLUT!" the shorter football players would yell at me across the quad, hiding behind the taller football players. The school was abuzz with the story, and every classroom I walked into instantly went silent as my fellow students regarded me with utter disdain and disgust. People from different grades who I didn't even know walked up to me and said horrible, expletive laced things to me. This was a regular, every day event. I could not walk to and from classes without someone yelling "BITCH!" or "LIAR!" at me. Growing up in this small Orange County community, I had known most of my classmates for the majority of my life, and in an instant, they all turned on me. People did not want to be seen talking or interacting with me. My house was vandalized and I was harassed online and outside of school. It was a never ending torrential downpour of hatred. The school administration told my parents they would just move him out of my classes. Appearances meant everything to this Blue Ribbon school and they were not going to sacrifice it for my safety, that much was clear. Eventually he was suspended and then given a suspended expulsion, which just increased the harassment. Teachers testified on his behalf at the trial, acting as character witnesses. I had no one to stand up for me from that faculty. I wouldn't tell my parents who was harassing me and they tried to convince me to be home schooled for the remaining months. But something in me would not allow myself to be the complete victim. I refused to withdraw from school because I felt that I should not have to hide away because of what he did. Being bullied was the most formative experience of my life and remains to this day. I look back at that time and realize that nothing I have gone through since can even compare to it. You feel isolated, completely alone, like you don't matter to anyone, even if that is far from the truth. You are so emotionally broken down that even the smallest thing can send you over the edge. I contemplated suicide but could not bring myself to do it because I was an only child and I knew it would destroy my parents beyond comprehension. When I walked in my graduation, I held my head up high, even if none of my classmates would look me in the face. I used to look back on this situation and regret that I ever told anyone, that any of this ever had to happen in the first place. But had I not followed through with it, I would be a different person than I am today. You couldn't pay me to go back to high school and live through any of it again, but I know exactly what I'm capable of and how strong I can be when it really counts, and that's what matters to me. 