What is it like being bullied in school?
I will prefix this for two reasons - first, this is under my real, full, name. Luckily everything I describe here has either passed the statute of limitations or was handled by someone with authority before. One of the main holds Bullies have over us, is to make us ashamed of ourselves. We can't resolve those things until we fully, and completely, abandon the shame we are told we have to feel. Secondly, some of the things I say here are controversial. Heck, just telling victims to man/woman up and stop sniveling and crying and demanding, is controversial. So, what is is like? Consider this, for starters. I am shorter than the average person, 5'6 at this point. I was a stick in the landscape until 15, when (we get to this in a second), things changed. I also am born on the cutoff date for school admissions, which made me the youngest in class. Well, would have, had my parents not sent me to evaluation a year earlier and gotten me into school. So here we have a kid, at max three years younger than some in class, who is shorter than most kids in the class below him, and barely weighs enough not to set medical redflags off. I also really liked school. I liked to learn, liked to converse, ask questions (which teachers hated), and answer (which students hated). I was a prime bullying target by no fault (other than being engaged) of my own. And the bullies, they came out of the woodworks. Few confrontations were physical. What little happened was generally swept under the rug by the school. Many more were of the "point and laugh" kind. Daily. It got worse and worse, with a vicious cycle of me becoming the target of people who wanted to "fit in". "Poopiehead", point, 200 kids laugh. It was debilitating to quite an extent. I got sick, really, physically, sick, thinking about school. My grades went from straight A+ to C-, part because I spent so much time just being afraid to go to school, part because I hated my teachers, who stood by and watched, more and more. I also became more and more sensitive to things. Where the "poopiehead" would have solicited little less than a smile from me at the beginning, I started seeing attacks everywhere and anywhere. After having the tires of my bike slashed so many times, every time I had a bonafide accident or incident unrelated to my bullies, it still was filed under the "bully" headline. My parents, whom I loved and still love more than anything in the world, were of little help, sadly. Standing alone, "they called me poopiehead" sounds like a whiny kid, not an actual issue. I didn't talk much about it, I just got "sick". I had headaches and belly aches and nosebleeds and more, just to not to have to go to school. We went and saw a psychologist for my slipping grades. He determined that I was smart, open, funny, and should not have any issues, so he referred me to a program for "problem kids". Fat good that did. Fifteen. Old enough to have your first romantic relationship. The hand holding, the awkward kissing. Everyone else in my class did it, it seemed. Not me, though. I was persona non grata. The weird victim. And that's when it happened. Before break we all had to line up and wash our hands in one of the three sinks at the end of the room. Teachers, eager to get a smoke in before we all filed into the yard, usually bugged off once lines were established at the sinks. This time, I turned around to a noise and watched one of the bullies, a very fat kid, three years older than me due to a year in juvie and being held back, spit into my food, cheered on by the usual "popular" boys. This one was different, though. The lunch sandwich had been made by my mother that morning while my father was loaded on a stretcher after collapsing at home. All her pain, her crying, was somehow linked with that sandwich. And I did not, for one second, feel like letting someone spit on my mother's tears. So I charged. He was as surprised as everyone else and fell back with a very loud crunching noise. I fell soft, got up, and started kicking him. Hard. I am glad, to this day, that I did not aim for his head. His fat, ugly, smelly, belly, however, got a lot of punishment. One of his popular friends tried to hit me: completely without any skill or experience in altercations where I wasn't just the punching bag, I would have suffered badly, had he not slipped on the spill of the bully's soda can, and knocked himself out on a desk. I stood up, and I was strangely calm and felt freer than ever. I gabbed a nearby trashcan, full of people's discarded sandwich wrappers, half-eaten food, and soda cans, emptied it over the fat kid who was on the floor, crying and begging for help, and then stuck it over his head. And then, calmly, I said "next time I will kill you". This incident had its repercussions, of course. I was suspended, I was formally charged with assault, I got the beating of my life (and the only one in my life) from my grandfather (my father being in the hospital), and I was put on probation with the school. I didn't explain much, didn't tell anyone that he'd been my bully, I just nodded, apologized, and took my punishment. Two weeks later I was back in school. The bully wasn't, his parents (who brought suit against me and the school as well) had moved him to a different school. His friends were. And they didn't want to lose one of their victims. I walked home when one of them pulled up next to me with his moped and swung. I'd been playing out this scenario in my head for two weeks, now, and punched back. Small kid on foot vs. big kid on moped - small kid wins. This time I kicked his head (it was in a helmet) and brought my foot down hard on his jewels. Then walked home. The kid never told anyone. But my reputation changed. Girls wanted to "hang" after school, my father (a huge and very wise man) enrolled me in Jeet Kune Do classes, which I extended into Aikido and Wing Chun after a year. I was sentenced to six weeks of community service, the claim against me and the school was dismissed when the fat kid's parents didn't show up in court (on account of being arrested for trying to rob a liquor store). My record was sealed and I even managed to get a badge years later, with the added benefit of arresting the scumbag bully for domestic violence and him having a rather painful walk to his car. My grades went back up, I was healthy. I loved going back to school, dated the hottest girl in town, and every once in a while was being challenged physically but never again went against someone with as much hate and despair as that one day. I could write about all the other things, but you wanted to know how it felt. It felt like being trapped, being mute and not being heard. It felt like not being human, like being trash. It was physical and emotional in pain, and it felt like it would never end. Ending it was the best thing I could have ever done for myself and my family. I ended it. And I, for one, do not subscribe to the "bigger person walks away" propaganda that is mostly spread by the bullies and their fans themselves, because turning around and having people laugh at your back is, alas, as much if not more hurtful. If you want to feel like someone who is being bullied, lock yourself for 12 hours into your toilet. No phone, no books. Do it when no one is around. It starts slow, then you feel lonely, you HAVE to talk to someone, but no one is there to listen. Then you feel like this will never end. THAT's how being bullied feels. Updated 152w ago • View Upvotes