★What are the differences among HTML 2.x, HTML 3.x and HTML 4.x?
HTML 1 - linked documents HTML 2 - linked documents with stylized text and tables. HTML 3 - more of 1 and 2 with some Brower specific features. HTML 4 - a re-evaluation of 3 to removes some clutter that arrived in 2 and 3. HTML 5 - pretty much the same as 1 the the ability to specify document structures and multimedia element. All style and formating of the document structure is handled by CSS and all manipulations of the document tractors are handled by Java script. The first version of HTML was all about taking documents like essays and reports and linking them together, think Wikipedia. Mostly text linked to other text. Another aspect of information is how it is presented. Headlines, title, bold, italics, etc.  Each subsequent version of HTML has simply added new tags to assist in the format and presentation of text, data, tables, and static images. Enter HTML 4.  This was a break from adding more tags to do more stuff,  to removing some tags and adding tags that enable developers to add hooks to document that would allow them to manipulate format and styling outside of the actual HTML document. HTML 4 also marks wide spread standardization and best practices. The goal being too make all pages look the same in all browsers. So the largest changes occurred between vs 3, 4-5 In HTML 4 and 5 an HTML document can be written once and be made to look a million different ways without actually changing the document. LCSSZENGARDEN.COM.  Demonstrates this very well. It's one document written in HTML 4-5 that is styled to look completely different over and over again. With all that being said,  to know HTML 4 - 5 means that we know how to mark and group sections of text.  This is a title,  this is a paragraph, this is suplimental text etc.  Imagine looking at a typed essay and defining each section of it.  That's HTML 5 at its basics. The funtional aspects of HTML 4 - 5 come from CSS for styling and Java script for manipulating the document. Things like moving paragraphs around or changing styling on the fly. So coming full circle here.  Knowing HTML 1, 2, or  3 was pretty impressive because you controlled everything about a website and the information that was being presented. Knowing just HTML5 today - while impressive - is elementary in comparison to the body of knowledge necessary for creating the websites most of us are accustomed to these days. Knowing HTML5 in practice means we know HTML and CSS.  We can do what used to be done with HTML 1,2, and 3, but we can do those things more effectively, with greater eficiency, and on a larger scale.  This is what gave birth to the Web application and server side programing and scripting but, that's a whole different talk.