★HTML: What is HTML?
Websites are identities that make up the web. World Wide Web is made up of connections between these sites. HTML is a Web's current way of better communicating/understanding structure and text that make up these sites. Hence the term "Hyper-Text", and "Markup" This "processing" and "understanding" is handled through certain types of "engines" that make up the browsers we use today, such as Chrome. In order for these engines to perform efficiently, people came up with "set of agreements" around the usage of "Markup" so that "Hyper-Text" could convey meaning, or communicate better. These are no different than standards, conventions and policies of our world, or Grammar and words that make up our language. They are agreements/promises to create a "norm" of communication in Web. Though these "set of agreements", Web is now progressing towards "unified language with standardized grammar for structure, and words for meaning". If you imagine 100 people speaking different languages trying to communicate, you will understand why unified language is important for effective communication. - "Hyper-Text Markup Language" If you imagine 100 people speaking same language, but with erratic grammar usage (much like beginning ESL students), you will understand that the communication will likely to have a high-degree of risk, of misinterpreting each other. Thus, proper grammar is pursued. If you imagine 100 people speaking English, all with proper grammar, but all from different parts of the world. To communicate a piece of clothes for your bottom half, there are many ways, such as "bottom", "trousers", or "pants". Thus, semantics. There are group of qualified? professional web-linguistics thinking very hard about this subject some of them decide/suggest standards for the web. This is much like our declaration of independence, or a constitution. It is evolving. Recently, we had HTML5 introduced which is one of these "set of agreements" for the web (many will follow, as web is young and is evolving fast). It looks like we are progressing towards "Better semantics" in web. Much of this movement towards better semantics can be credited (in my opinion) to search engines. If each website is an identity, search engines like Google are like doctors, perhaps in the early days of modern medicine, trying to better diagnose site's inner workings, much like organs in our body. Through these efforts they are able to better understand a site, and measure it against other similar sites. As search engines become more intelligent, it is limited to the structure and semantics of a site. With bad grammar and diction, it is hard to understand someone, and thus their intention/message. With bad structure and semantics of a site, it is difficult to understand and diagnose a site. Since being on the first page of Google has become very important to some sites, there is an extreme amount of incentive for a site to structure their websites with better semantics for the search engine. Google rewarding site's structure and semantics in a way that is beneficial for the world/everyone/future vs beneficial for their own good (to remain in power), will be a very different outcome. As always, the future will depend on all of us. So what is HTML? What is it currently, and what will it be in the future? Why is it important? Is it young, crude, not-yet-standardized, limited, language of the web that should/could/would/might be one of many languages of the web in the future? or de-facto language of the web for years to come?  or is it destined to give away itself to a better language? better markup? You tell me =]