★How will NFC change our lives?
NFC (Near Field Communication) will help bridge the offline and the online worlds.  Marketers around the globe have been trying to connect the physical offline world with the online virtual world and NFC will be a very solid enabler to make this happen. The most talked about application is the contactless mobile payment which companies like Google are trying to deploy with their Google Wallet application.  The premise there is that NFC will be a more secured way of transacting because of its short-range.  The future with Mobile wallet means that the only money or card you will carry in your pockets is Mobile Money. A non-payment related benefit that NFC will provide is the ability for marketers to better target market their offering to the consumer in a seamless manner.  Marketers will run number of programs using NFC technology (because of the fact that it is so easy to use) that will enable them to serve consumer needs more effectively. In addition to better target marketing campaigns , NFC will actually give marketers the capability to collect & analyze data for offline print advertising mediums like posters which has been one of the key advantages that online advertising provides today.  This will enable marketers to determine their Return on Investment (ROI) on their marketing campaigns. Lastly, NFC is very easy to use.  With just a touch we will be able to send or receive information, which is much faster and less error prone compared to clicking/typing on your phone.  Because of the ease of use it has a potential of being deployed for number of applications like Ticketing, Connecting on social networks, Transferring information, Reviewing a product or service, And more.See more use cases: aTuch Smart Posters: http://www.atuch.in/collections/... aTuch Cloud Solutions: http://www.atuch.in/collections/... We at aTuch Inc. (www.atuch.in) are focused on developing the entire NFC ecosystem by building applications that will empower businesses to serve consumers better and build a long lasting relationships with them.    Embed Quote