★How does the NFC ecosystem work?What are Trusted Service Managers (TSMs)? What are service providers? What are some examples of the same?
I am assuming that the query is with regards to contactless mobile payments (given the term TSM). The article referred here by Brion is a good starting point to understand what is NFC as a technology. However the payment ecosystem is extremely complex and sometimes a single entity plays multiple roles. I have tried to simplify to whatever extent I could. Comparing it with contactless card payments the primary additions are Service Provider, TSM - SE TSM and SP TSM (which could be the same entity). Lets try to break it down a bit. Now we all understand that instead of issuing a physical card, the issuing bank will be issuing a card that can be provisioned on your mobile device. In case of a physical card the flow is described below: Now in case of provisioning of card on the mobile a number of steps are irrelevant e.g. embossing of card. However once the persodata is ready, it somehow needs to be sent to the consumer's phone for provisioning. Now this is what a TSM does. As with everything related to banks, this requires the highest level of security and hence this becomes a specialized area and therefore so many security related business' are into the TSM business. The next question is where to send the information to. Here comes the SE or secure element. Think of it as a secure zone or gated community with guards and access control where only authorized people can enter and leave. SE comes in 3 forms for mobile payments - in a SIM card (UICC), in the device memory (embedded in the phone) or in a micro SD (external chip). Since the bank doesn't own any of these, they have to partner with whoever owns this real estate. Lets take UICC as an example. The ownership of the SIM lies with the mobile network operator. So the bank needs to partner with the telco and get the rights to enter and exit the Secure Element on the SIM card. So the bank becomes the service provider (in case they offer the wallet) and the operator becomes the owner of the Secure Element. Now the bank might not trust the operator hence he will have his own TSM for provisioning thus - SP TSM or Service Provider TSM. However, the Operator might be leasing out the real estate to multiple service providers and to avoid managing multiple entities directly accessing the SE, he wants a single controller for the UICC and might appoint is own TSM who is turn talks to all service providers. This is called the SE - TSM or the TSM that manages the Secure Element. Thus the card data flows from the Issuing Bank to the SP-TSM to SE-TSM to the Secure Element (UICC in this example) to be provisioned. Once provisioned, a TSM plays no role in transactions at all. It will again come into the picture in case of any card lifecycle management related tasks e.g. deprovisioning of an expired card. Now that you know all this let me say that the TSM will soon be irrelevant :) With HCE (now available only on Android), cloud based proximity mobile payments will be in the fore, at least for bank issued wallets. Hence now you need to start reading about tokenisation, cloud payments platforms etc. :D    Embed Quote