★What are the key differences between QR codes, NFC, Bluetooth and RFID?and how it works nfc? (only handset with nfc enabled technology or with a OS enabled nfc?)
At aTuch, we have always said a "touch" (NFC) is a very natural action as compared to "scan" (QR code).  I have summarized a quick comparison between NFC and QR Codes and listed pros, cons and ideal use cases for both.  You can also view this in a more readable tabular format on our blog http://www.atuch.in/blogs/news/6... Note: When I say "response" time I mean time it takes for an individual to grab his/her phone from the pocket and see the QR code or NFC tag being recognized. This does not include time it takes after a QR code is scanned (or NFC tag is recognized) to the time when the final delivery of "content" happens. NFC Technology Pros Very natural to use. Touch is a very natural action. Immediate response i.e. Touch and Go is possible. Performing a "touch" does not require any education. Mostly anyone can do a "touch" (including toddlers) Requirement of "proximity" i.e. within 6-10 cm's of a tag offers you inherent security, privacy. Not subject to "lighting" conditions. NFC Tags can be used in "no light" conditions also. Can be "hidden" from the eye sight i.e. it can be a "back stage" technology and does not interfere with visualization of an artifact.Cons Cost - Tags are still expensive as compared to "Free" option. Fixed Size & Shape: Large Posters require more than 1 NFC Tags. Procurement and inventory management issues associated with NFC tags. Requires more than a PC & a Printer. Requires either standalone NFC readers/writers or NFC enabled phones to "read" or "write" the NFC tags. Proximity or Distance: Requires Tags to be reachable i.e. reader must be inside the "reading range". Tags come with a "read limit". For example, a million read for a tag. (I do not know what happens after the read limit. Guess, an experiment is needed) Presence of "metal" surrounding may cause interference.Ideal Use Cases Use cases which have requirements of "quick response" and "high value" information delivery attached to them. Use cases where "time is of the essence" and visitors / users would like "instant gratification". In short, use cases where the "cost" of NFC tags is justified. Examples: Ticketing, Payment, Customer Suggestions, Real Estate, Retail, Medical etc. QR Code Pros Almost Free (not exactly free but extremely cost effective). Easy to create or produce. Requires only a connected device i.e. phone or a PC. For paper format, requires a printer. Distance is not an issue as Size & Shape can be varied. You can make them as big as you want. There are examples where a QR code is covering the entire building front. No impact of environment i.e. presence of a "metal" surface or not. No inventory management issues.Cons Requires presence of a Bar Code Reader application on the device. Requires "Enough Light" to be present near the QR code. Requires users to be bit "steady" during the scan. Requires "bit of action" on user's front i.e. take out the phone, launch the app, scan the code. Prone to "liquid" or other "stains". Ideal Use Cases Use cases which are bit relaxed on "quick response" front and "cost" is a concern. Examples: Marketing, Magazines, Education Books, News Papers etc. Feel Free to add any points I may have missed.    Embed Quote