★What are the key differences between QR codes, NFC, Bluetooth and RFID?and how it works nfc? (only handset with nfc enabled technology or with a OS enabled nfc?)
All of these technologies, QR, NFC, Bluetooth 4 are technologies that can be used for engaging users in the "real" world in order to connect, trigger or initiate a digital experience or share digital information to the consumer device being used. They all have their pro's and cons as some have already pointed out. I'd like to expand on that a little further. Disclosure: I am VP of a Bluetooth 4 Startup so my answer is a little skewed. But I think fair as they also expound on the reasons we started. -QR makes sense and works well, in my opinion, only in print. Having a QR code where customer interaction is desired, on location, to me just doesn't make sense. It creates a bottle neck and customers don't want to stop and scan the code. But for magazines, flyers, direct response marketing it makes perfect sense. -NFC makes sense for payment processing or any situation where a customer is already stopped. NFC presents the same problem as QR due to it's latency and very close proximity requirement. When your at the register, you're already part of a bottle neck, so tapping your phone to a tag point is acceptable, in my opinion. -Bluetooth 4 was designed for quick burst data, specifically sensor data which in order to retrieve pairing is required. However, with regards to customer interaction, if all your doing is sending a consumer to a URL for content or interaction, there is no reason for that content to be ON the BLE device. Instead such content can be associated to an always broadcasting id through the cloud. Such an approach makes content delivery and triggered interactions controllable from the cloud, faster and with much greater range than QR or NFC.  The speed and enhanced range creates a customer friendly approach that's easier to engage in an on location environment. What kind of interactions could be triggered using Bluetooth 4... Ads, coupons, videos, surveys, request for reviews, check ins... any type of data that can be delivered via the cloud or data that's requested and available on the device in use.   Anything that can occur with a QR code or NFC tag as well, just faster and with broader range.  When evaluating Bluetooth 4 from a cloud supported, non pairing vantage point, it is superior in that it offers nearly instant, seamless, customized consumer  interactions at a much broader range and available to an ever growing range of devices that consumers already use. It made sense to us and that's why we created the tod Smart Beacon.    Embed Quote