★What is contactless-EMV without NFC?While Apple is rumored to be including NFC in its next handset, what if it doesn't?  Can contactless-EMV thrive without Apple adopting NFC?  Or, what if NFC flops (for whatever reason) like its predecessor?
NFC (Near Field Communications) is the name associated with two international standards for close proximity communications between two devices. Those standards are ISO/IEC 18092 and ISO/IEC 21481. Those standards define the requirements for targets, also known as "tags", and initiators, devices that are capable of generating a radio frequency field that can power up a target over a short distance (generally 1-4 inches). Although the NFC standard was specifically developed with the idea that the tag or the initiator (or both) would be a mobile device (e.g. smart phone), there's no explicit requirement for either to be so. For this and other reasons (explained below), the term NFC is often used to describe any close proximity exchange of messages and data that comply with another international standard for devices that communicate using radio waves, ISO/IEC 14443. This long explanation only necessary so that you can understand that, since the EMV-contactless specification requires cards and readers to communicate in a manner that is compliant with the ISO/IEC 14443 standard, it isn't technically possible for EMV-contactless to exist without some form of NFC. In this sense, there is no dependence on Apple or any of the other mobile wallet providers that are promoting the use of and depending on the proliferation of NFC-compliant payment terminals. You mentioned in your question that the predecessor to NFC was a flop. I'm assuming that "predecessor" is a reference to one or more of three distinct, nationwide program launches for contactless payments.  Those launches were: Contactless bankcards: All four of the major card networks (i.e. Visa, MasterCard, American Express, Discover) working in some cases with banks (e.g. Citibank, Chase) issued debit and/or credit cards in the form of contactless smart cards and attempted to create a base of contactless-enabled merchant locations by funding or supplementing the cost of contactless point of sale (POS) terminals for several large retail chains (e.g. McDonalds, CVS, RiteAid, Regal Theaters). Softcard (formerly, Isis): Three mobile network operators, AT&T, Verizon and T-Mobile, collaborated on the launch of a set of mobile applications that could emulate a contactless bankcard on a smartphone. Since the communication protocol between phone and contactless POS terminal was identical to that used with contactless bankcards, Softcard's app could be used at any merchant with one of those terminals. Google Wallet: Google (yes, the developer of the famous internet search engine) launched a mobile application that emulated a contactless bankcard on a smartphone. Like Softcard, Google Wallet could be used at any contactless POS terminal.It's important to understand that all three of these programs relied on the same international standard for close proximity, radio frequency-based communications - ISO/IEC 14443 and both Softcard and Google Wallet were also (at least for the most part) also compliant with the NFC standards. As you've probably already surmised, each, therefore, could technically be described as NFC programs and thus were the first nationwide launches of NFC-compliant programs in the US and not predecessors to NFC. As you alluded to in your question, Apple Pay also relies on NFC. To ger to the more important point, if NFC flops either because of or inspite of Apple Pay, it will not necessarily follow that the launch of EMV-Contactless in the US will also flop. It is at least theoretically possible that US merchants will widely adopt NFC (by buying and actively using NFC-compliant POS terminals) but will, for one reason or another, reject Apple Pay. I doubt this scenario will occur, however, since it is much more likely (in my humble opinion) that merchants will invest in contactless technology in order to accept Apple Pay, perhaps not even realizing that the same terminal would also be capable (with the appropriate software and acquirer support) of accepting EMV-contactless cards. Whether or not EMV-contactless cards become prevalent is difficult to predict because the business case for issuing such cards is weak, at best, because of the higher cost of cards, the lack of widespread consumer adoption of the previous generation of contactless cards, and the generally more attractive option of supporting card emulation via a mobile app (e.g. Softcard, Apple Pay). In short, I do not believe that the launch of EMV-Contactless cards will, by itself, be able to independently achieve any large measure of success (e.g. merchant and consumer adoption) and it may fail even if there's widespread success of one or more of the mobile wallet programs. Background The NFC standards were written after another international standard, ISO/IEC 14443, had been widely adopted in the late 1990s and early 2000s, in particular by public transportation agencies, as the standard for their newest generation of fare payment media, the contactless smart card. The two dominant providers of chips for those contactless smart cards, Sony and Philips, collaborated on the development of the NFC standards.  Those companies succeeded in getting their flagship products (Felica and Mifare, respectively), neither of which were fully compliant with the ISO/IEC 14443 standard, included in "grandfather" clauses within the NFC standards. The NFC standard also incorporates all ISO/IEC 14443 compliant products. While NFC defines a unique communication "handshake" that can be exchanged between targets and initiators to start a two-way exchange of messages and data, use of that handshake is not mandatory thus any use of Felica, Mifare or any ISO/IEC 14443 compliant card (whether or not emulated on a mobile device) can be described as "NFC".    Embed Quote