Do “helicopter” parents help their child’s school experience?
"Helicopter" is, by definition, dysfunctional. It happens when the parent can't contain their own anxiety. It's not ok, and in its worst cases, it extends past achievement orientation to every parent-child interaction. (The solution to helicopter parenting is addressing the parents' general/chronic anxiety.) "Involvement" on the other hand, is good. Involvement begins by picking the school the student goes to. I would suggest screening for a healthy relationships among the teachers and the administration, the "spirit" of the students, and other fit concerns based on the individual child. Once the child is in school, "involvement" is guided by the teacher; the parent asks "can I help?" and the teacher has a long list (typically) of options. If the teacher doesn't need help, the parent can offer to volunteer at school level or community level. This keeps the parent connected to the school in a way that isn't intrusive for the child, signals the parent cares very deeply about education, benefits all the children around the parent's own child, and of course helps the parent know what's going on. The volunteerism fit also depends on the individual parent, but hopefully they can find a place. The teacher can give guidance about parent oversight on homework, what the teacher's expectations are and what's age appropriate. (For teachers who are new, or who are traumatized by past parents, it's ok to request conversations with someone else the teacher brings in, or even with the principal.) By the time the child hits multiple classes, they should developmentally be able to stay organized enough to bring home what it is they need to do at home (their assignments and the relevant materials). This is very tough for some kids, they're just not there yet developmentally. Involvement at this point is helping the kid do exactly this one thing: not the homework, not getting the teacher to organize the child, but (not so) simply, helping the child to learn self-organization well enough to collect six assignment and the books they need and bring them home. Really good junior high schools have a one-semester class that teaches this, but a parent certainly can too. So the parent-school objective during the transition to junior/middle school is to teach the child how to keep track. This should be started at least the year before; ideally something built in, in a graduated way. You can begin to teach this type of planning-thinking when doing meals, or planning saturday outings; it doesn't have to be only related to school. Then throughout junior high and high school, as the others have said, it's a careful dance of helping the kids learn increasing responsibility and skill, so that by the time they are 18, they know the basics of cooking and cleaning, getting to the doctor, riding the bus (figuring out schedules), etc. It's not even about chores; it's about self-sufficiency. Most adolescents are eager to take on responsibility, and the challenge for the parents is to do it slowly enough and with enough risk management that the kids can't get themselves into too much trouble with a bad decision. And bad decisions will happen. But the trick of involved parenting is for the child to want to come to the parent with help fixing mistakes. Helicopter parenting has the child either so panicked about their own competence that they don't try anything, or so smothered that they must leave at any cost, and figure out what to do about their own mistakes without the benefit of their parents at all. TL;DR The involved parent is involved in helping the child grow up to be separate. The "helicopter" parent is just trying to manage the parent's anxiety. Parents with anxiety problems should seek help managing their own anxiety, separate from the children. Whether through faith, medicine, or therapy, parents need to find the way they need to take care of themselves in order to be the best parents they can be for their kids. 