What is the smallest self-propelling organism?
Let's do some biosleuthing here. The answer that we're looking for has three requirements: It must be really small. It must be self-propelling. It must be an organism. Due to reasons of #3, I'm going to exclude Christopher Pow's answer. Spermatozoa do not qualify as organisms on their own, and even if they were, they're absolute giants compared to other microscopic organisms. In humans, sperm cells consist of a flat, disc-shaped head 5 µm by 3 µm and a tail 50 µm long. Image source: The human spermatozoon - a stripped down but refined machine We can do better than that. Combining #1 and #3, let's limit our search in the unicellular organisms department. The wiki page for the Smallest organisms lists three organisms for each of the three taxa: Bacteria - Mycoplasma genitalium (0.2-0.3 µm) Archaea - Nanoarchaeum equitans (0.4 µm) Eukaryota - Ostreococcus tauri  (0.8 µm)However, a quick background check on each of these three microbes reveals that none of them are actually motile. So, to satisfy condition #2, we need to look for small unicellular organisms that exhibit motility, or, in other words, contain flagella or cilia. My first guess given these constraints was the well-studied model organism Chlamydomonas reinhardtii which is a single-celled green alga containing two flagella, with an average diameter of 10 µm. But then I realised, these are larger than the (body of the) human sperm. Then to narrow down range of sizes that we should search within, we must ask ourselves the question: What is the minimum size below which directed movement becomes impossible for free-swimming organisms? Or in other words, the energy expended by these organisms for locomotion is no longer practical considering their small size. A paper published in 1997 by David B. Dusenbery aimed to address this very question (Minimum size limit for useful locomotion by free-swimming microbes). He applied some well-established physical laws to see the effect of size on a free-swimming microbe's ability to follow chemical, light, or temperature stimuli or to disperse in random directions. He found that there is a sharp size limit below which locomotion has no apparent benefit to microbes, and estimated this size limit to be about 0.6 µm in diameter. A review of existing descriptions of free-floating bacteria found that the smallest motile bacteria had a mean length of about 0.8 µm, whereas all bacteria smaller than this were nonmotile. Now while I haven't been able to pinpoint which were the smallest motile bacteria identified by Dusenbery in his paper, I did manage to find two examples of the smallest flagellated eukaryotes. Micromonas spp. - ~1-1.5 µm This transmission electron microscope image shows a cross section through a single Micromonas alga. In this "colorized" image, the alga's chloroplast (photosynthetic  organelle) wraps around the right side of the cell and is indicated in  dark green. The white area is a starch granule contained within the  chloroplast. The tan area at upper left is the cell's nucleus. The dark  green area just below the nucleus is its mitochondrion. Emerging from  the left side of the alga is part of it's flagellum, a hair-like  appendage that propels the alga through water. The black bar is 500  nanometers (1/50,000 inch) long. Image source: Genes from tiny marine algae suggest unsuspected avenues for new research Bolidomonas spp. - ~1.2 µm in diameter TEM sections showing the general ultrastructure of Bolidomonas spp. b1 = basal body of short flagellum, b2 = basal body of long flagellum, g = Golgi body, L = long flagellum, m = mitochondrion, p = plastid, S = short flagellum. Image source: Bolidomonas: A new genus with two species belonging to a new algal class, the Bolidophycae (Heterokonta) 