Imagine that "Planet, Inc." were an organization charged with securing the survival and development of the human race and you were the CEO. What issues would you put on your agenda for the 21st century? How would you prioritize them? How would you go about addressing them in practice?
Principles: I recently read this quote at the start of a book called Thinking in Systems: A Primer, by Donella H. Meadows: "If a factory is torn down but the rationality which produced it is left standing, then that rationality will simply produce another factory. If a revolution destroys a government, but the systematic patterns of though that produced that government are left intact, then those patterns will repeat themselves... There's so much talk about the system. And so little understanding." -- Robert Pirsig, Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance I think it begins to address the crux of the question, a point which is further illuminated and expanded on in Donella H. Meadows' essay, Leverage Points: Places to Intervene in a System. The twelve points, in increasing order of effectiveness, are: 12. Constants, parameters, numbers (such as subsidies, taxes, standards) 11. The size of buffers and other stabilizing stocks, relative to their flows 10. Structure of material stocks and flows (such as transport network, population age structures) 9. Length of delays, relative to the rate of system changes 8. Strength of negative feedback loops, relative to the effect they are trying to correct against 7. Gain around driving positive feedback loops 6. Structure of information flow (who does and does not have access to what kinds of information) 5. Rules of the system (such as incentives, punishment, constraints) 4. Power to add, change, evolve, or self-organize system structure 3. Goal of the system 2. Mindset or paradigm that the system — its goals, structure, rules, delays, parameters — arises out of 1. Power to transcend paradigms Summary: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Twe... Document: http://www.sustainabilityinstitu... Organization: Having, and finding collaborators who have a clear and deep understanding of and adherence to these principles would be, in practice, the first priority, the most important agenda item. It's the foundation on which all else is built, from which all else will follow. In correlation to the (first six) principles listed above, this means: Finding thinkers who are objective, independent, adaptive, pragmatic, and unassuming means they have the power to transcend the paradigm of their own thinking, and of the collective thinking of the organization, as needed. Finding thinkers who are also holistic, integral, creative, systemic, and analytic further establishes the mindset out of which the organization arises out of. Finding thinkers who are interested in inclusive, positive impact on the planetary ecosystem creates a common goal for the system. Structuring the organization as a holarchy gives it the power to add, change, evolve, or self-organize its system structure. Setting the rules of the system, of the organization, to optimize for a meritocracy, aligns it with fulfillment of its goals, its function or purpose. Maximizing openness and transparency and using the best available tools and services optimizes the structure of information flow. The saying goes, "as within, so without." If this holds true for the individual, then it holds true for the organization, and has to be the starting point for any sustainable and meaningful change. After that, there's a series of actionable agendas such an organization could put it's efforts towards to maximize it's impact. I believe that technology is one of the highest leverage tools available for most, if not all, planetary scale agendas, but that's the subject of another lengthy exposition. 