What are some tips for submitting Grace Hopper talk/panel proposals?
I submitted two proposals in 2012 and one of them was accepted - "Bootstrapping a women in CS organization". (The other one, on testing, was deemed too specialized) Here are my best tips: Get started earlyJust like any other project, applying to GHC is best started well in advance. It's never too early to start thinking about what topics you might want to propose -- in fact, if you already have a topic in mind for 2014, you can seek out like-minded people at this year's GHC. Find other panelistsA huge part of a successful proposal is an appropriately diverse panel lineup. If your panel only comprises you and your coworkers, it would only represent your organization's perspective and that's the last thing panel attendees would want. This is true for most conference panels, but more so for GHC since attendees tend to be earlier in their career and your panel might be the first time your attendees are hearing about this topic. So your panel should reflect a wide variety of opinions - i.e. from startups to big companies, different industries, or even career range. (as is appropriate) But of course, knowing is only half the battle. How do you find other panelists? Well, I used my personal networks, Twitter, the Systers mailing list and Google to identify and approach possible collaborators. If the people you first approach aren't available, try asking them if they could refer you to someone else. Write and revise your proposalThe other basis on which your submission is judged - besides your panel lineup - is your written proposal. What's each panelists' perspective on this topic? How will you address this topic? Why is this relevant to the GHC audience? How will you structure your presentation? Make sure you address all these questions in your proposal. This is especially important if your topic is even a little bit technical. The review committee come from diverse technical backgrounds -- from theory professors to microprocessor engineers -- and they'll all have to agree that your proposal is worthy of acceptance. Honestly, though, getting accepted is only half the battle! After getting accepted, you'll have to start planning the actual talk ;) This is non-trivial, especially if your panelists are busy professionals who are geographically distributed. 