NovoEd: Can you please list all MOOC providers like Udacity, edX, Coursera, etc?
I agree with Adrien Lucas Ecoffet, however, I don't mind compiling a comprehensive categorical list, This definitely needs to be turned into an answer wiki.  I think a List should be maintained, especially making the distinction between MOOCs that can be transferred to real university credits.  There are many universities that will now accept MOOC ACE Credits.  Answer wiki? This list thanks to: Tarique Haider I found it here: http://www.technoduet.com/a-comp... List of MOOC Providers EdX - A Not-for-profit enterprise with MIT and Harvard universities as founding partners. Coursera - A social entrepreneurship company founded by computer science professors Andrew Ng and Daphne Koller from Stanford University. NovoEd - Rebranded version of Stanford’s Venture Lab, with a special focus on students collaboration and real-world course projects. Udacity - Udacity was an outgrowth of a Stanford University experiment in which Sebastian Thrun and Peter Norvig offered their ‘Introduction to Artificial Intelligence’ course online for free in which over 160,000 students in more than 190 countries enrolled. Futurelearn - The first UK-led multi-institutional platform, partnering with 17 UK universities, offering MOOC to students around the world. It is a private company owned by the Open University. OpenUpEd - First Pan-European MOOC initiative, with support of the European commission.  It includes partners from 11 countries. iversity - A company with a diverse interdisciplinary team from Berlin presently offering MOOC  production fellowship and collaboration network for academia. Open2Study - An initiative of Open Universities Australia which itself is a leading provider  online education through collaboration of several Australian universities. Canvas - An open, online course network that connects students, teachers & institutions 10gen Education - an online learning platform run by 10gen (the MongoDB company) OpenLearning  Class2Go – UWA  Class2Go – Stanford - Now in maintenance mode. Will be merged with edX platform. MRUniversity - Focusing on economics courses, founded by two GMU professors Academic Earth P2PU - Peer to Peer University is a non-profit online community based learning platform, founded with funding from the Hewlett Foundation and the Shuttleworth Foundation.   Udemy - An online learning platform that allows anyone to host their video courses. Caltech’s ‘Learning From Data’ Course OpenHPI - The educational Internet platform of the German Hasso Plattner Institute, Potsdam, focusing on courses in Information and Communications Technology (ICT). UoPeople – University of the People (UoPeople) is a tution-free, non-profit, online academic institution offering undergraduate programs in Business Administration and Computer Science.  Saylor - a non-profit organization that provides over 280 free, self-paced courses. World Education University - WEU CourseSites MOOCs Open Learning Initiative – CMU Unimooc iDESWEBUpdate on June 14, 2013 27. WideWorldEd – First Canadian MOOC provider 28. Eliademy  Update on June 30, 2013 29. MOOC on Philanthropy Update on July 09, 2013 30. Alison 31. Khan Academy - Finally, it’s included in the list! 33. Schoo - Japan’s MOOC provider. Presently, offering more than 130 courses 34. Veduca - From Brazil 35. Acamica Update on August 02, 2013 36. Poynter’s News University 37. @ral 38. Aquent A brief description of the above three can be found here. Update on September 20, 2013 36. Kennesaw State University’s MOOC Kennesaw State University will offer “K-12 Blended and Online Learning MOOC “, its first, beginning January 2014 37. Pedagogy First Offers program for online teaching certificate 38. Think CERCA Chicago based company helps develop critical thinking and writing skills for a better K-12 education 39.Modern Lessons Helps teachers to become tech savvy and more engaged 