Do “helicopter” parents help their child’s school experience?
Not at all. They, instead, stunt their child's development and self-esteem for years to come. As I recently wrote in The Most Important Lesson in ALL of Parenting - A Must-Read for Parents of High-Achievers, In the wake of the most recent suicide at Gunn High School in Palo Alto, CA, I decided to write When "Achievement" is Toxic: My Thoughts on the Gunn High School Suicide, and Raising Resilient Children. As a Stanford graduate andCollege Admissions Coach, I've had the chance to work with lots of gifted young people -- and here's what I think parents of high-achievers don't understand: You have to let your students experience failure, or they will never develop resilience and coping skills. Psychologists and teachers tell parents, "Make sure you tell your children you love them no matter what!" "Make sure they know you believe in them!" But guess what? It really doesn't matter what you say if your actions scream otherwise. I know parents who cancel their evening plans because their child has a big project due tomorrow, and they want to stay home in case the child needs help. I know parents who, if their child leaves their musical instrument or homework assignment at home accidentally, will reschedule appointments, take the afternoon off of work, drive home, get the forgotten item, drive it to their child's school, leave it at the principal's office, and then drive back to work... just so the child doesn't get a lower grade on the assignment or detention or whatever. So no matter what words come out of your mouth, what you're really saying is, "Failure, even on a small scale (ONE homework assignment; ONE music class), is the end of the world. Not failing is more important than anything else -- my career, my prior commitments, etc."  So what's going to happen when they do fail, and there's nothing you can do to fix it? How do you expect your child to manage their own complicated emotions of hurt, anger, shame, disappointment, etc... if they've never had to before? And if they have been conditioned to believe that this is the end of the world? Moreover, it doesn't matter if you say, "I believe in you!" if you then proceed to hire them tutors IN EVERY SUBJECT (as a lot of parents do). That sends the message that they can't do it on their own and they doneed help. In every subject. It also removes accountability. If they don't do well on a test, it's now because their tutor failed, not them. This is a terrible way to see the world and feel about your own potential. It's toxic. Moreover, your child is missing out on valuable opportunities to learn study skills and time management (because the tutor takes care of that for them) -- so what's going to happen when they get to college and no longer have tutors for every subject? Or are they just going to have tutors in everything for the rest of their lives?  As a parent, you need to think about the words that come out of your mouth... and how they relate to your own attitudes and behaviors about your child's progress and achievements. Helicopter parenting robs students of the chance to develop coping skills, resilience, time management skills, study skills, responsibility, accountability, and a true growth mindset. It can take children years (or even a lifetime) to overcome this. 