What are some funny and idiotic logics of Bharatiya Janata Party supporters?
1. I've asked too many of them if they'd still support BJP if Modi is not its PM candidate and many seem to say they won't. Their vote is for Modi and by their own admission, they won't be as enthusiastic about voting for BJP if Modi is out. They further claim that Modi faces rough internal opposition, and rises above it. Meaning he has the ability to overrule the rest of them. This seem to suggest to me that they somehow believe the entire country could be run by one man. It is only this one man who has all the right answers and only he can save us, facing opposition from not just outside but within the party. Faith is on one man and not the party. The idea that the people of entire country should put all their faith in one man is absurd to me. Asking them how will one man govern all the states, cities, villages alone, which are lead by local leaders who are not competent enough, visionary enough, some with unresolved criminal charges against them, some past convicts, some with very troubling ideas of communalism etc. never seems to result in a satisfactory response (if any).   2. Another funny logic is their idea of "development". Beautiful roads and flyovers sums up development for them and they want to listen no more. Ask them if in his third term, Gujarat CM is unable to ensure employment for the youth, proper education and facilities in govt. schools, relief to farmers, growth of villages etc. how will he ensure an all round development of the country? They will show you a picture of the clean river banks and some statistics on the industrial growth. Ask them if big industries getting bigger is all that India needs right now, as opposed to working towards decreasing the economic divide their answer is that I'm anti-development and against industries. Ask them why does Modi/BJP fudge the statistics to make their development work sound greater than it actually is, they don't seem to care. Note: I'm posting this answer as anonymous because I'm tired of trolls and the hate I gather every time I post something against BJP or Modi. I don't have time to deal with that again. 