How does one get invited to speak at TED?
The way I ended up speaking at the TED conference is easily accessible by anyone in the world. Back in April of 2011, TED held the first ever TED auditions. Anyone in the world was able to submit a one minute video of their idea worth spreading.  Details: A chance to audition your own TED Talk! I had the incredible fortune of being selected along with 16 amazing individuals to auditions on May 2011 in New York City.  The event was live streamed worldwide.  Here are the results from the event: "Great minds think alike. Creative minds think together": TED Full Spectrum auditions When the speakers were announced for TED 2012 eight months later, it included 4 from the auditions night, including myself.  Meanwhile some of the other talks from that evening were published on TED as the TED talk of the day. In 2012, TED decided to expand on the auditions by taking them to 14 countries on six continents. They pledged that "at least half of our TED2013 program will literally be crowd-sourced". Details: Announcing a global talent search for TED2013 speakers In 2013, TED realized that these "auditions" were actually just TED Salons, and decided to renamed the event TED@NYC.  But the process remained the same.  Submit a 1 minute video of your talk. Details: Want to speak at TED2014? Apply to speak at TED@NYC this fall This tradition has continued into 2014.  Here are the results of TED@NYC 2014: Have a TED Talk in you? Many applied to speak at TED@NYC, and the speakers are... When I sent TED my own 1 minute audition video in 2011, I was positive I wouldn't be accepted. But I was plagued by the thought that if I don’t at least try, I’ll regret it for the rest of my life. Suffice it to say, that submitting that audition video (with just minutes to spare before the deadline!) was one of the best decisions of my life. More on my story here: My Story - 1 Second Everyday Speaking at TED 2012 has had a massively positive impact on my life. I'll always be grateful for the opportunity they bestowed upon me, the daily inspiration of the talks, and for helping me spread my idea. If anyone reading this has aspirations to someday speak on the TED stage, I highly recommend you stay tuned to their social media channels and apply to the next TED@NYC event! 