Why do conversations with influencers matter?
Influential people make things happen. And if you've earned influencers' trust and respect by adding value to their lives, they will put their influence to work for you. The Bigger Picture It's not just about influencers making things happen for you, i.e., driving traffic to your blog, making intros for your company, re-tweeting your latest pithy tweet, etc. - it's about you being influenced by those who have earned influence around common interests/passions and areas of topical expertise. I am influenced by people whom I trust and respect. For example, I just read a blog post by Mark Suster and it refined my thinking on a particular aspect of being a startup entrepreneur. His thinking shaped my thinking in a manner that will positively affect decisions I make moving forward. In this example, 'influenced by' is synonymous with 'learning from'. The Circle of Influence Too often people take a myopic view of influence. It's as if they are playing Pac-Man trying to gobble up every opportunity they view as adding to their influence. People obsess about acquiring followers and friends, some employ automated software programs that bottom feed the social graph creating nothing but an algorithmic frenzy the way inexperienced winter drivers over spin their wheels when stuck in a snow bank. The opportunity to both earn influence and benefit from influencers is all about developing relationships. The open social graph structure of Twitter and Quora presents tremendous opportunities to create circles of influence. Circles of influence is just a fancy phrase for relationships. These relationships start between two people, but in open social networks, they often evolve into group relationships that create powerful influence clusters. We can create a circle of influence right here, right now. If you find this answer valuable, you can vote it up, thank me, follow me on Quora, check out my Twitter profile, follow me there, etc. Of course, I would appreciate any and all of these actions, but these actions alone don't form influential relationships. We need to ignite the fuel that is both a fundamental human need and just a key stroke away - we need to converse. It's the back and forth of conversation that forms strong relationships. If you comment on this post, I'll likely follow you and converse with you on Quora if the spirit of your comments are insightful, provocative, challenging to my point of view and/or respectful. From there, I'll check you out on Twitter - if your Tweets look interesting, I'll likely thank you or initiate some kind of conversation, follow you, put you on a Twitter list. Now, our conversation can evolve over time across Quora, Twitter and potentially other social networks or online conversational venues, e.g. blogs with highly engaged readers and active commenters. This begins a clustering effect. Relationships in our social graph see us conversing, people jump into these conversations and suddenly, a self-organized group has formed around an area of common interest or expertise. From my personal experience, these groups form stronger ties over time and drive more frequent and high influence actions. Open social networks like Quora and Twitter are so exciting because you are only limited by your ability and desire to engage in meaningful conversations that develop influential relationships. Be authentic, add value, invite other people into your circle of influence and not only will you become more influential, but influencers will put their influence to work for you. 