What are the best books and blogs on software development management?
I've started the process of researching to write a book designed for Software Development managers (tentatively titled "Building Great Software Engineering Teams"). There's not really that much out there specifically written on the topic (if there are, I'd love to know). So here's the list I've collected. If you happen to have read any of these - I'd love to know what you think of them. My book list is posted on my blog here: A Book for Software Engineering Managers and Developers Both. I'll also continue to post updates there if you're interested. Posting the list of books here as well: Rework by Jason Fried and David Heinemeier Hansson The Hard Thing About Hard Things: Building a Business When There Are No Easy Answers by Ben Horowitz Slack: Getting Past Burnout, Busywork and the Myth of Total Efficiency by Tom DeMarco Dynamics of Software Development by Jim McCarthy Management 3.0: Leading Agile Developers, Developing Agile Leaders (Addison-Wesley Signature Series (Cohn)) by Jurgen Appelo Peopleware: Productive Projects and Teams by Tom DeMarco Growing Software: Proven Strategies for Managing Software Engineers by Louis Testa Managing the Unmanageable: Rules, Tools, and Insights for Managing Software People and Teams by Mickey W. Mantle Becoming a Technical Leader: An Organic Problem-Solving Approach by Gerald M. Weinberg Team Geek: A Software Developer’s Guide to Working Well with Others by Brian W. Fitzpatrick The Human Side of Agile – How to Help Your Team Deliver by Gil Broza The People’s Scrum: Agile Ideas for Revolutionary Transformation by Tobias Mayer Coders at Work: Reflections on the Craft of Programming by Peter Seibel Being Geek: The Software Developer’s Career Handbook by Michael Lopp How to Stop Sucking and Be Awesome Instead by Jeff Atwood The Psychology of Computer Programming: Silver Anniversary Edition by Gerald M. Weinberg Notes to a Software Team Leader: Growing Self Organizing Teams by Roy Osherove Managing Humans: Biting and Humorous Tales of a Software Engineering Manager by Michael Lopp 