What is Evernote missing?
STRUCTURED SEARCH UPGRADE TO SAVED SEARCH: Structured Table of Contents/Playlist generation within Saved Searches using 'keyword' tags. I now have 10,000-plus items in my Premium Evernote. Plain-vanilla Search works well for the more diverse categories, which in my case don't usually have hundreds of records, eg, European debt crisis. Since 'European debt crisis' is an ongoing interest, I set it up as a Saved Search, which works well. However, I have approx 3,000 recipes in Evernote, which IMHO is much better for recipe collections than most alternatives. I like to review recipes in groups that I come back to repeatedly (eg, Italian vegetable recipes? which of many chocolate cakes to bake?). As an experiment, I have set up tables of contents for a few groups--which are notes with organized lists of links to related recipe notes. Useful, but very time-consuming. Would take forever to organize a large and growing group of 3,000 recipes. STRUCTURED SEARCH: I would like to be able to use one or more 'keyword tags' (organizing tags) that would then generate a specialized 'TOC' or 'Playlist' grouping in the left column. Saved Search already does most of what I want. I also want to be able to set up a hierarchy of Saved Searches that functions as a 'TOC'. First-level organization ideally would be either a selected Notebook, if relevant, or a self-specified topic or category. For example, I could set up a first-level heading related to a Notebook, eg, Recipes, or self-specify an overall grouping for many notes in several Notebooks, eg, Europe. In the case of 'Recipes', I might want to be able to self-specify permanent second-level headings as well, eg, Rice, Pasta, or Italian, Mexican. I could then structure saved searches under the first and second-level headings, eg: Recipes +Rice ++Rice, General +++Brown Rice=(saved search for) "brown rice" +++White Rice=(saved search for) "white rice" ++Risottos ++Paella +Mexican ++Quesadillas ++Tamales ++Salsas The best analogy is 'Playlists' in iTunes, generated based on one (or more) self-specified conditions. In iTunes, all Latin songs are categorized at the track/album level. However, I also like to be able to select for all Cuban or Brazilian songs, which I set up as a 'grouping' at the track/album level. Brazilian music is very diverse, so I then find it very useful to organize my Brazilian music to select 'Playlists' for Tropicalia, Brazilian Electronica, Brazilian Jazz. The combination of self-specified headings and self-updating 'Playlist' searches works really well in iTunes. IMPORTANT: The usefulness of adding the STRUCTURED SEARCH option to SAVED SEARCH is that you only have to apply this level of organization where it is important to you, which is efficient in iTunes--and would be efficient in Evernote. In other words, my structured playlist system in iTunes is well worth the effort for my Brazilian music collection, which includes hundreds of tracks--but not worth bothering with for American folk music, which in my iTunes includes less than 10 albums. In Evernote, I only need a SAVED SEARCH for Michael Fassbender, which will pull up 10 or 20 web clips and photos of the actor. For my 3,000 recipes, I would benefit from a more STRUCTURED SEARCH approach to take greatest advantage of Evernote. NOTE: iTunes has the highly-useful MOST OFTEN PLAYED/MOST RECENTLY PLAYED options for Playlists. The analogy in Evernote would also work well, eg, if I constantly grab for 20 or 30 recipes that I prepare frequently but that changes over time, why not have a SAVED/STRUCTURED Search that automatically pulls the current group? Helpful also for grabbing notes related to a highly active work project--or for the most-used notes related to an active work project. 