How can a person get selected in Google Summer of Code?
I participated in Google's Summer of Code 09, things may have changed a bit since but here is the basic rundown. To be selected to participate in the Google Summer of Code you must first meet the eligibility requirements: 1) You must be 18 years of are or older on or before the start date of the program. 2) You must be a student. Google defines a student as an individual enrolled in or accepted into an accredited institution including (but not necessarily limited to) colleges, universities, masters programs, PhD programs and undergraduate programs. You will need to provide proof to Google in the form of a student id or transcript. If you are eligible you can apply to participate in the program. Each year Google posts a list of participating mentoring projects and organizations, each of which has spots for students. The number of these spots per organization are generally determined by their size and popularity. Some organizations accept only a couple students and some accept 20+ students. Generally the program is fairly selective as many people apply. Once you find an organization you are interested in working with for the summer, you need to submit your proposal for what you want to work. You should try to find a mentoring project/organization you have an interest in or have experience working with their software in the past. Having knowledge of their software will help you construct a good proposal and also help you get your feet on the ground when trying to implement your idea. Generally mentoring organizations will have some suggested project ideas. These projects have been scoped out already and can probably fit into a summer's time. Do not hesitate to come up with your own idea though! Your proposal to the mentoring organization should consist of a well written summary and outline of the project you want to work on. Be detailed in your description of the problem you're trying to solve, or feature you're trying to create. Be sure to include any work experience or projects you have done to demonstrate the you have the technical ability to complete the project. Include a proposed timeline on how you plan on finishing the project over the summer. Include a vision for what you would like to see happen to your project after you have finished work for the summer. Generally mentoring organizations are looking for really passionate students. They want students that will likely continue to contribute to the project even after the summer. Self organization is also very important because it is essential in being able to finish your project in summer's time. It also helps to hop on IRC or their forums and talk to some of the developers/mentors you'll be working with over the summer. This helps them get to know you and also know what they will expect of you. My personal advice is find something you like and are passionate about and work on a solid proposal. Don't send out a proposal to every organization, just focus on something you really want to do and make it excellent. Updated 39w ago • View Upvotes