Why do conversations with influencers matter?
There are some excellent posts here, so I'll aim to add something new to this conversation, which is a topic very close to my heart. Here is an excerpt from a white paper I have just written on this topic, which I'll be happy to send you or anyone else on Quora upon request. Building reputation and brand value. Unfortunately people are not rational beings and are afraid of perceived risks.  A perceived risk can be anything that makes another person feel unsafe or uncomfortable, including the unknown.  No matter how amazing your company and its products and services are, very few people want to do business that they and the people in their community have never heard of.  In fact, according to the Reputation Institute almost 80% of reputation is driven by other factors than a company’s products and services.  Building a meaningful on-line presence.  Search engines are the first port of call for most people researching buying decisions.  If a prospect Googles your company name or the market sector in which you operate, buyers expect to see more than press releases republished verbatim on random, valueless syndicated sites.  Your influencer community needs to be analysing, advocating, curating and republishing news, innovations and ideas that your company and its people create. Obtaining strategic input from critics.  It is all too easy for company leaders to believe their own propaganda and become complacent, especially when they surround themselves with ‘yes people’.  Whether you are Hosni Mubarak or Tony Hayward, shutting out the critics and sceptics in your community ultimately results in an unexpected crisis followed by a spectacular fall from grace.  Executives who engage with influencers are making themselves publicly accountable to their stakeholders and are likely to challenge their own strategies and ideas much more robustly than those who surround themselves only by ‘yes people’.  This might be the best reason of all to engage with the influencer community.  When executives protest that they don’t have the time for influencer communications or try to marginalise it as a ‘fluffy’ activity, this usually indicates a much more serious business problem.  Reluctance to engage invariably stems from fear of exposure, criticism or worse, having no discernable vision or strategy to communicate.  This explains why the best-performing technology companies like Apple and Google are also those who engage most actively and effectively with their influencer communities and also reveals that lack of CEO time is not the issue.  The influencer community provides a valuable service by putting your business vision,strategy, products and services to the test. Their perception of your company is extremely valuable and should loop right back into your business to inform strategy and product decisions. 