What were the greatest (both well and least understood) leaps in evolution?
Define 'great'. Define 'leaps'. Let's take 'great' to mean some combination of 'significant' and 'important'. And let's take 'leaps' to be 'great' changes occurring over the course of from one to ten generations (under an 'eyelash flutter' on the biological timeline).  The second question being contingent on the first it's tempting to answer it first. But where's the fun in that? Evolution doesn't do 'leaps' - creeps at a pace that dizzies glaciers and sets them to admonishing 'what's your big hurry?' It's not so much evolution is slow (and definitely not that it's 'methodical' - embodying its own method it shrugs 'I just change with the times is all') - but that evolution never stops - changing every genome by a value of 0 or 1 ('0' being 'no change'; '1' being 'change') every time any organism reproduces. (It is vital to remember that a change of '0' is change none the less - maintenance of a status entails some transformation of material and energy - a systemic status change.)  Evolution is busy changing everything all of the time. Changing life-forms from the fundamental Archaea, prokaryotes, and viruses to those complex cellular communities that call themselves homo sapiens. One cell or type of cell at a time. Viruses are excellent vectors for changing a type of cell at a time - awesome and widely underestimated agents of change.  (Also widely unthanked. I, for one would like to thank viruses for making me what I am today - mainly not extinct as a species or as an individual.) Evolution being in the business of changing the entire terrestrial biome can be forgiving for not giving a flying fig about the impatience of some entities (who shall remain nameless). 'Great' aka: 'Significant-important' evolutionary changes are exercises in a foolhardy behavior known as 'presuming' (a lot like 'assuming' in terms of what it can make of 'u' and 'me'). The first 'presumption' is that 'the status  of the biome at this moment' is relevant to some outcome - especially some desired ultimate outcome. History (not the silly at best quasi-mythical scriptural histories but history recorded in DNA and written in fossil stone) makes the folly of postulating any evolutionary endgame clear. About as close to reasonable postulate of an evolutionary predisposition as I'd hazard is this: evolution evidently vectors towards differentiation. That evolutionary processes on the whole move systems in the opposite direction that conditions like cancer do with their altering of cells towards cancerous non-differentiation.  (Evolution experimented with metastatic proliferation for a billion or so years in its early career - but has branched out since.) To call biological evolution by natural selection an incremental process is an understatement. There have been no 'leaps'. And there is absolutely no sign of directionality to evolution by natural selection.  Zero evidence whatsoever. That said: We are fortunate to live at the moment when natural selection's tenure as the sole significant arbiter of environmental change is ending. 'Intentional evolution' is coming into its own in our here and now. We (a small handful of our species acting on our behalf) are becoming able to profoundly alter a genome in one generation. To influence it in even less. By profound I mean we are able to rearrange genetic information to create organisms not merely variants on their progenitors in the way hybridization has done - but combining material from bacteria or animals into plants for our benefit. Human intention is rapidly supplanting natural indifference in shaping evolution. And intent is supplanting nature's not only where biology is concerned but wherever we come in contact with energy, plasma, matter. For humankind, biology is quickly becoming optional. Optional in terms of what biological components (internal communities of microbial cells to organs and limbs) we, as individuals, wish to include in our own expression of humanness. And optional in terms of how much of what we are is, in fact, biological at all. Since 2004 the interface between neuron and microchip has been reality (thanks to those pioneers at the University of Alberta, Calgary) and seamless inclusion of electromechanical prostheses (replacement or augmentation) a matter of not 'if' but 'when'. Until the cusp of this century those questions about 'greatness' and 'leaps' were meaningless and without substance. The same can't be said of today. Today, in 2015, evolutionary processes are coming under the control of us - of humankind. Our will is about to be done in heaven and on earth. In the words from the prologue and epilogue of Arthur C. Clark's 2001: A Space Odyssey :  "[The Star Child] waited, marshaling his thoughts and brooding over his still untested powers. For though he was master of the world, he was not quite sure what to do next. But he would think of something.” 