How can we develop our critical thinking abilities?
Critical thinking is mainly useful when you're trying to fulfill a specific objective or solve a clearly defined problem. Thoughts that produce tangible results and lead to insights that produce tangible results are the ones that hold the most value. Here are 5 suggestions that should help you become a phenominal critical thinker: 1. Make sure you're aiming towards the right objective - It should be clear what you're trying to accomplish at the onset exactly so that every strategy and action you partake in revolves around bringing you closer to it. Should you generalize the scope of the objective to ensure you understand it's context a little better and to make certain you're not blindly headed towards a dead end? Should you make the objective more specific so that your actions and strategies can be more focused and impactful? Are there important milestones you should strive for before it's plausible to fulfill the objective? Should you upgrade certain skills and knowledge and make alterations in the external environment to induce favorable conditions? 2. Consider the full range of alternative actions - You should consider every possible action you can take and the full spectrum of space and time where those actions can take place. Are certain actions synergistic when combined with each other and should they be utilized at specific times? When in doubt, ask these basic questions and consider all the associated options and choices that may increase your chances of success: Who? What? Where? When? Why? How? 3. Find the causes of ambiguities and obscure concepts - Intentionally search for the parts of the problem you least understand, look for their causes, and use that information to formulate effective solutions. As you do this, use the 5 Whys and 5 Hows technique. This is probably the fastest way to reveal the unknown unknowns that can prove most useful to you. Find out more about the Five Whys and 5 Hows technique here: http://asq.org/healthcare-use/wh... 4. Use First Principles Reasoning - Avoid all assumptions and comparisons. Faulty premises lead to faulty conclusions. Instead, boil concepts down to their most basic, fundamental, and scientific truths and reason up from there. 5. Increase your vocabulary with the words most pertinent to your target subject matter in addition to general logic and nuanced concepts - The more words you know and understand that pertain to the topic you're thinking about, the faster you can transition from premises to conclusions and consider varying alternative actions. In short, you become a faster and more precise thinker. This following list of vocabulary words on http://Vocabulary.com should help you increase your vocabulary relatively quickly if you use the website's challenge feature:   Interesting Words 