What could a 20-year-old do to potentially improve their quality of life further down the line?
First thing I'd like to add is to incorporate practices that protect the environment and reduce waste into your daily life.  Our future won't be here for much longer if we continue to treat earth the way we have been. Some suggestions to consider: Reduce your dependency on cars. Bike, take public transportation, walk instead where possible.  Not only is there an economical factor to consider with cars (i.e. car insurance, ticket/towing fees, gas prices), but you gain invaluable knowledge and potentially a unique appreciation for that location. Learn about where food comes from/how it's produced.  For me and the privilege that I posses, that means significantly reducing my meat consumption and buying locally grown products or gardening.  Find out what that might mean to you.  There are TONS, but I suggest Eating Animals by Jonathan Safran Foer. Use reusable cups/bags/etc.  One example: Avoid the use plastic water bottles (Eau, no: Clean, healthy and pure? Hardly. Bottled water is killing the planet) Develop an appreciation for the outdoors. This ties into traveling - Go camping, hiking, the beach.  Once you are able to appreciate nature in all its glory, you realize that there's so much to value in the world around you.  Zion National Park/Bryce Canyon in Utah is one of my favorite National Parks. Secondly, err in the direction of kindness. (George Saunders's Advice to Graduates).  There will never be too many kind souls to occupy this land and we all know that this present world needs more.  However, the theme of kindness ties into: Be conscious and understand the difference between intent and impact. (Intent vs. Impact: Why Your Intentions Don’t Really Matter)  Our words and actions make a difference.  Good intentions can have very negative consequences.  The earlier we can own our mistakes, genuinely apologize, and move forward when offending others, the more we can work towards inclusive societies, appreciative of all types of people. Our quality of life is intrinsically connected to the lives of one another and to that of nature.  We should strive to do the least harm possible.  PS. I thought I should add that I'm in my early 20s, so I'm learning so much from everyone's responses.  That being said...I didn't think that I was any less qualified to answer with advice that will always continue to guide my life.  So, I'm right there with you in working towards improving the quality of my life.  Good luck and cheers! 