What are some tips for submitting Grace Hopper talk/panel proposals?
I had two panel proposals accepted for Grace Hopper 2013, and two again accepted for 2014. I've also been on a handful of proposals that were turned down. Although I've been listed on panel proposals for the career track, I've generally leaned towards more technical content for the proposals I've authored [1], so my recommendations will fall more in line with that context. Ultimately, the goal is present on a topic of interest to the audience at Grace Hopper, ideally sharing insights and experiences that are relatively unique. In putting together a panel proposal, deciding on an interesting, relevant, and timely topic and finding a good panel of presenters to address that topic is key. With that in mind, here are a few tips: Deciding on a topic The audience is largely students [2], some of whom are still relatively early in their studies, so a topic that doesn't presume too much prior knowledge or experience is relevant to a wider range of people. That doesn't mean you can't get technical, but it's better to direct panels at a beginner/intermediate level and just build some time into the panel to explain relevant background and give everyone the common terminology. The more timely you can make your topic, the better. It's not a hard and fast rule that your topic must be on something recent or novel, but it'll make it more compelling to the panel proposal reviewers. On one of my proposals in 2014, titled "Coding Strategies: How To Rewrite Legacy Code While In Flight", although two of the three reviewers recommended "strong accept", one gave "reject" with the rationale that "the practice of reengineering almost exists from very beginning of the software industry. It would be great if panel can emphasize new trends and methodologies in modern software reengineering."Finding panelists Aim for 4 or 5 panelists to have enough coverage. Bonus points if they have brand name affiliations. Make sure all your panelists are from different organizations / institutions / companies. You should assume you will be rejected if you include panelists that overlap in organizational affiliation. I've been listed on numerous panel proposals where the authors insisted on putting multiple people from the same company because it was easier to fill the slots, because they had all helped to come up with the idea for the panel, because they all really wanted to speak, because whatever reason, and in the end all the effort to put those proposals together was wasted because they were all rejected. Finding panelists across different organizations that all share an interest in the same topic and can present on it is one of the hardest parts of putting together a panel proposal; engage in broader networks that can connect you to potential co-panelists. In 2013 I started an email thread of ~50 female engineers and we self-organized via Google Spreadsheets into panel groups; in 2014 I helped Pinterest to host an event that was the real-life version of that email thread, and we brought female engineers together in our office in a Grace Hopper panel proposal mixer. Whether you want to initiate threads or meetups like that or just participate, I've found that strategy to work well in finding some panelists to initially commit to a topic and validate interest in it, and then reaching out to people over Facebook, Twitter, or email to round out a panel can be more directed. It is sometimes possible to swap out panelists after a submission, if necessary. Although the conference organizers don't recommend it, I've done this before. Some people are afraid of committing to panels because the proposals are due half a year before the conference, but in practice all these things can be worked out.Writing the proposal A well-written proposal explains why the panel topic is compelling and also why the panelists collectively are going to be effective in presenting on the topic. It's useful to brainstorm as a group, whether in person or over email, general topics that you want to cover during the panel and all the different perspectives that the panelists can bring. Group writing is hard; it's easiest to have one person primarily responsible for assembling the proposal after the group brainstorming. As an issue of logistics, someone has to be listed as moderator and usually it's most straightforward to have the person driving the panel authorship be that person, even if the panel ends up being self-moderated. The main dependency on co-panelists is their bios. It doesn't actually take that much time to write a proposal once you have the source material. Not that I necessarily recommend procrastinating, but it's very feasible to write a proposal in one evening once you have all the questions and topics you want to cover and the panelist bios. [1] Titles, panelists, and abstracts for the panels I presented on in 2013 and 2014. 2013 Scale It Big, Scale It Forward: Systems Architectures at Rapidly Growing Startups Tracy Chou (Pinterest), Vida Ha (Square), Barbara Raitz (Airbnb), Ketaki Deo (LinkedIn), Bethany Macri (Etsy) This panel will cover systems architecture at rapidly scaling web/mobile startups: Pinterest, Square, Airbnb, Etsy, Pulse. We will go over the basic architecture needed to set up a website or application, including database and caching systems, task queues, web or API servers, client side architecture; and what particular technologies each company uses, the tradeoffs for using these different technologies, and how they are composed together in the larger systems. 2014 Consistency in a Fragmented World: Building for Web, iOS, Android Tracy Chou (Pinterest), Nishita Agarwal (Facebook), Madelin Woods (Square), Sophia Westwood (Quip), Brina Lee (Instagram) It's not good enough anymore to build your app just for one platform. At some point, most companies need to build for web, iOS, Android, and more, across desktop, tablet, and mobile form factors. What are some good strategies for achieving consistency of user experience and the underlying codebases? Learn about the different ways that product and engineering teams at Facebook, Pinterest, Square, Instagram, and Quip are solving this problem. [2] By the numbers, 40% of total attendees in 2013 were students (reference: http://gracehopper.org/feature/g...), and slightly more than that women from industry, but many of that latter category are fielding recruiting tasks during much of the conference. For example, in the last two years, I've unfortunately not attended any talks or panels besides the ones I've spoken on, because I've been on recruiting duty. 