What were the greatest (both well and least understood) leaps in evolution?
Others have already mentioned some of these, but here we go... 1. Photosynthesis evolves. 2. Aerobic respiration evolves. 3. Eukaryotes evolve - Cellular organization evolves with the addition of organelles and a nucleus. 4. Sexual reproduction evolves - Organisms evolve that reproduce by systematically mixing their genetic material. 5. Multicellular organisms evolve. 6. Organisms that incorporate "hard parts" evolve. 7. Tens of thousands of species of trilobites (invertebrates) rule the earth (well, okay, the ocean anyway) for almost 80 million years, developing a myriad of invertebrate eye structures. 8. Plants, and then animals (invertebrates), evolve that can live outside of water (in other words, on land). 9. Vertebrate jaws evolve in fish, and sharks become the kings of the oceans - and they still rule to this day, though in the modern era the whales (marine mammals) give them a run for their money. 10. Vertebrate lungs evolve (fish with lungs). 11. Vertebrate legs evolve (fish again), and certain species of these fish become more adapted to living out of the water more (i.e., amphibians/land tetrapods). 12. Some of these tetrapods adapt to living predominantly on land (i.e., reptiles). Some reptiles even evolve wings. (Of course, do note that some invertebrates had had wings for a very long time by this point.) 13. Dinosaurs evolve and rule the earth on land for over a hundred million years. Some (many? most?) dinosaurs evolve a higher metabolism. Some dinosaurs evolve a four-chambered heart. Some dinosaurs evolve a down skin covering, which later evolved into feathers, and a four-chambered heart. Some of these feathered dinosaurs learn how to fly. A cosmic cataclysm occurs and almost completely eliminates every dinosaur species on the planet, with only a few species of small dinosaurs with feathers surviving. These survivors have persisted and flourish today - we call them birds. 14. Before the cosmic cataclysm, during the reign of the dinosaurs, some of the reptile species had evolved a hair skin covering, a higher metabolism, and a four-chambered heart. Mammals were born. 15. Mammals develop placentas. 16. Some mammals take to the trees and develop grasping limbs, binocular vision, and proportionally larger brains, and some of these later develop highly social groups. Primates are born. 17. Some of these primates keep getting bigger and bigger brains. A couple(?) of these species, in Africa, take to living on the ground more and become more adapted to bipedalism. One species in particular takes up using sticks and stones, to increasing levels of sophistication over hundreds of thousands of years. This species' brain keeps getting bigger. This species was so successful that it spread to many parts of the earth, such as modern day Europe, China, India, and Indonesia. It kept evolving. It's brain kept getting bigger. They even figured out how to use fire. 18. But back in the African birthplace of this species, some of them branched into a new species with giant brains. Using sticks and stones now became hammers, knives, spears, even more sophisticated than the stone tools made by their cousins who had previously spread out over the earth, and hunting and gathering was big business. Jewelry was made and prized. These primates with the giant brains spread out over the earth, and all close cousins perished. 19. The vast majority of species that have ever evolved have become extinct. "Living fossils" are actually new species but representative of a same broader grouping, such as genus, that was thought to have become extinct many millions of years ago. Discoveries such as these are exceedingly rare. 20. The primates with the giant brains have begun to figure out how to make intelligent machines, machines with electronic brains using nonbiological substrates. These primates will either modify their existing biological brains by integrating their new tools into them, or their tools will be independently intelligent. Or both. But the AI's, by nature, are vastly superior, and will be the next great step in evolution. 