Why do conversations with influencers matter?
Steven's comments hit home to me. They are much the same as the thoughts that have been swirling around in my head as I've been pondering how I might answer Phil's post (while I concurrently try to complete work for some clients -- the relationships that especially matter, because that's how I eat!) ... I love my life online, my social networks. But it's my real-life relationships that hold all the value for me. Virtually all my best contacts online I either met originally in person, or forged a relationship with at, say, a conference. Yes, I often first connect with many people online -- and that's good -- but it's only when I meet them in person that the relationship really starts to blossom. Every person I meet professionally makes me better -- I really believe that. Sure, it has to be in the right circles, in the rights places, the right events.  But, for me, that's how I think I've been able to build influence -- through the people I get to know. I know Phil because I met him in person here in his hometown of Minneapolis several years ago. I have huge respect for him as a startup founder. I value just knowing a guy this smart, and having a chance to (yes, Steven) listen to people like him. I do that very seriously, because I know I can learn from Phil, and thus perhaps, in some way, help the many startups I work with gain some knowledge from a guy who's accomplished so much. That's real influence, in my book -- for me to be able to benefit somehow from knowing a guy with a legacy of success like that. I didn't know much about Klout pre-Phil, but I started taking it very seriously when he signed on. The one thing I'm really bummed about is I don't get to see Phil so much anymore since he moved to SF!  But he knows I will seek him out whenever I next get to SF.  Because, as much as I love following him online, nothing beats face-to-face. Thanks again, Phil, for your thoughts on influence! You know I look forward to more. 