What is the attitude toward immigration in Sweden?
I work in Stockholm and I would describe Stockholmers as among those most positive towards immigration. Swedish politicians have actively pursued a multicultural policy for decades and nowhere is this policy more visible than in Stockholm. The city has a high rate of immigration and political correctness has had widespread effects on Swedish culture. I wrote about this on another question: Is Swedish culture the most politically correct at present? During the last month's election, 85.8 % of the Swedish population participated, approximately 8,322,000. Out of this number, 87% of the turnover rate voted for political parties with pro-immigration policies. 12,9 % voted for the Sweden Democrats, the only parliament party with an anti-immigration policy. There are some neo-nazi groups (under Others), but fortunately they receive almost no support at all. So officially, at least 7 million Swedes are in favor of immigration. But on the other hand, it is also worth pointing out that very few vote solely on immigration issues. There are a number of other issues a voter must take into consideration before voting for a selected party. Some may have voted on the Sweden Democrats simply for their other policies, such as EU-scepticism, more support for the elderly, or reintroduction of 'Swedecentric' culture. Likewise, some voters may disagree with Sweden's immigration yet still vote on other parties for their better policies. So the number of people critical towards immigration may actually be higher than 12.9 %... or lower. The Swedish elections have ballots in which a voter can select a representative in the party they vote for. All parties have members with differing opinions, and a voter may select a member by writing down their name or selecting them on a ballot list. The more votes a member has, the more influence they will have in the party. So it is possible for a Swedish citizen to vote for a anti-immigration member of a pro-immigration party (though such politicians are rare). I was not surprised that SD gained such a large growth during this election. My prediction was perhaps modest, yet not surprising. To most Swedes however, it was unacceptable. Demonstrations against SD took place already a few hours after the election results. This picture is taken in Malmö, where the party has strong support. Why this shock? Because the global image of Swedish tolerance has been strained. Symbolically, one of ten Swedes voted against immigration, which means that every Swede has a friend, a colleague, even a family member who voted for SD. The question is who? Naturally they would not know because SD voters hide themselves out of fear. The public dislike of them is quite intense in this country. Anyone who admits to voting for them risks losing their job or their friends. A public workplace (not sure about private workplaces) can remove an employee if they believe the employee has "violated the workplace's committment to democracy and human rights." Sweden equates immigration strongly with human rights and democracy, therefore voting for SD is synonymous with anti-democratic. In a nutshell, the immigration issue is taboo and few are willing to criticize Sweden's immigration policy. The Husby riots of 2013 While Sweden is relatively better than most other places, there is still much room for improvement. The unemployment rate among foreign born is much higher than ethnic Swedes. 24% of immigrants are unemployed, which is triple that of the OECD average. Sweden tops other OECD nations in inequality growth and those who have been hardest hit are immigrants. Husby was not the last suburban riot. Another took part in Rinkeby last August. Rinkeby has the highest unemployment rate in Stockholm. It may be relatively easy to migrate to Sweden, but integrating into Sweden... that's a different story. An interesting article addresses the riots and their social surroundings The Swedish riots: What really happened? Trägårdh does note that the Swedish Model can present problems for immigrants. In an e-mail to me he wrote that, “Individualism as a value opens doors for participation and membership in a highly modernist, emancipatory project, but the lack of recognition of subnational communities, and of racial, ethnic or religious modes of belonging closes other doors tied to more traditional values and to collective self-organizing.” A particularly interesting point he raised was that while the Swedish Model can be liberating for girls, women, and those who succeed at school, it can conversely be “a source of resentment, confusion, [and] anger” particularly for “young men who expect to be heads of traditional families.” This seemingly makes them feel excluded from membership of the Swedish nation. However, he is optimistic that the individualism the Swedish Model promotes has a universal appeal, and will therefore likely win over most immigrants in successive generations. As well as this, Sweden’s strong civil society, which has large representation for interests and political voices, is also key to integrating immigrants, giving them the opportunity to be heard. “While immigrants are behind compared to other Swedes, they are doing much better than elsewhere in Europe,” he said. A critical issue for immigrants to Sweden, as Trägårdh writes, is that “the high threshold for entering the labor market, linked to relatively high entry-level wages and lack of low-wage options for those without Swedish language ability, education or vocational training,” translates to “segregation, with immigrants living in suburbs with higher rates of unemployment, higher rates of living off various forms of social assistance, schools with fewer fluent or native Swedish speakers, [and] more students that do worse academically.” I have recently bought a new apartment in Stockholm, so I have been checking out real estate prices in different areas. I have noticed there is a sharp contrast between housing prices in 'attractive' and 'unattractive' areas. The 'unattractive' areas are much cheaper due to the fact that they are in low demand. I can ask any Swede, even 'open-minded' ones, and they will tell me flat out that they simply refuse to live in these areas because of alleged criminal activity. It is not uncommon to hear statements such as, "Stay away from these areas, they are f***ed up." Even the police are hesitant to drive into the worst areas. Youth gangs are extremely suspicious of police and outsiders. I recently read an article in the newspaper about an elderly man who was chased by a suburb gang that suspected him of being a police informant. In my opinion, the refusal of the media to openly discuss immigration is not constructive. When individuals are afraid to speak out, they will then seek out questionable channels for venting out, or vote for parties willing to take the issue up, even if the party is questionable at best. The media relentlessly tries to portray SD as racists and its voters misguided (despite research shows that SD voters are less likely to 'swing' during elections). More scandals are written about their politicians than any other party. But even with a good dose of media criticism, it is hard not to realize that a good portion of SD politicians are quite frankly idiots. But then again, idiocy and political power have never been exclusive. SD has some of the dumbest politicians I have ever seen, but they gain support by actually listening to people's grievances. Now that their numbers has gone up to one million strong (not including more extreme groups), the media tactic must be reevalued. How can you argue that 1,000,000 Swedes are outright racists? The media's relentless demonization and scapegoating of SD has only created more sympathy for them. Instead of actively persuading Swedish voters that immigration is successful, established parties have downplayed the social issues that have developed and marginalized those who want to discuss the issues. Politicians simply reply: "Our immigration policy works, you are just being racist!" Sorry, but you won't gain much confidence by pointing the finger at your own potential voters. This very attitude has pushed disgruntled voters into SD's fold. For now, most Swedes are in favor of immigration, but their numbers have dimnished by a few percent. The Sweden Democrats leaped from 5,7 to 12,9% in four years. I doubt they will achieve a similar growth by 2018, but I wouldn't be surprised if they have gained a few more procent by then. Sweden's third biggest party The next few years will be difficult for prime minister Stefan Löfven. With a weak political position and tough opposition from the far-right and centre-right coalition, he has to create a cooperative government that allocates enough resources for everybody, most of all immigrants. I wish you the best of luck. Updated 4w ago • View Upvotes