What were the greatest (both well and least understood) leaps in evolution?
I have like 10 favorites. 1) Panspermia (c. 8.5 to 4 billion years ago): This first one, like the last one on the list, represents the very edge of our data and speculation.  That said... If we calculate how fast organisms diversify at a genetic level, and how fast their genomes lengthen, we can actually look at living creatures' genomes and get multiple estimates for how long ago their genes started evolving.  And the numbers from one research team converge on the figure: 9 billion years ago. Researchers use Moore's Law to calculate that life began before Earth existed  Problem: Earth 4 billion years ago was a glob of lava too hot for genes to exist on it.  Solution: The earth was seeded by very basic bacteria FROM SPACE! :)  Sound crazy?  Why?  We find bacteria living deep in the earth's crust.  We find bacteria that can survive space.  We know from experiments that meteorite/asteroid impacts can throw chunks of rock into space in such a way that they contain still-alive colonies of bacteria, and that these rocks can then land in such a way that some bacteria are still alive when the dust settles on the receiving planet.  And we know from astrophysics that the universe has had the right materials (ample carbon, oxygen, etc.) and environments (rocky watery planets) to evolve life for about 9 billion years, after the 2nd and 3rd generations of stars started coming online. And while technically it's not such an impressive achievement for bacteria to "figure out" how to survive a ride inside a rock, this development rates absolute TOPS in importance for life.  It was life's first crucial accomplishment. Edit: Many readers are rightly skeptical about the evidence for panspermia, preferring that the jury stay out on this particular hypothesis.  So in honor of them, I add this news item discovered 30 April 2015: Life on Earth may have flourished a billion years earlier than thought.  This item explains that according to rather incontrovertible geological chemical analysis, microbial life on earth was voraciously devouring atmospheric N2 the instant that life on earth became possible.  According to the study, older scientific assumptions that life took a billion years to develop complexity enough to break atmospheric N2 into usable nitrogen, are simply wrong, and somehow, the moment the earth cooled enough that cells wouldn't boil to death, those cells appeared fully formed and already complex enough to catalyze the breaking of the triple bond between nitrogen molecules that only life can make happen at scale and without which life cannot thrive. 2) RNA takes on DNA as a subcontractor (8.5 to 3 billion years ago): We now, in the last 15 years, have converging indications that life started as RNA.  RNA is not as good at data storage as DNA, because it branches and loops too easily to form a really long, self-organizing "tape" of data, and it is not as good at being machinery as proteins, because it can't form as many structures (sheets, tubes, tunnels, rotors) as proteins.  But it can do both: it can contain instructions for its own replication PLUS instructions for how to make proteins PLUS can be the machinery to do all that replication. RNA: half data-tape, half machine: DNA: mostly data tape: Proteins: micromachines: So yes, at some point, RNA mutated one of its letters, and begat a little mutant helper that wasn't as good at being machinelike, but was way better at storing information.  So they evolved a partnership, and DNA grew and grew as the partnership spawned more and more innovations on RNA's original basic game of copying itself into new lipid bubbles. NOTE: Another evidence for panspermia is that, while research indicates life started as RNA-based, no RNA-based cells exist on earth.  Their total extinction is profoundly unlikely.  Then how to account for their absence from earth?  Simple: They never made it to earth.  They begat DNA-based life elsewhere, and when life reached earth, it was as a species of DNA-based prokaryotes. 3) Chromosomes (2 billion years ago): After life got to earth, some of it figured out how to get DNA to store more: instead of having it work as a looped data tape, it would break into lots of non-looped tapes: chromosomes.  This in itself vastly increased the potential complexity of single-celled organisms, by increasing the hard drive. 4) Sex!  (1.2 billion years ago):  Some cells with chromosomes (eukaryotes) figured out that they could create a backup copy of their data (something like autopolyploidy).  Those doubled-chromosome critters then started diverging, while holding on to their habit of swapping data.  Pretty soon, they hit upon the idea of swapping whole "backup drives".  Now, each critter had two slightly differing "hard drives" or sets of chromosomes.  As long as they didn't differ too much, this worked out well, and gave life a way of safely testing out a lot more variations at a time. 5) Multicellular life! (700 million years ago): Some of these sexy critters hit upon the same idea that bees and ants would later re-discover: SLAVERY GETS SHIT DONE.  Some sex-capable cell split off and made a daughter cell that couldn't itself do the sex thing (swapping whole DNA copies).  This was easy, because those cells never forgot their old trick of just creating clones of themselves, as they did before sex.  But for a long time, this didn't make for anything interesting happening, because the clones were identical to the parent cell--they were just colonies of cells.  But then a daughter cell was born that could not sexually reproduce, nor clone herself, as her parent could.  If she wanted her genes to outlive her, she'd have to help her parent do that work.  And so two castes were born, the germ line that could do the sex thing, and the drone class.  Today, your eggs or sperm cells are the germ line, and the rest of you is a bunch of drone classes.  Remember when RNA took on a helper, DNA, to store data, and DNA became so much bigger than RNA that it looks like the dominant part of the partnership?  Germ lines and drone lines are like that.  6) Nerves and muscles (700-500 million years ago): So now life has created these giant, organ-ized colonies, with a bunch of cells defending germ cells at the center, helping them sniff out food, and then move toward it.  But move toward it HOW?  Individual cells had ways to get around, giant barges of cells not so much.  Enter a new caste of drone cell, the nerve, and its buddy, the muscle cell.  They figure out how to line up ion channels so that a message gets not just to one cell, but across a giant cable or series of cables.  Well done, gentlemen.  Now we're ready for... 7) Vision (and hearing) (500 million years ago):  The basic way cells know their environment is through touch.  But at a cell's scale, touch means knowing the shape of the molecules it's touching.  And that, is what we call taste/smell.  Taste and smell are the first senses, and we ostensibly share them with bacteria, if only in ways that lead to philosophical debate about the nature of consciousness.  But there are other data in the world aside from molecule topologies, like sound waves, and light waves.  Luckily, there are chemicals that react to light and sound.  Some cells have more of them.  Those cells started being helpful to nerve cells.  Nerve cells started preferring to connect to them, because they twitched when light or sound hit, giving advanced intel about where the creature should go to get food or avoid becoming food.  Light and sound travel farther, faster than smell.  If you detect light, you're going to outwit food that can only smell whether you're near.  Soon, these light-sensitive cells clumped, for the same reason that telescope arrays clump--it improves signal clarity and sensitivity.  Then, they formed a pit, to help them determine the direction light came from.  Then the pit formed a transparent cover, to protect it.  Then, these protector cells formed a lens, to improve the incoming data.  Then an iris, to regulate brightness.  And muscles that could aim the whole apparatus with feedback from the brain. 8) Brains (500 million years ago):  While eyes and ears were developing, nerves were also clumping.  For the same reason that supercomputers are made of lots of computers.  This allowed for so many good things, it's really another list of 10 if I don't restrain myself.  9) Warm-bloodedness (200 million years ago):  Cold-blooded creatures are dumber than warm-blooded ones, as a rule.  Why?  Because they don't have as much energy, and it takes extra energy to run a less-dumb brain.  Cold-blooded creatures can't afford to play as much, communicate as complexly, even move as much.  To get to my next item on this list, you need to be warm-blooded. 10) Imagination/reason (200-50 million years ago):  Even a cell can "learn."  But only in a very limited way--it can learn to react a certain way the next time the same stimulus appears.  That's just basic conditioning.  Useful, but not fantastic.  But with enough brain, you can combine things you've experienced, into categories, to make useful predictions about what else might happen to you in the future, other than exact repeats of what has happened before.  For warm-blooded creatures that hit upon a way of living that is calorie-rich enough (per unit creature), imagination and reason are excellent aids to continuing to find lots of calories.  11) Writing (15000-5000 years ago).  For life to happen, it needs a replicator.  A replicator is a unit of information that can mutate, but not too often, and can otherwise be counted on to stay itself through thousands of copies (i.e. it's high-fidelity).  For 9 billion years, life had one class of replicators: nucleic acids (RNA and DNA, and now some new ones we've created in the lab to show it's possible).  But by 50 million years ago, life also had figured out ANOTHER way to use long data strands to assemble machinery useful to perpetuate those long data strands.  That way?  Language.  Individuals in a language population have an almost-universal way of agreeing on how a given signal codes to a given imagined stimulus.  If they string enough signals together, they can code for a complex imagined stimulus.  Get a complex-enough stimulus into the imagination, and it will be able to run simulations of possible realities that help the creature survive to speak again.  Instead of DNA, the data string is sound.  Instead of proteins, the machinery is a nonlinear complex of imagined percepts, that fold onto themselves dissolving the linearity of the data string that spawned them.  For example:  The fox jumps over the fence.  Read that sentence, picture it.  Now, in your mental picture, does the fox appear and then disappear, then the jumping, then the fence?  Of course not.  They all coexist.  A linear data string has folded into a nonlinear machine.  And that is fricking powerful stuff.  But it's not a replicator.  Those strings of sounds are too low-fidelity.  They shift so rapidly between generations of creatures, they don't actually function as true replicators.  And so they don't have a very massive survival benefit.  Very few creatures/species have adopted long language strings--dolphins, parrots, primates, bees.  But if you turn those sounds into a physical solid, you freeze their rate of mutation to something that outlasts the creatures carrying them.  Spoken language mutates so fast that we can barely understand Shakespeare, and he was speaking English only 500 years ago, only 25 human generations ago.  That's low-fidelity.  But writing is high-fidelity.  It can therefore act as a replicator, and if it IS a replicator, we should see that it confers an explosive evolutionary advantage.  And that's what we see.  Writing has enabled human beings to become something that now is capable of evolving at a rate thousands or millions of times faster than any other genetic organisms, whether we're talking about genetic evolution, or cultural, or phenotypical.  We're even able to translate DNA/RNA codes into this new format, so that they can be copied at the speed of light, sent to the other side of the planet at the speed of light, and so on.  We're now feeding DNA/RNA via language into our imaginations/reason, so that we can sort among genetic life's infinite possibilities millions of times faster, and trillions of times more humanely, than does natural genetic selection. We might not even be able to recognize the bodily form we take just 100 years from now.  And it is hard to imagine a more mind-boggling evolutionary leap than that. Updated 39w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Christian Dechery