What's the correlation between complexity and consciousness?
My view is that the significance of complexity is one of the great misunderstandings to be overcome in our understanding of consciousness. People often complain that the term 'consciousness' is too vague to address scientifically and that we require a precise definition in order to study it. The confusion here is between human consciousness, which is indeed staggeringly complex, and the fundamental phenomenenon of consciousness. Language is helpful here. We say un-conscious rather than 'less-complex phenomenon'. If someone regains consciousness from a coma, what is regained would presumably be of a higher quality than what is regained when a dog wakes up from being knocked unconscious. The fact that both are conscious does not change just because the human quality of consciousness seems superior to canine consciousness (to us). The phenomenon of consciousness gives us a spectrum of qualities and capacities, just as the phenomenon of light gives us a spectrum of colors and image, but the phenomenon itself is either present or it is not. If it is not present, then there is no way to detect that it is absent, so that really, unlike matter or energy (which can be be absent in a dream) consciousness of some kind is always present. This seems like blasphemy to many modern, science-minded thinkers who will say "Bah! Philosophy! Woo!", but it is actually the more objective and scientifically skeptical way to approach the whole range of phenomena that we can account for. If we were an alien scientist from another realm that was somehow not a universe, any complete study of our universe would have to weigh the phenomenology of humans and dogs on the same scale as the physics of atoms and galaxies. I think that complexity itself is a quality of consciousness of appreciation for the scope of its own consideration. A DNA molecule may seem complex to us, but in the absence of some visual or tactile presentation of the molecule and an intellectual appreciation of the significance of it, there would be nowhere for a quality of 'complexity' to bind to. Each atom need only relate or detect to the adjacent atoms, so there is no automatic assumption that a universe of atoms could demonstrate to itself any meaning of  'complexity'. To assume complexity before any form of awareness or consciousness then is putting the cart before the horse. Complex in whose eyes? What is grouping all of the parts into a whole? It makes more sense to me that complexity is only the symptom of the magnitude of depth of consciousness. A brain in a coma is not much less complex than a brain of someone who is awake, and we could build a sculpture of that brain (at a larger scale if necessary) without expecting a conscious entity to be conjured suddenly out of the aethers. We could attach a trillion dead brains together and not get a live brain. So as counter-intuitive as it seems, consciousness is not only complex, it is also infinitely simple. It is complexity, however, the layering and convoluting of conscious experience over eons which gives human consciousness the idea that it is the only 'real' consciousness in the universe. It is therefore our human qualities which we mistake for 'consciousness' and the complexity which makes us human that we mistake for the source of consciousness itself. Without consciousness there is no universe. Without human consciousness there is no anthropology. Big difference. 