What are current research areas in A-Life? Where can I find a historical repository of Artificial Life research literature?
An excellent review article from 2014 covers current research topics and open problems in the 14 identified themes of artificial life research: The Past, Present, and Future of Artificial Life. Figure 2 of the article depicts the popularity of publications in the various themes per year; 2014 for example was a year with the most publications in behavior and adaptation.  However, adaptation seems to be the strongest research topic throughout all years, followed by self-organization.  These are defined as follows: Adaptation: a change in an agent or system as a response to the environment that will help it fulfill its goals Self-organization:  local interactions lead to global patterns or behaviors such as in  swarms, flocks, or traffic; self-replication, self-maintenance, and  self-assembly are all special cases of self-organization.  Section 3 of the paper describes 14 open problems identified in the year 2000, but despite advances in the problems, all remain open problems.  These should serve as broad guidelines for future ALife research, but given the strong focus on adaptation and self-organization research within the ALife community, I will focus on the most current research (2015) within these two themes. The latest research on these themes can be found in the Proceedings of the European Conference on Artificial Life 2015, published by the MIT Press: Proceedings of the European Conference on Artificial Life 2015.  Due to its 675 pages you will want to use the "Essential Info" section which has a Table of Contents and Links to Article Pages to see the individual papers.  Perhaps the 10 most relevant papers to the topics of adaptation and self-organization are provided below.  The Discussion or Conclusion section of each paper will likely list next steps for research. Quantifying Self-Organizing Behavior of Autonomous Robots - Georg Martius, Eckehard Olbrich How social networks shape collective behaviours - Daniel W. Franks, A. Jamie Wood, Nikolai W.F. Bode Conservation of Matter Increases Evolutionary Activity - Simon Hickinbotham, Susan Stepney A Minimal Model for the Emergence of Cooperation in Randomly Growing Networks - Steve Miller, Joshua Knowles Applying homeostatic neural controller to multi-legged robot and adaptivity to novel disruptions - Hiroyuki Iizuka, Hiroki Nakai, Masahito Yamamoto Distributed vs. Centralized Particle Swarm Optimization for Learning Flocking Behaviors - Iñaki Navarro, Ezequiel Di Mario, Alcherio Martino Cooperative Coevolution of Morphologically Heterogeneous Robots - Jorge Gomes, Pedro Mariano, Anders Lyhne Christensen Emergence of Sense-Making Behavior by the Stimulus Avoidance Principle: Experiments on a Robot Behavior Controlled by Cultured Neuronal Cells - Atsushi Masumori, Norihiro Maruyama, Lana Sinapayen, Takeshi Mita, Urs Frey, Douglas Bakkum, Hirokazu Takahashi, Takashi Ikegami Emergent Robustness in Software Systems through Decentralized Adaptation: an Ecologically-Inspired ALife Approach - Franck Fleurey, Benoit Baudry, Benoit Gauzens, André Elie, Kwaku Yeboah-Antwi Does self-replication imply evolvability? - Thomas LaBar, Christoph Adami, Arend HintzeAs for a historical repository of ALife research literature, this field is said to date back to the 1980s when Christopher Langton coined the phrase "artificial life."  Online sources date from the 1990s and MIT Press has an excellent collection here: MIT Press Journals - Artificial Life. 