How can we develop our critical thinking abilities?
In 1941, Edward Glaser detailed that “the ability to think  critically, as conceived in this volume, involves three things: ( 1 ) an  attitude of being disposed to consider in a thoughtful way the problems  and subjects that come within the range of one's experiences, (2)  knowledge of the methods of logical inquiry and reasoning, and (3) some  skill in applying those methods. Critical thinking calls for a  persistent effort to examine any belief or supposed form of knowledge in  the light of the evidence that supports it and the further conclusions  to which it tends. It also generally requires  ability to recognize problems, to find workable means for meeting those  problems, to gather and marshal pertinent information, to recognize  unstated assumptions and values, to comprehend and use language with  accuracy, clarity, and discrimination, to interpret data, to appraise  evidence and evaluate arguments, to recognize the existence (or  non-existence) of logical relationships between propositions, to draw  warranted conclusions and generalizations, to put to test the  conclusions and generalizations at which one arrives, to reconstruct  one's patterns of beliefs on the basis of wider experience, and to  render accurate judgments about specific things and qualities in  everyday life." In 1959, the sociologist C. Wright Mills offered the idea that adults would benefit from critical thinking in the form of a "sociological imagination'. He defines this as the capability to understand (using the methods above) biography, history and their intersection within a society. Mills offers three categories of questions that he feels must be asked to exercise the sociological imagination: 1) "What is the structure of this particular society as a whole? What are its essential components, and how are they related to one another? How does it differ from other varieties of social order? Within it, what is the meaning of any particular feature for its continuance and for its change? 2) Where does this society stand in human history? What are the mechanics by which it is changing? What is its place within and its meaning for the development of humanity as a whole? How does any particular feature we are examining affect, and how is it affected by, the historical period in which it moves? How does it differ from other periods? What are its characteristic ways of history making? 3) What varieties of men and women now prevail in this society and this period? And what varieties are coming to prevail? In what ways are they selected and formed, liberated and repressed, made sensitive and blunted? What kinds of 'human nature' are revealed in the conduct and character we observe in this society in this period? And what is the meaning for 'human nature' of each and every feature of the society we are examining?" Based on these two texts, it would seem that adults can get better at critical thinking by wanting to do so and by ensuring they understand the principles of logical inquiry and reasoning, then applying these attributes to answering the questions outlined by Mills. Answering the first category of questions means becoming aware of the characteristics that define societies and cultures, the second category of questions means becoming aware of history and its relation to the present, and the third means becoming aware of psychology, the intersection of psychology and culture on personality, and the 'fit' of various personality types within society. 