What are some good ideas for interesting physics-related simulations to code as a side project?
TOY MODELS FOR FUN AND PROFIT This is an interesting question!-so thanks to Andrew for A2A! Toy "DIY"models,that you can play and study with by hand or by simple computations,have had enormous impact in physics and in all areas of  science (natural and social).The reason is simple-one can iterate quickly and learn from the results.One can get a IDEA,not just a number. Examples include : The classic Ising Model (discussed by Inna Vishik) of interacting spins ,used to illustrate magnetism. Self-avoiding chain-on-lattice  models (which contributed to  P.Flory's and P.G.deGennes'  Nobels in Chemistry and Physics) of polymer structure  which were later extended to protein folding (discussed by Sai Janani Ganesan), The Lorenz Model  of interacting modes in convection,which gave birth to the study of strange attractors (see above). The Lorenz model was just   three interacting modes amplitudes! And speaking of nonlinear dynamics,a host of simple discrete map     models,most notably, the famous  logistic map-which M. Feigenbaum  used to study universality in bifurcations in 1D nonlinear  maps. BTW- Feigenbaum did his ground-breaking computations on a programmable hand calculator ! In that spirit,at APS Centennial Conference in 1999,Feigenbaum,shown below,commented during his lecture  : "Without simple models,you don't get anything out of  ( large scale) numerical simulation". Truer words were never spoken. Below,I discuss a few more possibilities.These are all of the general theme of "macroscopic emergence from simple microscopic rules".  A.  Schelling Segregation Model / Phase Separation In 1971,Thomas Schelling proposed a simple model of segregation-ie how slight preferences for neighbors of a particular type can result in the emergence of  macroscopically segregated neighborhoods.The model,which later contributed to a Nobel (in Economics) for Schelling ,is also meaningful as a venue in which  to study phase separation (and spinodal decomposition) phenomena,and thus qualifies as relevant to physics,too.Its a classic paradigm of pattern formation! The idea is simple-consider coins or pieces of two different color located randomly on the vertices of chessboard.Each piece can have up to eight different nearest neighbors.If a piece has more than j neighbors of the opposite color,it must move to another site,chosen at random,as shown below.Of course,j is a parameter of the model and can be set according to preference.The value of j is ,in some sense,a measure of an individual's discomfort with members of the other race. Very quickly,one observes  evolution of the form: or:  Interestingly, in the limit of zero-tolerance (ie piece moves if ANY neighbors of the opposite color), a stationary,well-segregated  state does not form, as it is impossible to maintain stable boundaries between domains of different color! Thus,one of the interesting findings from Schelling's model is that there is no simple relation between individual preferences and macroscopic patterns. A quite modest imbalance in individual preferences can result is very strong macroscopic segregation. BTW-the story has it  that Schelling invented this model while moving pennies and nickels on a hand-drawn grid during a trans-continental plane ride Its a genuine DIY model! The Schelling model is well studied ,but one  can still profitably experiment with it . The model is described here: Thomas Schelling and here:  The Schelling Model of Ethnic Residential Dynamics It is implemented here: Wolfram Demonstrations Project and here:     Schelling's segregation model Its described in a free  lectures by Scott Page on Coursera here:  Schelling BTW-this course,"Model Thinking" ,is great! I took it myself and enjoyed it. The original paper ,well worth reading,is available free here:http://www.stat.berkeley.edu/~al... Schelling's classic book,quite readable, is:  Amazon.com: Micromotives and Macrobehavior eBook: Thomas C. Schelling: Kindle Store Some suggestions for further study are: Scan j, and note the impact macroscopic domain size. Explore the impact of system shape,connectedness , and boundary conditions on segregation patters. Extend the interaction rules beyond nearest neighbor. Try  formulating the rule in terms of the net imbalance within a  local cell of variable size, centered on the site. How does interaction range affect segregation? Try adiabatically evolving the interaction rules in time,to mimic changing attitudes? How do the macroscopics evolve relative to the change in micro-rules? Try a big study where different rules apply to different parts of the system. What happens at the fault lines ,where different  the domains of different rules meet. This mock might mock- up neighborhood boundaries. How does the system respond to sources-ie immigration? What happens? B. Sand Pile-The Prototype of Self Organized Criticality Another classic simple model -ideal for DIY experimentation- is that of the sand pile,proposed as a paradigm of self-organized criticality (SOC)  by Bak,Tang and Weisenfeld, in their heavily cited paper of 1987   Self-organized criticality: An explanation of the 1/f noise,which has more than 6000 citations (NB-this is a HUGE number for theoretical physics,especially for a topic other then  high energy physics....:) ! ). Loosely put,the theory of SOC is concerned with dynamical systems which have a critical point as an attractor and which exhibit self-similarity close to that critical point. What distinguishes SOC from usual critical phenomena is that the former is self-tuning,and does not require precise control of an external parameter,like an external magnetic field or temperature to align the elements of the system. SOC is introduced here Self-organized criticality-note the many references therin-and is discussed in general terms in Per Bak's popular book :How Nature Works: the science of self-organized criticality: Per Bak: 9780387987385: Amazon.com: Books .  Notice that SOC has been applied to a huge number of problems and systems,in physical,biological and social sciences.Its particularly useful for understanding the nonlinear dynamics of systems with gradient drive and thresholds. A more advanced discussion,for serious customers ,is available in Jensen's book :   Self-Organized Criticality: Emergent Complex Behavior in Physical and Biological Systems (Cambridge Lecture Notes in Physics): Professor Henrik Jeldtoft Jensen: 9780521483711: Amazon.com: Books    This includes some programs for playing with piles in your own. SOC is also discussed in  in Leo Kadanoff's excellent text on statistical mechanics :   http: //www.amazon.com/Statistical-Physics-Statics-Dynamics-Renormalization/dp/9810237642/ref=sr_1_sc_1?ie=UTF8&qid=1416650852&sr=8-1-spell&k . The sand pile ,1D,is used to study SOC phenomena by following the evolution of the slope of a pile divided into adjacent sites ,which "topple",one into the other,if the some set local difference between them is exceeded. Grains are ejected at one boundary,and injected by random sprinkling with a given distribution  and at a given rate.Thus,the set-up is: with toppling rule: and so  the evolving system might look like (in the case of a physical pile): and in the case of  a rice pile : The word "criticality" points the way toward scale invariant phenomena-in this case avalanches,which are one intensely studied aspect of sand pile SOC phenomena.Avalanches are extended ,correlated but stochastic  chains of toppling.A key question is the distribution of avalanche sizes and time scales-indeed in sand pile SOCs is driven to a large extent by the desire to quantify this distribution. Notably,the 1/f  frequency scaling so often observed in nature is recovered:   The number of  avalanche events scales inversely with their size-fortunately for us when "avalanches" represent earthquakes-one application area for SOC models. SOC sand pile models have been studied extensively,but there is still plenty of room for further work,especially in the context of more detailed models motivated by specific physical systems. A personal favorite (apologies for self-promotion here) of mine is a rather recent  application to fusion plasma physics,which illustrates how useful and relevant SOC models can be see: On the mechanism for edge localized mode mitigation by supersonic molecular beam injection . In this vein,one active area of SOC research is in avalanche prediction and  control-ie how can large avalanches be forecast and prevented or mitigated? And  recently,avalanche models are finding application to neuroscience :  Sand Pile Model of the Mind Grows in Popularity. To get started: A  sandpile applet can be found here:Sergei Maslov: Sandpile applet A mathlab starter is here :sandpile - File Exchange - MATLAB Central Some things to try include: Try varying toppling threshold and number of grains toppled. Try increasing the range of toppling and the distribution-how do profiles change? Put an envelope on the grain input distribution. Put a time step delay on toppling-real systems have memory and inertia,  after all.  NB: This point has been ignored in nearly all SOC pile models! Try a bi-stable toppling rule.What happens? Add ambient diffusion,as well as gradient driven toppling. How does a finite toppling range-a SCALE-influence the avalanche   distribution? What can you do to eliminate,or weaken,large avalanches? Of course,dont change total deposition of the toppling threshold,but what else might you come up with ? Hint:explore deposition! Journey into higher dimensions. Finally,I cant resist noting that our question-asker here employed a SOC  pile style  cellular automata model  to predict the onset of jams in of traffic flow-see :  What information is needed to construct a simple model to predict formation of traffic jams?  for an excellent and substantive answer . So-go out and invent a CA sandpile model application of your own! C. Other Topics There are a host of other ideas to suggest,but this answer is already too long! Hence ,I'll just  list a few more topics-interested readers should ask (as a question) for more detailed discussions of each of them.I'll offer specific suggestions in each case.I believe this to be an important part of the answer. 1. Shell Models of Turbulence and Nonlinear Waves. See:  SHELL MODELS OF ENERGY CASCADE IN TURBULENCE   and 2.7 Shell models for turbulence cascade for an introduction. Here the trick is to replace the  full dynamical system (ie the Navier-Stokes equations)  with  a bunch of coupled evolution  equations for band amplitudes .You can explore turbulent  cascades and other interesting phenomena in a host of relevant models of important systems.This topic ,while well appreciated,has not been as intensively studied as SOC and the  Schelling model but is important.Shell models are an active area of current research. 2.Synchronization Phenomena-Kuramoto Model,and Beyond See: Synchronization and  Amazon.com: Sync: How Order Emerges From Chaos In the Universe, Nature, and Daily Life (9780786887217): Steven H. Strogatz: Books for a basic introduction.See  The Kuramoto model: A simple paradigm for synchronization phenomena for an advanced review of models Describing how independent agents get in synch is a deep question,with applications to the patterns,the origins of biological timing,and social dynamics. The famous,and relatively simple, Kuramoto model provides a basic framework with which to attack the Page on question.so here the trick is to develop relatively simple extensions and variants of the Kuramoto model and study the dynamics and robustness of synchronization. This is another classic problem in pattern formation and emergence,and a topic of intense interest. D.Two Other Thoughts -Those interested in outreach and teaching might consider developing apps and web sites for interested,motivated high school students.The   concepts     and ideas are well within their grasp,even if the more     mathematical and  theoretical elements are not.Education should catch   up with science! -MOST IMPORTANT: The best idea I can offer to prospective users of   simple models is this-no one ever became famous by playing with the other guy's model!! Ignore this,and all other answers to this   question.Go out and build and analyze your own simple model of an  interesting phenomenon.Publish your own paper on YOUR   model! Image Credits: Google and Amazon 