★Where can I find a C code to translate a physical address to a logical one?I do have page size and page table for reference?
Whether you even have access to physical-logical addresses' mappings will depend on the operating system you are running (and then, what privileges you've granted to the user-group for your application). So your first task is to determine how your operating system allocates and provides access to physical memory for application-space. Modern operating systems employ a relatively small core kernel and a set of modules that can be dynamically linked-in. Para-virtualization is another variation on the theme of privilege separation in which an environment is provided for the guest program that is similar to its native OS. See, for example, the Solaris structure, as shown in the figure above. Windows prevents unauthorized access to sensitive areas of a user's system by limiting a process to accessing virtual memory that has been allocated to it. This prevents a bug (or malicious code) within a process from affecting other processes, or the operating system itself, and instead results in a segmentation fault or storage violation exception being sent to the offending process, generally causing abnormal termination (killing the process). Memory protection for computer security includes additional techniques such as address space layout randomization and executable space protection. Moreover, Windows NT 6.0 introduced a further protection called User Interface Privilege Isolation (UIPI) to combat shatter attack exploits. By making use of Mandatory Integrity Control, it prevents processes with a lower "integrity level" (IL) from sending messages to higher IL processes (except for a very specific set of UI messages). Window messages are designed to communicate user action to processes; however they can be used to run arbitrary code in the receiving process' context. This can be used by a malicious low IL process to run arbitrary code in the context of a higher IL process, which constitutes an unauthorized privilege escalation. By restricting access to some vectors for code execution and data injection, UIPI can mitigate these kinds of attacks.    Embed Quote