Solvers and scripting (programming) languages[edit]
Permissive licenses:

Name	License	Brief info
Pyomo	BSD	An open-source modeling language for large-scale linear, mixed integer and nonlinear optimization
Copyleft (reciprocal) licenses:

Name	License	Brief info
Cassowary constraint solver	LGPL	an incremental constraint solving toolkit that efficiently solves systems of linear equalities and inequalities
CLP	CPL	an LP solver from COIN-OR
glpk	GPL	GNU Linear Programming Kit, an LP/MILP solver with a native C API and numerous (15) third-party wrappers for other languages. Specialist support for flow networks. Bundles the AMPL-like GNU MathProg modelling language and translator.
Qoca	GPL	a library for incrementally solving systems of linear equations with various goal functions
QSopt-Exact	GPL	a C-based solver library using GNU MP. [21]
R-Project	GPL	a programming language and software environment for statistical computing and graphics
MINTO (Mixed Integer Optimizer, an integer programming solver which uses branch and bound algorithm) has publicly available source code[22] but is not open source.

Proprietary licenses:

Name	Brief info
AIMMS	
AMPL	A popular modeling language for large-scale linear, mixed integer and nonlinear optimisation with a free student limited version available (500 variables and 500 constraints).
APMonitor	API to MATLAB and Python. Solve example Linear Programming (LP) problems through MATLAB, Python, or a web-interface.
CPLEX	Popular solver with an API for several programming languages, and also has a modelling language and works with AIMMS, AMPL, GAMS, MPL, OpenOpt, OPL Development Studio, and TOMLAB. Free for academic use.
Excel Solver Function	A nonlinear solver adjusted to spreadsheets in which function evaluations are based on the recalculating cells. Basic version available as a standard add-on for Excel.
FortMP	
GAMS	
Gurobi	Solver with parallel algorithms for large-scale linear programs, quadratic programs and mixed-integer programs. Free for academic use.
IMSL Numerical Libraries	Collections of math and statistical algorithms available in C/C++, Fortran, Java and C#/.NET. Optimization routines in the IMSL Libraries include unconstrained, linearly and nonlinearly constrained minimizations, and linear programming algorithms.
LINDO	Solver with an API for large scale optimization of linear, integer, quadratic, conic and general nonlinear programs with stochastic programming extensions. It offers a global optimization procedure for finding guaranteed globally optimal solution to general nonlinear programs with continuous and discrete variables. It also has a statistical sampling API to integrate Monte-Carlo simulations into an optimization framework. It has an algebraic modeling language (LINGO) and allows modeling within a spreadsheet (What'sBest).
Maple	A general-purpose programming-language for symbolic and numerical computing.
MATLAB	A general-purpose and matrix-oriented programming-language for numerical computing. Linear programming in MATLAB requires the Optimization Toolbox in addition to the base MATLAB product; available routines include INTLINPROG and LINPROG
Mathcad	A WYSIWYG math editor. It has functions for solving both linear and nonlinear optimization problems.
Mathematica	A general-purpose programming-language for mathematics, including symbolic and numerical capabilities.
MOSEK	A solver for large scale optimization with API for several languages (C++,java,.net, Matlab and python).
NAG Numerical Library	A collection of mathematical and statistical routines developed by the Numerical Algorithms Group for multiple programming languages (C, C++, Fortran, Visual Basic, Java and C#) and packages (MATLAB, Excel, R, LabVIEW). The Optimization chapter of the NAG Library includes routines for linear programming problems with both sparse and non-sparse linear constraint matrices, together with routines for the optimization of quadratic, nonlinear, sums of squares of linear or nonlinear functions with nonlinear, bounded or no constraints. The NAG Library has routines for both local and global optimization, and for continuous or integer problems.
NMath Stats	A general-purpose .NET statistical library containing a simplex solver.[23]
QSopt	A C-based floating-point solver offered as a callable library and command-line and UI executables. Binaries available for Windows, Mac OS and several UNIX flavors. Free for research purposes. Compatible with MPS and LP industry-standard formats.[24]
OptimJ	A Java-based modeling language for optimization with a free version available.[25][26]
SAS/OR	A suite of solvers for Linear, Integer, Nonlinear, Derivative-Free, Network, Combinatorial and Constraint Optimization; the Algebraic modeling language OPTMODEL; and a variety of vertical solutions aimed at specific problems/markets, all of which are fully integrated with the SAS System.
SCIP	A general-purpose constraint integer programming solver with an emphasis on MIP. Compatible with Zimpl modelling language. Free for academic use and available in source code.
XPRESS	Solver for large-scale linear programs, quadratic programs, general nonlinear and mixed-integer programs. Has API for several programming languages, also has a modelling language Mosel and works with AMPL, GAMS. Free for academic use.
VisSim	A visual block diagram language for simulation of dynamical systems.