Uses in various technologies[edit]
HTML[edit]
Tim Berners-Lee saw the possibility of using hyperlinks to link any information to any other information over the Internet. Hyperlinks were therefore integral to the creation of the World Wide Web. Web pages are written in the hypertext mark-up language HTML.

This is what a hyperlink to the home page of the W3C organization could look like in HTML code:

<a href="http://www.w3.org">W3C organization website</a>
This HTML code consists of several tags:

The hyperlink starts with an anchor opening tag <a, and includes a hyperlink reference href="http://www.w3.org" to the URL for the page. (Note that the URL is enclosed in quotes.)
The URL is followed by >, marking the end of the anchor opening tag.
The words that follow identify what is being linked; this is the only part of the code that is ordinarily visible on the screen when the page is rendered, but when the cursor hovers over the link many browsers will display the target URL somewhere on the screen, such as in the lower left-hand corner.
Typically these words are underlined and colored (for example, blue for a link that has not yet been visited and purple for a link already visited).
The anchor closing tag (</a>) terminates the hyperlink code.
Webgraph is a graph, formed from web pages as vertices and hyperlinks, as directed edges.

XLink: hyperlinks in XML[edit]
Main article: XLink
The W3C Recommendation called XLink describes hyperlinks that offer a far greater degree of functionality than those offered in HTML. These extended links can be multidirectional, linking from, within, and between XML documents. It can also describe simple links, which are unidirectional and therefore offer no more functionality than hyperlinks in HTML.

Wikis[edit]
Simple image demonstrating how internal MediaWiki links work (that is, the order of the link's parts) when you want to create a link which displays words different from the linked page's title: two opening square brackets, the ACTUAL link, a pipe character explained as the necessary divider, the words that are how I want it to APPEAR, and two closing square brackets.
How internal MediaWiki links work when you want to create a link which displays words different from the linked page's title.
While wikis may use HTML-type hyperlinks, the use of wiki markup, a set of lightweight markup languages specifically for wikis, provides simplified syntax for linking pages within wiki environments¡ªin other words, for creating wikilinks.

The syntax and appearance of wikilinks may vary. Ward Cunningham's original wiki software, the WikiWikiWeb used CamelCase for this purpose. CamelCase was also used in the early version of Wikipedia and is still used in some wikis, such as TiddlyWiki, Trac, and PMWiki. A common markup syntax is the use of double square brackets around the term to be wikilinked. For example, the input "[[zebras]]" will be converted by wiki software using this markup syntax to a link to a zebras article. Hyperlinks used in wikis are commonly classified as follows:

Internal wikilinks or intrawiki links lead to pages within the same wiki website.
Interwiki links are simplified markup hyperlinks that lead to pages of other wikis that are associated with the first.
External links lead to other webpages (those not covered in the above two cases, wiki or not wiki).
Wikilinks are visibly distinct from other text, and if an internal wikilink leads to a page that does not yet exist, it usually has a different specific visual appearance. For example, in Wikipedia wikilinks are displayed in blue, except those which link to pages which do not yet exist, which are instead shown in red.[3] Another possibility for linking is to display a highlighted clickable question mark after the wikilinked term.

Virtual worlds[edit]
Main article: Hyperlinks in virtual worlds
Hyperlinks are being implemented in various 3D virtual world networks, including those which utilize the OpenSimulator[4] and Open Cobalt[5] platforms.

Other document technologies[edit]
Hyperlinks are used in the Gopher protocol, text editors, PDF documents, help systems such as Windows Help, word processing documents, spreadsheets, Apple's HyperCard and many other places.