★Linear Algebra: Why is the dimension of a vector space well-defined?The dimension of a vector space is the number of vectors in any basis. But I can write down many different bases for a given vector space. How do I know that all such bases must have the same number of elements? (This question is part of my Technical Notes Project.)
I will stick to finite dimensions in this answer. Suppose you have two different bases for a vector space We want to show that , and a good way to do it is by contradiction. Assume that , then show that this violates some assumption. Since all we've said are that and are bases, the assumptions we have are These sets are independent. These sets span the space . Intuitively, since has more elements in it, then if is a basis, feels like it ought to break independence, assumption 1. It has too many vectors. The smaller basis shows that the dimension is . You can't fit more than vectors into a set without them being dependent in some way. That's the idea we want to show. My thought was to do this explicitly. Find a direct expression for a vector in in terms of the other ones, or at least describe a procedure for doing so. Perhaps this can be done by first writing out the elements of as combinations of , and pasting them together somehow. (It appears I'm not alone in thinking this way. It's exactly what Vardhan Thigle wrote. However, he decided not to carry it out.) This turned out to be hard for me when I tried it, and not as simple or primitive as I remember the proof being. So instead of thinking of as being a basis and showing that breaks independence, let's think about being a basis, and showing that can't span the space. The way we'll do this is, piece by piece, construct a basis that has all the elements of , plus some extra. If we can show that is a proper subset of some basis, then surely itself cannot span . To do this paste on the end of so we're looking at This set is no longer independent, since the entire point of being a basis is that we can write for some set of scalars . To be concrete, let's say What we'll do next is turn our oversized dependent set back into a basis by eliminating one of the . In this case we'll eliminate , so we take the set (Make sure that you drop one of the that has a non-zero coefficient in the equation for .) Is this set a basis? First we must assure ourselves that it's independent. cannot be written in terms of the remaining because there's a unique way to write any vector in a given basis. The unique way to write in terms of involved , and we dropped . Additionally, there is no way to write something like in terms of the other elements of . If there were, we'd have an equation like that can't happen, because if it did, we could take our equation for , plug it into the above, and show that is not independent of the rest of the . (Or, if you look closely, it could also wind up showing that the remaining are not independent when you leave out of things. Think about this some more if it's not clear. The consequence is the same - a violation of the assumption that is independent.) We've shown that our new set is independent. Does it still span ? Indeed it does. If , then We've lost , but if you go back to our equation for , we can rewrite as plugging that into the above, we can write in terms of . So we've created a new basis that contains a single element from and throws out one element from . Let's iterate. take and form the set Again this is now dependent. We throw out another element of (any element that is part of the expression for ), and by the same considerations we can show that this creates a new basis, now with two elements of and of . Do this over and over for every element of . It is easy to see that it will always work. Each new element of that we add on must have been made at least partially from some of the remaining , or else it would not be independent of the rest of . Each time we throw away one of those that go into making up the newly-appended element of , the new set spans the space and is independent for the same reasons as before. Ultimately, we get a set with all of along with elements of . This set is a basis for . Therefore, does not span because none of the remaining elements of can be created from . Assuming both and are bases, the original assumption that must be incorrect. Switching labels, the assumption is also wrong, so , and all bases have the same size. References:Axler, Sheldon. Linear Algebra Done Right 2nd ed Dimension theorem for vector spaces on Wikipedia.    Embed Quote