★What are some good analogies to explain vector space to a person who just knows the basic definition of a vector?
So this is my first long answer on Quora, but I think I'll give this one a shot. Also slightly offtopic since it's about vectors more generally rather than vector spaces, but I wanted to try giving an answer that's more intuitive than mathematical. Background: I like math, though I'm not very good at it. So, this is going to be a relatively simple explanation. I would argue that vectors translate the intuitive notion of direction into a statement about numbers, and vice versa. This allows us to do interesting things with situations that can be described by bundles of numbers, with no inherent sense of directionality, by imagining that the number bundles represent directions.(see footnote 1) 1. Physics!Much of math seems to come from physics, possibly since one of the first things people tried to do with numbers is describe how things move; so let's start here. Intuitively it's obvious when two things are moving in the same direction, and we can make statements about directions without using any numbers. Well, physics tells us to use numbers anyways, so let's try that - let's try to represent a direction as a bundle of numbers. How many numbers do we need to describe a direction? Turns out the answer is two or three, depending on whether we think about either a flat surface (2D) or moving through ground-less space (3D).(see footnote 2) For example, on a flat surface, I describe "Northeast" by saying "a mile north, a mile east". In 3D space I say "a mile north, a mile east and a mile upwards." Let's stay in 2D for now, and invent a terminology for our bundle of numbers. Let (a, b) means a miles north and b miles east. For example, using this terminology, (1,1) is northeast, (1,0) is north, (-1, 0) is south, and so on. This is our bundle of two numbers that represent a direction - an object we'll call a "vector." So, we now know how to describe directions using numbers. But is this a useful representation? In other words, do our standard intuitions about directions carry over to useful statements about these numbers? A simple first question to ask would be: if two directions are roughly the same, are there any interesting relationships between the vectors representing these directions? It turns out that two vectors are pointed in similar directions when the numbers that are big in one vector are also big in the other. This is pretty easy to verify - try this with the directions NE, SE, NW and SW, for example. NW and SE are opposed, and they are (1, -1) and (-1,1) respectively. NE and SE are not opposed and they are (1,1) and (-1,1) This statement is a happy surprise - at least to me - because it's not at all obvious given the way that we constructed our direction vectors. We might think quantifying to what degree two vectors are pointed in the same direction. If two numbers are both big, their product is big. But if one's big and one's small (or negative), their product is small (or negative). So why don't we measure construct a measure of how similar two vectors are by taking each number in the first bundle and multiplying it by its counterpart in the second, then adding all these pair products up? Voila - we just invented the famous dot product! Now the magic. We know: Two directions are similar implies the numbers that are big in one vector are also big in the other. But what if we flipped this around? If we have two number bundles where the numbers that are big in the first are also big in the second, these bundles are pointed in the same "direction." (????) In other words, suppose we have any object that can be described by a bunch of numbers; possibly many more than two or three. I am asking: can we imagine that these two objects - which could be anything - are in some sense pointing in a "direction," and using the same logic of big vs small components, we can measure whether two such objects are pointed in... (more)Loading...