★If I have a set of points in a vector space that I believe lie on a low dimensional manifold, what methods are useful for determining the dimensionality of that manifold?
EDIT 2 (5/18/11):  I've now also included a much simpler method that sometimes works; see the end of the answer. EDIT:  I've modified this post to give a local calculation instead of a global one. There's two ways to answer this, one way which you probably intend, and the other which is kind of stupid. Stupid Way: if you only have a finite set of points then it will always be contained in a 1-dimensional manifold. However, if the set of points you have is a billion points on a sphere, for instance, this clearly isn't what you are going for. Algebraic Topology Way:  Take a union of very small balls centered at each of your points.  How small is a very delicate question:  too small, and you'll get a disjoint union of balls; too large, and you won't capture the topology of the manifold correctly.  In general, the more points you have, the smaller you can afford to make the balls. If we want to know the dimension of the manifold near a given point, intersect this union of balls with some sphere centered at that point and large enough that the intersection of the balls with the sphere looks like a small neighborhood of the intersection of our manifold with the sphere. For instance, if our data set is close to lying on a one-dimensional curve, this sphere will meet the union of the balls in a pair of balls on the sphere.  If our data set is close to lying on a two-dimensional surface, the intersection with the sphere will be a neighborhood of a curve on the sphere, and so on. Now this union of balls on the sphere has the homotopy type of a compact manifold of dimension 1 smaller than the dimension of the manifold we're looking for.  The combinatorial data of how all the balls intersect inside the sphere should allow you to compute the homology groups of the union of the balls with Z/2Z coefficients.  But any compact manifold is Z/2Z-orientable, and by Poincare duality its dimension is the same as its highest index nontrivial homology group. I'm not sure how easy it would be to code this to carry it out in practice, but I'm sure somebody has a similar algorithm which accomplishes this. I should note that in the literature this technique is related to "Persistent Homology." Counting Points:  While this method is simple, it also relies somewhat on the quality of your data set.  Ideally for this method to work you have many, many sample points.  It would be even better if they are locally uniformly distributed on your manifold.  In some sense, the more your data set already "looks like" the approximating manifold, the better this method will work. Choose a point x where we would like to know the dimension of the approximating manifold, and suppose our data set lies in R^n.  Define a function on the positive reals by letting f(r) equal the number of points in the data set within a distance of r from x.  Now for r which is large enough to ignore the "fuzziness" in the data set and small enough to only measure the local nature of the manifold, we can measure the rate of growth of f.  Assuming the data set is sufficiently nice (ideally locally uniformly distributed), this function should grow like Cr^k for some integer k.  For instance, doubling r should result in scaling f(r) by a factor of about 2^k.  This number k is the dimension of the manifold.  Intuitively, the volume of the piece of the manifold that is cut out by a ball of twice the size is about 2^k times the volume of the piece cut out by the original ball.    Embed Quote