★Is the universe an example of vector space?
Here's a reason one might think that the universe might be a vector space. 3-space We typically model locations in the universe as having 3 coordinates.  In that model, each point in space has a coordinates (x,y,z) where the three coordinates are real numbers.  In such a model, the universe is modeled by the vector space Of course we recognize that some conventions have to be made in order for this model to work.  In particular, the location for the origin (0,0,0) has to be chosen.  Also, we need to agree on which directions correspond to the first coordinate, the second coordinate, and the third coordinate, also, what units of distance to choose so we know where (1,0,0) is to be located.  These conventions aren't particularly important since we can perform a transformation to select a different origin and the all the rest. 4-space Next, we've left out time.  That could be a fourth coordinate, and a specific unit of time is necessary to pin that down.  Since Einstein's special theory of relativity, we know there's an unexpected interaction between that fourth dimension and the other three, but that's now understood. So at this point, we've got a model of space-time as the vector space  That only works as an approximation Einstein's general theory of relativity says that gravity interacts with space.  So a better model doesn't just take but some more complicated 4-dimensional manifold that takes into consideration gravity and the locations of masses in that manifold. Quantum theory requires modifications as well. It's only local The models we've considered assume what's happening here locally (i.e., in the nearby part of the universe) also happens globally.  That's not necessarily the case.  A manifold (i.e. analogue of a surface but in arbitrary dimension) need not be Euclidean.  If it is, then you can use the vector space as a good model, but if not, then you have to consider other models.  For example the ordinary sphere (the surface of an ordinary ball in ) is locally a Euclidean plane, but globally it's not a plane.  Our physical universe is locally (considering just the spatial dimensions) or  (considering time and spatial dimensions), but globally there are many other possibilities. It may be the the universe is Euclidean, but cosmologists tend to think that the universe is elliptic (or perhaps hyperbolic), in which case it's not best modeled as a vector space.    Embed Quote