★Mathematics: Is a topology and a vector space somehow related?Their definitions sound very similar- while one is defined in terms of vectors (their sums and product with constants), the other in terms of arbitrary unions and intersections. While one should contain the empty set and the whole set the topology is specified one, the other should contain the zero vector. Is it possible to also point out what their differences is, if they are not that related?
I'm a little confused about the "very similar" part of the question. As you say, a vector space is defined as a set with operations of addition and scalar multiplication satisfying various axioms, and a topological space is defined as a set with a distinguished class of subsets called open sets satisfying various axioms. Other than the "satisfying various axioms" part which is shared by pretty much any mathematical structure, I fail to see the similarity here. I can't see any way in which these two concepts are meaningfully "related". There are important objects called topological vector spaces which carry both structures and satisfy further continuity axioms, but I don't think this is what you mean by "related". Vector spaces are seemingly similar to modules, for example. The definitions of these two structures are indeed very much the same, except that for modules the scalars belong to a ring rather than a field. I would agree that vector spaces and modules are "related", although it turns out that the change of structure of the scalars makes quite a huge difference, and modules are very different beasts from vector spaces. Similarly, the definition of a topological space is superficially similar to the definition of a -algebra. The open sets in a topological space are closed under unions and finite intersections; the sets of a -algebra are closed under countable unions, countable intersections and taking complements. This looks somewhat similar but, once again, these "minor" changes to the axioms bring about rather huge differences in the outcomes.    Embed Quote