★What is the significance of a basis of a vector space?It is an independent subset of the vector space that spans the vector space. How this can be visualized physically or what are some different angles to see at a basis of a vector space.
Say there's some linear map from, maybe, to . Call this linear map . If I tell you that L(1, 0, 0) = (2, 9, 0, 8), L(0, 1, 0) = (1, 3, 3, 3), L(0, 0, 1) = (0, 1, 1, 0), then you have enough information to determine what is for all input vectors. The general rule is: L(x, y, z) = (2x + y, 9x + 3y + z, 3y + z, 8x + 3y). The reason why you would be able to deduce exactly what is is that I gave you the values of for a basis of the domain. If I had only given you the first two pieces of information, you wouldn't be able to figure out what is. The first two input vectors, and are linearly independent, but they don't span the domain. Therefore, giving you the values on a set that is linearly independent but not spanning is giving you too little information. If I had given you the values of on a spanning set that wasn't linearly independent, it would be possible for me to give you inconsistent information. For example, in addition to the three pieces of information above, I could also say, . In this case, there would be no linear map that would satisfy all four conditions. Therefore, giving you the values on a set that is spanning but linearly dependent is giving you too much information. When I give you the values on a basis, which is both linearly independent and spanning, you have exactly the right amount of information. You can reconstruct unambiguously and there is no chance of the information being inconsistent. In general, if and are vector spaces, is a linear map, and is given for each where , then, if is a basis for , there will be exactly one map that satisfies the given information. This is the crucial property that allows linear maps to be put into one-to-one correspondence with matrices, and matrices are tremendously important in science and engineering precisely for their ability to represent linear maps (maybe not so much in pure mathematics). Once you choose a basis for both the domain and the codomain, to write down the matrix, all you do is evaluate the linear map for each basis vector in the domain, and write down the result in terms of the basis for the codomain; the list of coordinates then becomes one column of the matrix. You can always write down one unique matrix this way, since there's exactly one way to express the image of each domain basis vector as a linear combination of the codomain basis vectors; and each such matrix always corresponds to a unique linear map, because of the property elaborated in the preceding paragraphs: all the matrix is doing is specifying the value of the linear map for each domain basis vector.    Embed Quote