★What is the significance of a basis of a vector space?It is an independent subset of the vector space that spans the vector space. How this can be visualized physically or what are some different angles to see at a basis of a vector space.
Every vector has a magnitude and a direction. Magnitudes and directions are easy to visualize as actual directions in ordinary space. But vector spaces are not confined to only 3 dimensions. We can generalize them to any dimension.For simplicity let us start from a 3 dimensional case . To describe a 3 d vector we can say "go x units in the +x direction, y units in the +y direction and z units in the + z direction if you want to reach the destination point." The amazing thing is that we can reach every possible destination by specifying only these three numbers (x,y,z). Now someone might say why stop at 3? Why not use 4 directions? The thing is that 3 is the smallest number of directions that can describe all points in our 3d space. 2 is too few and the 4th one is redundant as we can describe the fourth direction as a combination of the other three directions. Thus we say that we have 3 basis vectors (directions)  which span (i.e. can describe every point) a 3 dimensional vector space. ( This is no coincidence as the word  dimension itself is the total number of directions required or the cardinality of the set of basis vectors) Now we have made a crucial assumption here. The assumption is that the 3 directions that we used are themselves independent of each other. For example N and E are independent directions but N and N-E arent. Saying, " go 1.41 units in the N-E direction and 1 unit in the N" can be broken down to, " go 2 units towards N and 1 unit towards E. From the above example we may conclude that in order to be mutually independent, the directions should be at right angles to each other. But this simple test cannot work for higher dimensions where the definition of an angle itself needs upgradation. Enter , the dot product which has been nicely described by Nabarun Mondal.    Embed Quote