What are some interesting properties number 6 has?Please avoid the "it's a perfect number". Thank you :)
Being a rather small number, it isn't hard to find all kinds of properties which 6 is the first number to have. It's more challenging to find naturally-defined properties which 6 is the only number to have. Here's one. The symmetric group S n   is the set of permutations of n  objects. It has n!  elements. For example, S 3   is the set of permutations of three letters A, B, C, and its six elements can be described as "do nothing", "swap A, B", "swap B, C", "swap A, C", "A->B->C->A" and "C->B->A->C". Groups themselves have symmetries. When studying a group G  , it's natural to wonder what are the sets of permutations of elements of G  which keep the group law intact. For example, we may wonder about the symmetries of S n   . Don't get confused: we're exploring the set of symmetries of a set of permutations. Among those symmetries, the simplest ones in any group are the so-called inner automorphisms, which are defined like this: pick any element g  of your group, and then permute the elements of the group by sending x  to g −1 xg  . Remember that multiplication isn't generally commutative, so this expression usually maps x  to something other than x  . It turns out that the symmetries of the symmetric group S n   are all inner automorphisms... ...except when n=6  . Yes, this is the only exception. The symmetric group on 6 elements is the only symmetric group to afford a symmetry that is not conjugation by a fixed element. There is no really quick way to construct such a symmetry of S 6   , but the quickest I know is this: there are six ways to color the edges of K 5   (the complete graph on 5 vertices) in 2 colors such that each color class is a cycle. The group S 5   naturally acts on this set of colorings by permuting the vertices, so we get a "surprising" inclusion S 5 →S 6   (it's not hard to verify that it is an inclusion). Now S 6   acts on the six cosets of this copy of S 5   inside S 6   , and this action gives the desired outer automorphism. (Note: I suspect, but am not absolutely sure, that the nontrivial endofunctor mentioned in Sridhar Ramesh's answer is the same thing). 