What are some of the most ridiculous proofs in mathematics?Especially for easier concepts.
A tournament on n vertices is a directed complete graph on n vertices.  This means that between each pair of vertices there is a unique directed edge.  A picture is better than any explanation I can give: Some tournaments on 4 or fewer vertices. (Credit: Wolfram MathWorld) An automorphism of a tournament is a permutation of the vertices which preserves the edge ordering.  The automorphism group is the set of all automorphisms, together with the natural composition as a group operation. Theorem. The automorphism group of a tournament is a solvable group. Proof.  A tournament cannot have an automorphism of order 2, for if f:G→G  is an order 2 automorphism and f(v)≠v  then either v→f(v)  or f(v)→v  is a directed edge.  Supposing we are in the first case, we conclude by applying f  that f(v)→v  is also a directed edge, contradicting the fact that the graph is a tournament.  By Cauchy's theorem, the order of the automorphism group cannot be even; otherwise it would have to have an element of order 2.  Thus the order is odd, and the Feit-Thompson theorem implies the group is solvable.  QED. The Feit-Thompson theorem is a very difficult result from group theory, so this feels like "cheating."  However, in a precise sense you need the Feit-Thompson theorem to prove this result. Theorem. Any group G  of odd order is a subgroup of the automorphism group of a tournament.  In particular, since a subgroup of a solvable group is solvable, the statement that the automorphism group of any tournament is solvable implies the Feit-Thompson theorem. Proof.  Observe that if G  has odd order then the only element g∈G  which satisfies g=g −1   is the identity.  Indeed, we have g 2 =e  , so g  is either the identity or it has order 2; the latter possibility contradicts Lagrange's theorem since G  has odd order. Now we construct a tournament as follows.  Let V=G  be the set of elements of G  .  We construct a subset S⊂G  as follows.  For each nonidentity element g∈G  , we put exactly one of g  or g −1   into S  arbitrarily. Given two distinct vertices g,h∈V  , we must now specify whether the edge between g  and h  is directed as g→h  or h→g  .  Observe that g −1 h  is not the identity; either it is in S  or it isn't.  We orient the edge as g→h  if and only if g −1 h∈S  . The edge between g  and h  is given a unique orientation in this way, and gives us a tournament T  . Claim.  G  acts by automorphisms on T  . In fact, for g∈G  and h∈V  we define g.h=gh  , where the multiplication on the left is the group action and the multiplication on the right is multiplication in the group.  We just need to check that this action preserves the edge orientation.  Suppose h 1 →h 2   is an oriented edge, so that h −1 1 h 2 ∈S  .  Then we need to see that gh 1 →gh 2   in the tournament.  But this holds if and only if h −1 1 g −1 gh 2 =h −1 1 h 2 ∈S  . We conclude that the action of G  preserves the orientation of the edges.  This gives the required embedding G⊂Aut(T)  . Updated 3 Aug 2014 • View Upvotes