What are some of the best mathematical games or puzzles you invented?I asked a similar question over here: Which mathematical game or puzzle did you invent? , but I didn't get any responses. I was wondering whether you invented a mathematical game or puzzle, but never published for some reason.
My specialty is in creating interesting and randomly generated variations on pre-existing hand-held puzzles to be played on a computer. These are all based on a simple 9-card puzzle I had as a kid (60's) that you had to put in a 3x3 grid with all sides matching. Often sold in nature stores now, you can find versions of it in either a triangle or square shapes and usually pictures of frogs like the one below. All the pictures above are variations on that one simple theme. In addition to wanting to create randomly generated versions, my puzzles are fairly easily ramped in difficulty by dependence on certain parameters (some obvious like size of grid, some more subtle like allowing duplicates within a tile). In addition to this, for most of my computer generated puzzles, I try to add an element that would be difficult or near impossible to do in a physical versin of the puzzle. For instance, I have a game called Fitris. That is a fairly straight-forward variation on the Polynominoes puzzles. But I added a twist that would be very difficult to do in the physical world. You could use wires to connect the disjoint pieces, but it would be cumbersome at best. I have created several unique puzzles in the computer space that would qualify as being original (and maybe invented fits there). These puzzles aren't randomly generated but I've created over 25 variations in each version, although they all share a similar characteristic. 1. There is a "solved" state that is obvious. 2. You play with the puzzle to discover the rules, and then you use the rules to solve the puzzle. 3. For every variation only the rules change. The Clock, #15 and Lights-Out are examples of this. In the Clock, the player must reset the 12 numbered discs into their proper order on the face of a clock. In #15, the player has to reset the 15 numbered discs into their proper order in a 4x4 grid. In Lights-Out the player has to turn all 25 lights off at the same time. These are all semi-original. The difficult variations are definitely original, with some of the easier levels sometimes existing elsewhere. (For instance, in #15, one of the puzzles is the original Sam Loyd hand-held version - (The Rubik's Cube of the   19th Century)). Lastly I have two puzzles that would classify as original and created by me. The first one is called Noah's Arc and you have to go from Noah to the Arc and you can only use each animal once. The second one called Rack'Em is a puzzle where for each set of 3 balls you can only move two of them...to make a 3-ball straight line (like the 9s and the 1s on the right side). A move is just clicking on a ball...and then moving it in a straight-one (on a clear path) to it's destination. This is probably my most original creation. (and I have no idea what inspired it). Before I digress to my last little story, one other thing that the computer version of a pre-existing puzzle can do is it can remove the tedium by having it's interface automatically do some of the possibly more monotonous aspects of a puzzle. (In Noah's Arc for instance, as soon as you include an animal...it brightens that one...and darkends (and locks-out) all the other animals of that type. In a paper/pencil version, you'd have to be searching and blacking-out the unused pieces of the path. Last little story. I created a game called "Recon" a Logical Battleships game that generates puzzles that can be played with pencil and paper (like the ones you can find in Games Magazine). I wrote to the guy who created those puzzles for the magazine and he told me that randomly generated puzzles wouldn't be as good as his hand-crafted ones. I let him play my Recon game and he was exceptionally nice as he told me that he was in fact wrong...and that he loved playing my randomly generated puzzles, that they worked just as well as the hand-crafted ones (including my ability to rank them in difficulty (6 different levels of difficult just like he provided in the magazine)). In fact, I went on to submit some of my favorite variations and Games Magazine published them a few times. All of the puzzles I've mentioned here can be found online with a little searching. (Don't know if I'm allowed to post my Puzzles By Joe link). Thanks for listening, hope I at least partially answered this question. 