What is the most esoteric programming language that you have tried?How did you learn about that programming language? What made you try programming using that language? Did you like programming using that language? Describe your experience.
The most esoteric language I ever used was Prolog. It is a non-prescriptive language written in implications. It twists the mind a bit. I wrote a small real-world application to test Prolog for use in our programming group. I decided it was not worth learning. I think I ended up using EMACS Lisp for the application, not sure. The most esoteric language I ever wrote was a working version of the Lambda Calculus (in 1970) that used only one symbol (a binary prefix operator) for two or three overloaded operator meanings, and letters of the alphabet as variables. In this language, you could use well-formed formulas to derive the axioms of Boolean algebra. Yes, the language was simpler than logic, so you could derive logic. But you couldn't derive addition, due to Gödelian Incompleteness. (A similar low-level logic diagram language was developed by George Spencer-Brown in his book, "The Laws of Form". He also derived Boolean algebra.) Examples: T=$x$yx  (True is defined as "for all x and for all y, return x") $$Tab (apply True to a and b, which would print "a") But I see from other answers that old languages are also allowed. So, my first programming language was assembly language for the LINC, LINC-8, and PDP-12 computers. I wrote a sort/merge database program in it, and a program that controlled and acquired data for a laboratory experiment in which bars of light were displayed to a cat and resulting visual cortex neural data was analyzed. Fairly simple, actually, yet esoteric today. When I went to job interviews, I would enter a two-instruction program that would display a waterfall (actually, a big parabola with animation supplied by round-off errors). I got jobs so easily in the late 1960s, when few people knew how to program. By 2000 it was impossible to find a job doing what I had done and I retired. 