Do you remember notes better when they are typed or hand written?
I came across a nice infographic covering this topic (see below), although I haven't looked up resources to back it up, you might find it useful. They conclude by saying that pen and paper helps you remember more, whereas typing gives you a greater quantity of notes. So it's a matter of trade-off between these two.  Although they don't really elaborate on the reason why writing words down enhances remembering, it is mentioned that different brain regions are more involved as compared to typing. I would like to add some more hypotheses based on this infograph with regard to why writing could be more beneficial, although I want to emphasize that this depends on your note taking or typing style as well, and maybe most of all how you "actively" listen to the lecture, process information (filtering out relevant versus irrelevant information) and structure the information flow in your written or typed notes. Speed of typing is higher than speed of writing. This means a lot more information is processed in a limited time and it can be harder to structure all this information (or you might be typing everything as a robot without really processing the information). Due to the speed of this information flow, information won't be processed that elaborately as compared to when you slow down and focus on the most relevant information. When you have to write things down, due to this lack of speed, you are forced to filter out the most relevant information and process it more elaborately to capture the important things that are being said. Most people can type blind, but can't write blind. When writing things down they are more aware of what they write, due to the visual input from reading words while writing, as well as a more specific "motor signature" (when writing a "d", this is accomplished differently than writing another letter, although typing also has a motor signature as expressed by different finger movements and temporal spacing, e.g. longer interval between words than within words, I think this motoric signature conveys less information than the one obtained by writing things down). When typing I think many people tend to think 3-4-5... letters (and symbols) ahead, while when writing you don't really process individual letters, but work more on a word by word base. Finally there's the context of learning versus the context of recall. Context dependent memory refers to "improved recall of specific episodes or information when the context present at encoding and retrieval are the same" (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Con...). Although this mostly refers to "environmental or state related characteristics" (e.g. learning something when under the influence of caffeine, learning something in the same room as where you have your examination...), this might also apply to the act of writing in itself. Thus when you have a written exam, you might benefit from writing things down, as the written exam will employ the same modalities you used during the encoding phase (another example of context where "typing" is beneficial, sometimes I don't remember the login code for my cellphone, but I do remember the spatial position/motor signature of the code I use) I would like to add that there are also graphical tablets you can use for note taking. This has the advantages that you can combine the benefits of having a computer at hand (so you can add interactive content like photographs or weblinks to your notes) and the benefits of "writing" things down. This is just a part of the infograph; for the complete graph click the following link http://www.coursehero.com/blog/2... Updated 27 Jan 2012 • View Upvotes