What are some of the most ridiculous proofs in mathematics?Especially for easier concepts.
Africa and America are not connected This is not my own proof.  It's Carl E. Linderholm's proof on page 169 of his 1971 book entitled Mathematics Made Difficult in his section on topology.  You can't beat Linderholm for ridiculous proofs. Nevertheless, he includes a lot of serious mathematics in his book. The question: Whether is Africa connected to America? I summarize his proof that they aren't connected.  His entire discussion is worth reading, and you can find his book Mathematics Made Difficult on reddit /r/math I answer that Africa and America are not connected.  We may safely take the surface of the earth is a sphere S 2 .  ... Now it is well known that neither the north pole ν  nor the south pole σ  lies in America nor Africa.  Include the punctured sphere S 2 −{ν,σ}  as the unit sphere in R 3   ; circumscribe about it a cylinder  S 1 ×(−1,1)⊆R 2 ×R=R 3 ,  which has the line through ν=(0,0,1)  and σ=(0,0,−1)  as its axis, and project the punctured sphere outward from the axis on the cylinder.  ... Now identify the punctured sphere with the cylinder.  Choose points γ  = Porto Praia in the islands of Santiago, of the Capverdian chain, and α  = Abkit or Anadyr (take your choice).  Then if α 1 ,α 2 ,γ 1 ,γ 2   are points a little east and west of α,γ,  and if the projection on S 1   sends these to a 1 ,a 2 ,c 1 ,c 2 ,  a continuous function                                                 S 1 →[0,1]  exists sending                                                  a 1 ↦0                                                   a 2 ↦1                                                   c 1 ↦1                                                   c 2 ↦0  and taking values that depend linearly on arc length over any interval not containing any of these four points. ... This fact is not difficult to get, and can be obtained by noting that S 1   is [0,1]  with 0  and 1  identified.  It may be taken as a fact of geography that by the composition of                          S 2 −{ν,σ}→S 1 ×(−1,1)→S 1 →[0,1]  we have sent all of Africa to 0  and all of America to 1.    Restricting to Africa ∪  America and corestricting to {0,1},  we have a surjection. Thus Africa is not connected to America. Here are γ  and α  