What are the uses of tree data structure?
Plain tree data structure will not help much.Its a conceptual way how you can save data and retrieve it in less time.If plain tree is associated with certain constraints ,it will be quite useful.Lets take them one by one. BST:The left child key value will be less than the root and right key value will be greater than the root key  value .It is not quite useful when the data size as it may lead to creation of skew trees.That will again leads to O(n)  search complexity . So cope up with this. BST datastructures is improved by implenting height balanced trees.There are AVL trees,red black trees AVL trees: AVL trees provides you with guaranteed O(logn) complexity for searching But this data structure is little costly in rotations when inserting or deleting new elements . so,there we have Red Black trees. RED BLACK TREE:This tree provides optimizations in rotations when inserting and deleting new elements in tree.For thorough understanding.Please refer the articles on GeeksforGeeks | A computer science portal for geeks and topcoder . But these all tree doesnot help in optimising very big scale data set and memory limitations provided by hardwares. So there comes the concept of B trees and B+ trees.They are fat trees with more than one key value on every node.They gives you fast search as now the elements will be available closer to root node compared to previous tree.Difference between b tree and b+ trees can be found on web easily with very good explanations. So,the gist is plain trees are not useful unless they are provided with some constraint. It is widely used in databases. In relational databases the indexing is done using b trees or b+ trees,so that retrieving and updating data is fast.Non relational databases is completely based on b trees and b+ trees inclusing other advanced techniques for quick retrieval. Note: This is just the rough path of evolution of trees usage.I am still learning these concepts and hopefully understand these concept more clearly in future.I also didnot mention interval trees,segment tree etc.These trees have also been put in some constraint that makes them appropriate in certain scenarios. Updated 5w ago