What are some things that programmers and computer scientists know, but most people don't?
Mad shit from movies: You can't zoom in on photos beyond their actual resolution We ACTUALLY DO know how to talk in human, non-techie language... our jobs depend on it! We're not all fat We're not all fat lazy geniuses Programmers are not electrical engineers... most don't own a soldering iron. Computers don't make high pitched beeps and chirps when displaying data. ...if they did, that would be the first setting disabled by any developer I have no idea how to hack. Neither do my colleagues. Developers in your workplace: Don't tell us what you think the solution is, give us the symptoms of the problem or requirement... you'll get a lot further much, much quicker Do not attempt to gain favour by talking about sci-fi... seriously, not cool! I genuinely do not know how long it will take until I look at it properly - this is not a lazy stalling tactic If it gives unwanted results after passing UAT, it's YOUR FAULT! I can see that you deleted the record. There is an audit trail!! Stop trying to blame my code and man up! Non-techie management should never pick platforms. Ever. Every time... every bloody time they get pitched a bunch of rubbish by guys with big smiles in sharp suits with a shiny box of promises. They then make an executive decision and a million dollars disappears along with what remains of my work place happiness! Code-freeze means: that bug is staying, so live with it. Agile/Scrum means: If you don't turn up to stand up meetings your work will not get done. Your fault. We are not a necessary evil. We're more creative than your marketing department. Developers in real life: Yes, I can develop web sites... but no, I won't do it for the contents of your penny jar, so don't ask as refusal may offend. I don't know specifically why your home computer is slow/broken/won't print/can't get online... it could be any one of a thousand million things. I'm a programmer, go talk to an infrastructure guy. Look: there's one over there hiding behind the curtains! I don't care about your daughter/brother/aunt/long-lost-friend who "works with computers" Don't glaze over because I said "Database" when you asked me the question Updated 131w ago • View Upvotes