★During the recent Apple "Gotofail" security vulnerability episode, were users protected if they consistently used a Virtual Private Network connection?
A qualified "no" is the answer. A good, if technical, explanation of the Gotofail vulnerability is here: ImperialViolet - Apple's SSL/TLS bug Basically, a malicious https website will give your computer a wrong certificate and it'll be validated as a valid secure site if you are subject to the bug. I'm writing this answer on February 24th 2014. As of now, the bug was patched by Apple for iOS and is still very much alive in OS X if you are using the default out-of-the-box browser, Apple's Safari. You can check yourself and see if you are affected on this website: goto fail; So, what happens if you use a Virtual Private Network (VPN)? Your traffic is sent from your computer to another place, where there are computers which you trust, Typically, that's your company's Local Area Network (LAN). If your computer is trying to contact a server which lives outside your company, the traffic continues from there via the Internet, So if you're trying to contact a hacked server and you use a VPN, you are still vulnerable. You just get screwed more slowly, because the traffic is going a roundabout route and it takes more time to reach the hacker. There is one case when you would be protected by a VPN, though. Imagine this scenario. I create a clone of your bank's https website. My copy only features the homepage, where one is supposed to type one's credentials. My server is set up to answer to your bank's domain name (even though no-one normally would reach it after typing the bank's name), when it'll offer up a wrong certificate so as to exploit the Gotofail vulnerability. My server will accept your credentials and forward them to me. I'll then use your username and password to empty your account and go buy a yacht. Now I set up an open Wi-Fi network, and I set things up so if a device connected to this network tries to contact the bank, its traffic is redirected to my hacking server. In this case, if you connect to my Wi-Fi normally, you are redirected to my server and you are hacked by me. If you connect to my Wi-Fi and you also engage your VPN, then you pass through my Wi-Fi unscathed, you exit to the Internet from your company offices and you reach the real secure server for your bank.    Embed Quote