★What is VPN (virtual private network) and what are its advantages and disadvantages?how to use it on android?
A virtual private network (VPN) extends a private network across a public network, such as the Internet. It enables a computer or Wi-Fi-enabled device to send and receive data across shared or public networks as if it were directly connected to the private network, while benefiting from the functionality, security and management policies of the private network. Advantages of VPN: 1) Use Public or Hotel WiFi securely: Public wi-fi  offers no encryption security to its users, and your signals are  broadcast for anyone savvy enough to eavesdrop, therefore some people  use VPNs at WiFi hotspots to prevent snoopers from collecting private  information. Generally, the most effective way to keep your data from  entering the wrong hands is by using a VPN service which makes all  Internet use totally private and secure. 2) Secure Communication Between Sites: Many  businesses today have branch offices, and connect these branches to the  main office over the Internet using a site-to-site VPN connection. For  example, a businesses can enable workers with laptops on the road or at  home to connect to the company network as if they were sat at a desk in  the office. Employees can use file servers and  printers which are not physically in the same office. 3) Bypass the Web Censorship and Content Surveillance: Some countries put up firewalls to restrict what their residents see,  hear, and share with other people within and beyond their borders.  Connecting to a VPN server will enable you to 'tunnel out' of the  censorship restrictions and access the full World Wide Web. 4) Access to the restricted contents: By using a VPN  service, you can manipulate your machine's IP address to specific  location like US, therein you can unlock access to Netflix and Streaming  Content from Outside the USA. Disadvantages          Actually I couldn't remember any disadvantage of VPN. I think there is no disadvantage to talk about considering there are no other services similar to VPN. Check out this link to learn How to Connect to a VPN on Android Sources: http://www.computers-internet-co...    Embed Quote