What is the difference between memcache, memcached and redis? Why do we prefer one over the other?
Memcached is Free & open source, in-memory key-value store, high-performance, distributed memory object caching system. Redis is an open-source, networked, in-memory, key-value data store with optional durability. One of the main differences between Redis and other structured storage systems is that values are not limited to strings but also lists and sets with atomic operations to push/pop elements. The type of a value determines what operations (called commands in Redis) are available for the value itself. Redis supports high level atomic server side operations like intersection, union, and difference between sets and sorting of lists, sets and sorted sets. In addition to strings, the following abstract data types are supported: Lists Sets (collections of non-repeating unsorted elements) Sorted sets(collections of non-repeating elements ordered by a floating-point number called score) Hashes Major Differences : 1. Redis support more data types than that of Memcached . Data types - Redis 2. Redis supports persistence of stored key value natively, Redis from time to time and/or when a number of changes to the dataset are performed it is written asynchronously on disk(This depends how you configure your Redis Instance to work). Memcached does not support persistence natively , you will have to add some extra layer to your software architecture to support persistence. If Memcached crashes and ends the memcache process you will loose all your cached data , and remember rebuilding cache is a costly process. Even in case of Redis you may loose some cached data on server crash or failure, last few writes which has not yet been written to the persistent disk may be loosed, but this is generally excepted . 3. Redis supports master slave replication mechanism for data availability in case of some Redis instance failure. The slave becomes the master and still serves the request . No native support for Replication in Memcached . 4. You may find the Publish/Subscribe feature of Redis very useful, read here Pub/Sub - Redis . No such feature in Memcached.  5. Now comes the big point , If you want high performance and high scalability you need to go for clustering support, and right now Redis does not support clustering, Memcached supports clustering , they have good performance in distributed environment and Redis is yet to release the Clustering support  and it aims to be even more clever than Memcached while retaining everything that makes redis awesome. What to use depends on your use case, what you exactly want from these key value storage . More or less both are awesome product to use for data caching . You can rely on one or both of them for good data caching support . Performance wise , according to my analysis Memcached is better than Redis , but feature wise Redis is quite ahead of Memcached . 