What are the best academic papers in computer science? Why?
Some for quantum computing: Solovay-Kitaev theorem (алгоритмы и исправление ошибок”, УМН, 52:6(318) (1997), 53-112 and [quant-ph/0505030] The Solovay-Kitaev algorithm) This is very important to quantum computing. It shows that the space and time complexity of "compiling" an arbitrary quantum circuit to an "instruction set" of quantum gates (basically, a collection of practically implementable fault-tolerant quantum gates) is poly-logarithmic. If it were not, it would mean that we lose some of the efficiency improvement that quantum algorithms give us (in some cases, e.g. Grover search, it would completely negate it, or worse). A more in depth explanation: Hadayat Seddiqi's answer to Which math theorems have the most important real-life practical uses? (the Russian link is I think where it was originally specified since I can't find any English source about it, but the second link is a review by Michael Nielsen that explains it in algorithmic terms) Shor's algorithm ([quant-ph/9508027] Polynomial-Time Algorithms for Prime Factorization and Discrete Logarithms on a Quantum Computer) The polynomial-time prime factorization algorithm that kick-started quantum computing research in the 1990s. Most people know about this if they know about QC. Quantum error-correction (http://www-math.mit.edu/~shor/pa...) This isn't the first or only important paper on this, but it's a longer one that expounds on some ideas that were going on around that time. I think the first paper on error-correction was also by Shor (http://www-math.mit.edu/~shor/pa...). Obviously error-correction is key to doing any kind of computation, quantum or classical (if you can't send around information reliably, your calculations could become useless (e.g. in physics simulation)). Topological quantum computation ([quant-ph/9707021] Fault-tolerant quantum computation by anyons) This could be one of the best ideas in the entire field. Topological QC shows a way to do computations in a practical way in protecting the qubits from decoherence by exploiting topological properties of certain materials that exhibit exotic quantum properties (fractional quantum Hall effect, for the interested reader). Materials that exhibit those exact properties haven't experimentally been found, however. Adiabatic algorithm ([quant-ph/0001106] Quantum Computation by Adiabatic Evolution) This wasn't the first paper to introduce the idea, but it was the first one to clarify it and it laid some foundations of adiabatic quantum computation, which is the model that D-Wave systems uses for their chip. Charles put together a great list for machine learning: Charles H Martin's answer to What are the must read papers on data mining and machine learning? 