★What are the Natural Language Processing principles of automatic summarization?I'd like to build a process of automatic summarization - without having any knowledge about either Computational Linguistics and Natural Language Processing (yet!). What are the best resources? How much groundwork do I have to do in NLP to achieve this? And what parts of NLP/CP theories are important for building such a system?
Automated document summarization is harder than it looks. Are you planning to summarize a single document or multiple documents on the same topic? The latter is particularly tricky since you need to pay attention to redundancy: many documents might contain the same relevant information so you want to make sure not to include it twice in your summary. There are two types of summarization: extractive and abstractive. Extractive summarization techniques assume that the summary can be constructed by simply extracting the relevant sentences from the document or documents themselves. This assumption may not always hold but it seems to hold for news articles. So, most techniques in this area try to rank the sentences in the documents and figure out how to choose the most relevant ones in a non-redundant manner. Abstractive summarization, on the other hand, makes the assumption that a good summary needs to be constructed without using the sentences from the documents but instead by generating new sentences that contain the meaning and knowledge contained in the documents. As expected, this is particularly difficult. One of the ways people claim to achieve this is by doing what's called template-based natural language generation wherein a template for the summary is pre-defined (or generated based on the topic) and words and phrases are extracted from the documents to fill the blanks in the templates. I personally don't consider this abstractive summarization but just another form of extractive summarization. In any case, I would recommend reading the papers that I list in my answer to What are the challenges of automatic text summarization? to get a real sense of the field of automated document summarization and figure out where to start.    Embed Quote