★What makes natural language processing difficult?
One major difficulty is that we don't consciously understand language ourselves. The second major difficulty is ambiguity. When you think of a linguistic concept like a word or a sentence, those seem like simple, well-formed ideas. But in reality, there are many borderline cases that can be quite difficult to figure out. For instance, is "won't" one word, or two? (Most systems treat it as two words.) In languages like Chinese or (especially) Thai, native speakers disagree about word boundaries, and in Thai, there isn't really even the concept of a sentence in the way that there is in English. And words and sentences are incredibly simple compared to finding meaning in text. Consider a word like "jaguar" or "mercury". There are a huge number of possible meanings to those -- see the jaguar wikipedia disambiguation page for a partial list: Jaguar (disambiguation) The thing is, many, many words are like that. "Ground" has tons of meanings as a verb, and even more as a noun. To understand what a sentence means, you have to understand the meaning of the words, and that's no simple task. The crazy thing is, for humans, all this stuff is effortless. When you read web page with lists, tables, run on sentences, newly made up words, nouns used as verbs, and sarcasm, you get it immediately, usually without having to work at it. Puns and wordplay are constructs people use for fun -- but they're also exactly what you'd create if you were trying your best to baffle an NLP system. The reason for that is that computers process language in a way totally unlike humans, so once you go away from whatever text they were trained on, they are likely to be hopelessly confused. Whereas humans happily learn the new rules of communicating on Twitter without having to think about it. If we really understood how people understand language, we could maybe make a computer system do something similar. But because it's so deeply buried and unconscious, we resort to approximations and statistical techniques, which are at the mercy of their training data and may never be as flexible as a human.    Embed Quote