★Can natural language process structured information from a text?
There is a working example at linkapedia(dot)com of NLP information extraction over unstructured data. Linkapedia already is the largest directory of human knowledge ever created. It is entirely machine curated. Concepts are organized to provide definition and context. A knowledge graph developed by the semantic technology creates a concept map used to navigate and communicate with the machine. Web content is machine read and sentences related to each concept - there are millions of concepts - are extracted and presented as web "headlines"  to assist users in finding sources without opening links. There are two search methods to find interesting information. 1. A keyword search brings users concepts and context related to words used. By selecting a concept and context the user is guided to specific information on the web. For example Linkapedia responds to a search word such as Jookin by listing concepts like Gangsta Walkin and Lil Buck. The context choices are in hip-hop dance and in American Male Dancers. Clicking on the desired context of interest gives the user web headlines about the concept as well as context. 2. There is a knowledge graph that can be explored like a table of content. So even if nothing is known about an area of human knowledge linkapedia guides the user to web information. Aleksander had the following suggested search terms and the results from linkapedia.  knowledge management, http://www.linkapedia.com/homese... knowledge engineering, http://www.linkapedia.com/homese... knowledge representation, http://www.linkapedia.com/homese... information architecture, http://www.linkapedia.com/homese... ontology, http://www.linkapedia.com/homese... taxonomy, http://www.linkapedia.com/homese... Semantic Web, http://www.linkapedia.com/homese... For the term Semantic Web the concept results following the link provided looks like this. Select one context link from Semantic Web concept and the context "computer science" (linkapedia suggests 9 total) provides web source information (one in German is shown in the screen shot) http://www.linkapedia-computing.... Another is a web site excerpt titled "Semantic " the explore other topics" section shown can be followed and often a different sentence is presented. Try it on your mobile phone  and you can see how not having to open links until you find what information they contain is a useful benefit and makes it possible to build an app based search tool. This is subtle point. Current search engines show URL blue links and require leaving a search app to follow the link. For full disclosure I am the publisher of  Linkapedia. Try it and let me know what you think about this use of information extraction.    Embed Quote