★How can natural language processing be leveraged to improve search?What approaches exist at the border between information retrieval and natural language processing?
By parsing document language in a logical form: Founder(Charlie Cheever, Quora). This would allow questions like "Who is the founder of Quora?" to be answered directly with a search result. By parsing the query in a logical form: Founder(X, Quora)?, it becomes easier to estimate query intent (Did you mean: who are the founders of Quora?). NLP can also combat content duplication /article spinning: using synonyms or changing sentence structure like Subject Object Verb, shouldn't reflect itself in the logical forms. It could measure uniqueness not only on the different words used and their order (syntax), but also on the logical meaning and relationships of those words (semantics). Further, you can use NLP to gauge the quality, language and tone of an article. Pages could contain Dutch mixed with English, while blunt retrieval of these documents doesn't even know the language of the searcher. Pages can be nearly impossible to parse, meaning either the language used is very convoluted, or of really poor quality. If a document about the Rolling Stones includes the following logical rules: Founded(Rolling Stones, 1962) Is(Rolling Stones, band) Member(Mick Jagger, Rolling Stones) vs. Founded(Rolling Stones, somewhere in the sixties) Is(Rolling Stones, super groovy) Member(Mac Jagger, Rolling Stones) You can know which document is more informative, and which might be a fan forum or Youtube comments. Now you can also use these rules to more effectively search ontologies and build a universal semantic picture of the search term "The Rolling Stones" vs. the search term "Mountain Avalanche Rolling Stones". And how accurate is that single document for you as a searcher if it mentions the founding date of The Rolling Stones as 1964? Take a look at what Google is doing with NLP and gauging review sentiment:    Embed Quote