★What are the available APIs for NLP (Natural Language Processing)?What are the (open and commercial) available APIs for doing Natural Language Processing?
Are you looking for something free, something SaaS, or an engine?   Are you trying to do experimental work, and need access to raw part-of-speech tagging, or do you want things like named entity extraction right out of the box? Free, there's certainly something like opencalais (http://www.opencalais.com).   Good entity extraction, no sentiment analysis. Low cost, there's something like Semantria (http://www.semantria.com), which is based on the Lexalytics engine.  It's a SaaS API. And if you want to install a high-performance engine, you can look at Lexalytics Salience Engine (http://www.lexalytics.com): Named Entity Extraction (the "who") - we support 5 different ways of doing Named Entity Extraction, including statistical models, lists, regular expressions, and part of speech patterns.   We, too, know the difference between Paris Hilton, and Paris, TX.   We also know the difference between Aruba (the networking company) and Aruba (the place).  :)  We all have our favorite examples, don't we?  Theme Extraction:  context scored noun phrases, so you can get a feel for the actual context of a conversation, what were the important phrases that folks are using? Classification:  Either boolean (keyword/taxonomy) based, or with our unique, Wikipedia-based classifiers.   Are they talking about food?  The weather?  Weapons? Summarization:    Make it shorter.  :) Sentiment Analysis:  Directed sentiment, with lots of tunability to make it completely your own.   Deals well with short content and all the pitfalls of tweets.Salience is an engine, and is native to C/C++, with wrappers for PHP, Java, .NET, and Python.   Salience is used in lots of places, including Radian 6, Lithium Technologies, Critical Mention, DataSift and a bunch of other SMM/Voice of Customer companies.   We've been in this space for 9 years now, and had the first commercially available sentiment analysis engine. Now, because it is an engine, you need to give it text, and it will hand you back an object in memory.   There are advantages and disadvantages to this approach, but we use it because it is the most flexible approach for integration into other systems. To put volumes in perspective, just one of our customers is running over 6 billion documents/month through the engine.   And we have lots of customers. Disclaimer:  yes, yes, I work for Lexalytics.  As if it wasn't obvious.    Embed Quote