★What are the available APIs for NLP (Natural Language Processing)?What are the (open and commercial) available APIs for doing Natural Language Processing?
AlchemyAPI has been operating in this space for a number of years and is a popular solution -- 3+ billion API calls serviced every month for 21,000+ developers. The service supports both document submission and web crawling, for processing both private document collections & internet-facing content.  Extracted meta-data is returned in a variety of formats including XML, JSON, and RDF.  Support for linked data is also provided, connecting your content to relevant entries in Freebase, Wikipedia, CIA World Factbook, etc. AlchemyAPI features include: Named Entity Extraction (people, places, organizations, ...).  AlchemyAPI is one of the few services that actually disambiguates entities -- knowing the different between Paris, TX and Paris, France.  Full support for co-reference resolution (he, she, "the president") is also included. Keyword Extraction (topic keywords).  Provides relevance-ranked topic keywords that represent the content of a document or web page. Sentiment Analysis (doc/sentence level, entity targeted, keyword targeted, user-targeted).  Compute positive/negative/neutral sentiment for entire documents or targeted towards individual entities / keywords.  Supports negation, slang, amplifiers, diminishers, and other advanced functionality. Concept Tagging - Identify concepts represented by a text even when they are not explicitly mentioned by name. (eg, if the document mentions Laura Bush, Hillary Clinton and Michelle Obama -- it's probably talking about First Ladies of the USA) Fact / Relationship Extraction - Identify Subject-Verb-Object triples within text.  Has advanced features such as past/present/future tense decoding, directional sentiment (subject -> object), etc. Lots of other stuff: Author Extraction (tells you who wrote a news article or blog post), Text Categorization (classify text into high-level topic categories), language detection (detects 98 languages), ... AlchemyAPI supports 8 languages, including: English, French, German, Italian, Russian, Portuguese, Swedish, and Spanish. (Disclosure: I'm the founder of AlchemyAPI)    Embed Quote