★NLP: What are the applications of parsing in natural language processing?I'm particularly interested in its usage in supervised algorithms. Where can sentences parsed using a context free grammar be used as features in an NLP task? Any links to papers would be great.
Generally, you can nearly always do without parsing, and even in cases where it can help, people often do without it, because it tends to provide too small improvement for too much added trouble. A grammar checker is a typical use case for parsing. Still, many grammar checkers use some kind of shallow parsing at best, or no parsing at all. We implemened an automatic machine translation post-editing system that realies on parsing (it performs significantly worse when not provided with a parse tree). Depfix | ÚFAL We are currently working on a system that would be statistical, i.e. it would extract features from the parse trees and learn to do the corrections automatically. We also have a machine translation system that parses the input sentence (into a deeper structure than a typical parse tree), transfers that to the other language using tree-context features, and generates the translation from the tree. However, it usually performs worse than simple phrase bsed systems, although it makes different kinds of mistakes and therefore a system combination is advantageous. TectoMT | ÚFAL Generally, you cannot easily take a whole parsed sentence as a feature. Typically you define tree-local features (i.e. features for a given word taken from its tree neighbours instead of its linear neighbours), or you use tree kernels (i.e. you compare how similar is one tree to another tree). And, as others have noted, using plain CFGs for natural language parsing is not what people typically do; PCFGs are used. Moreover, the tendency is to use dependency parsing instead of constituency parsing, so you either have a dependency parser (such as MALT parser or MST parser), or a constituency parser and convertor to dependency trees (such as done with the Stanford parser).    Embed Quote