★Why are there so few machine learning and natural language processing startups?Do PhDs actively avoid starting companies? With so many applications in the research literature and so much progress being made, what is stopping people from starting companies based on these technologies? There seem to be many companies in India and China working in this area but nearly none in Silicon Valley.  Why?
NLP makes up a huge portion of what we do at Swiftly.org. I'll second what Jonathan Joseph has said. Despite being one of the chief challenges for computer scientists since the 80's, with a second wind in the Aughts due to so much buzz around Searching and the Semantic Web, NLP in practice has remained remarkably stagnant.  Why?  We should consider, that an NLP algorithm is 'great' even if it's only 30% accurate with most being closer to 14-17% and this is before we even begin to tackle subjects like automatic taxonomy, the length of the text being processed, the nuances colloquialisms throw part of speech taggers, translation, NLP for other languages, and content with special characters coming from Twitter (product) or Texting. So when one talks about tech risk in the NLP world, they're talking about all of the above. Most people wouldn't pay for NLP as a service given an inability to overcome those factors.  There are a few company's out there that do offer NLP-As-A-Service like Thompson Reuters' Open Calais and even their algorithms don't reach that 30th percentile of accuracy. Finally, although a NLP-AAS model is possible, I've also noticed that most companies consider success in NLP such competitive advantage that they prefer to develop new technologies in-house.  Every newsroom I've ever visited or worked with (Al Jazeera, The Guardian, BBC, New York Times and a few more) has at least one guy (more often a team) dedicated to such data problems.  Because the commercial stuff is considered to be spotty anyways, I suppose they feel they may as well dev whatever they need internally so that it can be combined with other technologies.    Embed Quote