I have one year left to complete my CS graduation. How should I prepare for Google?
1. Network The easiest way to get a job is leveraging your connection. Here are a few ways to network Figure out where Googlers in your city usually hang out, and hang out there. Create a twitter list of Googlers and try to chat with them as much as possible. Create a Googlers RSS feed. Read everything and comment. Go on Linkedin search for Googler. Figure out which open group a Googler is in. Join that group. Go into member list, find the person and message them (a trick to message people without inMail). Tell them that you want to work for Google and ask for advice. Make sure you do your homework before sending messages. Great stalkers/relationship builders get the best opportunities :D  2. Make sure you have all the skills. 1. Mastering the foundation. You have to be able to get through an introduction to CS course, like the ones from Udacity or Coursera.  2. Learn to code in at least one object-oriented programming language. Like C++, Java, or Python. Consult MIT or Udacity. 3. Learn other programming languages. Add Java Script, CSS, Ruby, and HTML to your skillset. W3school and CodeAcademy are there to help. 4. Test your code. Because Google wants you to be able to "catch bugs, create tests, and break your software." Udacity, once again. 5. Have some background in abstract math. Like logical reasoning and discrete math, which lots of computer science draws on. MIT can help you with mathematics for computer science. 6. Understand algorithms and data structures. Google wants you to learn about fundamental data types like stacks, queues, and bags, as well as grasp sorting algorithms like quicksort, mergesort, and heapsort. MIT provides the recommended online resources, and the book "The Algorithm Design Manual" is super helpful, too. 7. Get to know operating systems. Because they'll be where you do much of your work. The University of California, Berkeley, provides a primer. 8. Become familiar with artificial intelligence. Google loves robots. Stanford has the knowledge. 9. Learn how to build compilers. Stanford says that when you do that, "you will learn how a program written in a high-level language designed for humans is systematically translated into a program written in low-level assembly more suited to machines." Head to Coursera for the learning. 10. Learn cryptography. Because cybersecurity is crucial. Coursera andUdacityhttps://www.udacity.com/course/cs387 provide courses. 11. Learn parallel programming. Because being able to carry out tons of computations at the same time is super powerful. The University of Illinois can help you out. Source: 11 Skills You Need To Master To Land A $100,000 Engineering Job At Google Be so good, Google cannot ignore you. 3. Work on real project. Build something. If you succeed, maybe google will buy/offer you a job. 4. Apply This one is boring, but it still works. Check out Google linkedin.com page. 5. Make sure you want to work for Google All my life, I have wanted to work for Google. I am writing this on a Chromebook. I live in the Google Cloud. Many people think I work for Google. I am a crazy fan girl. One day someone from Google told me to apply for a marketing position at Google that was perfect for me. I never applied. I had a few other opportunities to work with the Google marketing team on a few different campaigns, and I never took them.   I realized Google wasn't my dream. It was one of the roads for me to get there. I picked a different road to chase my dream. I hope one day, Google will become a client of my agency,ThinkRenegade | eCommerce + Digital Marketing Agency. Keep daydreaming :P Updated 43w ago • View Upvotes