Why am I not smart enough?
I once had a friend in College who  moaned to me about not being smart. My response was that there are no smart people with the exception of notable few such as Terry Tao, etc. Saying that you are not smart means that you are implicitly laying an upper bound on your goal and averting yourself from putting in hard work which is not what you should be doing. I believe that immense personal improvement come through hard work. All you have at the beginning is a basic aptitude offset which is the result of focussing on other similar skills to the one you are having trouble pursuing. I occasionally fall down the pit of feeling that I am stupid when I am learning a completely new skill, but quickly climb out of the pit by working hard on that skill and becoming reasonably good at it over a reasonable period of time (not overnight). It also helps if you have friends who are good at the skill you are trying to improve upon who can guide you if you have stumbling blocks but online Q/A sites like Quora do. It also helps if you do not compare yourself to other people who may be more proficient with the skill you are pursuing. Compare yourself to the "you" from a month back, 6 months back. Try setting concrete goals, but for some skills, setting concrete goals may be quite hard. In that case, be patient and keep at it and you will notice your gradual improvement. To give a similar experience: In high school, a bunch of my mates from class used to occasionally make fun of my drawings to the point where I gave up my dream of making animated movies. I also fell down the dark pit of believing that everyone better than me at a particular skill were great at it and everyone weaker than me at something sucked at it. I had the joy of meeting my best friend during my junior and senior year of high school who inspired me a lot. A lot of the advice I give you is based on my observation of him. Keep moving forward and never give up and be happy. Flashforward to the future: I am a rising senior from University of Michigan and have had internships with Facebook and Nest in Computer Science. To address a few concrete points on how to improve: - Work on personal projects and host them on Github (Make sure that your    code is clean) - Learn how to structure large projects - Use IRC to ask questions - The Learn Programming sub-reddit would give you pointers - Review High School Math (Go over elementary combinatorics, probability, euclidean geometry, Analytical geometry, complex variables, elementary algebra, calculus and trigonometry) - Learn about discrete mathematics  (Start with Rosen as it is a pretty easy one. You may learn from more advanced books if you want) - Now go to Coursera and take Algorithms I and Algorithm II to learn about basic data structures like Arrays, Linked Lists, Trees, Heaps etc... and Abstract data types such as Stacks, Queues, Priority Queues, etc... - Learn about System design (Read an introductory book to operating systems and database design. Introduction to networking should also help) - Boom now apply to a company and give a link to your Github to show your awesome side projects (These side projects are the culmination of your self learning. Other people may not have them since companies usually recruit out of College) - Also take the GRE again, and prepare for it and improve. Get a good statement of purpose and apply for your masters. Best of luck to you mate. 