I have one year left to complete my CS graduation. How should I prepare for Google?
I'd like to share from my personal experience. In short, if you have one year left, definitely you have enough time to prepare for Google. First of all, internship is the shortcut for you to get full-time offer. Since you said you have one year left, most likely you have a great chance to get an Google internship during the summer. As far as I know, most tech companies have a very high ratio of intern conversion, which means if you were able to intern at Google, you are very likely to be the full-time there. Preparing for the internship interview is almost the same as for full-time position except interviewers would have lower expectation for you. So the next step is to aim at the summer intern position, even if you failed, you still have a good chance to get the full-time offer as the preparation is the same. Be familiar with basic data structure and algorithm. I can't emphasize more about this point since it is the most fundamental thing for a software engineer interview. If you fail to get a good grasp of those basic data structures you learnt at school, you just failed the whole interview. I'm not exaggerating, once you've been thru several technical interviews, you'll realize how important it is. Books about data structure and algorithm are everywhere, do make sure you are very clear about basic stuffs like binary tree, queue, stack, linked list and also be fast at estimating efficiency of your code because most of the interviewers will ask time/space complexity of your code. Practice with real interview questions for Google. Since you already have a target, it isn't hard for you to get some real questions from past Google interviews. In fact, there are tons of them online (like http://www.glassdoor.com) and it's almost impossible for you to finish all. The point here is not to expect having the same question in your interview (though it's possible), but to get an idea about what kind of questions Google likes to ask, how difficult it is in general, and find out your weak point. For instance, if you keep failing on binary tree questions, you should go check your textbook and do some google search about it. Practice with MOCK INTERVIEWS. It's a great experience for you to practice in a way where you can't fail. You can do this with your friends and interview them back. I also got my mock interview from http://www.gainlo.co  whose interviewers are working at Google, Facebook etc. and gave me tons of feedbacks.Personally mock interview is the most effective approach I've ever had because you will have totally different feeling when thinking and solving problems in front of a person. You'll be nervous, and you may fail even at the simplest question. All in all, I would highly suggest you spend enough time to prepare for the interview, especially the internship. Practice makes perfect, it's never too late to start preparing for your interview. Updated 24w ago • View Upvotes