Logistic regression is used extensively in numerous disciplines, including the medical and social science fields. For example, the Trauma and Injury Severity Score (TRISS), which is widely used to predict mortality in injured patients, was originally developed by Boyd et al using logistic regression.[4] It is also employed in marketing applications such as prediction of a customer's propensity to purchase a product or cease a subscription, etc.[citation needed] For example, logistic regression might be used to predict whether a patient has a given disease (e.g. diabetes), based on observed characteristics of the patient (age, gender, body mass index, results of various blood tests, etc.). Another example might be to predict whether a voter will vote Democratic or Republican, based on age, income, gender, race, state of residence, votes in previous elections, etc.[citation needed] The technique can also be used in engineering, especially for predicting the probability of failure of a given process, system or product.[5][6] In each of these instances, a logistic regression model would compute the relevant odds for each predictor or interaction term, take the natural logarithm of the odds (compute the logit), conduct a linear regression analysis on the predicted values of the logit, and then take the exponential function of the logit to compute the odds ratio. Conditional random fields, an extension of logistic regression to sequential data, are employed in natural language processing.
Linear regression is widely used in biological, behavioral and social sciences to describe possible relationships between variables. It ranks as one of the most important tools used in these disciplines.
Bioinformatics Cheminformatics Quantitative structure–activity relationship Database marketing Handwriting recognition Information retrieval Learning to rank Object recognition in computer vision Optical character recognition Spam detection Pattern recognition Speech recognition
An application of the general linear model appears in the analysis of multiple brain scans in scientific experiments where Y contains data from brain scanners, X contains experimental design variables and confounds. It is usually tested in a univariate way (usually referred to a mass-univariate in this setting) and is often referred to as statistical parametric mapping.[2]
HMMs can be applied in many fields where the goal is to recover a data sequence that is not immediately observable (but other data that depends on the sequence is). Applications include:
Cryptanalysis Speech recognition Speech synthesis Part-of-speech tagging Machine translation Partial discharge Gene prediction Alignment of bio-sequences Activity recognition Protein folding Metamorphic Virus Detection[12]
Bayesian networks are used for modelling knowledge in computational biology and bioinformatics (gene regulatory networks, protein structure, gene expression analysis,[15] learning epistasis from GWAS data sets [16]) medicine,[17] biomonitoring,[18] document classification, information retrieval,[19] semantic search,[20] image processing, data fusion, decision support systems,[21] engineering, gaming and law.[22][23][24]
In addition to the examples given below, LDA is applied in positioning and product management.
In practice, the class means and covariances are not known. They can, however, be estimated from the training set. Either the maximum likelihood estimate or the maximum a posteriori estimate may be used in place of the exact value in the above equations. Although the estimates of the covariance may be considered optimal in some sense, this does not mean that the resulting discriminant obtained by substituting these values is optimal in any sense, even if the assumption of normally distributed classes is correct.
Another complication in applying LDA and Fisher's discriminant to real data occurs when the number of observations of each sample does not exceed the number of samples.[4] In this case, the covariance estimates do not have full rank, and so cannot be inverted. There are a number of ways to deal with this. One is to use a pseudo inverse instead of the usual matrix inverse in the above formulae. However, better numeric stability may be achieved by first projecting the problem onto the subspace spanned by .[9] Another strategy to deal with small sample size is to use a shrinkage estimator of the covariance matrix, which can be expressed mathematically as

where is the identity matrix, and is the shrinkage intensity or regularisation parameter. This leads to the framework of regularized discriminant analysis[10] or shrinkage discriminant analysis.[11]
Also, in many practical cases linear discriminants are not suitable. LDA and Fisher's discriminant can be extended for use in non-linear classification via the kernel trick. Here, the original observations are effectively mapped into a higher dimensional non-linear space. Linear classification in this non-linear space is then equivalent to non-linear classification in the original space. The most commonly used example of this is the kernel Fisher discriminant.
LDA can be generalized to multiple discriminant analysis, where c becomes a categorical variable with N possible states, instead of only two. Analogously, if the class-conditional densities are normal with shared covariances, the sufficient statistic for are the values of N projections, which are the subspace spanned by the N means, affine projected by the inverse covariance matrix. These projections can be found by solving a generalized eigenvalue problem, where the numerator is the covariance matrix formed by treating the means as the samples, and the denominator is the shared covariance matrix.
There are some other instances where "nonlinear model" is used to contrast with a linearly structured model, although the term "linear model" is not usually applied. One example of this is nonlinear dimensionality reduction.
Linear regression is widely used in biological, behavioral and social sciences to describe possible relationships between variables. It ranks as one of the most important tools used in these disciplines.
Logistic regression is used extensively in numerous disciplines, including the medical and social science fields. For example, the Trauma and Injury Severity Score (TRISS), which is widely used to predict mortality in injured patients, was originally developed by Boyd et al using logistic regression.[4] It is also employed in marketing applications such as prediction of a customer's propensity to purchase a product or cease a subscription, etc.[citation needed] For example, logistic regression might be used to predict whether a patient has a given disease (e.g. diabetes), based on observed characteristics of the patient (age, gender, body mass index, results of various blood tests, etc.). Another example might be to predict whether a voter will vote Democratic or Republican, based on age, income, gender, race, state of residence, votes in previous elections, etc.[citation needed] The technique can also be used in engineering, especially for predicting the probability of failure of a given process, system or product.[5][6] In each of these instances, a logistic regression model would compute the relevant odds for each predictor or interaction term, take the natural logarithm of the odds (compute the logit), conduct a linear regression analysis on the predicted values of the logit, and then take the exponential function of the logit to compute the odds ratio. Conditional random fields, an extension of logistic regression to sequential data, are employed in natural language processing.
Multilayer perceptrons using a backpropagation algorithm are the standard algorithm for any supervised learning pattern recognition process and the subject of ongoing research in computational neuroscience and parallel distributed processing. They are useful in research in terms of their ability to solve problems stochastically, which often allows one to get approximate solutions for extremely complex problems like fitness approximation.
MLPs were a popular machine learning solution in the 1980s, finding applications in diverse fields such as speech recognition, image recognition, and machine translation software,[5] but have since the 1990s faced strong competition from the much simpler (and related[6]) support vector machines. More recently, there has been some renewed interest in backpropagation networks due to the successes of deep learning.
Random multinomial logit models combine a random ensemble of multinomial logit models for use as a classifier.
