Lafferty, McCallum and Pereira[1] define a CRF on observations and random variables as follows:
Let be a graph such that , so that is indexed by the vertices of . Then is a conditional random field when the random variables , conditioned on , obey the Markov property with respect to the graph: , where means that and are neighbors in .
What this means is that a CRF is a undirected graphical model whose nodes can be divided into exactly two disjoint sets and , the observed and output variables, respectively; the conditional distribution is then modeled.
Such models assist in controlling for unobserved heterogeneity when this heterogeneity is constant over time and correlated with independent variables. This constant can be removed from the data through differencing, for example by taking a first difference which will remove any time invariant components of the model.
There are two common assumptions made about the individual specific effect, the random effects assumption and the fixed effects assumption. The random effects assumption (made in a random effects model) is that the individual specific effects are uncorrelated with the independent variables. The fixed effect assumption is that the individual specific effect is correlated with the independent variables. If the random effects assumption holds, the random effects model is more efficient than the fixed effects model. However, if this assumption does not hold (i.e., if the Durbin–Watson test fails), the random effects model is not consistent.
X is a Bayesian network with respect to G if it satisfies the local Markov property: each variable is conditionally independent of its non-descendants given its parent variables:[11]

where de(v) is the set of descendants of v.
This can also be expressed in terms similar to the first definition, as
for each which is not a descendent of for each which is a parent of
Note that the set of parents is a subset of the set of non-descendants because the graph is acyclic.
The naive version of the algorithm is easy to implement by computing the distances from the test sample to all stored vectors, but it is computationally intensive, especially when the size of the training set grows. Many nearest neighbor search algorithms have been proposed over the years; these generally seek to reduce the number of distance evaluations actually performed. Using an appropriate nearest neighbor search algorithm makes k-NN computationally tractable even for large data sets.
The nearest neighbor algorithm has some strong consistency results. As the amount of data approaches infinity, the algorithm is guaranteed to yield an error rate no worse than twice the Bayes error rate (the minimum achievable error rate given the distribution of the data).[7] k-nearest neighbor is guaranteed to approach the Bayes error rate, for some value of k (where k increases as a function of the number of data points). Various improvements to k-nearest neighbor methods are possible by using proximity graphs.[8]
According to original authors, the advantages of random forest are[6]:
It is one of the most accurate learning algorithms available. For many data sets, it produces a highly accurate classifier.[7] It runs efficiently on large databases. It can handle thousands of input variables without variable deletion. It gives estimates of what variables are important in the classification. It generates an internal unbiased estimate of the generalization error as the forest building progresses. It has an effective method for estimating missing data and maintains accuracy when a large proportion of the data are missing. It has methods for balancing error in class population unbalanced data sets. Prototypes are computed that give information about the relation between the variables and the classification. It computes proximities between pairs of cases that can be used in clustering, locating outliers, or (by scaling) give interesting views of the data. The capabilities of the above can be extended to unlabeled data, leading to unsupervised clustering, data views and outlier detection. It offers an experimental method for detecting variable interactions.
The line goes through the "center of mass" point (x, y). The sum of the residuals is equal to zero, if the model includes a constant: The linear combination of the residuals, in which the coefficients are the x-values, is equal to zero:
