What is your secret weapon?
I am an unarmed woman. Below is a collage of fully armed women. They are armed with pop culture virtues. I grew up watching TV re-runs that featured noble female warriors, including the following: the underdog princess, Cinderella; the coiffed and mannerly, Mrs. June Cleaver; the bejeweled sex kitten, Marilyn; and the petite, dainty Charlie's Angels, a group of 110 lb.women who threw grown men over their shoulders. Charlie's Angels were the warriors we looked up to when I was in elementary school, but in playground games, girls bickered over who got to play the tiniest, most feminine man-hurling warrior. Everyone wanted to be Farrah, then Cheryl Tiegs. Unlike Charlie's Angels, I'm not equipped to lift muscular men. I can't come close to pushing a man off me. I couldn't budge him one inch, much less throw him over my shoulders. But in recent decades, we have female pop heroes that dwarf the secret weapons of Charlie's Angels. These warrior sex goddesses may appear to be strange bedfellows for Cinderella, Mrs. Cleaver and Marilyn, but they arise from the same family tree, a tree that is rooted in fantasy. We all want weapons we don't have. "Boobs rule the world," said Erin Brockowich, so if we are moderately endowed, we wish for that secret weapon. It's a weapon that can distract a corporate gatekeeper, while we extract information necessary to thwart evil, corporate polluters. Look at the photo below; it's the career woman, Erin, posed with a baby on her hip. If a woman doesn't have children, as I don't, she sits unarmed in a feminist society, where imagery celebrating motherhood is more ubiquitous than photos of warrior sex kittens, like Lara Croft, who fights like a female Rambo. No, she's far more fierce that Rambo; she makes Rambo look like a sniveling wimp, and in a world where women wield such power, the juxtaposition with the contemporary cult of motherhood couldn't be more dramatic. In today's feminist world, if you're not a member of the well armed cult of motherhood, you're reminded every minute in family friendly workplaces, on TV, at every social function, on every holiday and all over the Internet. It's a constant bombardment of motherhood imagery. Does the presence of the sexed-up, female warriors provide you with alternative weapons? They are, after all, the flip side of the cloying cult of motherhood. I'm middle aged, but even if I weren't, fantasy only helps when it arises from within. The female warriors are part of a marketing strategy. They are part of a marketing strategy designed to sell movies and video games, and they are part of a marketing strategy designed to sell feminism, which has been very profitable for corporate America. Do you realize how low the wages of most women are, not the ones at the top who are married to other high earners. I'm talking about the vast majority of American women who continue to work in female-dominated industries. Half make below $17,000 per/year, and the incomes of most are supplemented by spouses, boyfriends and/or government. Employers get away with paying women less because having children provides them with secondary sources of income, like means tested government assistance, child support or a spousal second income, but these are secret weapons that many women don't have. So what does a childless woman do in a financial services job, as she sits in a work meeting, where co-workers sit in a circle, telling funny stories about their kids, one-by-one? What is the secret weapon that allows her to "fit in" in jobs that put appearances at family/work picnics ahead of number of sales? Will her ninja archery skills help her in a work bulletin board decorating contest, where employees post photos of themselves and their kids, then vote on which co-worker looks the most like her kid? How does she arm herself against being bullied out of jobs for being 5 minutes late, though she never misses a day, stays all day and is a top salesperson every month? Many of her colleagues, including managers, are well armed, taking afternoons, days, weeks and even months off in some cases, not for family medical or maternity leave. They do it for kids activities, like soccer games and mom/daughter togetherness luncheons. They don't even bother to lie about it. They are frequently 30 - 40 minutes late due to taking kids to school, but they are armed against repercussions. They are armed with the back-watching solidarity of motherhood, which couldn't be less feminist, but when I dare to mention these things, the counter is images of dads with babies. I saw the movie "Mr. Mom" long ago. I know the role of fatherhood has changed in recent decades, but I've only seen a few men cash in on the family friendly workplace. The only weapon a childless woman has is to escape into hobbies, like art, music, athletic activities, etc. But many of these things, too, are dominated by a focus on families. For instance, the brochure for a local museum came in the mail, and rather than art exhibits, everything in the brochure advertised family activities, like a kid's dinosaur egg hunt, a mom and tween crafts day, a giant baby bug sculpture day and a wine-tasting party for tired moms and dads. After dropping the kids off at grandma's, parents arrive at the wine tasting event, and $100 dollars says they talk mostly about their kids, not about art. The museum needs money, and that's why they provide the backdrop for many expensive weddings. But it's pretty discouraging; some of us need art to be about art, not motherhood. But artistic hobbies are still my secret weapon, and given the emphasis on kids and families at art events, it's good that I enjoy solitary hobbies. I guess you could call that a secret weapon. Images via Wikipedia Here's to hoping all your kids end up having this secret weapon. http://commons.m.wikimedia.org/w... http://commons.m.wikimedia.org/w... 