When is the right time to use recursion?
If you think about recursion as a tree, one calls two, two calls four, four calls 16 etc. It may be binary above, it may be in powers of three, or four. I have not seen any wider than four, but that doesn't mean one doesn't exist or won't exist in the future. If you consider the recursion as a tree, then the time to use recursion is when the tree has a physical limitation in height such that it is difficult or impossible to get too tall. Width is usually iterative and thus width is not a problem. Octree and quadree tree systems are extremely wide but often very short. Employed in this manor they are practical implementations of recursion. They are not infinite and are usually employed on high level terrain maps when combined with another type of mesh at the low-end. When you try to scale recursion it usually does not scale well. However, if the tree is not tall, it generally does not need to scale. Again, better for recursion. If the tree is short it may not be any higher in stack height than if you hand off calls to multiple objects in a very object oriented system. Although I have heard of no specific limits or recommendations, most programmers I know use the two-hand rule: if it's more complicated than the number of digits on your hands, it's too complicated. If the object depth is 11 levels deep, you are likely too complicated in your design. If your recursive depth is 11 calls deep you're in iffy territory. Quicksorts generally often exceed 11 levels height, but quicksorts are often taught in how to de-recurse them into iterative models which run faster. The deeper the tree, the more expensive. If the stack height is short, quicksorts require minimal local variables, so their stack height is short, it can go deep fast, but it is still more expensive. If the recursive height/depth is short the expense is not great, it is likely not worth the time and effort to de-recurse the algorithm. Otherwise, it likely will pay off in efficiency the higher the number goes. At 11 height the pay off will not be much, at 20 height the payoff will be greater, at a 50 height the payoff will be noticeable instantly. De-recursion at level 50 is highly recommended. 