What should I do or Where should I begin to become a good computer graphics engineer/programmer?
You don't need to be good at drawing, though having some artistic training or ability can help if you want to go in to entertainment. At both Disney and Dreamworks we had engineers, and then artists that were engineers.  (The latter was paid higher, but we needed both.) If you are going to be a graphics programmer, you're fine learning OpenGL and DirectX. One of the most basic types of programs to create is something that programmatically creates and displays geometry (like a sphere) and lets someone rotate it with the mouse. Then you can add textures and animation. This would be a good first project. If you want to be a graphics engineer, you're going to need to understand graphics at a much deeper level than either of those APIs. You'll need to understand what those APIs are doing to visualize formulas and data sets. The good news is today there are a number of open-source projects you can learn from. Pixie is one such project I would recommend. It's a photorealistic renderman-compliant renderer. Pixie (renderer)  If want to work on feature films, knowing about RIBs and Renderman shaders (via Pixie) would be useful. Blender is an open-source 3D animation package which would also be helpful. Blender (software)  LuxRender is an OSS hardware-accelerated physically-based renderer. LuxRender  POV-Ray is an OSS raytracer (that has been around forever) POV-Ray  There's also a OSS software-based implementation of OpenGL called Mesa The Mesa 3D Graphics Library If you need a very simple introduction to 3D Computer Graphics, there's an old book called Black Art of 3D Game Programming. Chapters 10 - 17 cover, in very basic, simple details, the fundamentals of geometry and scanline rendering. The book was written for a completely different era of computer graphics, however, if you're having trouble with core concepts (I'm guessing from "Computer Graphics: Principles and Practice" a.k.a "the Foley-Van Dam"?), this book will provide you with the foundation, written for hobbist programmers in very simple terms.  There may be other such books that are more modern, but this was the book when I was learning CG. At $3.00 for a used copy it's a reasonable buy. 