What is your secret weapon?
Interesting question I must say, and you know whenever you talk about weapon, another word comes to mind, which is arsenal. Weapons must be stored, and arsenal happens to be a store where weapons can be stored. Going forward, my personal arsenal of secret weapon consists of a lot, and they have contributed in keeping me strong, healthy, and better. You want a list of my secret weapon? Take a look at this picture: That’s little Mr Anga at 2 years old, did you see him smiling? That charming smile is not free, he might as well be up to something. You want to know more I guess? Then check this list: Food: I love to eat right, eating the things that will keep me in shape so I can stay healthy. Exercise: I do simple exercise indoor and outdoor, so my body can stay fit. Humour: I try to take life easy, because I intend to live 120years in sound health, looking like a 40 year old. So I catch some fun and do the things that makes me laugh and smile. Love: I love and respect people irrespective of there race, size, color or background. Words: I value my words, so I try to be careful what I say, I understand that words can become flesh. Our words frame our world. Rest: it’s nice to be a workaholic sometimes, but it’s important to make time to rest my body. I have just one body, I have to treat it with some respect. The above secret weapon of mine should be enough for this answer or do you want me to add more? Okay, let me close with strategy, just 8 letter word, yet so powerful. Strategy is simply how you want or intend to do something. I mean your plan or intended action. So, I spend time thinking through and creating outcomes for different scenarios, this way, I stay ahead, I stay calm, and I stay fresh. We all have a past, we have a future, and in between is where we are now. The present. My strategy is usually geared towards improving present and future outcomes. Permit me to say at this point, that we can all strategize at different levels, all that is required is for us to sit down and think through a problem, challenge, opportunity, idea or just anything. Creating strategy is one thing I do quite well and I enjoy doing it, be it: Strategy for business. Strategy for governance. Strategy for food security. Strategy for people development. I can go on and on. Friends, there is so much to write about, but let me drop my pen here. Did you enjoy reading this? Updated 76w ago • View Upvotes