What are the real world applications of Data Structures Like arrays, structures, linked lists, tress, graphs, heaps, sorting ?
Arrays : It is most used data structure. It is used in every possible situation where you need to gather  similar objects at one place. Simple Example can be collection of all the book titles in a Library Management systems Structures : They are Not Part of Data Structures by them self's But rather they are programming constructs through which you can build these Data structures. Most Important Use of a Structure is Gathering of Data Bits which are Similar at one place in the memory and treat them as one single entity. Taking the same Library Management System all the Details Regarding To a Book (Like Name, Author etc) can be placed at one place in memory using a structure Linked Lists : They Can Work in most of the places Arrays work. But Difference in usage depends upon two choices we make when we design a systems. Those choices are 1) is Total Number of Elements in the Array Changes Frequently 2) What Run Time Efficiency You need . if Total Number of Elements in Array changes often the probably Linked list is better for that application as it is less costly to add and remove nodes in a Linked List. If you need a run time efficiency O(1) you should always go for an array as it will have every fast access speeds Trees:  A tree Can used always to produce a structure of hierarchic. Good Example is Any Mark up language uses Tree Structure called as DOM to Process. Most Important Link state Protocol Spanning Tree Protocol uses tree to represent network topology as a tree will not have loops.  Graphs :  good example of graphs is a Map application which will give you shortest path from a point a to point b. this application may be using nodes to represent different points in the map and applying a Dijkstra's algorithm to find shortest path. Heap : a Heap can be used any where a priority queue will do the job. For Example Huffman compression is a classic data compression algorithm that depends upon processing a set of items with integer weights by combining the two smallest to produce a new one whose weight is the sum of its two constituents. Implementing this operation is immediate, using a priority queue Sorting : It a kind of algorithm which will give some order to the set of elements. sorting has many applications for example Scientific computing is often concerned with accuracy (how close are we to the true answer?). Accuracy is extremely important when we are performing millions of computations with estimated values such as the floating-point representation of real numbers that we commonly use on computers. Some numerical algorithms use priority queues and sorting to control accuracy in calculations.  Thank you for your feedback! Your response is private. Are you satisfied with this answer? YesNo 7.2k Views · 11 Upvotes · Answer requested by Prem Sai