★What is the point of linear algebra?How can I motivate students to study this? Are there any tangible reasons why students should study linear algebra?
I agree with Sam Lichtenstein's answer, namely there is a streetlight effect: linear equations are the only ones we can solve, so it makes sense to understand well how to solve them. I also agree with him about the relevance as a gateway to higher mathematical structure. In my answer, I'll concentrate on a third perspective, one that I emphasized a lot in my linear algebra service course targeted primarily at social science majors. You can read the course notes at Math 196 -- the first few lectures there (PDFs of lecture notes available at the link) go over the ideas that I very briefly cover below, but much more slowly, and the last lecture ties things together. From a practical perspective, the most common application of linear algebra is a deep understanding of a technique called ordinary least squares regression. Now, technically, OLS regression doesn't require linear algebra: it's a quadratic optimization problem that we can solve by taking the partial derivatives, equating them to zero, etc. etc. as a multivariable calculus problem. But the linear algebra theory allows us to get a much deeper sense and build variants. I won't go into the details of OLS regression (most of those details are to handle the problem of measurement error and/or imperfect models). Instead, I'll make the key point: OLS regression is helpful in determining functions (of one or more variables), even if those functions are not linear in the variables. So where does linear algebra come in? The function must be an instance of a general functional form that has one or more parameters (aka the regression coefficients) such that the functional form is linear in the parameters. Linear in the parameters, not the variables. For instance, a functional form that describes an unknown polynomial of degree at most 5 in a single variable has 6 parameters (the constant term and the coefficients of powers of the variable). The functional form is linear in terms of these parameters. So, the techniques of OLS regression can be applied to finding the coefficients and therefore finding the function in question. In other words, we can use the staple technique of linear algebra to find polynomials. The technique can also be used for polynomial functions of bounded or known degree in more than one variable. There are also other functional forms that are linear in the parameters (for instance, the functional form A sin x + B cos x for a function of x is linear in the parameters A and B). Some functional forms become linear in the parameters after we take logarithms and/or perform a substitution. (The canonical example where we need to take logarithms is the Cobb-Douglas production function, where the parameters appear in exponents in the original production function). Linear algebra is important to the extent that real-world phenomena (physical or social) can be naturally described (exactly or approximately) using models that are (or can be made, after appropriate transformations) linear in the parameters. And "linear in the parameters" is a much wider class of functional forms than simply the ones that are linear in the variables. PS: Some subtleties: A polynomial (or other "linear in parameters") functional form with additional constraints on the coefficients may no longer be "linear in the parameters" once the constraints are used to eliminate some parameters by substituting them in terms of the others. Bounded degree is important for polynomial functional forms to be treatable using the OLS regression methods. If we assume no measurement error or modeling imprecision, then having a functional form that is linear in the parameters means that each data point (input-output pair for the function) gives rise to one linear equation in the parameters, and the entire collection of data points gives a system of linear equations, that we then need to solve using the techniques of linear algebra. If we factor in measurement error, then the linear system constructed above may be inconsistent. In such a situation, we'd need to find the vector for which we are "closest" to a solution. There is a nice trick in linear algebra to do this: multiply by the transpose matrix and then just solve the new system. Explaining this is not beyond the scope of Quora, but it is beyond the scope of this answer. If you're interested in my explanation, see my notes on OLS regression.    Embed Quote