★What is the point of linear algebra?How can I motivate students to study this? Are there any tangible reasons why students should study linear algebra?
There are already some great answers here, but the shorter, simpler, and more direct answer to your question about how to motivate students, and whether there are any "tangible benefits" to studying linear algebra, is to point out that not only do such tangible benefits exist, in fact they are arguably the biggest reason they are taking it in a class at all. This case basically comes down to four points: Linear algebra is the study of linear transformations. In real life, most transformations are non-linear. In a large number of cases, non-linear transformations can be approximated accurately using only linear transformations. This is a big win, because linear transformations are much easier to study than non-linear transformations. One useful way to kick off the discussion might be to point out that students have probably already studied things in this ballpark, since approximating nonlinear functions alone is basically the point of differential calculus: you look at a complicated nonlinear function and approximate it using tangent lines. Important to note (as other answers have shown) this is neither the extent of linear algebra, nor the only reason to study it, but it is one very big reason why it is so useful, and in my experience, this case is a big selling point even to people who don't particularly like it. Especially in CS, these sorts of approximations are incredibly useful, since we have to deal with systems consisting of human data, where linear algebra is particularly adept at getting close enough approximations of reasonably complicated nonlinear functions. The places where it has the most interesting applications (at least, IMO) are in machine learning, computer vision, machine learning, data mining, and the like. That's probably an institutional bias though, since I am involved academically with these communities.