★What is the point of linear algebra?How can I motivate students to study this? Are there any tangible reasons why students should study linear algebra?
The other answers so far seem to explain why linear algebra is interesting in terms of higher mathematics, which if I were an undergraduate I wouldn't particularly care about, since that's essentially an invitation to spend another 10 years reading books rather than making big money, solving problems that other people care about, and travelling the world in my yacht financed with the fruits of designing Collaborative Filtering systems. I'll try to address a little more why Linear Algebra is relevant to Business and engineering problems which you can be paid to solve, without giving the mathematical insight of the top answers. As the top answerers alluded to there are so many applications that I won't cover them all -- but I'll try to return to this answer periodically and add in more examples rather than just saying there are millions. It allows you to think about large systems. If you can't solve many equations simultaneously then you can't solve commercial scale problems. See also Lors Soren's answer to What's an intuitive way to understand Taylor and Maclaurin series? for a way to linearise arbitrary functions—remember that the real world doesn't have to hand you pure sine waves or purely exact f(x)=x³. Because of series, fundamental theorem of algebra, and other reasons, if you can solve large systems of equations in many variables then you can cover enough ground that the real-life problem you want to solve in 5, 10, 20 years has a reasonable chance of being covered, by that. (Although the multivariable case is harder -- Algebraic Geometry) roots of x²⁶•y + x•z⁶ + y¹³•z + x⁹•y¹³ + z²⁶ =... • see things differently (that's the multivariable case though! The linear algebraists will have to master this and then move on to Algebraic Geometry to have that sort of fun. Or download the SURFER | IMAGINARY  tool I made those with, but lack the "why and how" of the patterns.) Think about the finite element method for example. Computational Science and Engineering I Anything that can be split into small pieces (think calculus)—whether that be … Fluid Dynamics  flows, buildings (Structural Engineering),  tiny springs (I can't find the source for this joke, but: "Physics is the study of systems which can be reduced to systems of harmonic oscillators"), Network Flow optimization such as the one done for FedEx or airports/airlines to maximise their revenue, econometrics, Singular Value Decomposition, Recommendation Systems (including Amazon's),  a surprising amount of Machine Learning , Finite Element Method for example used to model Collateralized Debt Obligations synthetics or by Bridge Engineers, ... (more)Loading...