★Why is it that in physics we treat dx^i as an infinitesimal displacement/quantity whereas in math dx^i is a linear functional that has no sense of smallness?Is there any link between the two forms of intuition?
The physics perspective is not particularly rigorous, but it does get at the intuition behind the proper mathematical construction.  The ultimate utility of the intuition, however, is in not taking it too far. Mathematically infinitesimals are hard to incorporate into real analysis because they require an object with odd limiting behavior; in particular an object distinct from zero whose square is zero.  Such objects do pop up in Non-standard analysis and Dual numbers but they don't really have a place in modern calculus.  This leads to mathematicians spoiling the party by saying things like " is just a shorthand for the Lebesgue measure, with just shorthand for the functional induced by the Lebesgue measure over ."  Mathematicians are no fun at parties [1]. In order to recover the intuition we have to think more geometrically.  Firstly, note that by itself is not a functional; the functional is the integral and in some sense we can already see the infinitesimal nature by taking the range of integration, , to be small.  This is formalized in differential geometry where is, at least locally, a volume form and integration consists of contracting this volume form against linearly independent vector fields.  At each point in the set these vector fields then define vectors which can loosely be thought of as forming an infinitesimal box [2] on which the function is evaluated. The analogy is fragile at best, but it can be useful when informally reasoning about these systems. [1] Okay, that's blatantly false.  Most mathematicians are actually quite engaging. [2] The problem with this perspective is that the volume of said box depends on so the vectors don't define the infinitesimal by themselves.  Really in differential geometry the vectors are ancillary, the form determines everything.    Embed Quote