★What is the point of linear algebra?How can I motivate students to study this? Are there any tangible reasons why students should study linear algebra?
This is the actual really real reason why linear algebra is so important: if you have an -dimensional vector space , and a linear function on , then you can determine every single property of merely by evaluating at points. It's impossible to exaggerate the importance of this. There are so many applications I hardly know where to start. Let me pick just one from a million: Many geometrical transforms are linear operations: for example scaling, rotation and shearing. Suppose you have the same 100 operations to perform on a million 3D points. That looks like 100,000,000 operations in total. But actually you only need to perform the 100 operations on just 3 points. You now have a complete description of the combined transform that allows you to rapidly sweep through the 1,000,000 points. Usually this computation is organised in terms of matrices, but matrices are nothing more than that: a neat way to organise what I just described. This forms the basis for 3D graphics pipelines. (Well actually, they use 4D, but that.s another story...) It gets better than this. If a function (not necessarily linear this time) on an -dimensional space is differentiable then in a small enough area it can be approximated well by a linear function plus some constant. This means that up to a good approximation we need only evaluate at points (well, actually to get that extra constant). This is an incredibly powerful result and simplifies so many problems I don't know where to start counting. So won't. And even if your space is infinite-dimensional, many of the same methods work. For example the state of a physical system in quantum mechanics occupies a vector space. We don't have to study every possible state the system can take. We just need to study a subset of points (a basis, in fact) because every possible linear function (and in quantum mechanics everything is linear) of a physical system can be understood through that subset. So that's the point: linear algebra turns hard problems about functions into easy(er) ones about numbers. (That's the answer for most people using linear algebra in the real world. In academia it may be a little different...)    Embed Quote