★Is there any existing camera that we can use to detect low frequency electromagnetic waves?Something similar to an infrared camera but instead of infrared, it detects low frequency EM waves i.e. 50 to 60 Hz. I do know that one can detect low freq EM wave using a normal EM detector, but such device only measures the magnitude at a single point. Is there any camera to "see" the relative position of the EM source as well?
In order to be able to "see" the sources of low frequency electromagnetic waves at more than a single point, you would have to have a very large array of sensors and some kind of lens that redirects angles to focus down on to one particular image sensor. Here's how a camera works: For distant objects (meaning several times further away than the focal length of the lens), something coming at the lens at a particular angle (not a position, just an angle) will be focused to concentrate on a single point in the focal plane.  The image sensor is placed on the focal plane so that each angle relative to the direction the camera points will be placed as one pixel in the image. What you aren't told about in whatever class you learn about cameras in is Diffraction-limited systems.  The fact of the matter is that since light is a wave, it doesn't matter how perfect that lens is, it can't focus it into a pure point. There is a minimum size it can focus down to, determined by the size of the lens and the wavelength in question: That's the minimum size of a single pixel, basically.  Anything smaller and it doesn't give you any better information. Now... let's scale that up to, say WiFi wavelengths.  Let's use the shorter wavelength, newer 5 GHz band (most are 2.4).  If the minimum size of a pixel for an optical system (500 nanometer wavelength) ends up being 1 micron, and we scale everything else about the system exactly as the optical system, then the ~5cm wavelength of your WiFi signal requires 100,000 microns -- that is, 10cm per pixel to image. Want a 10 pixel by 10 pixel camera image of your RF source?   You've got a 3 1/2 foot box to lug around.  And 10x10 is pretty crappy resolution.  Also, the distance between the lens (however you end up implementing it) and the imaging sensors must be much larger than the wavelength, so we're looking at a 1m x 1m x 1m box just to look at a WiFi signal. Now what does that look like when we scale that up to ultra low frequencies? Let's see... the wavelength at 60 Hz is about 6,000 kilometers.  Still want that camera? Let's just say you're much better off taking a bunch of point measurements and using what you know about the sources than you are trying to get an image.    Embed Quote