★Is the amount of possible information contained within a bandwidth of, say 3,000 Hz larger for low-frequency signals than for high-frequency signals?A bandwidth is 3,000 Hz is HUGE for lower frequency ranges. But once you're in the MhZ range, it's just a small fraction of the entire range.
As the others have pointed out, in terms of raw bandwidth it doesn't make any difference at all -- C = B log(1+S/N), and nowhere does "carrier frequency" show up in the fundamental equation. But if you actually look at what goes into the terms S (signal power) and N (noise power), then you'll get a more accurate picture, and you'll find that using a low-frequency carrier will allow you to transmit less information in the same bandwidth.  Let's take a look at that, shall we? On the signal side, it's all about efficiently transmitting MORE POWER. In order to do so, we need a highly efficient emitting antenna, and an efficient receiving antenna.  Your best efficiency at both emission and receiving is going to be somewhere around 1/2 wavelength, and the shorter your antennae are, the less efficiently they will be able to transmit and receive a signal.  (You can make up that 1/2 wavelength by using a ground plane, which effectively doubles the antenna length). About wavelength... λ = c/f so the lower your frequency, the longer your wavelength. At 3kHz, that's a really long wavelength, meaning you'll need some really big antennae to get high power efficiency out. If you're going to use a shorter antenna, that's a lot smaller of signal power you're going to get out per power in.  That shrinks S a lot. On the N side, we have a lot of sources of noise. Practical Electronics:  Noise by Jacob VanWagoner on X-Ray Visions Flicker noise Flicker noise is also referred to as 1/f noise, since its noise power is much stronger at low frequencies.  It comes primarily from the fact that resistors have to dissipate power as heat, and their resistance changes with temperature. At a low frequency, flicker noise is much higher. Electromagnetic interference, or EMI A significant part of noise comes from electrical switching, unintended mutual inductance and parasitic capacitance, and small amounts of electromagnetic radiation that comes any time we have time-changing voltages or currents.  It comes from the fact that literally everything metal is an antenna -- or everything metal can have currents induced through picking up electromagnetic radiation, and any time you put a time-varying current on a wire it radiates a small amount like an antenna.Now think about it.  What things around you are electrically active? Hmm... You have all your power equipment operating at 60Hz.  You have all your high-efficiency switching power supplies operating in the kHz range.  You have fluorescent light bulbs with ballasts operating near 100kHz. Sounds like you'll have a ton of EMI in the low frequency range you're interested in.  That's a high value for N. So, with decreased S and increased N, the possible information you can carry on a low frequency signal is lower than on a more typical high frequency signal of equivalent bandwidth. In theory it's the same, but in practice you're much better off using an optimally high carrier frequency.    Embed Quote