★How is the capacitance formation in a MOSCAP affected by high and low frequency?
Principles of Semiconductor Devices Title Page - Table of Contents - Help © B. Van Zeghbroeck, 2011 Chapter 6: MOS Capacitorshttp://...6.3. MOS analysis6.3.1. Flatband voltage calculation 6.3.2. Inversion layer charge 6.3.3. Full depletion analysis 6.3.4. MOS Capacitance http://...6.3.1. Flatband voltage calculation If there is no charge present in the oxide or at the oxide-semiconductor interface, the flatband voltage simply equals the difference between the gate metal workfunction, FM, and the semiconductor workfunction, FS. (6.3.1) The workfunction is the voltage required to extract an electron from the Fermi energy to the vacuum level. This voltage is between three and five Volt for most metals. The actual value of the workfunction of a metal deposited onto silicon dioxide is not exactly the same as that of the metal in vacuum. Figure 6.3.1 provides experimental values for the workfunction of different metals, as obtained from a measurement on a MOS capacitor, as a function of the measured workfunction in vacuum. The same data is also listed in Table 6.3.1. http://...Figure 6.3.1.:Workfunction of Magnesium (Mg), Aluminum (Al), Copper (Cu), Silver (Ag), Nickel (Ni) and Gold (Au) obtained from I-V and C-V measurements on MOS structures as a function of the workfunction of those metals measured in vacuum.http://...Table 6.3.1:Workfunction of selected metals as measured in vacuum and as obtained from a C-V measurement on an MOS structure. The workfunction of a semiconductor, FS, requires some more thought since the Fermi energy varies with the doping type as well as with the doping concentration. This workfunction equals the sum of the electron affinity in the semiconductor, c, the difference between the conduction band energy and the intrinsic energy divided by the electronic charge in addition to the bulk potential. This is expressed by the following equation: (6.3.2) For MOS structures with a highly doped poly-silicon gate one must also calculate the workfunction of the gate based on the bulk potential of the poly-silicon. (6.3.3) Where Na,poly and Nd,poly are the acceptor and donor density of the p-type and n-type poly-silicon gate respectively. For a pMOS capacitor, which has an n-type substrate with doping density Nd, the workfunction difference equals: (6.3.4) The flatband voltage of real MOS structures is further affected by the presence of charge in the oxide or at the oxide-semiconductor interface. The flatband voltage still corresponds to the voltage, which, when applied to the gate electrode, yields a flat energy band in the semiconductor. Any charge in the oxide or at the interface affects the flatband voltage. For a charge, Qi, located at the interface between the oxide and the semiconductor, and a charge density, rox, distributed within the oxide, the flatband voltage is given by: (6.3.5) where the second term is the voltage across the oxide due to the charge at the oxide-semiconductor interface and the third term is due to the charge density in the oxide. The actual calculation of the flatband voltage is further complicated by the fact that charge can move within the oxide. The charge at the oxide-semiconductor interface due to surface states also depends on the position of the Fermi energy. Since any additional charge affects the flatband voltage and thereby the threshold voltage, great care has to be taken during fabrication to avoid the incorporation of charged ions as well as creation of surface states. Example 6.1Calculate the flatband voltage of a silicon nMOS capacitor with a substrate doping Na = 1017 cm-3 and an aluminum gate (FM = 4.1 V). Assume there is no fixed charge in the oxide or at the oxide-silicon interface.Solution The flatband voltage equals the work function difference since there is no charge in the oxide or at the oxide-semiconductor interface. ... (more)Loading...