★"[T]he majority of high-frequency managers delivered positive returns in 2008, whereas 70 percent of low-frequency practitioners lost money": is this temporary or has this become a permanent feature of markets?
2008 is a small sample.  That won't stop people from drawing conclusions from it. The speed of trading means that there is less room now than ever before for strategies that can be corrupted by emotion ... people who invest emotionally have fled the stock market and will only come back very slowly.  When emotion enters into trading decisions, eventually over the course of enough trades, emotional trading gets clobbered and the trader's capital will be depleted and the trader will be forced to exit; this is the case with some low-frequency traders ... emotional investors who supported money-losing low-frequency traders for a while have also fled -- either way, the unsuccessful low-frequency trader's capital is gone.  However, there will still be small anomalies to be exploited in individual stocks; some of the low-frequency traders will find ways to preserve capital and make money by adding/removing liquidity when appropriate, by exploiting temporarily irrational behavior in options markets and other non-emotional strategies.  Traders are entrepreneurs -- they think, adapt, put together new strategies constantly.  By it's nature, high-frequency trading is less dominated by emotions and thus at least some high-frequency trading has probably become a more permanent feature of markets.  Of course, it's not reasonable to expect that the majority of high frequency traders will continue to deliver positive returns ... when they stumble, the emotional investors providing capital to these trading strategies will also flee ... none of this will not stop trading entrepreneurs to devise the "next big thing" after high-frequency trading in the world of trading and finding investors to back it, believing they can be among the big winners. Irrational belief in the long-term infallibility of any trading strategy is a permanent feature of markets. Very, very, very low-frequency trading ... not really trading, per se,  but rather "buy-and-hold" ownership is arguably still a strategy that makes sense over the very long pull [unless you believe in the collapse of capitalism].  Recent history hasn't been in the buy-and-holder's favor ... after all, when lots of money rushes out of the stock market and into bonds or other asset markets, the average of all stocks goes down.  Of course, the true "buy-and-holders" who are disciplined and have done their homework do not especially care about minute-by-minute share price fluctuation; they see themselves as co-owners and look at the long term prospects for the businesses they continue follow closely (i.e. they follow the business closely, the share price is largely immaterial to them unless is grossly overvalued / undervalued and they sell / buy, respectively).    Embed Quote