★Can low frequency radar from decades past really detect many of today's stealthy military fighter jets?
Yes. Unlike many things in the arms-race of stealth, this is a question of physics. Physics is regarded as fairly constant, so the age of the radar isn't that consequential here. The reason you'd want a higher-frequency radar is size. The higher the frequency of radar, the smaller detail you can see and the smaller the receiver can be. In order to have radar in the nose of aircraft: Note: repack before flight. It has to be relatively small, and have a wavelength short enough to be caught by it. Having a higher frequency is also better because it gives you more information - you don't just know that there's a plane there, you can often see it's heading, which is crucial information for a pilot. However, small frequencies are vulnerable to the primary defense of stealthy shapes: scattering. The way plane stealth works is to prevent the radar pulse from bouncing back to the receiver by reflecting it in random directions. Short wavelengths are much more likely to interact with the reflective coating material because of the shortness of their wavelengths. To counter that, you can use a larger receiver: Note: does not fit in a plane. This will allow you to detect the fact that you have a plane there, but for those same reasons as above, you get very little information about the plane, but you're more likely to bounce the signal off of a non-scattering surface and get it back to the receiver. This doesn't give you very clear information, but you could scramble a plane to check it out if you thought that was necessary. Back in the day, these were easier to make than smaller radars, and covered area more efficiently. They might even, depending on the particular classified frequency, be better able to penetrate cloud cover. Because of these and the headline physics issues, this "old" radar style will probably continue to be relevant for many years. Update: a slightly more technical discussion can be found here: http://www.ausairpower.net/APA-R...    Embed Quote