★Acoustics: Do high frequency sounds dissipate less in air than low frequency sounds?I've heard that Lincoln had a high voice and that this was actually an advantage in the open air speaking and debating of his time.  Is this right?  More generally, how does the dissipation of a sound wave in air (both loss of amplitude and dispersion of frequency) depend on the wave's frequency?
To expand on the previous answers slightly, high frequency sounds actually dissipate (i.e. are attenuated) a larger amount than low frequency sounds in air (and any other medium). This is because they have a shorter wavelength, so in laymens terms, if you imagine a pressure wave moving through the air over a distance from speaker to listener, at higher frequencies the pressure has to cycle 'up and down' more times before it reaches the listener compared to low frequencies. This means more energy is lost. This makes sense when you think about how bassy sounds can be more easily heard through a neighbours wall, or from a car stereo as it drives past - High frequencies are attenuated by things, (such as walls and car windows and air) more easily so you hear more low frequencies in these situations. So, as Lincoln spoke, the attenuation due to energy dissipation in the air would have been worse had he had a high pitched voice (the attenuation due to distance alone as the sound spreads out over a larger area; the intensity issue mentioned by Amar above, is equal across all frequencies so we'll ignore it). However, presuming Lincoln spoke loud enough that attenuation wasn't an issue, then having a higher pitched voice may have meant that his speech may have had a higher level of clarity. Very generally with speech, low frequency vowel sounds carry the 'power' of the speech, whilst high frequency consonant sounds carry the information of the speech - If these high frequencies are lost, the acoustic power is still there and you can hear that someone is talking but you can't make out what is being said. It is this mechanism that means having a higher voice may be beneficial in being understood in levels of high background noise such as crowds (as mentioned by Eric, above), or in reverberant environments such as halls. So maybe a high voice did help Lincoln when giving speeches or debates.    Embed Quote