★Can multiple small speakers, instead of a single big speaker be used to generate low frequencies at moderate volume levels?
Whilst it would make sense that a larger aperture would allow a greater wavelength to be emitted, this is not the case with speaker cones. Why? Well, the wavelength at 60Hz is 5000km. I don't know of any speaker cone that big. This is because acoustic waves are slow pressure waves. The chaps here explain it in analogy quite well, it requires school-level physics to understand http://barefacedbass.com/technic... Granted, adding several speakers in parallel may compensate somewhat to the quick  negative equalization, but you will introduce other problems by having unbalanced mid-end and high frequencies bouncing off the objects in the room. Simpler usually works best. The problem is that from 8in to 4in there is quite a difference. The way is see it there are 3 options: create a passive boost RLC filter to add more bass manually, or use an audio grade-op amp and make a parametric active filtering box on the preamp section. The reason i specify to use op amps is because they are easier to use, albeit somewhat more expensive for good parts (You'll pay $4-$20 for a double op amp in a single chip). Then you could use something like Texas Instruments FilterPro and put it directly after the line output of your PC. This would be the easiest option but has a moderate chance of success; you still need to make an appropriate enclosure to make the most of it. A word of caution as strong, uneven equalisation can introduce more distortion than usual at higher power levels. Distortion increases exponentially (>10x) over a doubling of power. add a bass reflex to your enclosure see speaker basics ; this will deepen the frequency response of the speaker, it behaves like a Chebyshev-type filter, and it creates phase inversions in the pass band. This could create a problems with certain rooms, so I give it an easy execution with a moderate-low chance of success. Cheap & low power speakers tend to use this trick to artificially boost their range. Modify the cavity of your speaker cabinet. With the right shape, you could do a passive filter that achieves what an electronic one does with even better results, but you will need specialist software, and access to plastic moulding (wax ought to work). Difficult execution with low chance of success. The main challenge with 4 speakers is to try to make sure that they will all be in phase (easier said than done, each driver is very slightly different) and ideally you would want the same power level going through them, which again, won't happen barring tricky to do load-line calibration. The added complications of room placement can both deter and aid your efforts. In the end, it is all a bit subjective, and if it sounds good enough for you...    Embed Quote