Biology, computational biology and bioinformatics
Plant and animal ecology cluster analysis is used to describe and to make spatial and temporal comparisons of communities (assemblages) of organisms in heterogeneous environments; it is also used in plant systematics to generate artificial phylogenies or clusters of organisms (individuals) at the species, genus or higher level that share a number of attributes Transcriptomics clustering is used to build groups of genes with related expression patterns (also known as coexpressed genes). Often such groups contain functionally related proteins, such as enzymes for a specific pathway, or genes that are co-regulated. High throughput experiments using expressed sequence tags (ESTs) or DNA microarrays can be a powerful tool for genome annotation, a general aspect of genomics. Sequence analysis clustering is used to group homologous sequences into gene families. This is a very important concept in bioinformatics, and evolutionary biology in general. See evolution by gene duplication. High-throughput genotyping platforms clustering algorithms are used to automatically assign genotypes. Human genetic clustering The similarity of genetic data is used in clustering to infer population structures.
Medicine
Medical imaging On PET scans, cluster analysis can be used to differentiate between different types of tissue and blood in a three dimensional image. In this application, actual position does not matter, but the voxel intensity is considered as a vector, with a dimension for each image that was taken over time. This technique allows, for example, accurate measurement of the rate a radioactive tracer is delivered to the area of interest, without a separate sampling of arterial blood, an intrusive technique that is most common today. IMRT segmentation Clustering can be used to divide a fluence map into distinct regions for conversion into deliverable fields in MLC-based Radiation Therapy.
Business and marketing
Market research Cluster analysis is widely used in market research when working with multivariate data from surveys and test panels. Market researchers use cluster analysis to partition the general population of consumers into market segments and to better understand the relationships between different groups of consumers/potential customers, and for use in market segmentation, Product positioning, New product development and Selecting test markets. Grouping of shopping items Clustering can be used to group all the shopping items available on the web into a set of unique products. For example, all the items on eBay can be grouped into unique products. (eBay doesn't have the concept of a SKU)
World wide web
Social network analysis In the study of social networks, clustering may be used to recognize communities within large groups of people. Search result grouping In the process of intelligent grouping of the files and websites, clustering may be used to create a more relevant set of search results compared to normal search engines like Google. There are currently a number of web based clustering tools such as Clusty. Slippy map optimization Flickr's map of photos and other map sites use clustering to reduce the number of markers on a map. This makes it both faster and reduces the amount of visual clutter.
Computer science
Software evolution Clustering is useful in software evolution as it helps to reduce legacy properties in code by reforming functionality that has become dispersed. It is a form of restructuring and hence is a way of directly preventative maintenance. Image segmentation Clustering can be used to divide a digital image into distinct regions for border detection or object recognition. Evolutionary algorithms Clustering may be used to identify different niches within the population of an evolutionary algorithm so that reproductive opportunity can be distributed more evenly amongst the evolving species or subspecies. Recommender systems Recommender systems are designed to recommend new items based on a user's tastes. They sometimes use clustering algorithms to predict a user's preferences based on the preferences of other users in the user's cluster. Markov chain Monte Carlo methods Clustering is often utilized to locate and characterize extrema in the target distribution.
Social science
Crime analysis Cluster analysis can be used to identify areas where there are greater incidences of particular types of crime. By identifying these distinct areas or "hot spots" where a similar crime has happened over a period of time, it is possible to manage law enforcement resources more effectively. Educational data mining Cluster analysis is for example used to identify groups of schools or students with similar properties.
Others
Field robotics Clustering algorithms are used for robotic situational awareness to track objects and detect outliers in sensor data.[32] Mathematical chemistry To find structural similarity, etc., for example, 3000 chemical compounds were clustered in the space of 90 topological indices.[33] Climatology To find weather regimes or preferred sea level pressure atmospheric patterns.[34] Petroleum geology Cluster analysis is used to reconstruct missing bottom hole core data or missing log curves in order to evaluate reservoir properties. Physical geography The clustering of chemical properties in different sample locations.
Segmenting the market and determining target markets Product positioning and New Product Development Selecting test markets (see : experimental techniques)
k-means clustering in particular when using heuristics such as Lloyd's algorithm is rather easy to implement and apply even on large data sets. As such, it has been successfully used in various topics, ranging from market segmentation, computer vision, geostatistics,[22] and astronomy to agriculture. It often is used as a preprocessing step for other algorithms, for example to find a starting configuration.
