★Why haven't Microsoft Photosynth or Seadragon been more  integrated with online services such as Flickr?
Chris Hollander, I am assuming that Robert just meant to ask why these techniques aren't being implemented widely across the web, rather than only on Photosynth.net and a few Silverlight apps and Seadragon AJAX iframes. Robert Beckstead, as to why you can't just query flickr for a city or location name and immediately browse all photos on flickr in 3D, there are a few different things to consider. Here are a few: 1) Photo Licenses: Many photos on flickr, other photo sharing services, and the web at large are copyrighted. This means that if Bing Maps, for example, were running a service on their servers all the time that was breathing in every single image on the public web and pumping it through Photosynth to calculate their positions, photographers might sue Microsoft, costing Microsoft money. Because of this, the Photosynth team decided to go with a model of building a photo sharing site where all photos uploaded are the responsibility of individual users who have explicitly agreed to allow Photosynth to use their images in a synth. Bing Maps did publish a community tech preview last year (http://www.bing.com/maps/explore...) of something like this, using only Creative Commons licensed, geotagged Flickr photos, where they used the geotags to approximate which photos were likely to match (GPS signals can be something like 100 meters off in cities, where the signals bounce off the buildings or where a person has manually added geotags and tagged a distant object, rather than where they were standing to see it, etc.) and matched them against their Streetside panoramas. The problem for Microsoft is that their Streetside panorama coverage is still so incredibly small in comparison to Google Maps', that they do not yet have enough of a trellis built for users' photos to hang on to, to launch this as an ongoing service - i.e. Photosynth in the cloud for Bing Images. You may have noticed that Google Maps has their 'User Photos' feature in Street View which is aggressively taking geotagged photos from Google's two photography sites Panoramio and Picasa Web as well as Flickr and the web at large and matching them all against their massive Street View catalogue of photography. You may also notice that Google doesn't seem to care whether images are copyrighted or not. They take a stance that if it is accessible on the public web, then Google is going to organize it to help people find things better and if that hurts photographers' feelings, then too bad. I don't think that Microsoft could ever get away with that sort of practice, though I think that both the photographers and the maps guys who would like to spatially organize all of these photos, videos, etc. have valid points and concerns.. 2) Computer Vision: In order for the photos in a photosynth to be browsed by users, the photos' positions and poses must first be computed. This does take time and although research is ongoing in many computer science departments in universities and corporate entities such as Microsoft Research and Google Labs, it still takes a fair amount of time to register large numbers of photos into a single reconstruction. Today's Photosynth app can handle about 2,000 images at a time, given that your computer has enough RAM installed. If there was a 64-bit version of the Photosynth app, then provided that you had an enormous amount of RAM installed on your computer, you could put more photos together at a time, but it would be an incredibly taxing calculation. Here are a couple of research projects dedicated to advancing the number of images able to be registered and the speed at which that happens: Skeletal Sets for Efficient Structure from Motion: http://www.cs.washington.edu/hom... Building Rome In A Day: http://www.pgrammetry.com/forum/... Building Rome On A Cloudless Day: http://www.pgrammetry.com/forum/... Pushing the Envelope of Modern Methods for Bundle Adjustment: http://research.microsoft.com/ap... 3) Image Format: Seadragon/Deep Zoom is a powerful way of browsing visual information, but it is dependent on image data being sequenced in a particular way. That is the real key behind being able to load only the parts that you need as you need them. Unfortunately, virtually all images on the web are not formatted in this manner which means that either: (a) you must convince the web industry at large to adopt a multi-resolution format such as Seadragon's Deep Zoom Image and Deep Zoom Collection (a free format which is publicly published on MSDN). This would be difficult unless it is introduced via the W3C as a web standard because even though open source DZI viewers already exist for web developers to use, it would require either special code to recompile a particular resolution for users to download when they wished or would require that image editor software creators support opening and editing multi-resolution formats natively. (b) if you cannot get all websites to convert their existing and new images to a multi-resolution format, then Microsoft must create their own copies of every image online and create a DZI copy of it so that a Seadragon client could smoothly access all the data (it is not inconceivable that Bing Images could do this) or (c) you must convince image editing software creators, camera manufacturers, etc. into outputting images in a tiled multi-resolution format by default, so that the content coming from end users when they upload images to the web is already in a multi-resolution format when it is published to websites, thus forcing the web to support multi-resolution image formats. In short, getting a new image format adopted is very very difficult, given the number of image editors that already work with standard .jpgs, etc. Using the Photosynth app to upload images to photosynth.net means that the Photosynth team was able to guarantee that all images were converted to DZI, but trying to force this on other websites is difficult, if not impossible. Sadly, many web developers will outright refuse to adopt a new image format even though the benefits for the web would be huge, for no other reason than the image format comes from Microsoft. There are some interesting projects out there which see the potential of Seadragon's way of browsing imagery and are attempting to apply it to Flickr photos. See http://photopivot.com/ for one example. This is more like point (b) above where someone who believes in the benefits of a multi-res format like DZI is willing to create their own copies of flickr photos on their own web servers and convert their copies to DZI so that end users can reap the benefits. As to the question of using Seadragon tech to browse webpages, I too share Robert's frustration at the Internet Explorer team's lack of vision (and other Microsoft teams as well - Windows, Windows Live, Office, etc.). Unfortunately, although Seadragon was a much larger bag of tricks when it was acquired as a startup by Live Labs than just browsing high resolution images (the text demos (which, though they used a DZI for thumbnail purposes, switched to rendering vector truetype fonts when the image tiles would have been larger to store in RAM than the text), the vector map demos with powerlaw scaling, the dynamically computed fractal Mandelbrot set, etc. etc.), the Silverlight team, who now owns the remnants of the Seadragon tech, has been content to simply have one type of control which uses a watered down version of Seadragon which you can embed in the rest of your Silverlight app, rather than having Deep Zoom be a zoomable interface to every last bit of XAML in your app's menus. Silverlight 5 is said to have GPU support for true hardware accelerated 3D, so perhaps the Deep Zoom control will finally match the performance of Photosynth's Direct3D viewer and the original Seadragon client from 2005/2006. Whether anyone at Microsoft ever realizes that this is useful tech for much more than viewing images, I really don't know. GPU acceleration, in general, has taken far too long to meet web browsing. Even though GPUs began to be available in the mid to late 1990s via PC gaming, web browser creators have taken until 2010 to begin work on using your computer's video card to speed up, enrich, and make fluid your web experience and most browsers will only launch final versions which include GPU support in 2011. With this video card support fitting into place, the smoothness of the zooming can easily be achieved in browsers, however being able to do this with images of unbounded size or large numbers of such images will still require the use of an image formatting such as DZI.    Embed Quote