How can I improve programming skills?
The #1 key thing, is to code more and more. Code alone isn't enough so here are some thoughts: Keep coding. Make tools, write demos, try out new libraries. Coding is like a muscle and needs to be exercised. Even if you stop coding for some time it takes time to get back on track. Just keep coding. Read code. Go back and read your own code, read other people's code. You'll be surprised to see how different your old code was, and how much it could be improved. Read other people's code but don't assume all code or massive amounts of code are good coding practices. If you have access to other code repositories from your work by all means read it, you'll gain lots of insight. Github makes this super easy as well. Do code reviews and check out some code guidelines. Google publishes their code style guidelines and they're quite good. Code reviews don't have to be formal and can be for your own entertainment & knowledge. Read, understand, and try to think how to improve the code. You'll learn some really clever techniques from other peoples code, and as consequence, identify inefficient code in other places. Don't assume code is good because it is extensive, because it comes from a big place like google or microsoft, or because it belong to some famous project. Know your tools like the back of your hand. You don't need to know 25 editors, the newest IDE, or all vim and emacs bindings. Whatever is that you use, be comfortable enough so it's not a distraction. Step out and learn something else. Check out haskell or clojure, do some SQL or NoSQL. Check some other scripting language. Just keeps things fresh in your mind. Nail the basics. Read about what makes things work in the language you use the most and how things work behind the scenes. Do you know what happens with memory generations in your garbage collector? Ever stepped through code generated by your compiler? There's plenty of articles of this kind online. Read about programming concepts rather than languages or syntax. For example, read about Design Patterns. Heads First Design Patterns is an awesome book on this topic. There are others like Clean Code, Code Gems, Beautiful Code, Refactoring to Patterns, Coders at Work. Learn some heavy stuff debugging. Find out how to debug things after deployment, try to trace back a crash from a crash dump. Updated 193w ago • View Upvotes