Programming Interviews: How should I prepare to get placed in Dream companies (CS product-based)?
Below given are some important aspects of how you go about your placement preparation. Subjects you must concentrate on: Data Structures and Algorithms, Operating Systems, Database Management Systems, Computer Networks, Object Oriented Programming. Subjects that you can be a bit lite on: Computer Architecture, Theory of Computation, Programming Languages and Compilers. 1. DSA - Study all the Algorithms properly. Use Cormen. Possibly the best book. If you are short on time go through the MIT videos. - You must know the applications of every algorithm along with the complexity. - Most of the companies ask problems related to specific parts in DSA. For eg. Dynamic Programming, Backtracking, Recursion is asked often. Companies like Flipkart, PayPal, Walmart go really deep into these concepts. - These companies ask you to apply the above into real life problems. Like Flipkart for eg had asked me to give an algo for their warehouse. I had to simulate the warehouse of flipkart using a shortest path algo which will be most efficient. It was a combo of Dynamic Programming and Graph Algorithms. Be prepared to think out of the box. Only your approach is checked. Not the entire answer that you give. Your algo may not be up to the mark. But if your approach is wrong, you are screwed. Get your approach proper. If you go wrong on your approach, look for the hints given by the interviewer. They often try to lead you back to the track of the right answer by giving some hints. If you still can’t do it. They stop and ask you to leave. - Be prepared with the complexity of each algorithm. Often they ask you to improvise your given algorithm to more efficient algo. Sometimes they ask you to write a code on their laptops. So do not panic. Be prepared. 2. OS   - Important topics are Processes, Synchronization, Semaphores, Memory. - Questions involving semaphores are asked intensely by companies like PayPal, Directi, Microsoft, Oracle, etc. - Also, a lot of questions are asked on process diagrams and memory. They ask you the importance of zombie process and stuff. Also virtual memory and stuff. - I was asked to code a binary semaphore on his laptop. So be prepared if something like this pops out. - Virtual memory, Paging, Segmentation are important. Also basic linux commands must be known. 3. CN   - Comparatively less amount of questions on CN. Mostly on TCP/IP, connection establishment, etc. Three way handshake and stuff. Also, the 7 OSI layers along with their importance are asked. Be prepared with the functionality of each layer. - Companies like CISCO will ask CN more than others. Also, in case of Directi, the coding round that takes place can be a one which involves Socket Programming. So get your basics of Socket establishment and connection. You can code in any language you want. - We were given the implementation of nmap function using Socket Programming as a part of our coding round in Directi. - Sometimes they ask you tricky questions like “ If I am a naughty boy. There is a LAN cable connected. If I pull it out. When will my network layer realize the connection failure. :D” So, be prepared for such questions. 4. Databases   - Be thorough with those ER-diagrams. They ask you to draw it sometimes. - Normalization questions are often asked in DB. Till 4NF and BCNF. Not beyond that. They give you a DB and ask the normal form of it. And then ask you to normalize it further. - Also, in some cases, you are asked to design the Database. Like for eg. There is an Olympic being held at London. You have to give a complete description of the tables, the keys of each table, the redundancy of the tables if any and all possible such tables must be shown. How efficient is you model and stuff like that. - SQL also is asked by companies concentrating on DB. All commands and queries are asked. Again they provide their laptop and ask you to write the query. Outer join, theta join, etc is also asked. 5. OOP   - Any OO language you know you have to tell them. Make sure you do not tell any if you don’t know. - For Java/C++, questions on Abstraction, Encapsulation, Inheritance, Polymorphism are asked. You have to give examples for these OO concepts. - Then “Friend Class” is their favorite class in both Java/C++. They ask questions related to it. Whether its private or public. Whether its abstract, etc. - Difference between abstract classes and interfaces is asked. They may ask you to implement a interface or write an abstract class. Some code is asked. - Method overloading/overriding is asked. You have to give an example. - Operator overloading/overriding is often asked asked. - Garbage collection and the finalize() method is asked. They ask you to implement your own finalize method. That’s all with the coursework. Make sure your resume is not too research based. Companies like Oracle, Directi discourage research and if they find your resume to be research oriented high chances of you not getting into these companies. For companies like PayPal, Flipkart, Walmart these guys encourage you to have a research background (but not too much of research). Make sure that you build your resume accordingly. Generally the interviews go as follows..   1. Technical Interview 1   - Basic Coding Skills : involves C/C++/Java/Python. Basic OS concepts and Basic Algos like sorting searching. Basic linked list operations and stack and queue operations. - Some basic code to be written on paper. Mostly recursive linked list stuff. Or tree, binary search tree stuff. - Complexities are asked about some algos. 2. Technical Interview 2   - Intense questions on Algorithms are asked. You have to apply your knowledge of DSA to solve the given problem. Approach important. Constantly keep on speaking with the interviewer. As you proceed keep talking about what you are up to and how are you approaching the problem. - Deeper OS concepts and DB, CN. 3. Technical Interview 3   - More intense algorithms are asked. Involves graphs generally and trees. Many times concentration is on shortest path algorithms. 4. HR Interview - LITE!!! JUST SPEAK… In all interviews you are asked to tell something about yourself. Make sure in this you tell them what projects you have done and what all stuff have you currently been working on. Try to move them to your project as much as possible. The more time you spend on your projects, the more better it is… Also, try to tell them about some course projects that you have done during your coursework. Its always better if the interview goes in your favor. And it will go in your favor if more time is spent on your projects. If you don’t know stuff be straight enough to tell that you don’t know it. Do not fake answers. If you give a fake answer BIG TROUBLE!!. They appreciate if you tell them you don’t know stuff. Some important websites that might help you in your preparation are given below. 1. Programming Interview Questions | CareerCup - Very important. Gives company specific questions along with their answers. 2. cracktheinterview.com - Important from basic C perspective and basic Data structure coding. 3. GeeksforGeeks - A computer science portal for geeks - Questions on Dynamic programming and backtracking and recursion really important Updated 147w ago • View Upvotes