What is the best way to prepare for software engineering job interviews in 2 months?
Because of the time constraint, you'll need to begin focusing on the actual interview. Your resume/CV will still matter to get past the HR hurdle, but because you've been interning already I will assume you have that under control :) It's banal, but the best way to be successful at interviewing at Google and Facebook etc is to not apply there. At least not first. You will doubtless look back on the interview saga and be surprised at how much you improved, not at coding, but at interviewing because the process is so... orthogonal to coding or being a good coder, something you've probably spent a lot of time on because you love it or for whatever reason we keep coming back to this symbol soup! If you do have your heart set on a 'tier 1', that's okay! Just schedule the ones you want the most, towards the end of your interview schedule and then begin practicing! I can suggest a few resources that you should be looking to draw upon now, but these will be skewed towards the short timeframe, i.e. there are plenty of great interview question sites (such as http://interviewbit.com and great books resources such as Cracking the Coding Interview: 150 Programming Questions and Solutions) but what you need to practice or get used to now is the pressure test of interviewing. Definitely check out http://pramp.com which I think is a great idea and great service -- but I think something like http://gainlo.co is a bit more suited to the timeframe you have here because of one key aspect: it's paid, and that ups the ante so to speak. You absolutely need to get used to being watched while you work, and be under pressure to solve the solution. (Whether or not this is a good habit to get software engineers in or a good expectation signal to send, in my opinion is questionable -- but not really in my power to change, lol!) There is another service which is suited to the final stages of interview preparation, but focuses on the process from resume submission, through to scheduling times and then the interview. Candidacy.io will conduct interviews with you from developers already working at world class companies and then give you the feedback as if you were able to look into the process that goes on at the company you are applying for. The best part about Candidacy, however is that they can give you a feel for the competition  you're likely to face by showing you aggregate performance statistics. Here's how it works: Disclaimer -- I do work for Candidacy.io but still think that the interview process is so 'large' that nearly every service is relevant to a prospective candidate from a university to Q&A sites, to interview question sites, to real interview experience services however there is one site that isn't relevant at all: any "business insider" articles on "10 TRICK QUESTIONS GOOGLE USES TO TRICK U". Please spare yourself ;) haha Updated 10w ago • View Upvotes