What should I do in the next 6 months to get into a company like Amazon/Google?
Well, you have core quality of "passion to learn", that is sufficient. When we are disciplined, rest follows. You need to have hands on practice with algorithms and data structures. The following link would help for reference books. What is the best textbook for data structures and algorithms? Here are some suggestions: Assess your weakness areas in Algos & DS and refer books to improve. Never code directly on compiler. Code on paper, then type into editor. Visualise the algorithm, data structure - how it works and its structure. Relate each algo with algos of similar nature. Master at least one programming language, preferably C/C++, Go or Java. You should write production quality code in any of the language. Learn and use associated libraries. For e.g. C++ Standard Library or Java Class Library. Sites like The C++ Resources Network and cppreference.com would be helpful. Refer forums like GeeksforGeeks and CareerCup, yet practice on own. Code each solution in most efficient way, both time and space. Team up with your friends (maximum of three/team) of same interest. And use tools like Sync.in to share code and ideas. Refer materials on top universities like Stanford, MIT, IIT, etc... Practice design in object oriented way, or improve existing design. Ensure you understood object oriented design principles and patterns. Use a smart phone to maximize your time utilization. You can carry some videos from NPTEL, Coursera, MIT Introduction to Algorithms, UC Berkeley, etc ... Also, you can carry some soft copies of books you bought, refer these when needed. We have access to 5 " screens. Refer online coding practice sites like Leetcode Online Judge, SPOJ, codechef, Codeforces, Interviewstreet, http://learn.hackerearth.com. Make sure you finish solution in time. Don't take any solution for granted, you may get run time surprises. Learn from expert's code, it is one best way to improve skills. Read (only for questions) like Coding Interview Questions - Narasimha, Cracking The Coding Interview: Gayle , Elements of programming interview, etc... (infact, if you practice well, these are not needed). Daily revise to have solid basics of operating systems, database concepts, concurrency, networking, number theory, puzzles, etc... Reverse engineer existing products of your interest like Nginx, openssl, Apache Spark™, leveldb, etc ... and learn their design. If you still have time, pick one good open source project and contribute, like node.js, memcached, nginx, Joomla!, many to name. Have strict plan based on your available time, and practice, practice and practice on own. Note that interview result also depends on interviewing person. Aim for best and prepare for worst. Hope, I will hear back from you in an year time. Key factor, it is not just the final goal that should inspire you, even the path should encourage your thoughts. Be contented on what you learn and excel. Enjoy your preparation and learning. [Update] Good cover up by Aashish Barnwal, provided many do's-don'ts during preparation and interview. My suggestions were in the view of learning. Aashish have cracked MS interview on campus. Keep his thoughts in mind. P.S.: Don't opt these companies for salary. Your interest should drive you. Updated 87w ago • View Upvotes