What skills are needed to get a software engineering job at companies like Google and Facebook?
I am not working either of the two companies. However I appeared for a few interviews and thus have an idea about what are these companies looking for. 1. Algorithms and Data Structures: You should be very good with algorithms and data structures. Given a problem you should be able to come up with a data structure and correct and efficient algorithms to solve it. Remember that during interviews just coming up with the appropriate answer is not sufficient. The approach is more important. If your answer is not optimized but the approach is correct then you should be able to get through. 2. Decent coding skills: You should be fluent in at least one programming language. Generally the interviewer will ask you to code the solution for given problem. So code such that it is readable. Use commenting, good variable and function names and follow the standard indenting practices. 3. Problem solving skills and never give up attitude: A good interviewer will test you to the limits. It is not necessary to answer all the questions. Generally the difficulty keeps on increasing as you answer more and more questions correctly (adaptive test). So when a new question props up that you are not able to solve, do not worry. Remember approach is important. 4. Good communications skills: Remember that you will always work in a team. So you need to show to the interviewer that you can communicate well and work in a team. You may come up with a very elegant solution, but it is necessary to communicate it to the interviewer properly. Use examples, speak slowly and clearly and keep the interviewer involved and you should be good. All the above-mentioned points are mainly on lines of how to get past the interview. However the question is not specific to that. To get the job, firstly you should be able to show the above-mentioned skills in your resume. 1. CS- related projects: Even if you are not from CS background, you can do CS-projects. Do something independently or take up some project with a professor. Try your luck at GSoc and do some summer internship in some startup. It should get you some CS-projects that will get you shortlisted for interview. 2. Relevant courses: Not all universities allow students to choose courses. if your university does allow, then opt for courses on algorithms, data structures, operating systems, programming language etc. If not, most of these courses are available on coursera and mit ocw. Pursue them. You should put them up in your CV/resume. 3. References: Even after having relevant projects and courses is unable to get you shortlisted, get in touch with friends working in these companies. Generally references can get you through to interview. For more details read the books "Cracking the coding interview" by Gayle Laakmann McDowell. She has explained very well with examples on what the interview process is and how a candidate should prepare for the interviews. 