What skills are needed to get a software engineering job at companies like Google and Facebook?
You need not be a CS graduate (even though it helps a lot) to be a software engineer in a company like Google or Facebook. Some points: 1. Sound knowledge in data structures and algorithms, including the complexities of various algorithms. 2. The knowledge mentioned in (1) should not be something like "a hash table will give constant time, while a tree will give logarithmic time".  Depending on the situation, it may be different.  Get the basic concepts thorough. 3. You should be able to use this knowledge in solving a problem you are not familiar with.  You should be able to suggest the best data structures and explain what algorithms you will use with an analysis of complexities.  It is OK if you don't solve the problem completely.  You should be able to iterate on what you say to get better solution.  The interviewers may ask for more efficient solutions, both time and space.  So, you should be able switch from one working solution to another more efficient one. 4. Strong coding skills in some language, preferably an object-oriented language.  Now-a-days, companies expect you know OO concepts. 5. Familiarity with design patterns is a plus, but not as essential as the previous things. 6. Attitude to find solution rather than giving up.  Also, if you don't know or can't do it, admit it rather than diverting the attention to something else.  Nobody expects you to know everything in the industry. 7. It is OK to tell a little more than what is asked to show your knowledge, but do not try to divert the topic from the question to something you are more familiar. 8. Do not bluff.  If you have only read knowledge, and not practical knowledge, tell that.  If you have only working knowledge and not expertise, tell that. You can tell partial details as well. For example, "I am a C++ expert.  But, even though I know STL pretty well, I have never written template classes myself.  Also, I have never used exceptions. I haven't used C++11." 