Programming Interviews: How should I prepare to get placed in Dream companies (CS product-based)?
Pursue a Phd or join a company? To some extent, I agree with Mr. Sarang Sharma that if you really want to explore Computer Science, getting a PhD is the best choice for you. It may be the best but it is not the only choice. If PhD is what you want, I would go with Mr. Sarang's advice. Otherwise this is what I would do. What type of company? If you want job satisfaction along with work that is challenging and has impact on the world, I would not aim for a big company like Microsoft, Google and Amazon etc., because there you don't get to choose the kind of work you do and you may not get to play a key role till you gain a lot of experience (and by then, you will have lost half your passion, creativity and competitive spirit). The answer for you is to join a startup company: There are lots of startups in the country in and around Bangalore, Pune, Hyderabad and Chennai. Some of them are risky because they are in their initial stages with 5-10 people in the company. If you are willing to take the risk for one or two years I suggest you join such companies (Don't think you can easily get into these companies just because they are startups. Some startups are actually very careful while recruiting). Also being in those companies will give you a lot of exposure because you get to deal with clients and develop products THE WAY YOU LIKE! If you don't want to take risks, there are lots of companies which are relatively young but are stable like Flipkart (Software Dev.), Chronus Corp, Inmobi etc. These companies have great work culture too and they offer you decent levels of independence. If you want a list of companies, I suggest you lookup my answer to the following question: Which tech startups in India pay freshers 12 lacs p.a. upwards? Work Satisfaction? No matter where you go, remember this. Working for a company will be different in many ways compared to the projects you do as a part of your university curriculum. I will not elaborate on this but you should understand the reason for the difference. Preparation: Make sure you focus on your project work (This applies to long run too. Whatever project you work on, know the details of it inside out.) Practice coding from these sources: Programming Competition,Programming Contest,Online Computer Programming Sphere Online Judge (SPOJ) Project Euler, Programming Test | Hire programmers | Interviewstreet | Dashboard Follow these books for data structures and Algorithms: 1) Amazon.com: Algorithms For Interviews (9781453792995): Adnan Aziz, Amit Prakash: Books 2) Cracking the Coding Interview: 150 Programming Questions and Solutions: Gayle Laakmann McDowell: 9780984782802: Amazon.com: Books If you are looking for video lectures and other web based material, you have 1) Free Online Course Materials    (MIT Open CourseWare) 2) IITs and IISc elearning Courses in Engineering and Science under NPTEL You can get any course you want (Operating Systems, Machine Learning etc.) here. Also, you might want to solve some puzzles from the following sites: 1) Delightful Puzzles 2) CSE Blog - Quant, Math and Computer Science Puzzles for Interview Preparation and Brain Teasing 3) techinterview Some companies may look for C/C++ aptitude questions also. So, practice them also. You can get them from any placement related website. 