How does Facebook interview and hire top talent?
We interviewed Arun Dobrial, one of Facebook's new hire from the prestigious IITs (IIT Kharagpur) to shed some light on the recruitment process. Obviously he couldn't divulge all the intricate details but overall here is how the recruitment process works. His account of that day proves how thorough the company is in choosing only the best and most deserving. An online exam was conducted to select 25 students out of over 200 students who had applied. There were two software engineers and a HR person from the Facebook’s Palo Alto office to manage and conduct the whole process. The 25 were subjected to an offline coding exam consisting of just two questions, only to select about 10 students. The shortlisted students then underwent a round of individual interviews. He was the first one to face a conference call interview with a few people from California, which also consisted of two on-the-spot coding type questions. If this wasn't enough, there were three more rounds of interviews to conclude the hiring process. But in the end, he and three others passed with flying colours and, of course, hefty pays. Arun, with his vast experience and wide range of accomplishments, had lots of advice for the future graduates. In one of his most important points, he clearly implied how trivial a résumé is. It’s a formality and a minor part of the process. It’s all about exceedingly strong fundamentals. When asked about what giants like Facebook are looking for in students, he answers with supreme proficiency in algorithmic programming and data structures. It is algorithmic programming and not system programming that has gained a lot of importance. Of course, qualities like good communication skills and other soft skills are a given for any such high-profile offer. One of the most important qualities that set you apart from your peers is how good you’re at using algorithms to solve any given problem instantaneously. Exceptionally strong foundation in the subject is pivotal to your success. Although the programming language is the candidate’s choice, being very good at one language is a very valuable asset. In his opinion, it’s a must. His repeated emphasis on fundamentals illustrates the fact that they are a must to perform effectively, be it in the interview or at the company itself. Full Disclosure: This is his personal account of the recruitment process. We cover such success stories in our blog at TopTalent.in TopTalent.in is an exclusive job portal for top professionals from most elite colleges in India. 