How can one sharpen their problem-solving skills to prepare for an interview at a top-level software engineering firm?
To append something missing from most of the comments to help you prepare software engineer interviews, I strongly suggest you try the following advices: Spend enough time on learning algorithm. Especially for students, more often than not interviews from Google, Facebook are focused on algorithm questions and there are tons of resources like GlassDoor as the other comments said on this thread. Practice writing on the white board. It might sound unnecessary, but once you try it, you'll know how important it is. Interviewers from top-level software engineering firms will ask you to write solid code on a white board and it's so different from writing on your favorite text editor. If you couldn't find a white board, either buy one from Amazon (a small one is quite cheap) or at least try writing on papers. Practice talking while thinking. Interviewers really care about communication, they need to know the whole process while you're solving the problem. Being quiet for 5 min and writing down the answer are quite risky since if you don't make it, the interviewer has no way to know how far you go. I found talking while thinking quite difficult initially as I couldn't focus. But once you get adapt to it, it just comes naturally. Practice with mock interviews. It's a great experience for you to practice in a way where you can't fail. You can do this with your friends and interview them back. I also got my mock interview from http://www.gainlo.co whose interviewers are working at Google, Facebook etc. and gave me tons of feedbacks.Personally I find mock interview the most effective way because you will have totally different feeling when thinking and solving problems in front of a person. You'll be nervous, and you may fail even at the simplest question. Also interviewers from real interview won't give you any authentic feedback, they can only tell you those official response, which is no other than bullshit. However a mock interviewer will help you improve in every way especially he/she is experienced. 