★How does trading, especially high-frequency trading, add value to society?
As the first point, I think these questions are silly if you believe in free capital markets.  If we have free markets, trading should be allowed, and if trading should be allowed, trading strategically should be allowed.  To say that you can trade, but not while following a strategy, is bad for all participants because it hurts price discovery.  So then saying, well, does trading using strategy X, Y, or Z add value is basically selective targeting of particular strategies.  To me, this latest trend of attacking high frequency strategies is similar to people attacking short-selling in the past.  The reality was, when short selling of a large number of stocks was banned in October 2008, not only did that not help the financial crisis, it made it worse.  Free markets should be allowed to work. Now, if there is an externality created by a market, regulations need to correct for that.  But being able to trade strategically is not an externality.  Being able to trade fast is not an externality.  Having better models and being better at math is not an externality. To add some context, my own experience in the markets had been around developing strategies that look at time horizons of minutes to hours.  I personally have no interest in low-latency strategies that use advanced hardware or co-location to find arbitrage at the level of microseconds.  But I think they do add value, although again, as to the point above, it is against the spirit of capital markets to pose the question in that form. Asking whether an externality is introduced is more appropriate.  That said, from my (past) perspective as an operator at the minute- and hour- timeframe, basically my trading helps create the correct sized moves in response to events and correlations between prices that allows information to be reflected in a timely way for longer term investors.  But for me to do that at an acceptable cost, spreads have to be tight, and the presence of the low-latency folks helps with that. Is it worth people's time to do this is another story -- see Is having a bunch of the world's best mathematicians and physicists work on automated trades a waste of the world's human capital?  But there, the issue is with not enough information (mathematicians being aware of other lucrative and high-value-added opportunities like in Silicon Valley) and with not enough funding for science and mathematics, not with how capital markets are designed.  (Also, a lot of the people working on bona fide low latency trading are not math and physics research people, necessarily, more like kernel experts and hardware experts.)