★What is the definition of high frequency trading?
Part of the reason there's so much confusion about high-frequency trading is that it seems like a very fuzzy idea, when you get down to details. Is it trading on minute scale? Seconds? Microseconds? You hear all of these. The one and only defining characteristic of a "high-frequency" trading strategy is that it is optimized for highly consistent day-to-day returns [1]. This is normally measured by Sharpe ratio, which is basically returns divided by standard deviation (see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sha... for more). In practice, the only way to build a strategy with a very high daily Sharpe is to trade very often every day, and zero out or hedge your position frequently (to lock in your gains or limit your losses). Because this consistency is so highly prized, and so difficult to achieve, high-frequency traders (and investors) expect a bunch of downsides: Capital constraints: most HF-style strategies can only use a small, fixed amount of investment (often on the scale of $100k - $10m). Infrastructure requirements: automated trading usually requires expensive, ongoing software and hardware development. It's hard to backtest: if the strategy depends on the interaction of individual orders, it's quite hard to get a precise simulation of how your strategy would perform.However, there are also some common benefits: You don't need leverage or investors or special bank relationships. If your strategy works, it will fill its capital constraint with its own profits in a matter of days or weeks. You can't really go bankrupt, or lose a ton of money, because the market "moved against you". Programming or strategy errors, though, are fair game. All these features, though, are secondary to and consequences of optimizing for consistency. Any HF hedge fund will hire/invest in you if you have a demonstrably high Sharpe ratio[2], and won't give you the time of day if you don't. [1] Why daily consistency, rather than (say) hourly or weekly? There are many practical issues that make daily measurement convenient, but I think it's also that it "feels" right. It takes a few weeks to a few months of trading to explore an idea and generate some data, which is a nice time scale to work on (and to evaluate others on). Besides, how wrong could it go in just one day? (I kid, I kid) [2] How high? Well, the lower "don't call us, we'll call you" limit is probably around 3-4, depending on the details. Certainly 10 or higher will turn anyone's head.