★Has high frequency trading improved market quality?In terms of market depth, liquidity, transaction costs. Particularly during times of financial stress.
In 2012, the Government Office for Science in London performed an extensive 175 page study on computer trading [1]. In the conclusion to Chapter 3 (The impact of computer-based trading on liquidity, price efficiency/discovery and transaction costs), they write: Technology has allowed new participants to enter, new trading methods to arise and even new market structures to evolve. Much of what has transpired in markets is for the good: liquidity has been enhanced, transactions costs have been lowered and market efficiency appears to be better, or certainly no worse. In Chapter 3 they cite dozens of studies in support of this conclusion. On the other hand, I recently read an interesting working paper by some scholars at the University Chicago that offers a contrarian perspective [2]. In it they write the following: We wish to clarify the relationship between our result and the clear empirical evidence that bid-ask spreads are narrower today than in the pre-HFT era. The rise of HFT over the last ﬁfteen years or so conﬂates two distinct phenomena: the increased role of information technology (IT) in ﬁnancial markets (e.g., algorithmic trading), and the speed race. Our interpretation of the empirical record is that there is considerable evidence that IT has improved bid-ask spreads...which makes intuitive economic sense, as IT has lowered costs in numerous sectors throughout the economy. However, there is no empirical evidence for the proposition that the speed race per se has improved bid-ask spreads... I personally agree with the spirit of this sentiment (although I disagree with other aspects of the U. of C. paper). Computer trading has unequivocally made markets better, similarly to how the Internet has made communication better. But the true social value of HFT firms' activities probably lies more in the automation aspect rather than in the speed aspect. [1]  Foresight: The Future of Computer Trading in Financial Markets (2012) [2] The High-Frequency Trading Arms Race: Frequent Batch Auctions as a Market Design Response (working paper)