★How can I invest in high frequency trading, algorithmic trading, or latency arbitrage?Is there any way for a regular person to invest in entities performing these kinds of trading?
It doesn't really make sense to "invest" in algorithmic trading.  These terms are not very well defined but Algorithmic trading is generally a method of *execution*.  This means that once a company decides what to buy (or receives a customer order), instead of having the trader buy the stock, a computer does it.  The algorithm decides how to buy it (slow vs. fast, aggressively or not, etc.).  Also, nearly every company out there uses algorithmic trading to some extent.  They may not be the firm's own algorithms (i.e. they may send the order elsewhere where an algorithm is used).  Also, some algorithms are certainly smarter than others.  If your program got an order to buy 1000 shares of stock and simply bought 100 shares each minute for the next 10 minutes, that would still be an example of an algorithm (just a very simple and stupid one).  But stuff like this is used. Short version:  algorithmic trading doesn't tell you *what* to buy or sell - it controls *how* it's bought or sold once you already know what you want to do. As for latency arb or high frequency trading, you won't do it yourself because the costs are too high (networking, hardware, co-location fees, etc.).  It's an arms race that you definitely do not want to be involved in unless you have millions of dollars of expendable capital.  Also with the space becoming more and more crowded, returns are diminishing.  You can certainly invest in these areas, but you'll have to find a hedge fund that does it, allows investor money in these areas (many will only use private money for these strategies), and have enough money to invest (some funds may require a minimum of several million dollars, and by law you have to meet certain criteria for net worth and/or income). In short, don't worry about it.  The guys doing this affect you so much less than the media would have you think, and they're also not making as much money as you think.  If you want to do more than simply buying and holding index funds, then spend your time researching individual companies.