★I want to know everything about high frequency trading and/or algorithmic trading, where do I start?
Because of the nature of the industry, this field is pretty opaque.  There are not any publicly available resources that will give you a guide of how to build a profitable high frequency trading system from scratch.   If you are trying to learn in order to get a job in the industry, most companies who are hiring are looking for people with quantitative and/or technical skill sets, not necessarily someone who is very familiar with actual trading strategies.   Even if you did know a lot about how to build a trading strategy, this may not come up very much during an interview process because until you are hired, a company wouldn't want to give away anything about what they do.  That being said, here is some literature that is at least tangentially helpful: Introduction to High-Frequency Finance: Gencay, Muller, Olsen & Pictet Dacorogna: 9780122796715: Amazon.com: Books This book is more about high frequency data than it is about strategies, but nonetheless it is a good introduction. Trading and Exchanges: Market Microstructure for Practitioners: Larry Harris: 9780195144703: Amazon.com: Books Empirical Market Microstructure: The Institutions, Economics, and Econometrics of Securities Trading: Joel Hasbrouck: 9780195301649: Amazon.com: Books These two books are not specifically about high-frequency trading, but they are about market microstructure.  Understanding market microstructure is important to start looking at execution strategies. Amazon.com: The Elements of Statistical Learning: Data Mining, Inference, and Prediction, Second Edition (Springer Series in Statistics) (9780387848570): Trevor Hastie, Robert Tibshirani, Jerome Friedman: Book Time Series Analysis: James Douglas Hamilton: 9780691042893: Amazon.com: Books These are books about statistical methods you may want to use in analyzing time series data of financial instruments. Much of the work being done these days in the HFT space is about hardware and software optimization, which has little to do with data or models.  Generally companies hire experts in software engineering, optimization, and networks to do this kind of work.  Finally, when it comes to algorithmic trading, keep in mind that this is a different problem than high-frequency trading.  Algorithmic trading can refer to execution algorithms to buy 1,000,000 shares of a stock efficiently throughout the day.  One resource that I found helpful in this area -- and there others, to be sure -- are papers by Robert Almgren, who is one of the top experts in the industry on algorithmic trading but is also an academic: http://www.courant.nyu.edu/~almg....