★Is high-frequency trading a zero-sum game?
Firstly, in response to your caption, Banking and trading might appear similar to the general public in the sense that say -- "Goldman Sachs does both"; however, they are two completely different beasts, and serve distinct functions in maintaining the well-being of a healthy market. I will focus on trading in this answer. To keep this post brief, I will identify how high frequency trading (HFT) contributes towards two basic goals of trading in general: 1) Provide liquidity (a service to those holding assets) 2) Provide information fair value (a service to the market in general) Towards point 1, high frequency trading provides high-quality liquidity in the form of tight bid-offer spreads -- but only in small quantities. This form liquidity is opposite in form to say, "quantitative easing", which provides deep liquidity. Retail investors are the biggest beneficiaries of tighter bid-offer spreads; larger institutions benefit less because the quantities offered are generally insufficient to satisfy institutional demand. Towards point 2, high frequency provides a higher temporal resolution on the fair value of a financial instrument. Here is an analogy; say you are examining California's coastline. Zoomed out on Google Maps -- you only observe a simple curve; however, as you zoom in, you begin to become aware of the jaggedness of the landscape. For the analogy, each trade in the open market is like a measurement on the coastline of California. High frequency allows the market to make more measurements, and provide precise pricing. Some may mistake this higher resolution as the introduction of more volatility, when in reality, it is merely due to a heightened level of awareness on how prices change real-time. I also list some drawbacks to HFT. 1) HFT vastly increases our dependence on computer system infrastructure. This is frequently referred to as systematic risk, an unfortunate collision of names with the more general market phenomenon. 2) Like all new technology, HFT poses regulatory challenges: especially regarding issues surrounding regulation of intent. 3) HFT employs highly quantitative people who could have contributed to other domains in society; given that the US suffers from an acute labor shortage in precisely these disciplines,this drawback is perhaps the least speculative amongst the three. In finance, there are lots of highly compensated middle men (and women) shuffling papers all day. Many of them will be driven out by a computer system that automates the paper-shuffling: computers are faster, more accurate, and always available when it comes to communicating data, aggregating data, and making basic numerical judgments.  The loss of these highly compensated paper-shuffling jobs is a short term negative, but I still think HFT is the right direction for society. HFT contributes to the market and it is not a zero-sum game in the grand picture.