★What algorithms are used in high-frequency trading?
I have considered this from many angles before moving our investment funds' equities block trades to an exchange which precludes HFT access and am happy to share my learning below. HFT includes many sub-disciplines. As Jeroen A.G. Mulder wrote, it can include quantitative methods with short holding periods and can be based on either or both technical and fundamental analysis which use traditional patterns or pricing discrepancies to make trades over any time period. There is nothing objectionably predatory or harmful about such strategies, they're just a very fast version of what traders have done for decades. The other, more recently discussed form of HFT includes algorithms to predict large block buying or selling patterns based on observed trades using high speed connections (or even co-location or even in-house exchanges), and then using these same high speed connections to place trades based on their predictions of what trades will next occur. The simplest such algorithm, 'front-running', which depends on technological and geographical advantages, is to place a stock up for sale in a significant quantity at a certain price at an exchange to which orders typically arrive first (because of the placement and length of optical fibre connections). When an order comes in to buy up the entire lot of stock, the HFTs will assess the order quality, and determine if it is an indicator that similar orders will go to other exchanges. To exploit this, the HFTs will place orders to buy at the offer price at the other exchanges as well. Because of the HFTs speed advantages, they will often buy up all the stock first, forcing the price up to the next point. If the original order originator placed a limit order at that next point or higher, the HFT will win in having exploited the spread by using its advantages in speed of execution. The second such algorithm is 'rebate arbitrage'. Orders are routed between exchanges based on costs and rebates offered. Because of the competition between exchanges, different exchanges provide different incentives and costs for liquidity makers and takers. HFTs understand the order routing algorithms, use their speed/locational advantages to predict orders coming in, and then exploit their knowledge of routing (which is constantly in flux, but detectable to someone who researches systematically - similar to Google PageRank algorithms) to make small amounts by routing their buy and sell orders to specific exchanges. The third such algorithm in the public domain, 'time/price arbitrage' is a simple speed-based algorithm which involves looking at prices on different exchanges in different cities, and using their speed advantage to exploit pricing lag between exchanges. This algorithm arguably is the least objectionably harmful as it is somewhat passive in nature, adding liquidity to the market.