★How does trading, especially high-frequency trading, add value to society?
I think this question should be answered in a relative and an absolute basis. On an absolute basis, yes, all forms of trading add value to society because they almost always drive prices towards a supply-demand equilibrium. Also, we need many different types of traders using different strategies: short-term, long-term, directional, arbitrage, fundamental, systematic, hedgers(think farmers that want to sell their wheat) etc. This way, their is always a counterparty that wants to take what you want to buy or sell. I think there are very few people that can really disagree with these points, from both a theoretical and empirical point of view. Now on the more important and harder-to-defend relative basis. Note, all of my answers are now my own point of view: 1. Are we misusing very talented people that prefer to trade instead of creating better medicines, planes, cars, you name it. Yes, many people have chosen this route because it pays more. Being very honest, it's hard to blame them. 2. Do we have too much people trading and too much people making money out of trading? Yes, there are too much people trading and trying to make money out of trading. My point is that trading, and everything finance for that matter, creates positive value to society up to a certain point, but I think we are way beyond that threshold. Now the more important concept you should be aware of is that this is only a SYMPTOM of a much larger problem. And that problem is that we live in a system that has inundated us with fiat-money and credit. Here is a graph of inflation since the birth of the USA: Chart of Consumer Price Index, 1800-2005 Please note the great spike that happened in 1971. I won't enter into a discussion of why that is, but again, nobody can deny that we live in a world with unprecedented money creation. Now just think, what happens when you have too much of something?? Well you have to manage it right? Well there you go, there are a lot people in finance, and making a lot of money in finance today, because they are managing all this money. All these traders(HFT or not) are actually in demand because the worldwide money printing machine has been giving them a lot of work to do!! So now your question should be, WHY HAVE WE BEEN CREATING SO MUCH MONEY?? Well that is the one question you should be asking all the time, as it it will lead to answers to many things you aren't even aware of.