★What are the most commonly used high frequency trading strategies?
I'm assuming you might be a computer programmer and got excited by seeing the buzz world high frequency trading. If you have done real life trading you might have felt than buying and selling quickly is great way to make profits and if you could do this on multiple markets yo would keep adding the profit at the end of day week after week. While it may sound good in theory but risk is quite high as any minuscule error will systematically burst all your capital before you discover the real issue (Search about Knight Capital group and how their relatively low risk strategy blown up ) . I have traded a no of instruments from tick by tick to long term trading and practically there is very little difference in the end result you will get over time. But shorter the time frame more attentive you have to be and it will drain your energy on a daily basis. So why people consider its a legitimate trading strategy ? Just as in early days of computer there were lot of trading system in the market supposed to make gigantic profit for trader are no longer in use same goes for HFT too. It is more like a latest selling technique by high-tech brokers who are likely to get rich the frequently your system trade and will motivate you by seminars and video presentations how you can make a quick risk free money if you get better and fast execution than other traders. . If you are still serious about HFT than you can research various arbitrage strategy but the field is very crowded now and getting a double digit return will be real challenge. Beside the return will be quite low and you are likely to use 40-50 times leverage to generate significant profit (Note : this kind of leverage is very common among arbitrage firms) which will a different set of risk to your portfolio. . So while it seems an sexy idea to have an HFT desk where a computer is making all the bets for you, you still have to spend a lot on systems development, technology and monitoring team in case any of your strategy or system goes down thus living you with an undesired position. . A better way to do so is market making in some low tech instruments where spreads are high and you can extract a good piece of money on a regular basis.