★How do high-frequency traders predict the market?
That is the million dollar question. For many of the more vanilla strategies, that 'surgical control' of the orders may be more valuable than the model itself.  One example of this would be cross-exchange arbitrage like trading the CL contract on NYMEX vs WTI on the ICE exchange.  The contracts are almost identical except for their method of delivery on expiration (physical vs financial).  Simply quoting one against the other with edge built into your quoting levels is profitable if you're fast enough to hedge before the market moves.  More specifically, if NYMEX is bid 1 contract for $90.00, you might try to be 89.98 bid on ICE.  If someone sells to you at that price you immediately try to sell to the trader posting the 90.00 bid on NYMEX.  If you're able to, you've just made $20 in a few milliseconds and are ready to do it again.  Your only worry is missing your hedge, or accumulating too large of a cross exchange position that you'll have to post margin against.  As competition has increased so has the general complexity of the models.  Most are still built on the underlying concept of trend, mean reversion, or price prediction though.  The way to ensure you have a model with a high probability of success is data, and lots of it.  If you can identify a trading idea, the more instances of that event, the greater certainty you'll have of the idea's success.  Most of the work in HFTing is simply testing ideas and using data to determine the best parameter sets for your models.  If you're interested in getting into HFTing, I should mention good tick data can be difficult to come by for retail investors.  But a good starting place might be downloading equity data from google or yahoo and getting your hands dirty with looking at pairs trading (ex. XLK vs GOOG) and thinking about how you'd trade the spread on long term data.  Then slowly start looking at it at smaller and smaller time scales.  One of the goals is to find a method to measure the spread that makes it more stationary (try different trade ratios and pricing ratios and method for these things to change dynamically based on the data).  You may want to look into cointegration, correlation, and covariance to start.  Hope these ramblings help.   Good luck.