★Does Ohm's Law change at extremely high frequencies?I was told by a college professor that one reason processors have not  exceeded 4 GHz was that the fundamental v=ir changes at extremely high  frequencies.  Is this true?
Ohm's law does not change at extremely high frequencies, but there are other things that do. First, if you consider any high frequency signal on a conductor as an electromagnetic wave, then you must consider something called skin effect.  Essentially when an electromagnetic wave attempts to move through a lossy or conductive material, the amplitude of the wave decays exponentially as a function of depth into the conductor, hence most of the energy carried in high-frequency circuits is carried near the surface of the conductor, hence "skin effect."  Higher frequency means resistance of the wire increases because the effective area of the wire becomes smaller. Second, what you learn in lower level classes about circuit models assumes that all effects happen instantaneously.  That is not true.  When you consider Maxwell's equations in time-varying conditions, any changes in fields must propagate at the effective speed of light.  Even more simply, you can consider a wire as carrying energy in the form of electric fields between the two wires and magnetic fields around the wires -- that is, a set of infinitely small distributed series inductors and infinitely small set of distributed parallel capacitors.  In addition, you can consider energy being dissipated by resistance in the wire as a set of distributed infinitely small series resistors, and dissipated as leakage current between the wires as a set of infinitely small parallel conductors (or rather, infinitely large resistors, but conductors is easier to work with).  By modeling wires in this way, you can derive a pair of coupled partial differential equations describing voltage and current, and use those to derive uncoupled wave equations (second order partial differential equations) that describe very well how the electrical signal will move along the wire.  Hence, high frequency circuit design must be considered very differently from normal circuit design, since you have to consider how long the signal takes to move from one place to another, as well as considering wave reflections along the line (wave reflections are a more prevalent consideration requiring impedance matching, which will take up a lot of space and may consume power).