How cost effective and efficient are batteries or electrolysis of water for fuel cells?
Good question.  First, the market has already spoken in terms of technology for right now: batteries win.  But, as you've asked which "will be," I will try speculate a little and think out ahead of what is currently commercially available. My first impulse is to say "it depends," and leave it at that, but I'll try and highlight some of the considerations below from a basic science perspective and what I know of the manufacturing and economics sides.  The answer to the storage/fuel question is worth a lot of money - I think people are placing bets, but there are still a lot of issues to resolve (such as the things listed below): First consideration: what is the application?  There are huge differences in what is needed for grid storage vs. automotive.  Do you need lots of current draw?  Scaling laws suggest that parallel arrays of fuel cells or flow batteries may be the way to go on this one.  Do you need lots of power?  Capacitors and some sort of hybrid battery / cap are probably going to be the best bet.  What's the power output needed?  The polarization of a fuel cell means it gets less efficient the more you draw from it.  Batteries have a similar loss of capacity when you charge or discharge at faster rates, but because the cost of materials of batteries is lower and the cycability of batteries are in general better you might say batteries Second consideration: when is the payback cost (the ROI for the cost of the materials)?  And for that matter, how expensive are the associated infrastructure?  Currently, highly preforming fuel cell materials (Pt and IrO) are significantly more expensive than state of the art battery materials (FePO4, graphite, Co2O, etc.)  With all the work going on with nano-structured materials and oxide materials, this may change in the next couple of years.  However, fuel cells also require hydrogen storage systems (at a minimum) and probably refueling/pumping systems.  True, battery supercharging stations can cost a grand or more to set up, but a 120 AC socket also works with no cost to consumer for an over-night charge, and for most people doing a daily commute, this is all they need. Also, solar fuels shouldn't be ruled out as a short term (or even long term) solution.  There's new work on "d-spec" (dye sensitized photo-electrochemical) fuel from CO2 coming out in PNAS that could be a game changer.  Also don't count out all the smart molecular biologists and bioengineers (not to mention big chemical and agg firms like Monsanto) that would really really like to switchgrass, biomass, ethanol based fuels, etc. working. 