The Matrix (1999 movie): Why didn't the sentient machines in the Matrix simply use cows instead of humans as their energy source?
Humans were not an energy source, they were the source of the Matrix itself. The MatrixLet me try to explain because it is not obvious from the movies alone. To understand what is going on you need to know about the entire Matrix mythos which includes The Movies, Animatrix, The Comics, The Video Games and a few other sources such as short stories purposely written for the world. The pods were many things. A zoo meant as a "humane" way to preserve the species. They were bio-computers serving their robot masters. Human dreams they could watch and learn from. Many things were going on but humans were never batteries. That was a snide and gross oversimplification of the true horror of the situation. If they were ever batteries it was in the figurative way that humanity's shared dreams kept the Matrix itself running. The Machines The machines have vast computational, mechanical and analytical abilities but they are still a very new species. Much of the innovation that went into designing them came from their human designers. Eventually the machines learned how to craft more machines and focused on logical choices, efficiency and utilitarian concepts of conservation of energy, expansion of sensory capabilities and movement over any terrain. The machines had not yet fully understood the lizard brain that we inherited from countless millions of years of evolution. Concepts such as fight or flight and self sacrifice were purely logical arguments for them not emotive ones. So they set out to study us. Humanity We see this is the movie when the architect explains how previous iterations of the Matrix failed. The machines were not able to deal with us on an emotional level. The could not fully understand our wants, desires, reasoning and rationale. But herein also lies the machines greatest weakness. The lacked the ability to meaningfully innovate and design. All of their math, logic and computer modeling was fine for refining old technologies new but it cut them off from the ability to dream the unknown unknowns into being. To make a new thing that never was before is beyond them. They lacked that human emotion, inspiration and drive for survival, they were getting close but not quite there yet. The Matrix gave them an excellent way to study this kind of behavior model and learn from it. Some of the programs even began to acclimate to it and adopt human traits such as how The Oracle was very human-like. But adopting human qualities presented an unacceptable trade-off. Doing such would create incompatibilities with their very logical and utilitarian methods. This incompatibility was demonstrated with the Oracles rebellion and the corruption that happened to Agent Smith when he interfaced with Neo. Smith gained emotional  strength and abilities but his cold rational logic was impaired. The Deeper Matrix So they went for a half measure with The Matrix. They would isolate humanity in a virtual world where they could experience a normal life with normal human challenges and not be a threat to their new masters. Within this world human creativity and inventiveness would abound. They could watch us and see what we dream up and then refine the ideas that we created. Some of them would live amongst us and learn from us directly but they would be carefully isolated from the machine collective so they cannot infect their greater machine society. Their Secret WeaponThe Machines had studied our bodies and our neurology so well that they could directly interface with the brain and they could even insert or remove memories. This gave the machines their greatest asset for keeping humanity alive. Our ability to adapt to situations and dream up solutions. This was their secret weapon and what they really used us for. A great story that used to be hosted on the official Matrix site laid the truth bare for us all. I suggest you give it a read because it is an excellent story and it touches on how humanity could be a great asset for the machines without them having to sacrifice their machine-like efficiency. Original site is gone, this is Courtesy of Archive.org COMIC - GOLIATH - Neil Gaiman The machines, never to waste an opportunity, used those that could not accept The Matrix, too. They would allow them to escape and use all of their human ingenuity to survive in the wastes. The humans would invent new technology and repurpose technology the machines used for new purposes. Then when humanity got too big for it's britches they would rush in and kill everyone. Later, they would examine all of the new technology that the humans made and wait for the new batch to break free of The Matrix again. And also, a movie about cows doing Kung-fu and shooting things up would either be the most amazing thing ever or more likely be a horrible moooovie. 