How do I get training and certification in Java online?
Java is one of the world's most important and widely used computer languages, and it has held this distinction for many years. Unlike some other computer languages whose influence has weared with passage of time, while Java's has grown. As of 2015, Java is one of the most popular programming languages in use, particularly for client-server web applications, with a reported 9 million developers using and working on it. Java was developed by James Ghosling, Patrick Naughton, Mike Sheridan at Sun Microsystems Inc. in 1991. It took 18 months to develop the first working version. The initial name was Oak but it was renamed to Java in 1995 as OAK was a registered trademark of another Tech company. Java was initially launched as Java 1.0 but soon after its initial release, Java 1.1 was launched. Java 1.1 redefined event handling, new library elements were added. In Java 1.2 Swing and Collection framework was added and suspend() , resume() and stop() methods were deprecated from Thread class. No major changes were made into Java 1.3 but the next release that was Java 1.4contained several important changes. Keyword assert , chained exceptions and channel based I/O System was introduced. You Can Visit This Link..Java Training Classes Online | Java Courses Online Java 1.5 was called J2SE 5, it added following major new features : Generics Annotations Autoboxing and autounboxing Enumerations For-each Loop Varargs Static Import Formatted I/O Concurrency utilities Next major release was Java SE 7 which included many new changes, like : Now String can be used to control Switch statement. Multi Catch Exception try-with-resource statement Binary Integer Literals Underscore in numeric literals, etc. And the latest addition to the lot is, Java SE 8, it was released on March 18, 2014. Some of the major new features introduced in JAVA 8 are, Lambda Expressions New Collection Package java.util.stream to provide Stream API. Enhanced Security Nashorn Javascript Engine included Parallel Array Sorting The JDBC-ODBC Bridge has been removed etc. Java is widely used in every corner of world and of human life. Java is not only used in softwares but is also widely used in designing hardware controlling software components. There are more than 930 million JRE downloads each year and 3 billion mobile phones run java. Following are some other usage of Java : Developing Desktop Applications Web Applications Mobile Operating System like Android Embedded Systems Robotics and games etc You Can Visit This Link..Java Training Classes Online | Java Courses Online The prime reason behind creation of Java was to bring portability and security feature into a computer language. Beside these two major features, there were many other features that played an important role in moulding out the final form of this outstanding language.... 1) Simple Java is easy to learn and its syntax is quite simple, clean and easy to understand.The confusing and ambiguous concepts of C++ are either left out in Java or they have been re-implemented in a cleaner way. 2) Object Oriented In java everything is Object which has some data and behaviour. Java can be easily extended as it is based on Object Model. 3) Robust Java makes an effort to eliminate error prone codes by emphasizing mainly on compile time error checking and runtime checking. But the main areas which Java improved were Memory Management and mishandled Exceptions by introducing automatic Garbage Collector and Exception Handling. 4) Platform Independent Unlike other programming languages such as C, C++ etc which are compiled into platform specific machines. Java is guaranteed to be write-once, run-anywhere language. On compilation Java program is compiled into bytecode. This bytecode is platform independent and can be run on any machine, plus this bytecode format also provide security. Any machine with Java Runtime Environment can run Java Programs. 5) Secure When it comes to security, Java is always the first choice. With java secure features it enable us to develop virus free, temper free system. Java program always runs in Java runtime environment with almost null interaction with system OS, hence it is more secure. 6) Multi Threading Java multithreading feature makes it possible to write program that can do many tasks simultaneously. Benefit of multithreading is that it utilizes same memory and other resources to execute multiple threads at the same time, like While typing, grammatical errors are checked along. 7) Architectural Neutral Compiler generates bytecodes, which have nothing to do with a particular computer architecture, hence a Java program is easy to intrepret on any machine. 8) Portable Java Byte code can be carried to any platform. No implementation dependent features. Everything related to storage is predefined, example: size of primitive data types 9) High Performance Java is an interpreted language, so it will never be as fast as a compiled language like C or C++. But, Java enables high performance with the use of just-in-time compiler. New Features of JAVA 8 You Can Visit This Link..Java Training Classes Online | Java Courses Online Below mentioned are some of the core upgrades done as a part of Java 8 release. Just go through them quickly, we will explore them in details later. Enhanced Productivity by providing Optional Classes feature, Lamda Expressions, Streams etc. Ease of Use Improved Polyglot programming. A ploygot is a program or script, written in a form which is valid in multiple programming languages and it performs the same operations in multiple programming languages. So Java now supports such type of programming technique. Improved Security and performance. 