How common is it for microtubules to be "cut into two"?
Short answer: Pretty common and absolutely essential. Long answer: Microtubule networks in a cell need to undergo continuous remodelling in order to keep up with the varying requirements of that cell. This remodelling is carried out in part by active polymerization and depolymerization at the ends of the microtubule, but this can be a really slow process at times, especially during mitosis/meiosis where the whole cell architecture undergoes drastic changes. A simple solution is to just snip off MTs in the middle and then transport them as required, and that's where microtubule severing enzymes come in. There are primarily three kinds of MT severing enzymes found in most organisms: katanin, spastin, and fidgetin. I'll go over them in a little detail: Spastin: I'll start with spastin first, since the mechanism of MT severing by spastin has been nicely characterized. Spastin was first identified as an AAA (ATPases Associated with diverse cellular Activities) mutated in hereditary spastic paraplegia, a neurodegenerative disorder characterized by progressive spasticity (stiffness) of the lower limbs. Active spastin typically forms a hexamer with a small pore at the center: This hexamer can bind to MTs and thread the free C-terminal tail of tubulin (CTT) through the 2 nm pore. Once bound to tubulin, spastin can "tug" on the the tail to partially unfold the tubulin monomer, or destabilize tubulin-tubulin interactions within the MT lattice. Once it has been dislodged, the surrounding tubulin units can also dislodge/translocate, leading to the breakdown of the microtubule. Spastin is most likely involved in membrane remodelling via microtubule regulation, since it is mainly active at sites of membrane modelling, and most of its known interactors are membrane or membrane-associated proteins. Some examples: The early secretory pathway: An N-terminal region of spastin is predicted to form a "hairpin loop domain that can partially insert into the membrane lipid bilayer, causing hydrophobic wedging, to generate or sense membrane curvature". While the exact role of spastin at the ER is unknown, most data suggests it could be an ER morphogen. Cytokinesis: Spastin functions at the final abscission step of cytokinesis, where it coordinates with other proteins for membrane constriction. Katanin: Katanin was actually the first MT-severing enzyme to be discovered, and its name comes from the Japanese sword Katana. It is a heterodimer of the AAA-containing catalytic subunit p60, and the targeting and regulatory subunit p80, which can together assemble into a hexamer similar to spastin. Functions in: Disassembly of cilia and flagella: Katanin is required to de-ciliate cells at the onset of mitosis. This is required for the basal bodies to be used as mitotic centrosomes. Cell migration: Katanin has been shown to play a role in cell motility, possibly by releasing MTs so that they can grow towards the leading edge of cell movement. Mechanical strength of plant stems: In plant cells, MTs form parallel arrays beneath the plasma membrane, which control the direction of cellulose deposition. Loss-of-function katanin mutants can delay the formation of these arrays, thus reducing the stem strength. Fidgetin: Fidgetin was so named since a mutation in the gene caused a 'head-shaking-and-circling' phenotype termed the 'fidget' phenotype in mice. It is the least characterized enzyme of these three, and has been mainly implicated in severing microtubules at centrosomes during anaphase. Roles during mitosis: During mitosis, spastin and fidgetin concentrate at the centrosomes and promote anaphase by depolymerizing the minus-end MTs. On the other hand, katanin localizes to the chromosomes, kinetochores and centrosomes, and drives anaphase by depolymerizing kinetochore-associated plus-end MTs. Roles in neuronal morphogenesis and function: MT severing enzymes play huge roles in neuronal morphogenesis, function and plasticity. Katanin, spastin and fidgetin are all highly expressed in the nervous systems of may organisms, and have been found to impact the neuronal microtubule arrays. The expression of katanin is very tightly regulated during neuronal development, and misregulation of katanin may contribute to several neurological disorders. Spastin can accumulate at nascent branch sites in axons and promotes branch formation. Both spastin and katanin have been found to work together to control dendritic morphology as well. Sources: Microtubule severing enzymes Microtubule-severing enzymes at the cutting edge Three microtubule severing enzymes contribute to the “Pacman-flux” machinery that moves chromosomes Spastin, a new AAA protein, is altered in the most frequent form of autosomal dominant spastic paraplegia Structural basis of microtubule severing by the hereditary spastic paraplegia protein spastin Spastin couples microtubule severing to membrane traffic in completion of cytokinesis and secretion The AAA ATPase spastin links microtubule severing to membrane modelling The microtubule-severing enzymes spastin and katanin participate differently in the formation of axonal branches Human fidgetin is a microtubule severing enzyme and minus-end depolymerase that regulates mitosis As a bonus, here's a cute picture I found in Cellular samurai: Katanin and the severing of microtubules: Fig. 1. Microtubule severing by katanin. Katanin p60 subunits (swords) are shown as a hexameric complex inserted into the face of a microtubule. Tubulin dimers are blue-green; red sword handles represent ATP; blue sword handles represent ADP; protective MAPs (microtubule-associated proteins) are shown in purple. The samurai swordsmen represent accessory/regulatory proteins, possibly including katanin p80. 