What have been the most interesting papers in computer science for 2011?
This is not really a 2011 paper (Sept. 2010), although revised versions are still popping up as the author develops even further his models, but it's certainly worth reading. If I could bet, under the right conditions, I'd say this piece has the potential of becoming one of the most CS influential ideas over the next two decades on the interplay between psychology and machine learning. The bottom line is that it was published in an underrated journal and this particular paper is actually likely to have minor to no impact at all in the way we understand creativity and motivation [edit: because most interested people are likely to not read it]. I'm talking about Schmidhuber, J., 2010: Formal Theory of Creativity, Fun, and Intrinsic Motivation (1990-2010). Autonomous Mental Development, IEEE Transactions on. 2:(3), p. 230-247. http://dx.doi.org/10.1109/TAMD.2... Freely available download: http://www.idsia.ch/~juergen/iee... (thanks to Arthur Prat-Carrabin) Here's the abstract: The simple, but general formal theory of fun and intrinsic motivation and creativity (1990-2010) is based on the concept of maximizing intrinsic reward for the active creation or discovery of novel, surprising patterns allowing for improved prediction or data compression. It generalizes the traditional field of active learning, and is related to old, but less formal ideas in aesthetics theory and developmental psychology. It has been argued that the theory explains many essential aspects of intelligence including autonomous development, science, art, music, and humor. This overview first describes theoretically optimal (but not necessarily practical) ways of implementing the basic computational principles on exploratory, intrinsically motivated agents or robots, encouraging them to provoke event sequences exhibiting previously unknown, but learnable algorithmic regularities. Emphasis is put on the importance of limited computational resources for online prediction and compression. Discrete and continuous time formulations are given. Previous practical, but nonoptimal implementations (1991, 1995, and 1997-2002) are reviewed, as well as several recent variants by others (2005-2010). A simplified typology addresses current confusion concerning the precise nature of intrinsic motivation. Updated 211w ago • View Upvotes