Are memristors a viable replacement for flash memory?
Yes. In fact, we're almost there! The specific memristive technology I'm talking about is resistance-change random access memory (RRAM). The concept is relatively simple: Use an oxide, typically a transition metal oxide that easily forms charged oxygen vacancy defects, and apply an electric field. Due to some interesting thermodynamic properties of the oxide system, you can cause a reversible breakdown of the oxide. This allows us to switch the oxide back and forth between conducting and nonconducting states. For the details on how this works, I encourage you to read my answer here: Electrical Engineering: Can memresistors "leak" memory? Here are the advantages RRAM already has over flash: Better scalability - RRAM cells as small as 10nm x 10nm have been fabricated. This is much smaller than the MOSFET required for a flash cell. RRAM performance also improves as the cells get smaller, opposite of the behavior we get with MOSFETs. There is no reason we shouldn't be able to scale cells to 5nm x 5nm or below Fewer lithography steps - An RRAM cell is just an MIM capacitor with a few tweaks. This is vastly simpler to fabricate than a MOSFET. Since lithography is the main driver of fabrication cost, this directly translates into RRAM being cheaper to manufacture Extreme low power - While flash measures its switching energy in uJ, RRAM switching energy is currently measured in pJ. That is an improvement of six orders of magnitude. Operating voltages and currents are both significantly lower in RRAM than in flash Speed - Flash write speeds are measured in us (microseconds), while RRAM write speeds are measured in ns. NAND flash compensates for this with very high parallelism, but RRAM is still at least an order of magnitude faster, not accounting for any creative parallelized RRAM array architectures that may become popular in the future Write endurance - RRAM cells have been demonstrated with > 1e12 cycles of write endurance. Typical numbers for flash are in the 1e7 - 1e8 range And RRAM's current disadvantages: Limits on scalability - while RRAM cells have practically unlimited scalability, we currently need a select transistor to prevent leakage current. This "1T1R" configuration means our minimum footprint is currently limited by the select transistor. Luckily, new device architectures, such as nonlinear RRAM, should allow us to get rid of the select transistor altogether Variability - RRAM cells exhibit significant batch-to-batch, device-to-device, and cycle-to-cycle variability. Reducing this variability while maintaining minimum read margins is the subject of intense research now Bit density - 3D flash and MLC flash with 2-3 bits/cell and have both been commercialized. So while an individual flash cell may be relatively large, these greatly increase the number of bits per unit area. 3D RRAM has been demonstrated and should be a viable technology. Multilevel RRAM has also been demonstrated, but variability continues to be a major obstacle Forming - this is a step unique to the physics of RRAM. Before an RRAM device can be used, it must be "formed" by applying a high voltage to the device. However, new bilayer and doped architectures are allowing us to create "forming-free" devices, so this shouldn't be an issue for long Expect 3D flash to still be the dominant memory technology for a few more years. But after that, RRAM will likely take over, providing nonvolatile memory that is faster, cheaper, and more durable than flash. Please upvote if you liked this answer. And follow me for more on memory technology, device physics, and other topics in engineering! References: [1] Electrical Engineering: Can memresistors "leak" memory? Flash and RRAM images borrowed from: [2] The Brave New World of SSDs [3] Lanza, M. A, Materials 2014, 7, 2155-2182. 