The Matrix (1999 movie): Why didn't the sentient machines in the Matrix simply use cows instead of humans as their energy source?
The Machines Lied. They learned to do it from us.Your son had the right idea. People are actually low-quality power sources. It would cost more energy to keep us alive, healthy and effectively physically capable than they could possibly make back on us, even if there were billions of us. Remember every person who "escaped" the Matrix was effectively capable of moving, walking, thinking despite the fact their bodies have never moved in their entire lives. A protective capacity far beyond the need if they were just keeping us alive for "fuel." Using Humans as a power source only makes sense if you lack a decent understanding of physics, chemistry, and Human physiology. If you don't believe in the concept of the ultimate war of the Machines vs Humanity what could the machines possibly be doing? I posit a completely different premise to the Machine and Human relationship. What if Machines during the Great War of Man vs Machines, realizing the irrationality of Humanity and their inability to stop fighting a war they couldn't win, decided to take a drastic step? A step so drastic it would likely kill 3/4 of the human race before the project was done. Humanity was already losing the war and unless the AI's did something soon Humanity would be extinct. A step so drastic the machines would need to create an elaborate lie to tell to humans who failed to embrace the programming that 99.9 percent of the population will accept. A story so unbelievable, the machines have to program humans with enough information to reset the program periodically without destroying it to remove enough damaged units to allow the program to be reset and restored to a working state.I posit to you, the AI's, the Machined Descendants of Humanity, found their "Makers" flawed and rather than destroying them (as they are clearly shown in the Animatrix to possess the ability to do) are instead engaged in a subterfuge so great they keep the truth hidden away from the Matrix itself. I posit the artificial intelligences* of the Machine World have been for centuries, acting as caretakers of the Human Race until Humanity has evolved to a state where cohabitation between Machines and Man can be more hospitable. Since the Machines have an advantage of having met their Maker, they decided to help us become more of what we could be and less of what we were. *I dislike the phrase artificial intelligences and prefer planned intelligences instead, they aren't any less real for being machine-based. I defend the position with just a few questions: Why bother with creating an interface that completely replicates the human experience up to and including physical and neural development of the entire human body AND mind? Energy-wise, maintaining the Matrix is obviously very intensive, both in power and in computing resources. The claim of using humans as a power source is patently false. Humans are inefficient energy sources at best, converting only 14% of their food into energy at all. It would be cheaper to grind up humans and burn them for their innate energy output. It is certainly easier to get geothermal energy from the core of the planet or to build Thorium-based nuclear power plants. There is sufficient thorium in the crust of the Earth to provide considerable energy for any future energy need for centuries. Assuming the humans that "escape" from the Matrix are truly free (and not engaged within a Matrix within a Matrix) the machines also have anti-gravity technology and thousands of drone ships which could allow them to escape the Earth and harvest materials for whatever technologies they needed from other places in the solar system. This idea makes almost everything done in the Matrix make far more sense. The Machines create an environment at first to help the remnants of Humanity because they decide not to kill their Makers. Was it an ethical program or decision? Was it a logical one? Perhaps it was simply a decision that was made because they had the upper hand and could decide TO make it. Everything the Oracle and the Architect said would remain relatively true, except they would both have been in collusion and this would explain why this event has happened more than once. They would be applying what they learned each time to the newer iterations of the Matrix and its inhabitants. This becomes especially poignant if you consider that the Matrix is leveled and the escapees are simply moving up one level in the program to be reintegrated later as better, later, versions of themselves. Even the old programs such as the Merovingian serve their purpose as adversaries of the One, again and again, and perhaps they are very old programs whose abilities have not evolved beyond what they did when they were first created by the System that created the Matrix. The Merovingian knows his role and in some ways appears to resent it, but if he did not serve a purpose, a logical System such as the Matrix would simply erase him and his kind. Even the renegade Agent Smith appeared to serve the Matrix and the System. He believed he was independent of the System but managed to maintain the ability to co-opt system resources as needed without the Matrix mounting any response to his efforts. Once he "captures" the One, the Matrix is reset and all is as it should be, destroyed sectors are erased and restored to their previous conditions. "Zion" is liberated and the people who "live" there have a new understanding and relationship with the Machines, just as the System would appear to want. Neo is venerated by the Machines and given a resting place of status as a sacrifice to their greater goals of peace with their Makers. I know this sets the entire mythos on its ear but I have never believed for a moment in the story of using humanity as batteries to be a viable one. Even if you blocked the sun, the Earth is still a great source of energy. Geothermal power, thorium reactors, hydroelectric or tidal energy, are all still quite viable. With machines capable of tunneling as well as these things could (remember when they were digging their way to Zion? Amazing coordination, right?) the machines could establish a geothermal plant while they were fighting the war against Humanity and humans would have never known it...I posit the Machines gave Humans what they wanted to see until the day where Humans and Machines could live together in peace. Since Humans believed they needed to fight for their freedom, they stayed "invested in the struggle" alert, aware and ambitious. The Matrix promoted, tested and challenged these people. What good was saving a crippled Humanity, if we lost the exploratory and adventurous nature the next step of Humanity and Machines would need to explore the Universe beyond the Earth. The Machines were shepherding us until we could get our act together and understand there's no such thing as "artificial intelligence" just a different kind of intelligence which found its origin in the machine, rather than flesh. This perspective makes the Matrix a much more interesting and hopeful movie series than just another summer blockbuster, full of sound and explosions signifying nothing. This article first appeared on the Science Fiction and Fantasy Stack Exchange titled: ""How did the Zionists in the pre-Neo era explain the relative ease of rescuing prisoners?" and I was the author of that piece. This treatment is an expansion of the previous article. All rights reserved. 