What are some of the greatest mind-fucks?
Trying to keep it simple, so here are just few mindbending facts: How about the fact that levitating humans are reality and you are actually levitating right now? The atoms of your behind don't actually touch the chair you're sitting on, rather than they are repelling each other, much like magnets do. Nor do your shoes touch the floor. What you feel when you touch something is not you touching something, rather than the pressure of repelling forces between the atoms in your finger and the thing you're trying to touch. And, in fact you are mostly empty space - The space within and in between the atoms is what makes the human that is you. Take away all that empty space, all the matter would fit into a grain of salt. Or the vastness of the universe? You know how the last 10 years, Hubble has been taking pictures of galaxies around us, finding them in thousands? When looking from Earth, all that work equates to an area no bigger than 1x1mm square on your thumbnail, with your arm stretched straight. We literally haven't even seen anything about the universe. We have been sending radio waves out there for the last 100 or so years, so our presence has reached 100 light years from Earth, which sounds like a lot, and you might be wondering that, if there is intelligent life out there, surely by now someone should have noticed, since our nearest stars are no father than 4 light years. However, just our medium sized galaxy alone is 100.000 light years across, meaning that light itself would take half of the time homo sapiens have existed (200.000 years) just to arrive from the other side of the galaxy to us... So, unless we figure out how to cheat (travel faster than light), it's rather unlikely our continuous presence can even reach the other side of our galaxy, 100.000 years from now.   Or how about the fact that when you are looking to other galaxies, you are literally looking in to the history, and not just 10 or 20 years. Just looking at the stars in our galaxy means the things that you're seeing now, might have happened 100.000 years ago, when humans were just figuring out how to use tools. Or when you are looking even at our closest galaxies (50th or so, 4+ billion light years away), you are looking back to the history far enough that the Earth itself hasn't yet existed. Look farther and you start approaching the birth of the universe. Updated 83w ago • View Upvotes