What math topic should I teach to middle school students?
(tl, but hopefully worth reading) I'm assuming your sessions will last at least an hour each. If so, then I strongly recommend the following approach. It will work especially well with "mathematically inclined" students. Unless you have a mandate to teach four separate topics in lecture format, I would focus on one topic from 3 different perspectives and spend most of the time guiding the students in active problem-solving and discussion, rather than having them listen passively to a lecture. Then use the fourth session to tie things together.  For instance, if you chose group theory, in session one you could briefly introduce the concept of symmetries of polygons, then have several simple problems investigating the behavior of different combinations of these symmetries. The students could work in small groups, individually, or as a whole class depending on the size of the class. Periodically stop and discuss results and ask about patterns. At the end of the session, the class should compile a record of the days observations and conclusions. For the second session, you could do something similar with modular arithmetic. I.e., a set of problems starting with clock examples and building from there. Compile and discuss results as before. Be sure to initiate a discussion comparing the observations and conclusions from sessions one vs, session two. As before, compile a record of the class results. For session three, have students look at the integers and compare to symmetries and modular arithmetic. Compare results with addition vs subtraction vs multiplication. Note important similarities and differences. Spend some time investigating whole numbers and rational numbers to see if they have properties in common with the other sets. This time, after compiling the day's results, spend some with the class developing a set of properties that are common to symmetries,  modular arithmetic and integers under addition. In session four you can introduce the term "group". Give a simple definition, and compare to results from the first three sessions, and especially with the list of properties developed at the end of session three. If you want, this session could be primarily lecture, but it could also be designed as a conversation around a few strategic questions. You can introduce terms like inverse, identity, infinite group and Abelian group in this session. Look for examples and counterexamples of each. Talk about advanced applications. Tie all of the sessions together here by discussing the presence of an underlying pattern, and explicitly discussing the investigatory approaches that were used. Wrap up by talking about the importance of pattern-seeking and problem-solving in mathematics, science, engineering, and unexpected connections to other fields such as art. This is just an example for group theory. You could do something similar with any of the topics you listed. Based on my experiences with teaching middle-schoolers, they will enjoy actively participating in problem solving much more than listening to a lecture. Another advantage to this method is that it gives them a taste of what mathematicians do, not just a set of math facts. A disadvantage is that it requires spending time on your part  to develop a set of problems for each session. The problems should be carefully designed to give the greatest chance of students discovering or noticing key patterns by themselves. On the other hand, you won't have to spend time preparing lectures. Using this approach, you will have much more fun and the students will too. They will probably gain greater understanding of the topic than they would from a lecture and will finish with personal experience of mathematical discovery being an enjoyable and collaborative activity. They are much more likely to remember these activities a year later than a set of lectures. While they may not remember details about the topic, many if not all of them will at least have begun to internalize the investigatory and conversational approach to problem solving. A few tips: - have some advanced problems prepared for students who handle the basic problems easily - be ready to introduce a new problem or discussion every fifteen minutes or so. If an activity or problem is turning out to be really productive you don't have to move on after fifteen minutes, but be prepared for adolescent attentions to wander. - if students discover something unexpected (by you) and want to explore that, go with it. Don't feel obligated to "cover the material" that you have prepared. On the other hand, it's usually possible to point out connections between unexpected discoveries and the prepared material. - think of yourself as a guide rather than a question-answerer. Try to ask more questions than you answer. - at each step, encourage students to find connections with topics (mathematical or otherwise) that they are already familiar with. - be prepared to enjoy working with inquisitive young minds As you may have gathered, I am quite zealous about this approach to helping students learn mathematics. If you have questions or want to discuss details, please don't hesitate to message me or ask questions in the comments. Edit:  I forgot one important tip. - if you find yourself answering a student's question with, "I don't know; let's see if we can figure it out!", then you will know that class is going well. Edit 2:  Reworded the last paragraph of the original answer. 