What are some of the greatest mind-fucks?
Time changes due to perspective. Soliton Soliton is a self-reinforcing solitary wave (a wave packet or pulse) that maintains its shape while it travels at constant speed. Solitons are caused by a cancellation of nonlinear and dispersive effects in the medium. Soliton could explain how the first life forms came into existence. Math model reveals insight into how first life forms were 'born' Mpemba Effect: Hot water freezes faster than cold water. Sonoluminescence is the emission of short bursts of light from imploding bubbles in a liquid when excited by sound. Triad of {Physical Reality, Mental Reality, Mathematical Reality} each giving rise to the next like Ouroboros symbolizing self-reflexivity or cyclicality Mental Reality embedded inside Physical Reality We are able to create abstract thoughts, think about complex ideas (e.g. mathamatical reality which can describe Physical reality to unthinkable accuracy) and even think about thought itself, all through electro-chemical charges within our brain. Physical Reality Even further than that, life itself. In the simplest terms, we are composed of inanimate chemical compounds that have combined in such a precise way that they can perform complex actions. When added together, we have (what we refer to as) living things that can move and eat and sense the world around them. All of these actions stem from these chemical reactions and the physical laws. The odds that we are on Earth. By some estimates, there are over 100 billion galaxies in the universe. Each of those galaxies contain hundreds of billions of stars. Although only a fraction of those have rock-based planets, and only a much much smaller fraction of those planets are the right size, density, and composition to support life, and a much smaller fraction than that are in the habitable zone from their respective sun, we find ourselves here, on Earth, despite all of the odds. Ref : Thanks to Dinesh Dharme for the edits, added details, and videos. Updated 127w ago • View Upvotes