What are 4d figures?
A 4-polytope is a closed four-dimensionalfigure. It comprises vertices (corner points),edges, faces and cells. A cell is the three-dimensional analogue of a face, and is therefore a polyhedron. Each face must join exactly two cells, analogous to the way in which each edge of a polyhedron joins just two faces. Like any polytope, the elements of a 4-polytope cannot be subdivided into two or more sets which are also 4-polytopes, i.e. it is not a compound. The most familiar 4-polytope is the tesseractor hypercube, the 4D analogue of the cube. EditExample presentations of a 24-cellSectioningNet ​ ​ ​ ​ ProjectionsSchlegel2D orthogonal3D orthogonal ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​    Source : wiki 4-polytopes cannot be seen in three-dimensional space due to their extra dimension.    Several techniques are used to help visualise them.Orthogonal projection Orthogonal projections can be used to show various symmetry orientations of a 4-polytope. They can be drawn in 2D as vertex-edge graphs, and can be shown in 3D with solid faces as visible projective envelopes.Perspective projection Just as a 3D shape can be projected onto a flat sheet, so a 4-D shape can be projected onto 3-space or even onto a flat sheet. One common projection is a Schlegel diagramwhich uses stereographic projection of points on the surface of a 3-sphere into three dimensions, connected by straight edges, faces, and cells drawn in 3-space.Sectioning Just as a slice through a polyhedron reveals a cut surface, so a slice through a 4-polytope reveals a cut "hypersurface" in three dimensions. A sequence of such sections can be used to build up an understanding of the overall shape. The extra dimension can be equated with time to produce a smooth animation of these cross sections.Nets A net of a 4-polytope is composed of polyhedral cells that are connected by their faces and all occupy the same three-dimensional space, just as the polygon faces of a net of a polyhedron are connected by their edges and all occupy the same plane. ​ ​ The tesseract as aSchlegel diagram 