Are tech companies demanding too much from software engineers these days?
Here is what a typical programming interview consists of :  Fundamentals of computer science - especially data structures, and Algorithms. I here this question about what to prepare for programming interviews, so I have created a checklist Ash Moorthy's answer to What should I expect in a Software Engineer interview at Google and how should I prepare? Here is the shortened version of the above post. Proficiency in programming language(s) of your choice Programming questions : General computer science concepts        operating systems (thread vs process, synchronization, deadlock etc), computer networks (IP packet, IP addressing, routing, TCP packet, protocol - sliding window, three way handshake,  congestion control, man in the middle attack, TCP vs UDP, HTTP - pipelining, GET vs POST) object oriented design and design patterns       Factory method, Lazy initiation, Object pool, Singleton, Decorator, Publish/Subscribe, State, Monitor Big-O notations (Unable to guess the complexity of your solution is as bad as not having a solution) Sorting (heap, merge, quick. Don't use bubble sort.) Data -Structures        Hash         LinkedList         Trees - complexity and use of balanced search tree         Tries Search ~ binary search, Breadth first search, Depth first searchand other variants. Design questions Recursion Fundamental algorithms such as divide and conquer, greedy anddynamic programming and common problems such as Knapsack, Travelling salesman and so on. Here is a specific list of Important Algorithms to master to solve programming puzzles. Other Helpful to know topics        Dijkstra,  A*         Heuristic/approximate algorithms for NP hard problems         basics of randomized algorithms (randomized quick sort, local maxima and related AI concepts)         Map Reduce         Distributed and parallel computing (and distributed problem solving for large scale problems) Regarding the other technologies you mentioned about from AWS to Hadoop, I just learnt Hadoop on the job (was not asked during my interviews), and don't even have the slightest idea about AWS! So apart from the standard white boarding questions, the technologies vary from position to position, and I am sure not all positions require all the technologies you have listed. Lastly, please note that larger companies, especially those on the top of the hierarchy (FB, GOOG etc) care less about your technological skills and more about your basic engineering skills. Ash Moorthy's answer to Are you expected to write perfect code on your first attempt in tech interviews? Some companies are moving away from a white-boarding model to requiring job aspirants to complete a mini-project, but I personally prefer white boarding than wasting two-three days of my life for every company I would like to interview with. 