What should one do to crack the interview at Tower Research Capital?
I had written an article on "Cracking Quant Finance Interviews" on Get that Job at Google! I think it's pretty much applicable to Quant Strategist/Algorithmic Trading postion at Tower Research Capital. I have posted the sections relevant for answering your questions below. You can take a look at the entire article at Cracking "Quant Finance" Interviews. What are the skills needed for Quant Finance Jobs ? CS major students have an edge over others for this profile. This is because of application of various CS based concepts on the job. Knowledge about Data Structures & Algorithms is essential. You are expected to have a solid programming background in C/C++ or Java. Generally you are not expected to have any prior knowledge/experience in finance. Solid background in Math topics like Probability Theory, Linear Algebra and Calculus. How to do well on Quant Interviews/Tests ? You need to be very good in Probability theory, Combinatorics and general Math topics like Linear Algebra and Calculus. Also having idea about Data Structures and Algorithms is essential. I recommend reading/practicing from the following resources: Probability / Combinatorics / Math: FAQ in Quantitative Finance : Contains very good puzzles on probability and math along with solutions. Fifty Challenging Problems in Probability with Solutions Mathematical Puzzles - A Connoisseur's Collection : For general math puzzles and combinatorics. Heard on the Street : Excellent quant puzzles and finance-based questions.Data Structures and Algorithms: Introduction To Algorithms - By Cormen : If you have no idea about Data Structures and Algorithms, this book is an absolute must. It's considered to be a bible for Algorithms. Algorithms For Interviews : This book has a huge number of algorithmic puzzles classified as per different algorithm design paradigms. I recommend practicing from it if you have time.Puzzle Blogs: CSE Blog : A puzzle blog by IITB alumnus. Contains most frequently asked puzzles in Quant Interviews along with solutions and interesting discussions. Me, Myself and Mathematics Rustan Lieno Collection 