What are the best books to learn algorithms and data structures? Are there any good blogs/posts on these? Which books explain these concepts in a simpler way?
This is an accessible resource on data structures, with sample implementations and great explanations: CPSC 223: Data Structures and Programming Techniques. The  course was taught by Professor James Aspnes, the Director of  Undergraduate Studies of the Yale Computer Science Department. He has some fantastic notes that he has created and  posted online (it's practically a textbook), as well as some interesting homework assignments that  make you try and apply various data structures/techniques to solve  different problems. HTML View: Notes on Data Structures and Programming Techniques (CPSC 223, Spring 2015) PDF View: http://www.cs.yale.edu/homes/asp... Some topics covered include the following: Asymptotic Notation Stacks Queues Deques Linked Lists Dynamic Programming/Memoization Hash Tables AVL Trees Splay Trees Binary Search Trees Heaps Augmented Trees Graphs/Depth-First Search/Breadth-First Search Randomized Algorithms/Data Structures (Skip Lists) Various Sorting Algorithms (Quick Sort, Radix Sort, Merge Sort, Heap Sort, etc). Recursion The notes also have fantastic coverage of the C programming language. This is how I learned to program in C. I  think C is a great language to learn Data Structure/Algorithms, because  you have to be very careful with memory management. It is also in  general a language that every computer scientist should know. Make  sure to actually do the problem sets! Implementing data structures is  how you get better at understanding their uses. It is important to  be able to pick the appropriate data structures for a given problem and design your own by combining elements of other data structures. Just to be clear, this is not an algorithms course, as it mainly focuses on data structures. Design and Analysis of Algorithms (CPSC 365) is offered separately by the department, but this resource should be very helpful for most programming interviews, as you will learn about asymptotic notation and the run-times for most algorithms/operations related to the data structures in the course. Also, don't be intimidated by the length! If you know C, the part of the notes on Data Structures is only 180 sparse LaTeX pages long, with code samples in it as well. A large part is review of the C language. Good luck! *All credit goes to James Aspnes, who has created these materials and posted them on his website. Updated 35w ago • View Upvotes