What tips did coach "fegla" gave to Amr Samir to learn quickly and become good at programming?
For a background on who is Coach Mohamed Mahmoud Abd El-Wahab (aka Fegla), have a look at these links: Ahmed Aly's answer to Respect: Who do you most respect in the world (living)? Why? Amr Samir's answer to Computer Programming: Can a person who has no knowledge about computer languages or programming in class 12th learn enough in college to participate in competitions like acm icpc, google code jam, facebook hacker  cup etc or is previous background neccessary? I cannot put all the hints Coach Fegla told me in one place. But I will try to categorize the things I learnt from him: A - Pure Algorithms Knowledge  This can be thought of similar to videos of Algorithms viewed online. Understanding how an algorithm works, its run time, etc. B - Tips for applying knowledge in Programming Competitions For example: - Which Balanced Binary Search tree should I use in a contest? - What value should I use to fill the dynamic programming array at the beginning? - What are the common mistakes that can happen when reading a graph as input? These things are not in a traditional algorithms course, but require experience. C - Problems for each Algorithm/Technique Coach Fegla has an amazing ability to memorize many problems for each technique. Each problem he remembers for a reason: it requires a special modeling/technique to apply. Solving these problems first is really important to solidify the knowledge of that technique. D - Random Interesting Problems Almost every time I meet coach fegla, he tells me an interesting problem he solved in the past few days. This is an awesome way to pass the knowledge. E - Strategy tips & tricks Having coached 7 teams to ICPC world finals, coach Fegla has seen teams trying all sorts of strategies. His judgement in choosing team members and strategy in the contest have been very effective. F - Watching Coach Fegla code/debug This is the most interesting part for me. The ability to see how coach Fegla structures the code, or how he places the breakpoints to find bugs is really interesting. G - Figuring out trends and insights in Contests/Training This is by far the hardest part to do without a coach. He has trained many generations, and has seen many contests. Now he can see some patterns and trends in the format of the contest, the topics that appear, the size of the problemset etc. Although this may not be extremely accurate, this can give a slight edge in the real contest. H - General CS & Life Knowledge Although this may not be related to programming competitions, I have spent many hours discussing with coach Fegla about general things, and he explained many CS topics irrelevant to algorithms. I also took his advice in many things, including my graduation project. I - Amazing community I have met amazing people at the Coach, some are my best friends. This community helped me grow in many ways, and made it an extremely fun experience. This community won't exist without having a great coach at its center. 