What should a non CSIS guy prepare from the scratch to land in a decent IT profile job during placements?
1. Read the book for Data Structure and Algorithms, by Cormen. You should be particularly be good in: Trees - especially Binary Search Trees and Recursion concepts Hash Tables Stacks Queues Linked List Dynamic Programming 2. Know one or two of C, Java or Python very well 3. Participate regularly in Codechef monthly challenges. If you are good enough, you can actually write your rank on your CV! 4. Do various projects (Study Oriented and Computer oriented) under the faculty of Computer Science and Information Systems Department. 5. Participate in various coding events in APOGEE. They are similar to codechef, and if you win some of them, it will be a strong point in your CV 6. Find your area of interest - Android, Application Development, Data Mining etc. and strengthen it, if possible through an internships after 3rd year. Take electives as well in those areas. 7. Prepare for aptitude questions(Many companies ask for it) 8. Have basic understanding of Database Systems(E-R diagrams and SQL and transactions), Operating Systems(Concurrency, Deadlock, Scheduling), Unix, Design Patterns This list is non-exhaustive, but I think I have covered the major points. I shall add more when it strikes my head. These are the typical categories of questions I came across: Simple Factual Questions What port does HTTP use? What is the time complexity of merge sort? What data structure underlies a Python list? Data Structure/Algorithms Questions Given two nodes in an arbitrary tree, write a function to find the most-specific-common-ancestor Given a list of n integers, write a function to determine if any two sum to k Given k guards in a museum with n rooms that are connected in a certain way (was drawn on a whiteboard when I was asked this) write a function to determine which of the k guards is closest to each of the n rooms Tedious Programming Questions Given an integer, write a function to print it out in words (e.g. given 342, print "three-hundred forty-two" Given an amount charged and cash tendered, write a function to make change using the fewest number of bills/coins possible Language-Specific Questions What is the difference between an Interface and an Abstract Class in Java? If in a Python class, you inherit from multiple parent classes that both have an instance method of the same name, which implementation is picked by default for the child class? Implement a Data Structure Questions Implement a "min-stack" (a data structure that behaves just like a stack in terms of push and pop but also supports a function min that returns (but does not pop) the minimum number currently on the stack) Implement an LRU cache Using only arrays and primitive types, implement an auto-resizing array Math-y Questions How many trailing zeros does the number 52! have? Given a streaming input of integers and only constant storage, for any n, how can you randomly select one of the n integers you have seen so far such that each has probability 1/n of being selected? Explain a CS Concept Questions Explain how heapsort works How can you sort in sub-n log n time? What is a mutex? What's the difference between a thread and a process? Explain a Real-World System How does DNS work? When you type Google into your address bar and press enter, what happens? How does virtual memory work? Security Questions Describe the browser security model How does SSL work? What is a SQL injection attack? What is XSS? System Design Questions How would you design an elevator system? How would you design a system for running A/B tests on some fraction of the user base? "Real World" Questions How do you prevent click-jacking? How would you implement a "People You May Know" feature in our product? Database Questions Given some application and desired functionality, how would you lay out the schema? Given this schema, write a query to retrieve x How could you make this query run faster? Unix Tools Questions Write a command to find all occurrences of a string for all files in a directory I think you may find this Question interesting as well. 