Who invented the binary search tree?
I started my investigation into this question by finding the original papers for AVL Trees, Splay trees, etc. with hopes that they would reference some earlier paper that introduced BSTs.  Unfortunately, that didn't help as much as I would have hoped (they cited math papers and each other).  However, from that search, I learned that the AVL Tree was invented in 1962. So I did a web search for "binary search tree 1962" to see if the BST was invented right around when the AVL tree was invented (the AVL tree was the first balanced BST, and coming up with an AVL tree didn't seem like much of a stretch after the BST was invented).  That search took me to this Wikipedia article: Random binary tree That Wikipedia article cited a paper from 1962 by Thomas Hibbard entitled "Some Combinatorial Properties of Certain Trees With Applications to Searching and Sorting."  I don't have access to that original paper, but in searching for it, I found another paper: "More combinatorial properties of certain trees", which opens with: Douglas (1959), Windley (1960), and later Hibbard (1962) introduced binary search trees and gave their applications to sorting, searching, and file maintenance. And it cited: DOUGLAS, A. S. (1959). "Techniques for the Recording of, and Reference to data in a Computer", The Computer Journal, Vol. 2, p. 1. (Full text: Page on oxfordjournals.org) HIBBARD, T. (1962). "Some Combinatorial Properties of Certain Trees," /. Assoc. Comp. Mach., Vol. 9, p. 13. (Couldn't find full text) WINDLEY, P. F. (1960). "Trees, Forests, and Rearranging," The Computer Journal, Vol. 3, p. 84. (Full text: http://comjnl.oxfordjournals.org/content/3/2/84.full.pdf) Searching for each of the authors' names followed by "binary search tree" revealed more information: BSTs were ﬁrst introduced in the early 1960’s by Windley (1960), Booth and Colin (1960), Hibbard (1962), and are one of the simplest prototypical data structures; see Knuth (1997), Mahmoud (1992). (From Page on tuwien.ac.at) I looked up Booth and Colin and found a paper: "On the efficiency of a new method of dictionary construction."  I only have access to the first page, but it seemed to talk about something that resembled a BST. I also found a paper (Page on ncl.ac.uk), which mentioned that Hibbard's paper introduced "sequence search trees."  A quick search revealed that the term "binary sequence search tree" was also used to describe the same thing (Sequence search trees: Their analysis using recurrence relations). I found some sources that cited Hibbard as the creator of the delete operation for BSTs (namely Binary Search Trees). A brief scan of Douglas's paper didn't reveal much about trees or BSTs, but it discussed repeated "binary chopping" to find keys.  In the end of his paper, Douglas said most of the techniques he discussed were not his own.  My opinion is that this paper may have led to the idea of the BST, but it did not introduce the BST. In fact, Windley's paper cite's Douglas's. Windley's paper seems to have some ideas from BSTs as well. Overall, I'm not really sure one person can be attributed to the BST.  I think each of the people discussed above made unique and valuable contributions. So I'll presume that the BST is the result of the joint (and disjoint) efforts of: A.S. Douglas (1959) P.F. Windley (1960) A.D. Booth (1960) A.J.T. Colin (1960) T.N. Hibbard (1962) You might also consider consulting: D. E. Knuth (1997). The Art of Computer Programming, Volume III: Sorting and Searching. Second edition. Addison-Wesley, Reading, MA. 