★What data points lead us to believe there was life on Mars?
Despite the problem of extreme inaccessibility and arguments over what life even is, I think there is a few lines of evidence suggesting life on Mars, at least in the past. 1) Habitability. We know that Mars in the past, and probably even today, has environments that could support life, and that gave birth to life on Earth. Now, no-one is sure how life got started, but it seems to have been some sort of self-complicating electro-chemical metabolic reaction. There is no compelling reason why it could not have formed on Mars. 2) Allan Hills 84001 meteorite. While a lot of the evidence in this remarkable chunk of rock has been given abiotic explanations, the presence of a large fraction of exceptionally regular magnetite crystals such as those found in magnetotactic bacteria and many other terrestrial life forms (and nowhere else) has convinced me that they probably were formed inside a bacterium. Magnetite crystals also occur naturally, but it is extremely unlikely that the distribution found in ALH84001 could have occurred naturally. 3) Yamato 000593 meteorite. This Nakhlite was also found in Antarctica and has micro-tubules cutting into faces of crystal grains. Identical features on Earth are associated with bacterial weathering, and the meteorite's tunnels are full of carbon residue. Like ALH84001, there is speculation that such features could form abiotically, but no demonstration. 4) Complexity of life on Earth. If life began on Earth, it would seem likely that the simplest lifeforms would still exist somewhere. Instead, we find that the last universal ancestor (LUA) of all extant life on Earth was already a rather sophisticated organism, with DNA, ribosomes, and surprisingly complete biochemistry. What we see is a precipitous decline in diversity before that organism, somewhat like, say, penguins in Antarctica. Either all antecedent forms of life became extinct or were eaten, possibly because their metabolisms were exponentially less able, or else we're seeing a founder effect. It seems Mars had stable surface water about a hundred million years before Earth did, and life might have arisen there first, then been sprayed throughout the solar system during the late heavy bombardment. None of these constitutes a smoking gun. With luck and a lot of work, we'll find one at some point on Mars. Of course it's also possible that life may be abundant today on Mars, but in a form or location that we'll never find, so it's impossible to be sure one way or the other.    Embed Quote Updated 15 Sep, 2014. 725 views.