★Is it true that there is a difference of one standard deviation in IQ between Caucasian Americans and African Americans?
tl;dr Yes, but it's not relevant to much.  Yes, this has been found.  It's also true that Asian Americans score higher than whites on IQ tests. I don't know how true it still is - I'm not familiar with any recent research in the area.  But it's an IQ difference, it's not an intelligence difference.  IQ is the measured form of intelligence - it's not the same as intelligence. If there were a 1 SD difference in true intelligence between African Americans and whites we would expect massive numbers of African Americans who could barely read or even speak.  We would expect zero African American university professors. The fact that this doesn't happen tells us that there is something wrong in the relationship between intelligence, IQ and race.  (And I don't think it's race - it's all the other things that are associated with race. We just use race as a short cut term because it correlates with things like poverty, lack of opportunity.) Race is very hard to define. Do we call Obama African American, or mixed race because he had a white mother? Some people argue for the latter.  How do we make sure we have an adequate sample of every race - a group of white people from Connecticut may well look different from a group of white people from Michigan. How do we decide which group gives us our "white" IQ?  Similarly, where do we obtain a sample of African Americans - to ensure our sample is representative of African Americans. However, it is not true that IQ is a thoroughly discredited measure, as Martin Thomas says. IQ is one of the only measures that actually has any useful predictive validity (unlike the Myers-Briggs, which seems to get a lot of love on Quora, for reasons I don't understand).  People with higher IQ scores have larger brains [1] and have shorter inspection times  [2]   Other measures of job performance (say) would love to find a correlation between the measure and something as real as that, but generally they don't. IQ has been shown to be highly heritable - if you are adopted the IQ of your biological parents is much more important in determining your IQ than is the IQ of your adoptive parents.  If you want to know what a  5 year old's IQ is likely to be when they are adult, the best approach is to assess the IQ of the parents and average it - don't try to measure the IQ of the child. However, heritability can only explain within population differences, not between population differences.  The classic example (I forget where this is from) is two populations. One population has a very poor diet - mostly maize. They don't grow very tall.  But the taller parents have taller children within that population - hence height within that population is heritable.  A second population has a very healthy diet. They all grow tall. And tall parents in that population have tall children. So height is highly heritable within that population.  However, heritability does not explain the variation in height between the two populations. So the fact that intelligence is heritable doesn't mean that any group differences in intelligence are genetic. If you are going to use an IQ test to make decisions about people, and you have any reason to believe that some people will be disadvantaged, you're going to have to be very, very careful. [1] http://www.people.vcu.edu/~mamcd... [2] http://psycnet.apa.org/psycinfo/...    Embed Quote