★Why we should use standard deviation over mean? What type of problems can we solve with standard deviation?Please give some practical example .Thanks
These two statistics tell about two different characteristics of a random variable, so rather than saying one should be used over another, you might instead say they serve two different purposes. The question is analogous to asking why we should use a scale over a tape measure. The mean tells you what is a "typical" value of the variable being studied, or what would be the best guess for a random observation of that variable. The standard deviation tells you how large is a "typical" deviation from that mean. If you picture a histogram of your variable, the mean tells you the position on the number line upon which the distribution is centered (the center of mass... where you could balance the histogram). The standard deviation a measure of how spread out the values are around that center point. I think the best way to pull the two ideas together is to think in terms of an interval. So let's say that we know the height in inches of the male north american abominable snowman has a mean of 100 and SD of 8, and furthermore that the distribution of heights is approximately normal (bell-shaped). Those three nuggets (100, 8, normal) each tell you completely different info, but together they tell you basically everything about the distribution of the heights of male abominable snowmen. You could draw a nearly perfect sketch of this distribution using these three facts. You also know that a typical height is 100 inches, most  (68%) are between 92 and 108 inches tall, and nearly all (95%) are between 84 and 116 inches tall. Notice that the mean of 100 told you nothing about how big to make your intervals. If I had neglected to give you the SD, you would have no idea how wide to draw your curve. If you happen upon an adult male abominable snowman that's taller than 124 inches (10'4"), you should consider that to be a truly rare event.    Embed Quote