★Why is there a difference in proton size by about 5% (approximately seven standard deviations) within muonic hydrogen, compared to hydrogen?
The muon also has an anomalous magnetic moment, which is off by 3.4 standard deviations from the standard model. (Anomalous magnetic dipole moment ). (More info on this particular puzzle here: The magnetic moment of the muon worries theorists ). There are some ideas as to why this might happen - the majority surrounding the fact that for interactions at a small scale, the larger mass of the muon may allow heavier virtual particles to come into play than normal. My guess (and it's a total guess) is that the two are related; whether it's the virtual particles interacting with the quarks in the hydrogen, or it's just a factor of the shift in magnetic moment in this configuration causing interesting things to happen to the quarks so that they're perturbed and are allowed to configure into a higher energy bound-state than normal (and thus a larger radius) is going to have to wait until the experimental folks get their particle physicsing hats on and start poking it with sticks. My own personal guess? (Warning: What follows is my own personal theory that I've been playing with for a long time. It smells crack-potty, and I'll be the first to admit that. You can stop reading now if you want...) For a long time I've been a follower of Feynman and Wheeler on this kind of stuff; I prefer a geometric/topological model of particles over points and wavefunctions, with events moving forward and backward in time (particle charge being a property of which direction it moves). Wheeler's work on Geons might explain this... I have another hunch. (Bear in mind, it's just a hunch, but it's one I've been idly playing with for a couple of decades now). Imagine two open throats of a wormhole between two manifolds. The only way to keep this open and stable (doesn't topologically reduce to nothing) is to perform a half-twist in the pipe between the two surfaces. The throats lock to the manifolds they're on, causing tension between the manifolds, and torsion at the throat edge. If you look at the torsion as charge, and the tension between the end points as mass (and for now, ignore the other end), you now have an orientable hole in spacetime, with a curl around it. Even better, two freely-movable holes will tend to repel (to reduce torsion in the manifold), but if you have two with opposite rotational directions of torsion, they'll attract. Flip one over 180 degrees, and line it up with the throat of another, and their torsions nearly cancel out, forming a stable state. Have them sit on top of each other both twisting the same way? The torsions add up. This matches the Pauli exclusion principle pretty well. Accelerate the hole, and it'll stretch along the direction of acceleration, flattening the torsion at the off-acceleration sides, and increasing it along the direction of acceleration. This starts to look rather like magnetism (unsurprisingly). A Muon in this model would have 2 or 3 half-twists (I suspect it would be 3, although I'm at the limit of my topological know-how so I don't know if two half-twists could resolve to 0 twists). Quarks in a proton feel like they should be akin to boromean rings; a surface with three knots in it, each with a half-twist in the connection between them. The direction of twist would determine the color of the quark. Flipping of the knots causes equivalent flips to occur to the other two knots (kind of like a hexaflexagon), causing them to change color. Unfortunately, at this point, my investigation into this model ends... and I've got no idea if it's true (And I'll be honest; I don't know where to begin on the math to prove this out and model it). Either way, it's not inconceivable in a geometric model that different (heavier) particles could interact with different types of particles in unexpected ways; it's just that we don't normally see this happen because we've never set up the experiment in that way before, and it's something we don't normally see on a day-to-day basis. In a geometric model, the particles interact because of their innate geometric constructs, so it still may hold. *shrugs* OK, off my soapbox. Helmet on, ready for ridicule. Be gentle :)    Embed Quote