★Why do we square instead of using the absolute value when calculating variance and standard deviation?
Analytic power The big advantage of using a squared function is that you can take the derivative or apply an integral. This makes it convenient to work with inside proofs, solving equations analytically. Remember that statistics is a fairly old field, which predates modern computers, so in the past this analytic property was even more important. http://dx.doi.org/10.1016/j.jacc... Predictive power In terms of predictive power, using absolute values instead of squared values might be beneficial, for certain tasks. For example, we might imagine a predictor that uses absolute deviation, to output a certain confidence. Whether this is better compared to using the standard deviation totally depends on the task. It is possible however, to state in general, that for most tasks this difference will be minimal. The standard deviation is related to absolute deviation in exactly the same way as Root Mean Squared Error  (RMSE), is related to Mean Absolute Error (MAE). Because of the square in RMSE more focus is put on outliers. It is not hard to imagine a task where this extra focus on outliers is undesired. For example, if you make a prediction about the temperature values for the next seven days, you really want to compare performance based on MAE. Using RMSE would make it beneficial to give a 100% accurate prediction for extreme temperature values, which in the case of temperature, is obviously not what you want. Empirical comparison By comparing two regression algorithms, one that internally uses a square function, the other an absolute function, it should be fairly easy to test, which performs better on a specific task. An example of such experiment in the literature is: http://www.eng.auburn.edu/~smith... In this paper Twomey & Smith conclude with a few more interesting guidelines concerning what error measure to use. Another property to consider (besides prediction accuracy) is run time speed. In the domain of algorithmic trading it is quite common to use absolute deviation. If you do high frequency trading, every millisecond counts. In hardware, the absolute operation is much cheaper than the square root operation.    Embed Quote