★What does a standardized normal distribution of mean 0 and standard deviation 1 mean?
I think there are three points to cover What is a normal distribution? How do we interpret "mean = 0"? How do we interpret "std dev = 1" I'll also go into the nature of distributions and relationships between measurements, distributions, and random variables. It may not be pertinent, but I found they were basic concepts that got mostly glossed over in any class I took that are important to understanding what's going on (and if I describe it poorly people can correct me and improve my understanding). TL;DR Mean tells you where a distribution is located - what value (or range of values) you're mostly likely to see when you take a measurement. Standard deviation tells you the average distance between a measurement and the mean. If it's a normal distribution, then that means it has a certain shape, which we know perfectly from knowing only the mean and the standard deviation. TL;TR (Too Long To Read) Let's start with questions 2 and 3. Mean and variance (standard deviation squared) are also known as the first and second moments (or first and second order statistics), respectively. Their usefulness is to give single numbers to help describe a distribution. If you know the mean, then you know where the distribution is "located" - where it sits on the x-axis if you draw a plot of it. This is useful when you are comparing two populations. Example: measure the heights of all people, and measure the heights of professional basketball players. The NBA folks will probably have a higher mean height. Sometimes that doesn't tell you enough, though, and you bring in variance. This tells you how close to the mean the data is on average - it's the mean of "the distance from the mean". For example, NBA players will probably also have a smaller variance than the general population - there is less variety in their heights. For some distribution types that still doesn't tell you everything (you can look up skew and kurtosis if you want to know more), but a lot of the time these two values are enough to characterize data. Now to the first question. A normal distribution is defined by the equation ( is mean and is std dev). Okay, so what does that mean? Well, if we're talking about a distribution, we're really talking about the nature of a random process. One way that I conceptualize "random process" is "some system that generates measurable quantities/characteristics in a non-deterministic way." If you know the distribution of the system, you can't perfectly predict how the system will behave in the future, but you do know something about how it tends to act. This is what the distribution gives us - a way to approximately predict the system's behavior. To say it's specifically the normal distribution is to say that the data behaves in a certain way (the gamma distribution, for example, looks different). If you look at the equation, you see there are two parameters - the mean and the std dev. That means we know the shape of the entire distribution with only those two numbers. To say that it has mean of zero is to say that data produced by this random process is most likely to be equal to zero (zero is the value around which the values cluster). To say that the std dev is one is to say that the mean distance between data points and the mean is equal to one. Each data point is considered one observation of the random variable (which is a quantity produced by a random process). The big philosophical leap for me was to differentiate between the measurements taken and the random variable/random process itself. A distribution is seen as a fundamental characteristic of a process. It's something that cannot be measured directly but only inferentially by measuring its random variable many many times, and then you still only have an estimate of the distribution. That leads to the important point that when you calculate mean or std dev of measured data, you've only calculated estimates of the mean or std dev. But basically, the measured values are thought to be governed by an underlying, latent process, and any measurements we take are just glimpses of that process that inherently have some amount of variable behavior.    Embed Quote