★Why is there a difference in proton size by about 5% (approximately seven standard deviations) within muonic hydrogen, compared to hydrogen?
The Problem Researchers began with a target of hydrogen, an atom that consists of  one proton and one electron. When they bombarded the hydrogen with muons  — heavier cousins of electrons — from a particle accelerator, a muon  would occasionally replace an electron. Probing the muonic hydrogen with  a laser yielded a high-precision measurement of the proton's size. The  problem is that the measurement differed from those obtained by two  other methods by 4%, or 0.03 femtometers (fm). That's a tiny amount — 1  fm is 0.000000000001 millimeter — but is still significantly larger than  the error bars on either of the other measurements. The Solution As a natural instinct, when conflicting results arise, the physicists rush to their calculations and quadruple-check the solutions. However, it is painstakingly hard to determine the error (if any). There could be a problem with the models  used to estimate the proton size from the measurements, but so far, none has been identified. One possibility of this phenomenon is that the team that discovered the slight change has discovered a new branch of physics. This team is the only one to use muons to bombard the proton - that is, other groups all used electrons, and there is a possibility that muons interact differently with protons than they do with electrons. It might be hard to imagine that the small difference between muons and electrons would cause such a change - but this is a possible theory for the outstanding results discovered by the experiment. Remember, the so-called size of a proton is a very ambiguous definition. It's not a simple block of mass with an easily defined surface. Another possibility, therefore, could be that muon orbitals are smaller than those of electrons -- thus the muonic measurement might be more sensitive to the charge allocation compared to the protonic center. Many theories have arisen to combat these conflicting details, and although physicists have their doubts - only time will tell the final result of the actual mass of a proton.    Embed Quote