★Why we should use standard deviation over mean? What type of problems can we solve with standard deviation?Please give some practical example .Thanks
The mean is a point estimate.  And it is exactly that: an estimate.  What the standard deviation does is quantify the error on that estimate. For a simple example: say you own a store and you want to know how many people you get in your store each day (we'll ignore any day of week or seasonal variations).  So for 2 weeks you count the number of people you get in your store each day, sum them all up and divide by 14 days to give you a mean value.  Let's say it ends up being 100/day (rounded to the nearest whole person as fractions of people can get messy). This is great: with the mean value you can now figure out if your business is growing or shrinking. The very next day, you get 90 people in the store.  Oh dear, your business has just shrunk by 10% -- this is not good and you should probably take some drastic action and spend lots of money on some marketing efforts.  Or should you?  Luckily, you know about the standard deviation, so you go back to your numbers and find that the standard deviation of people in your store is around 10.  This means you can expect over 30% of your days to have either more than 110 people or less than 90 people.  This isn't quite as bad as first expected, and a 10% change turns out to be perfectly normal.  For a practical rule of thumb, you should only start to panic (or rejoice) if the number falls outside of 2 standard deviations away from the mean.  So if you have less than 80 people it might be time to worry (or if you have more than 120 people it might be time to think about that new Ferrari). (You probably shouldn't react to the first outlier either -- if the number of people in your store is less than 2 standard deviations from the mean for a few days, it's probably bad news; otherwise it's just a freak outlier and you can just cross your fingers and hope it doesn't happen again soon...)    Embed Quote