★Why is there a difference in proton size by about 5% (approximately seven standard deviations) within muonic hydrogen, compared to hydrogen?
When you're talking about 7 you have to start paying careful to attention to the details.  In particular, the discrepancy is not between muonic hydrogen and regular hydrogen alone, and that complicates matters tremendously. Technical details in the footnotes. How Do We Measure the Proton Radius? As others have noted, while the proton is not a point particle, it is not a solid sphere, either, so the concept of a define "radius" is really ill-defined.  What we actually do is measure a charge distribution for the proton, and define the radius as the root-mean-square of the charge distribution [1]. Now we can measure this charge distribution two ways: with spectroscopy and with elastic scattering. Spectroscopy measurements take advantage of the fact that bound electrons have some finite probability of being within the bulk of the proton's charge distribution, and so can interact electromagnetically.  In particular, low energy electrons are closer to the proton than higher energy electrons, and the difference between measurements of the two is sensitive to the shape of the charge distribution [2].  Determining this sensitivity, however, is extremely challenging as it requires various relativistic and hadronic corrections that are both difficult to calculate and measure. Alternatively we can supply our own, unbound electrons by shooting a high energy beam at proton targets.  The electrons in the beam interact with the distribution of charge in the proton targets and scatter elastically into detectors which measure the energy and angle of the scattered electrons.  These measurements determine the electric form factor of the proton, which is sensitive to the charge distribution.  Again, a good bit of work is required to convert the form factor into the charge distribution [3]. CODATA, The Committee on Data for Science and Technology combines measurements from both electron-hydrogen spectroscopy and electron-proton elastic scattering to yield a single "global value" which is often accepted as the proper value for scientific use [4].  The details of their most recent global analysis of the proton radius can be found in section IV.A.3 of [1203.5425] CODATA Recommended Values of the Fundamental Physical Constants: 2010. Enter Muons The controversy all started in the late aughts, when a group as the Paul Scherrer Institute (PSI) measured the proton radius using muon-hydrogen spectroscopy.  Muons usually decay in an instant, so this experiment required accelerating muons and protons to high energies where time dilation would extend the muon lifetime just long enough for muonic hydrogen to form. When the dust cleared their inferred value for the proton radius was wildly off from the CODATA value.  More specifically, the combined spectroscopy/scattering value.  The muon/electron spectroscopy values were discrepant, but not by anywhere near the same magnitude. The release of the PSI results was followed by a flurry of papers arguing for one side or the other.  Representatives from both groups presented at a parallel session at the April 2011 APS meeting and very few friends were made that day. Recently the PSI group made new spectroscopic measurements that agree with their previous results, and hence the discrepancy. So Who Is Right? Right now we have a few different measurements that disagree, but we have to be careful in saying that they are inconsistent because they may not be measuring the same value. Consistency requires that all of the spectroscopic corrections and elastic scattering models are accounted for and correct.  In particular, because muon-hydrogen is much more sensitive to the spectroscopic corrections than electron-hydrogen, any small error can manifest as significant discrepancies in the measurements.  Over the past few years serious work has gone into the corrections [5] and the scattering models, and while the discrepancy remains there's still no cause for alarm.  There are very few ways new physics could manifest only in these measurements [6], but lots of ways we could have made a subtle mistake in either analysis. [1] To be extremely technical this definition is also poorly-defined as it is not a relativistically-invariant definition.  The precise definition is more well-formed but also less intuitive. [2] The typical measurements are P->S transitions. [3] This form factor is essentially the Fourier transform of the charge distribution.  To determine the radial average of the latter we have to measure the form factor at various momentum transfers, extrapolate to zero and then compute the derivative.  The derivative can be very sensitive to the exact functional form used in the extrapolation, and while much effort has been made to use as many functional forms as possible there's always the possibility of underreported bias. [4] CODATA's data analysis is valiant but their techniques leave much to be desired (for example, if the values from different experiments do not agree they often simply inflate the uncertainty until they do agree). [5] Because the corrections are in the non-perturbative regime of QCD they require effective theories such as NRQCD and chiral QCD.  Calculating corrections from different effective theories provides cross checks and illuminates possibly-missing physics. [6] It's hard to add new physics to the Standard Model that modifies the P->S transitions in muonic hydrogen without manifesting in any other high precision measurement, either at low energies or high energies.  This is unlike, say, the muon's anomalous g-factor which is quite susceptible to corrections that would be suppressed almost everywhere else.    Embed Quote