★How do you draw a distribution curve of a data set if only the median, mean and standard deviation are provided?Assume the following values Mean: 60 Median: 50 Standard deviation: 20 Range of data: 0-100
An entire probability distribution is characterized only when all the moments are available, in theory. The more higher order moments are available, the more features of the distribution we can capture, and the more accurately the distribution curve can be drawn. Basically, as others have pointed out - you have given 5 pieces of information, namely the mean, median, standard deviation, and upper and lower bounds. So, it is not a well-defined problem and you have given us very few pieces of information in order to construct the probability distribution. Let me assume that you are asking this question not out of some theoretical interest or some sort of whim, but you are facing an actual real world problem you are trying to solve with this information. So, I am going to suggest more of an engineering/practical approach to this. So, if you want theoretically exact answers, the answer is "no, you cannot draw the distribution curve with this information". However, if this is a practical problem that needs to solved, please read on. I completely understand your situation, because I have been asked to construct distribution based on 5 or 6 pieces of data, out of which some may even be intervals. The good thing is that I got research papers written out of that :-) Before I continue, I will remind you of the Spherical Cow joke, but I promise that my answer will not be that silly. Let me slightly rephrase your question: How will the probability distribution curve look like when the random variable (RV) is bounded between 0 and 100, has a mean of 60, median of 50, and standard deviaiton of 20 ? Let X be the RV. 1. Discretize the range [0,100] into a convenient number of parts, say "n". 2. x_1 = 0 and x_n=100 (n should be atleast equal to 3, since we have three pieces of information available) 3. Now, call the density value at each x_i as "k times p_i". (It is easy to deal in the density space because, while solving for values of p_i, it would be necessary to enforce the "strictly non-decreasing" condition of the distribution function. But knowing the density is equivalent to knowing the distribution function, in most practical cases) 4. If we know the values of p_i, we can use some sort of interpolation technique to get the entire density function. After interpolation (spline, linear, whatever...) , it needs to be a valid density function - therefore, enforcing that constraint through integration will give us the value of "k". This process is just "normalization" 5. After interpolating and normalizing, we can calculate mean, median, standard deviation and what not. 6. Now, we have your quantities of interest mean, median and standard deviation as functions of the values of p_i. 7. Finally, we have three equations now in terms of "n" variables. Any set of n values of p_i that satisfy these three equations will lead to a potential solution to your question. Generate as many solutions as you want and get as many probability distributions as you like. You can increase "n" for a finer resolution and end up with higher number variables to solve for - thereby increasing the number of possibilities of the solution. So, what I basically have given is a "family of non-parametric distributions" that satisfy your criteria. Have you heard this term "family of distributions"? It is very simple - think of your regular Gaussian distribution wherein the mean and standard deviation themselves are unknown and have their own probability distributions. Therefore, for every realization of mean and standard deviation, there will be one Gaussian distribution. However, since the mean and standard deviation are themselves uncertain, the final result is a so-called family of distributions.  Read about this concept in research papers (perhaps through Google Scholar) if you seem to be interested. This Gaussian example corresponds to a "parametric family of distributions". You could may be try some parametric solutions to your problems too - but you need to start with one family whose distribution shape can vary all over the place by varying parameters. For example, if you start with Gaussian, you are going to end up with a bell-curve immaterial of what you do. On other hand, beta distributions are flexible but you will end up with three equations in two variables for your problem and cannot be solved. Another popular flexible family is that of Johnson distributions. Hope this helps - let me know if something is not very clear and I will try to add some context.    Embed Quote