★Is it true that there is a difference of one standard deviation in IQ between Caucasian Americans and African Americans?
It's true, and most reasoning you see used to discredit the claim is not really accurate.  The averages are for races as murkily defined as we define them in every day life.  Cultural bias issues have been measured not to be significant, and it's easy to understand why if differences in intelligence cause nonlinear increases in learning rates.  IQ's extreme heritability has revealed it to be an extremely genetic trait. And yes, IQ is an extremely relevant metric as it is been shown to have heavy correlations with mental tasks of all kinds, vocabulary size, complex reaction time, etc.  Every bit of evidence indicates that capability exists in a spectrum with people in the middle or middle-high having less ability to accurately generalize from experiences compared to people on the high end. HOWEVER Probably the most relevant mitigating factor relating to racial average differences in IQ is the "Flynn effect".  There have been measured gains in average IQ over time, and it is more proficient in lower IQ ranges.  The namesake of this has also conducted studies indicating that when you cut off the bottom X percent of a group like African Americans, the gap disappears.  As in there are a greater percentage of less capable people and not a smaller percentage of geniuses/more capable people.  One picture this could paint is that each lineage goes through a period of adaptation to civilized society, and the lower average IQ of a group like African Americans is driven by a large number of people reproducing quickly who have yet to adapt to this culture.  I believe that frequently appearing brain structure in a lineage may be reproduced in offspring, representing the most universally/thoroughly validated general reasoning pertaining to a particular environment and set of conditions.  This possibility is implied by the fact that humans have predetermined instincts causing them to be fearful of things like snakes and spiders - instincts that could not have simply been hard coded into the brain due to the fact that they represent variable experiences.  Similar reasoning applies to pre-designed operation or interpretation brain structure for input/output organs that were evolved like the eye and our visual cortex.  If this is true it would be to our benefit to determine what is the most effective way of speeding up this process.  It is quite possible that the "Spend 50x to educate them for 1/2 the results" approach motivated by naive understanding is far less effective than an approach involving full understanding and full disclosure that would require the people themselves to try and beat the statistics and learn to do things they weren't expected to do.  The bottom line is that objectivity, open discourse, and freedom from censorship are the best ways to arrive at the truth that would allow us to make things better.  "I think the really important thing about the first amendment is, it is a way of guaranteeing a high likelihood that truth will emerge as a result of conflicting ideas being expressed"  - William Shockley    Embed Quote