★Why is standard deviation the standard measure of uncertainty in quantum mechanics?Isn't there no better measure that is more appropriate for nature (i.e. one that fits nature better)? If not, is it just a coincidence that such a simple measure also makes the expressions of the laws of physics simplest, or is there something more to it (e.g. something to do with the mathematics of waves)?
Very good question.  I wondered this myself for a long time.  Consider what the Born rule of quantum mechanics actually tells you (call it a postulate if you wish): when the normalized quantum state vector is written in the eigenbasis of the observable you are measuring, the probability of measuring a particular eigenvalue is equal to the square of the coefficient of its associated eigenstate (in the case of degenerate eigenstates, just add up the probabilities for each). Now you have the whole probability distribution of possible measurements for a specific quantum state.  You can compute whatever you like: expectation values, variances, standard deviations, etc. Of particular note though is that you can take an arbitrary quantum state, write it in the position eigenbasis, and compute the standard deviation of the measurements you'll get.  Then take the same state, write it in the momentum eigenbasis, and compute the standard deviation of the measurements you'll get.  The product of these two values has a lower bound, and it's easy to figure out what this is.  (Hint: it's hbar over two). It's important to note exactly what this means.  This bound does NOT apply to a simultaneous/joint measurement of position and momentum (there is a different uncertainty principle for that).  This bound does NOT apply to the measurement of one observable followed by the other observable (there's also a different uncertainty principle for that).  It applies only to the case of measurements of ensembles of the same quantum state; it doesn't matter whether these ensembles are repeated runs of the same experiment or a simultaneous run of many systems in identically prepared initial states.    Embed Quote