★Why is there a difference in proton size by about 5% (approximately seven standard deviations) within muonic hydrogen, compared to hydrogen?
The answer to the question is that we don't know why there is a discrepancy between the two measurements of the proton's charge radius. There are three distinct possibilities There is new physics that influences the interactions between the muon and the proton and this is showing up in this measurement. The new measurement has made a subtle mistake in measuring the charge radius of the proton with muons. The existing combination of measurements that CoDATA performs has either spurious measurements or a mistake in the statistical combination. For Possibility #1, it is difficult, though not totally impossible for new physics to be hiding at very low energies.  It really requires new particles with masses in the MeV range that interact strongly with the proton and muon, but somehow have evaded detection until now.  I'm not holding my breath for this option. Possibility #2 is attractive, because new measurements have not been thoroughly vetted.  Nevertheless, this method of extracting the charge radius of the proton is by far the easiest.  When I say easiest, I mean, that the fractional effect on the actual measurement caused by the proton's charge radius is much larger than other results. This means that you don't have to take into account nearly as many effects.  It's sort of like trying to measure the width of a coin using calipers versus using a meter stick. It's not impossible to do it with a meter stick, but boy is it a lot easier with calipers.    The experimental techniques are definitely more novel, but from my examination, they seem to be well understood and trustworthy. Possibility #3 would mean that a mistake has been made in vetted experiments or in the combination of measurements.  This type of error occurs quite rarely, but it is not without precedent.   One possibility is that the error bars are too small.  If the error bars are say off by a factor of 2, then the 7 sigma effect drops to a 3.5 sigma effect, making the possibility that both results are correct, immensely more likely.    The data that goes into CoDATA's combination are extremely challenging measurements as well.  They come from multiple experimental techniques, which can make it hard for the scientists in charge of combining these measurements to get the world's combined result.  Additionally, the proton charge radius sits on the boundary between low energy physics and high energy physics.  It's not a crucial parameter and doesn't feed   into many other predictions.  This means that if there was a small mistake, it would be difficult to catch. It is not unprecedented for such a basic quantity to shift wildly, far outside the previous error bars.   The best example is the lifetime of a free neutron.  At one point the best measurement was 900 seconds and then it shifted to 1200 seconds (a 10+ sigma change).  There wasn't a clean explanation for how this occurred.      Finally, it is possible that the resolution is a little bit of #2 and a little bit of #3.  I honestly don't know what the answer is.  Only independently repeating all the measurements with increased precision will ultimately lead to the resolution of this discrepancy.    Embed Quote