★What does it mean when standard deviation is higher than the mean?In stats, if the standard deviation is higher then the average, what does that tell you about your data?
Matthew's answer is really the best one I've read here.  I'm going to try for a slightly simpler approach, hopefully to add some context for those who are not as well versed in math/stats. A sample's standard deviation that is of greater magnitude than its mean can indicate different things depending on the data you're examining. The mean, as Matthew stated, is really a description of location.  It can be thought of as a sort of "center-of-mass" of your data. The standard deviation is a description of the data's spread, how widely it is distributed about the mean.  A smaller standard deviation indicates that more of the data is clustered about the mean.  A larger one indicates the data are more spread out. Comparing the standard deviation to the mean will tell you different things depending on the data you are working with.  For example, say your data represent distances measured above and below sea level.  Your mean in this case could be zero - sea level - and your standard deviation could be 20ft.  This would indicate that most of your measurements fall within 20ft above and 20ft below sea level.  On the other hand, what if your data represented the ages of residents in a Palm Beach condominium?  In this case, your mean could be 85, and your standard deviation could be 10, indicating that most of the residents fall between the ages of 75 and 95.  In the first case, the standard deviation is greater than the mean.  In the second case, it is smaller.  But ultimately, their relative size matters little - it's what they tell you about the structure of the data, the way it is distributed, that is important.  Using this information, you can start to make inferences about the data.  For example, in the first dataset, you could determine whether a particular point was significantly higher above sea level than all others - i.e. whether it represented a statistical anomaly that was worth investigating - based on how many standard deviations away from the mean it was located. One point to clarify is that the concept of standard deviation is not limited to normally distributed data.  It is a general concept that applies to data that arise from any distribution.  What is special about the standard deviation for the normal distribution is that it can be applied symmetrically about the mean, since the normal is a symmetric distribution.  Though other distributions, such as the F, T, Chi-square, Gamma, or Beta, are not consistently symmetric, a variance - and therefore a standard deviation - can still be calculated for them.    Embed Quote