★Is it true that there is a difference of one standard deviation in IQ between Caucasian Americans and African Americans?
It may be absolutely true. It probably means absolutely nothing. 1. The notion that there is a single measurable entity called "Intelligence" is assumed, not proven. Can you provide a definition of what intelligence is, exactly in a measurable way without reference to these tests? No one can. The brain is a complex organ with complex capabilities. The same organ performs a set of higher level functions at a conscious level, along with many and varied lower functions which work subconsciously. The notion that we could parse out a group of these functions which we name intelligence is arbitrary. 2. The notion that intelligence can be meaningfully summarized in a single number is assumed, not proven. Even if there is such a thing as intelligence why should it be one thing? Why couldn't individuals have multiple "intelligence centers" which operate more or less independent of one another? Of course this is exactly what some theorists argue. The problem is their definition of these intelligence centers is when examined, just as vague and arbitrary as the notion of general intelligence. Intelligence is not like height--a single attribute of a human body. 3. The notion that IQ measures intelligence is assumed not proven. How would you perform on an IQ test devised by hunter gatherers? It takes smarts and experience to make a living in the bush. I'd be a moron on their test. How would you perform on an IQ test devised by musicians? Composing classical music is an incredible intellectual exercise. I'd fail miserably at that too. My point is the information content we choose to measure in these tests--basic mathematics and language skills is arbitrary and contains a ton of built in biases for and against some people. If intelligence is some kind of general capability of the brain it stands to reason people who excel on one type of test would excel on others too. 4. Why don't the standard IQ tests show much gender difference in IQ scores? That's because the tests were designed by people who believed men and women were intellectually equal. To make sure their tests result showed the same thing, they eliminated questions where women or men performed poorly until the test result came out about where they wanted them to be. In other words, the tests were at least in one instance intentionally designed to fit the conscious bias of the test makers. Is it possible the tests also reflect unconscious biases? Not just possible, but likely. IQ tests primarily measure: Linguistic and mathematical literacy Experience and familiarity with the American test writing conventions Unsurprisingly, groups which don't use the standard dialect in the home, don't rehearse math as a leisure activity and don't place high value on test taking and scholastic success are at a large disadvantage on such tests. Practically speaking, IQ tests have proven themselves useful for one thing. They are pretty good at picking out people with mental disabilities. Beyond that, I put no stock in them.    Embed Quote