★Given cumulative distributions, how do I find the mean and standard deviation (normal curve)?
Let's get some perspective. Assume that 100% of students score 100 or less and 0% of students score 0 or less. The cumulative distribution is then a strictly-increasing curve from the bottom-left to top-right corner of a 1x1 box. (The horizontal axis of the box is the fraction of answers correct. The vertical axis of the box is fraction of students scoring at or below that level.) Here's the data you have: The three dots in the upper-right corner are your data. The two extra dots at the vertices are the fact that all students get something between zero and one. You're asking what the rest of the curve looks like, based on those dots. You only have information about the top corner. Why would you feel entitled to run some equations and know what happened in the bottom? Without strong priors, there is simply no way to say what happens in a region that's far away from where your data lies. There are many possibilities, and if you come up with a statistical test that tells you with any certainty that such-and-such is the answer, you've fooled yourself. To answer your question, since a normal distribution has two degrees of freedom, it won't fit perfectly to three data points. Also, it won't fit the endpoints (0,0) and (1,1). That's to be expected - if your data fits your model perfectly, your model has too many degrees of freedom! We don't know the data is normal, but if you have strong reason to believe it should be, you can get something like this: This particular normal curve has a mean of 60% and an standard deviation of 19%. I got this just by telling the software to plot a normal CDF and playing around with the parameters until it looks sort-of good. You could do something more fancy, like minimizing the squared error between the curve and data or maximizing the likelihood that a normal distribution with given parameters would produce the known data. You could even use Bayesian statistics to infer a probability distribution for the mean and standard deviation of the normal curve. All that would be silly, though, since we don't know the curve is normal, and don't really know much of anything outside of the upper-right corner. If you want to know more about the distribution, you will need more data.    Embed Quote