★Why is there a difference in proton size by about 5% (approximately seven standard deviations) within muonic hydrogen, compared to hydrogen?
I'll refrain from making any speculative comments on why this seven sigma discrepancy exists because I don't know enough physics to do that. However, I'll try to make a case for why the fact that a discrepancy exists, for whatever reasons, shouldn't be too surprising. The whole idea of assigning composite particles some 'absolute' size is bound to be fraught with difficulties because particles aren't the hard, well-defined billiard balls familiar to us from everyday experience. This point has already been covered by a few of the other answers, but it's worth reiterating. To illustrate some of the difficulties that crop up in defining size, let me bring up the question that Benoit Mandelbrot had famously asked, 'What is the length of the coastline of Great Britain?' If you've ever amused yourself with the construction of fractal curves such as the Koch snowflake, you'll see that the answer depends on what the resolution power of your yardstick is. As you keep increasing the resolution, which is basically equivalent to making the yardstick tinier, you're going to find yourself measuring the distances around jagged shorelines, boulders, pebbles, individual grains of sand and so on, all the way to atoms and beyond. And at each stage you'll find the length growing by astronomically huge margins all the way to infinity. Of course, the length of the British coastline as measured by a yardstick with atomic resolution is going to be thoroughly useless to a trawler bent on circumambulating Britain — the length of the coastline, whatever that might mean, is therefore best specified on a case-by-case basis depending on the task at hand. In a similar spirit, I'd say that it's meaningless to talk of sizes of particles in an absolute sense. At best, we can talk of characteristic length scales beyond which the 'compositeness' of the particle has no significant bearing on the experiment at hand. It should hence come as no great surprise that this characteristic length scale associated with a proton is different for traditional scattering experiments and measurements involving the s-orbital in muonic hydrogen. Note that I'm not saying that exploring how this difference arises won't lead us to discover some interesting new physics — I think it very well might. All I'm claiming is that there is no reason for us believe or take as the status quo that the length scale ought to be same across all experiments.    Embed Quote