★What was it like to be on the Internet during the 1990s?
I got my first taste of the internet when AOL opened up to it, sometime around 1992 or so.  I remember how enraged some of the original internet users were when the newbie floodgate opened up. Flaming was a regular occurrence, mostly for just asking questions and, well, acting like a newbie.  I signed up with AOL just to get on the internet since there were no local providers then.   It was really interesting to see what there were in offerings back then (the closest I had come was dial up BBS's up 'til then).  I was a regular on a dozen local BBS's (Bulliten Board System), mostly to download game and application shareware (first game was Wolfenstein, followed by a couple of 8 bit remakes of older console games).  My main activity online from that point was downloading software and trying it out, which I still do frequently today, but mostly open source programs. This was on an old 386sx with 1 meg of RAM , a 90 meg harddrive and a 14.4 kbs modem.  But since most sites were 8 bit or text only, it wasn't much of a problem.  After getting off AOL, I would log in on the internet in DOS and browse in text.  First browser software I used was an AOL browser, followed by Netscape 1.0, provided as part of the AOL install. The first search engine I used was AOL's WebCrawler. I also used MIRC and Agent newsreader (which I still use regularly). Not long after AOL starteed, internet access was free through a dozen or so different providers. I used the one provided by Spiegel online catalog for a few years, and when they stopped, I got it from a provider that targeted older (AARP aged) users.  Net Zero provided access, but was more limited in time, and AOL was free for the first month or three, which you could renew by creating a new user when your time ran out, or get an extension when you called to cancel.  Disks for these services were everywhere, provided free (at first they were floppies, which you could grab by the handful, wipe and use for games and such).  Juno was another free internet service/email provider.  Even when I went to a paid service later on, I kept Juno for my email.  It was nice since I could keep my email address for quite a long time.  I have friends who still use Juno for email, and the service has apparently gone back to providing free dial up service.  I eventually had to quit it since I was getting so much spam.  http://www.juno.com/ Eventually, the bubble burst when the money investors thought they were going to make on free services never really appeared. Mentioned in another answer, MUDs (Multi User Dungeons) had been around on the telnet via BBS's.  You would access a local BBS provider (or a remote, if you didn't mind paying the long distance charges), that was connected to a telnet.  These games made a natural transition to the internet and have evolved as you would expect.  I wasn't (and still am not) a big online gamer, so I never really messed with them. If you want to see what it really looked like back then, try the WayBack Machine, which has archived web pages since the early 90's. http://archive.org/web/web.php