★What will be the next big trend on the Internet after "search" of Google and "social" of Facebook?
Curation. Search was for reading, Facebook is for reading and writing. Curation will give you what to read or write or buy or sell. It will lead to the mother of all 'middle man' disintermediation. The internet is a distributed computer, it does three things: write, crunch and read and these have three parameters immediacy, symmetry & relevancy (who is doing the reading and writing and when and whats the value add [relevancy]). The early web was highly asymmetric (more people browsed than published) - creating opportunity for Google to help people find things. Blogging made publishing easier (web becoming more symmetric) and opened the ecosystem for things like Facebook. Increasing symmetry and mobile access also increased immediacy - the real time web. In the middle of the read/write process is the crunching - the machine. This is where the value add happens and offline its where middle men sit. Online this stuff is still primitive, amazon recommendations, ebay reputation etc. Its primitive becuase the core reputation algorithms don't differentiate between the connoisseurs and the gluttons, they don't take into consideration the complexities of knowledge value add - the 501st review of a pizza joint on Yelp actually reduces the value of the aggregate because it reduces the signal to noise ratio. But this is where the meat is, all good Internet businesses are about disintermediating middle men. Offline, middle men (maybe it should be middle people), capture rents through hogging proprietary information. There are still realtors that take huge percentage of a transaction with very little value add compared to, say, an architect and retailers that do little more than assemble a collection of items in a shop window. They will eventually be killed by a medium which increases information liquidity. The best emerging term for the online middle man is the curator. In future, system will arise built around helping and automating curation, through heuristically derived algorithms (for example). This will create the opportunity for a platform built around curation and which represents a paradigm shift comparable to Google or Facebook.