★How did people waste their time in the pre-Internet era?
Ah, this question made me take a nice long trip down memory lane! :) Here is how I 'wasted' my time back then! Our school Library had a rule that you could borrow only ONE book per week. That was too less, by my standards! So I urged my non-reader friends to issue books in their names, so that I could read theirs once I was done with mine! Result? Ended up reading almost 4 books per week - EVERY week. Yes even during the exams! When we didn't have a computer at home, I used to go to my Dad's chamber with my brother, and take turns at playing Pinball! For those who are not aware of what it looks like, here's a picture - :) We organized Harry Potter themed contests and quizzes on a weekly basis. There were no prizes, but these gave us an excuse to bunk classes and have fun! After school, we played games like "Dog and the Bone", "Kit kit" (It's called Hopscotch in English, I believe), Dumb Charades etc. And these were a LOT more fun than the present-day online games like Farmville, or Mafia Wars! (For the unacquainted, here's how a typical game of Hopscotch would look like) And then during holidays a few friends would call up on the land-line, and I used to chat with them for hours. Yes, the same friends I knew I'd meet the very next day in school! :D At home, we had a Cassette Player, and I used to pester my parents to buy audio cassettes of the newest Bollywood movie releases. And once I had my hands on the 'treasure', I'd just spend hours pausing and re-playing the songs, and jotting down the lyrics. My favourite back then was the song "Kal Ho Na Ho" from the Shahrukh Khan starrer movie of the same name. This is how the audio cassettes looked like : Starting from when I was 12, I wrote a diary every single day, mentioning everything that happened - the mundane and the magical. I can't help but feel nostalgic as I pore over those records now. And presently, with Quora and Facebook to occupy most of my time, I manage to take out time for only 2-3 days a month. :( When word meanings were not just a click away (thanks to Google search), I had a dictionary with me almost all the time - at school, or on the study table. And during the teenage years when I was VERY excited to learn about the birds and the bees, I used to pore over it for hours - finding out the meaning of some word I found in a Sidney Sheldon novel, and looking up all other related words! ^_^ (Crazy, I know!) There are so many other crazy things I did back then. But when I look back now, all this 'wasted' time seems so precious, I can't help but smile while writing this answer down. :)