★What will be the next big trend on the Internet after "search" of Google and "social" of Facebook?
The first problem of the early Internet was loneliness. Email and Chat were the early breakthroughs of the Internet that addressed the basic human need to connect and communicate. For the last decade or so, the primary problem with the Internet has been Information Overload. There is too much information out there and its hard to make sense of it or find what you are looking for. Search (primarily Google) helped make sense of the Internet and helped you find what you were looking for, so much so that today a lot of people only refer to the "searchable" subset of the Internet when they use the term. Social (Facebook, among others) helped restrict you to only content that was relevant to you (content generated from friends, relatives, etc.) Wikipedia gave easy access to knowledge. All the while, in background, the adult online industry kept going quietly, satisfying more primitive needs. All the next technologies on the Internet that will be popular will be ones that either help you satisfy a basic need or help satisfy a basic human need. Its hard to predict, but here are a few examples: 1. Online work: Yes, there will be real online jobs (not the fake ones you mostly find today) in a few years and it will make sense for workers to work from home, cutting on commute times and improving productivity 2. Online collaboration: Technologies to help people work together remotely. Today, this includes chat, email, desktop sharing, video conferencing, etc. But the technologies that will do well will combine some or all of these seamlessly. 3. Human simulation: For conversations when you are bored, access to hard-to-find knowledge that requires human-like browsing, realistic porn. An example: a decade from now, you may not have a to write a blog - a wearable computer may describe your interesting days, complete with pictures and short videos. 4. Online Dating / Matchmaking: This area has been waiting for a breakthrough for too long. All someone has to do is solve the terribly hard problem of finding a safe way for two (largely) normal people to get to know each other enough before they can meet. Safe and normal is key, and achieving that will be the breakthrough. 5. 3D printing design: 3D printing is the next big technology that is already here and the websites that provide easy access to 3D designs or make it easy for you to create your own 3D designs online are going to make it big. 6. Virtual countries: Virtual currencies (cryptocurrencies) to some extent have proven that most real world concepts can be replaced with virtual versions. Countries have to be no different. Soon you'll have virtual countries that you can be a member of (virtually immigrate), pay taxes and receive social security when in need.