★Who will be the leading companies of the Internet of Things?Everything relating to the ethos of connecting the worlds devices to the web makes sense. I wonder in what timeframe it will play out? And who will be the leaders of this wave of technology.
There are 4 major winners coming in IOT: 1.) Wireless Network Gear Makers Today's  network gear isn't really designed to handle the scale of devices IOT promises - a home wifi router no longer connects a few laptops, phones, and tablets - it's now connecting hundreds and potentially thousands of wifi devices sending information across the web. That'll mean networking equipment upgrades everywhere. Established networking companies like Cisco will probably dominate this area. 2.) Cell Service Providers Some IOT applications are mobile - meaning they aren't always next to a WIFI router so they'll be connecting to cell networks to send data. This is a big win for cell service providers because right now their business model is per device, so having a family plan isn't 4 devices it's a few dozen, then a few hundred. Today's incumbents  like Verizon & AT&T have most of the technological infrastructure in place and will lead this charge though it's not clear at all which of the major telecoms will get ahead. 3.) Device Makers This is the category that is most interesting because it's the least likely an incumbent will dominate. IOT devices are MUCH simpler than a cell phone or laptop and don't require near as much engineering effort to perfect - meaning big device manufacturers like Apple, Samsung, and Sony don't have much of an advantage over smaller companies or even nontraditional electronics companies. 4.) Chip Makers All IOT devices have 3 core electronic components in common - a small processor with a bit of memory, a wifi or cell network connection device, and some kind of sensor(s). Electronics companies like TI stand to produce the core components used by the #3 companies stand to benefit a lot - though again, it's not clear which company will take the market and get their chips used in devices.