★What are the most productive ways to spend time on the Internet?Please go through at least the top 20-40 answers (if not all) before answering the question. There have been numerous repeated answers which do not add to the quality of the information. Also, please don't answer Quora.com
Here are some cool web pages you will just love: Just cool: Outgrow.me – The marketplace for successfully crowdfunded products. You Had One Job! – Gathering all the careless mistakes in one place (photos). Scouting NY – See New York through the eyes of a movie location scout. Betabrand – You want, they make. Prototypes are turned into fashionable products. Funofart – Lots of fun photography broken down into many categories. Coffitivity – Sounds that increase your creativity. Luxury Launches – Expensive, opulent, extravagant. The Good Men Project – For guys who aren’t mindless, sex-obsessed buffoons. Adventure Journal – Online magazine dedicated to outdoor adventure in all it’s forms. Collectors Weekly – Best of antiques, vintage, collecting. Learn something DIY – Get skills. Be awesome. Urban Observatory – Observe the “living fabric” of different large cities visually. Today I Found Out – Learn interesting facts everyday. Curious.com – Learn, teach and share online lessons. My First Job – Top-notch executives talk about what they learned from their first job. Sick Science! – Easy, hands-on science experiments you can do at home. ChartGirl – For things best explained with charts. The Billfold – Everything you wanted to learn about money but were too polite to ask. Learn Vest Must Reads – Non-boring money tips and advice. Forvo – All the words in the world. Pronounced. Current events NowThis News – The news in your pocket. Nieman Journalism Lab – Publishing the future of journalism (Harvard). Business Insider – Tech, finance, media and other verticals under one roof. ProPublica – Journalism in the public interest. Worldcrunch – Selecting, translating and editing content from top foreign outlets. The Epoch Times – Uncensored news that values freedom of the press and humanity. On The Media (OTM) – Tackles sticky issues with a frankness and transparency (NPR). CoinDesk – The voice of digital currency (Bitcoin news, prices, charts). Talking Points Memo (TPM) – A digitally native political publication. The World Economic Forum – Improving the state of the world by engaging leaders. Culture & Trends Reddit – A website about everything. Powered by community, democracy and you. HyperAllergic – Playful, serious, and radical perspectives on art and culture. The Airship – Surveying literature, arts and culture. The Inquisitr – The latest stories to hit the web in entertainment, tech, news and more. HyperVocal – Purveyors of the vital and viral. Your Internet sherpas. The A.V. Club – Pop-culture news, interviews and features. The Daily What – Trending Internet culture (Cheezburger). Videogum – TV, movies and viral videos. Artlog – Everything you need to know in culture this week. Modern Mechanix – Yesterday’s tomorrow, today. Classic stuff. Technology Daring Fireball – John Gruber talks Apple (and people pay attention). Pocket-lint – Gadget news and reviews. TechHive – Products you’ll love and how to get the most out of them. Techdirt – Insight and analysis on technology, government policy, legal issues and more. GeekWire – Dispatches from the digital frontier. The Wirecutter – The best technology to buy as determined by research and testing. Gadget Review – Lifestyle gadget site. BGR (Boy Genius Report) – Mobile and tech news, reviews, opinions, insights. AnandTech – A deeper dive into tech down to the component level. OSNews – Exploring the future of computing.