★Can I use the internet to save my mom, who suffers from Stage IV cancer?
I was in the same boat as you less than two years back. I lived in New Delhi, India and my mother was suffering from Stage IV ovarian cancer. She had multiple relapses, with the last one, in 2010, proving fatal. I can understand why you would think so, especially, given that when you are in India, you feel like there is always a possibility that the treatment is not the best you can get. In addition to the normal treatment, she also took Baba Ramdev's medicines for almost the entire duration of her illness (my father also went to some place in Dehradun which claims to have some cure for the disease and brought the medicines but my mother didn't want to take it and we didn't want to force her). Firstly, let me assure you that the hospitals in India, at least the ones in Delhi (which is where my mother underwent her treatment) have exceptional doctors who stay abreast with the latest in the field (during my mother's treatment, we were constantly in touch with a distant relative who is an oncologist in US and he was always in agreement with our doctor's treatment). Use the internet to read more about the treatment being offered to your mother, but I will suggest keeping off it to find alternative treatments since they can be very misleading. Secondly, you should talk to her doctor very frankly and assess her situation. I've seen the doctors will never explicitly tell you she has a few weeks or months to live (that happens only in Bollywood movies!), they'll equivocate and suggest it by their words. You should assess her situation and be mentally prepared for the worst (and hope for the best). It is your responsibility to take care of everyone in your family (including yourself) during these hard times. Thirdly, spend as much time with her as humanly possible. In fact, ditch humanly, borrow the time turner from Hermione and spend more time with her. I say this both for you and for her. For her, because, women are very strong and mothers especially are super human, somehow they can withstand all the pain and suffering in the world without so much as uttering a word, just so that their children aren't disturbed. Her suffering is probably a hundred times more than what appears from the surface and she needs you by her side to withstand that. In fact, make sure her friends visit her regularly, this will help lighten her mood every now and then. For you, because, as Jae Won Joh puts it, every moment that you don't spend with her will come back to haunt you forever. My mother could not see my convocation because I was out partying with my friends the night before and I don't think I can ever make peace with myself over that. I loathe myself for every weekend that I did not visit home from college because I was lazy or every time I did not accompany her on her hospital visits. You don't want that to happen, trust me. Fourthly, get to know what she wants or has always wanted. It could be something as simple as a car or a foreign trip or something as complex as her children getting married or doing well in school or something. Try to make as many of those wishes true as you can. If her exit is going to be soon, it is your responsibility to make it as peaceful as possible. I think this part can be extremely tricky since the treatment for cancer seems to be a continuous process and you never seem to have any time on you. You tend to put off that trip just so that you can get the treatment finished first (which never seems to happen). I'd say give the other things equally high priority (We realized this a bit too late, when my mother died her three biggest unfulfilled wishes were that she wanted to board a plane, have a trip outside India and watch snowfall, everything easily feasible but we were so entangled in the treatment cycle, we never got down to it. I hope it's not too late for you.) Lastly and most importantly, don't lose all hope yet! If you lose hope, imagine what would happen to her! She'll lose all will to fight...Even if the situation is bad, put up a brave face in front of her. If she is fighting the disease (which I assume she is, given that she has undergone multiple rounds of chemo/surgery), be a fellow warrior in the battle; you never know when the tables may turn. Some resources that I found very helpful during the time: 1.  Cansupport - they are an NGO which provide counseling services. The counselor would come and talk to my mother for some time every few days; my mother found the time spent with them very relaxing.. 2. There is a very nice book called "The emperor of all maladies" by Siddhartha Mukherjee. It will in no way provide a cure for the disease, but it will help you understand this disease a little better. I found it to be really helpful. (If you don't mind, I'd like a to send it you, please message me your address). I hope everything works out for you...