★What is the scariest thing you have experienced on the Internet?
Warning : Disturbing content. You might not want to expose yourself to certain things. In this rather violent film commonly distributed across Indian English Mass-Movie channels, I saw a hastily cut scene showing two adults abducting a couple of kids, making them do funny things while filming them. What followed was one of the lead ladies walking in, exploring their house, being disgusted at certain discoveries and shooting the two right away. While it's obvious that the scene was about child pornography, what I couldn't comprehend was presence of surgical instruments in the background, and a word called "Snuff" mentioned out aloud. I remembered a psychology lecture wherein my professor had mentioned 8MM. I had never read up or watched the movie. But I remembered she mentioned something called as a 'snuff movie' being showcased upon in 8MM. My curious fingers went on to type the word down and my mind was ready to go on an exploring spree. Through some initial digging and going to the wrong places, I chanced upon an actual snuff movie footage. I was wise enough to not try it out for having scars from several past un-thought-upon queries, I chose to read about it first before exposing myself to direct imagery. During the search I glanced across couple of thumbnails from various sites, youtube videos describing exactly which captions not to ever watch, and more. I chanced upon an article describing one of these movie's plot in detail. I will forever be grateful that I didn't let my finger slip and actually see the video. I've been exposed to countless deviations and disturbing content on the internet, read about sociopaths, gorey crimes, extreme pornography, even Necrophilia. But nothing came close to the paralysis I experienced on reading about Snuff films, their networks, their plots, and the motivation behind producing them. Snuff Movies are movies that involve actual murdering or mutilation of people for entertainment or sexual gratification purposes. More on Wiki - Snuff film I could not believe that a concept like a child-snuff movie was introduced on a mass-movie channel, I could not believe that mutilation could be carried across in real and be distributed on the internet, I could not believe there are people who finance such movies to be made and there are people who are willing to do such kind of work. This is scariest, the absolute rotten-most and ugliest thing I've ever found on the internet. The concept of Snuff Movies.