★What was it like to be a programmer without the Internet?When there were no online documentation, no Google, no StackOverflow...
The Internet was available to programmers long before it was available to the rest of the world. USENET was an important way of distributing large batches of code, such as this 1991 announcement on comp.os.minix of a new operating system by some loser out of Finland: https://groups.google.com/forum/... I'm doing a (free) operating system (just a hobby, won't be big and professional like gnu) for 386(486) AT clones.  This has been brewing since april, and is starting to get ready.  I'd like any feedback on things people like/dislike in minix, as my OS resembles it somewhat (same physical layout of the file-system (due to practical reasons) among other things). That's 1991, before AOL, much less Google. And even then he's sorry that it's not "big and professional like gnu", a project that people had been collaborating on since 1983. USENET could even exist without direct access to the Internet proper, via bulletin boards. USENET was also where you went for the kinds of questions that you'd ask of StackOverflow today. That's where the original FAQs come from: questions that were asked so often that it was helpful to have the answers all in one place. Today, FAQs are much less important: Google means you don't have to have a central answer to the question. To really do programming "before the Internet" would mean talking a very different mode of programming, either pounding away at the Big Iron, or hobbyist computers with 16k of memory (if you were lucky). Things were less fragmented, because there were a relatively small number of major languages and few libraries (which would be reasonably well documented). Since there was a lot less code sharing, you wouldn't have the same kind of questions. StackOverflow does get a lot of questions just about the language itself, but at the time you were essentially expected to just know it, figure it out yourself, or go to the local neckbeard and withstand his withering contempt.