★What was it like to be a programmer without the Internet?When there were no online documentation, no Google, no StackOverflow...
You collect and read books and magazines obsessively. I was starting serious programming in 1990-91 in Russia, and I spent pretty much all money I earned to buy every new book and magazine that I was even remotely interested in. Every Saturday I followed my weekly routine that consisted of visited 3 most prominent tech bookstores in downtown St.Petersburg, and spent my Sunday scanning through them and picking which ones to read first. When I left Russia for the United States in 2004, I left behind ~300 books and ~500 magazine issues, most of which were hopelessly outdated and/or had been replaced by the Internet entirely. There are several reasons for this: 1) Without the Internet, books are pretty much the only source of information. Your knowledge base is literally your home library. There's no other source quickly available. So you don't only buy guides and textbooks (such as Knuth's timeless work), but annotated manuals as well. I had for example several extensive tomes on MS-DOS, BIOS, Unix and Windows APIs. 2) Magazines are the only source of spontaneous discovery, with the small exception of colleagues, so your knowledge of the current state of the industry heavily depends on the magazines you read. 3) Since you can't find the answer to your questions easily by Googling them, you have to actually read or at least scan them all. You can only know where to look if you can recall, however slightly, having read something about it somewhere. Without reading the books/manuals you don't even know what you can do, not only how to do it. In retrospect, you sometimes have to do tons of reading to figure out something relatively simple, as well as tons of preemptive reading just to know what you don't know. On the other hand, the Internet has gotten so good at answering specific narrow questions that you can start coding in a new programming language without having read even one page from a book about it. It's got pros and cons but if you ask me, I would never go back again.