★What is the Internet of Things?
My eyes get wide open whenever I hear of IOT because its an interesting term. I am not a pure techy guy to share all the technical details, however as per my experience on Big Data and the stuff I read on internet I am writing. Till date internet was used to share information across all channels for all verticals. With sharing information/data there is an exponential increase in data. From years, this data was stored in the legacy systems and was archived after sometime. At certain point it was important to use this data and draw some relevant and productive information rather than just dumping this data. This data was saved with logs and the logs were used to perform the analysis to extract the information from those chunks of data. Here is where the Big Data practises got it place. Coming on to IOT, in simple language you can say it is the data or a signal emitted by a living and non living thing both. Let us take an example, there is a logistics service provider which have fleet of transportation vehicle and deals in refrigerated items. The fleet may have many trucks for transportation with a unique registration number.  To include them in the IOT cycle, a sensor have been installed in each truck which emits data in every 5 second(a hypothetical timeframe). The signal will be just an electronics signal emitted by the sensor which is integrated in the truck's electronic system. In this case the signal/data emitted from the sensor installed in a truck will give us the information of the refrigeration system working properly or not. is there any drop or rise in the desired temperature, more IMPORTANTLY is there any chance of any failure in the refrigeration system. This term comes under the preventive and predictive analytics using Internet of thing and Big Data. Each and every transmitted signal from a single sensor is saved in logs and with other Big Data tics and tactics like Hadoop and Mapreduce we get the real time analytics in place. This is how a non living thing like a MAN Truck can come to life with a sensor emitting signal. So this becomes the Internet of thing more specifically in this case Internet of truck. Another example can be of high-tech manufacturing, which focusses on 0% error/defect in their products. Sensors can be installed at various stations and a single machine can have hundreds of sensors emitting GBs of data per second. Now, you can imagine the rate at which the data is generated and variety of data generated. This data is saved with the latest cloud based services and real time analytics have been performed on it to extract information in form of visualized data. Here IOT is the data generated from the sensors installed on certain machines. Hope this helps in understanding the basics of IOT. Thanks!