★What's it like to work for Rocket Internet?I've noticed they've been hiring alot recently, especially within the U.S. I was wondering if anyone has had experience working there. What is their reputation within the industry?
Posting anonymous as I wrk for Rocket Co-founders have no control or ownership over the company as they are simply puppets with fancy titles.  No equity, reasonable pay but  a title that they cant get anywhere else.  Its like picking up a Manager level guy from a tech company and making him CEO Being a CO FOUNDER not suitable for true entrepreneurs who have what it takes to build a company, raise money and grow, because you have no control of your company, no equity, and you are one of 4 - 7 co-founders that can be fired anytime Good for fresh MBA and consultant types who would otherwise have gone into a tech company at a junior level.... I dont know why the Samwers love mba and consultant types .. they get the opportunity here to get a the MD title and build a company.... The experience is nothing like actually building a company because with so much available money, technology marketing and other know how coming packaged from the incubator, its just about opening the photocopy machine, reading, and spending money cloning the clones from other countries. you dont even have a say if you think that some part of their blueprint model does not work for your situation, you stil have to do it exactly the way they want it done Mr. Managing Director ...  Its much more like a corporate job, full of politics rubber stamping and sucking up... You do the work the Samwers make the money as they are the owners of the company that you are MD in ... and they replace you as and when they see fit ... on average a md is switched every 3 months or so The pay is usually good, but they work you late into the night to make you earn it.  There is no job security, people have been fired one month into the job, after leaving a 5 year career at a competitive company... my heart went out to one guy who was in this situation To sum it up, if you are a fresh mba or consultant with limited alternate options, and you have been offered a MD level position, then go for it,  as its a better title and responsibility that you can get  ... but always keep looking for the next thing because you may need to switch at any time .. If you have experience and can start your own company, then Rocket does not compare at all to your own thing For everyone else who is joining below the Co FOUNDER and MD level, think hard.  They may give you a raise on the salary, but are you willing to slog your ass off, deal with the politics, report to a 20 year old MBA who has no idea how to manage people and no ownership of the company so no long term vision for the team, and risk being jobless one month later.  Most people are better off without the stressEdit