★What was it like to be a programmer without the Internet?When there were no online documentation, no Google, no StackOverflow...
I started with Turbo C in 1989, and it was lots of fun.  Everything I learned was from one or two books, and just building things I wanted to build.  The internet may have existed in academia at the time, but I didn't major in CS so I never had access to it till maybe '94 (which was when I actually became a professional software engineer, albeit a self-taught one). I remember showing off something I built to a friend by mailing him a floppy disk, because I didn't have email. One of the big advantages was that I could do small-scale, interesting projects that, to my knowledge, no one else had done before.  Or if they had, they weren't available to me, so I got the satisfaction (as well as the good practice) of figuring something out for myself, without the temptation to just see how someone else did it. One of the more satisfying projects came about was when I first saw the "magic eye" random dot stereograms (around '91-'92). I just HAD to figure out how they did it and make my own, and did an all-nighter figuring it out -- still using Turbo C.  Soon word spread locally that I knew how to do them, and some friends-of-friends contacted me to do them as a series of posters that were sold around the world. Pretty cool, considering that it was something that probably took at most 30-40 hours of work. Now, with that investment of time, it's hard to do something that gets noticed on Github. These days, if I do something that someone else has done (and typically made available as open source), it is a far less satisfying.  And other programmers seem to have hostility toward people like me that like to "reinvent the wheel."  They are quick to say "why did you bother doing that, someone else has done something similar?"  I want to say "because it's fun and good practice," but admittedly, it nags at me that I might be wasting my time. I find it very hard these days to do something that can be done in a reasonable amount of time, and is useful.  Which is a shame.