★Is the Internet spoiling young children?
No. I was a young person when the internet first became popular. We got high speed internet when I was 10 (previous to that, we had dial up, which pretty much meant I spent very little time on a computer). The internet won't change what your kid will already do. Basically, if you are not raising your kid right, then they will have sex and drink before they are ready. But the internet isn't "making" them do anything they don't want to. I've never read anything online and said, "Gee, I better start drinking and having sex!". Regarding the kid seeing porn without a warning, when does that happen? Rarely have I heard of that. If it were that serious a problem, I'm pretty sure we would have heard of an epidemic of kids getting traumatized. The only time I've heard of that happening is when kids accidentally type the wrong address in the browser. If it does happen, just start a conversation with your child. Don't just make it some big taboo, because that will make things worse. Also, are you saying that before the internet everyone was pure and clean and wonderful? No child ever acted like an adult? The internet didn't invent pre-marital sex or early childbearing.  My stepdad, who was a teenager in the 70s, will tell all kinds of stories  of kids drinking, having sex and taking LSD at school. My aunt born in 1944 also had a kid out of wedlock at age 17. This was after she dropped out of school to work to take care of her siblings. Believe me, I'm sure she was "knowing how adults live and talk".  My great aunt, born in 1922, had a child out of wedlock at the age of 16. And neither my aunt nor my great-aunt were alone, or even close to being alone, in their predicaments. Regarding internet addiction, you mean to tell me no adults at all are addicted to their smartphones? What you see in the media about kids and phones is overexaggerated.   If I just sat there texting without ever opening my mouth, people would think I'm weird. You know what we call people who sit around talking about the internet in real life? Nerds. Despite what TV shows would tell you, social skills are extremely valuable to today's youth. If a young person is sitting around texting when you are trying to start a conversation, then they probably don't want to talk to you, and wouldn't be talking to you even if they didn't have a phone.