★Are relationships on the Internet really real?Without any sound, facial expressions, or any kind actual, physical human interaction beyond sending lines of text to one another, words which one can edit and second guess prior to sending, are human relationships over the internet really human or are they actually superficial and fake to some degree?
For this answer, I'll tell a story about a girl, "Marie", that I hooked up with in high school and how it led to  The background of the story is that I had just dated my first girlfriend and she had broken up with me. This girl, "Marie", was a year younger, promiscuous, and a huge romantic. She had a very idealistic view of how the rest of her life would be. The result? Rebound time. So, that is exactly what happened. I rebounded. We hooked up a bunch of times. She was hot. I was getting over my ex-girlfriend. Then, one problem. I started to actually like her. Shortly after we did a valentines day "date", she told me we needed to stop hooking up. We'll delve into a little bit of a side story here. SIDE STORY: When she was around 12, she was playing RuneScape with her mom. Weird, right? Well, this typical pervert on the internet started hitting on her mom. So, what does this intrigued 12 year old girl do? Starts talking to him. MAIN STORY: Turns out, this pervert is my exact age, living around 800 miles away from her. They continue to talk for years. This girl, as aforementioned, is a romantic. She falls in love with him. She dated other guys to try to gain a normal teenager experience. One guy for a year. Another for a year and half. She broke up with each one of them though because this pervert from California desired it. She told me that this was not just the guy she wanted to marry, but the guy that she only wanted to go to prom with him. So, after she told me we needed to stop hooking up, her reasoning was because this guy told her he "loved her" again. She told me that she really needed a friend though, so I was her friend. She wasn't a good friend though, she teased me in the hallways when we were alone, texted me things that weren't appropriate, and I liked her more. That's the problem that you have when you want something you can't have anymore. 2 months after she told me we needed to stop hooking up, one of my best friends asked her to prom, as they were close friends. Marie apparently changed her mind about prom and thought that it would be important to ago. I told him that it was fine, but that it would upset me if he hooked up with her. Bad move. Turns out, he had liked her for 5 months before then, and never told anyone since I had made the move first. I wish I knew that when he asked her to prom. After prom, they started to date. I didn't talk to him while they did that. I told him and all of our close mutual friends that she would screw with him just like she screwed with me. She was just horny again. Well, 2 months after they had been dating, they broke up. Sure enough, the California pervert told her to stop. She listened once again. She was too afraid of the risk of losing him. The guy and I were close friends again, laughing about her stupidity in turning down two good guys for this guy that she never met in her life. We were heading to college and had other girls. She was sincerely obsessed with this guy and we were done with her. A couple of months later, I found out the guy came out and visited her. They apparently fucked. A lot. She was brilliant enough to do it in her bedroom in her house; naturally, her parents walked in. They called the police and the guy ran out of the house naked. Now, she is dating another guy and is off at college. I have no contact with her and do not speak with her anymore, but maybe one day we will find out the end to the story. I'd say this internet relationship was real. It was completely insane; however, it was real. It is a shame that she had to hurt countless guys on the way because of it though.