★How did people waste their time in the pre-Internet era?
If I knew it was going to be a slow day at the office, I came prepared. Usually, with a stack of magazines (reading a book at your desk was too obvious), bills to pay (it took awhile to make out the checks, fill out the forms, stamp and address the envelopes etc.), letters to respond to (yes, my family/friends and I often wrote snail mail letters which were often eight or nine pages in length and contained things like newspaper clippings and sketches), and maybe the phone numbers of people you wanted or needed to call. I will admit, I also had a lot more time to work out at the gym (I'd leave at 11:30 and return at 1pm; within the normal span of lunch hour). Even if I was busy at work, there was less temptation to procrastinate at my desk. You worked more efficiently because you couldn't just tab over to Quora or Facebook; you did your work while at work and spent free time doing other things. In those days, it seemed like more people actually took a lunch break. Probably because they had more errands to run: to the bank, the post office, the store, anywhere they had to drop something off or pick something up (and you had to physically transport a lot of things you can get off the net.) I usually ate at my desk, same as now, only I worked while I was eating rather than futzed around on the Internet. In our free time, we watched a lot of movies. VHS tapes, mostly from video stores like Hollywood or Blockbuster. Less so with TV. Cable was very common in the 80s and early 90s, but there were no DVRs. I often recorded shows on the VCR to watch later. We did a lot more retail shopping. To see what was out there for sale, you actually had to visit stores, or browse catalogs (catalog shopping was huge). This is one aspect of life that's really improved since the advent of the internet. I'm glad I don't have to waste time going to malls or department stores. We also talked on the phone a lot. I might spend an average of an hour a day on personal calls. If you had a major life event, such as an engagement or a new job, you might spend several hours calling different people to announce your news. Overall, the internet meant we couldn't get as much done at our desks (such as research), but we didn't waste as much time either. In fact, I would venture to say that we were more productive. I know I was a lot less sedentary, too, even when I wasn't working out. There were fewer overweight or obese people; in my mind, this has less to do with the availability of junk food and large portions and more to do with the fact that we're just spending more time on our collective asses.