★Who will be the leading companies of the Internet of Things?Everything relating to the ethos of connecting the worlds devices to the web makes sense. I wonder in what timeframe it will play out? And who will be the leaders of this wave of technology.
Apple, everybody whose ever worked at Apple, and all the people who probably should have been working at Apple and think like Apple has been thinking since Steve Jobs started talking about integrating hardware and software. As a PC user (but an iPhone and iPad owner) I have a begrudging respect for Apple and what they've been able to accomplish. From a computing and software perspective, the most remarkable thing is that they've driven a stake through the heart of the idea that software should be separate and distinct from (or abstracted from, if you will) hardware. What we're learning in the early days of internet-enabling Stuff That Was Never Designed To Be Connected is that there's two ways to do this: you start with separate teams; one for hardware and one for software; or you start by building an integrated team. The easiest thing to do is have two teams because you probably have the hardware team in place. So you just add a software group, right? No way. That's a quick way to crappy everything. The smart companies, like Nest (Apple alums of course!) are starting with an integrated approach and redesigning the product from the ground up. This results in beautiful, Apple-worthy consumer experiences. I'd argue that Belkin's Wemo, although more interesting as a demo of IoT than an actual consumer product, is another good example of this. When Honeywell stuck a Wi-Fi chip into their new line of old 7 day programmable thermostats, they found almost right away that most people (75%) stopped using the physical interface to their product. Extend that to your sprinkler controller, security system, home energy management system, etc. People don't just want their things connected with a virtual interface that looks and feels like the old mechanical one. The old mechanical one sucks. They're going to want elegance and efficiency and integration and "smart" and "social". In Q4 of last year tablets outsold PCs for the first time ever. Smartphone sales were a multiple of tablet sales. We're not moving to a mobile paradigm, we've been in a mobile paradigm for more than a year now and we're waiting for our "things" to catch up. But before that happens, we need the companies who make our "things" to get really smart, really quickly about a new design paradigm that thinks about hardware as an accessory to our mobile computing devices, not the other way around. I'm not suggesting that Apple is the only company with a pedigree in successful convergence of computing, industrial design, mobile, and software - but they're the obvious model. As for enterprise companies like Cisco, HP, IBM, etc - this is basically another SoX or Y2K. Sure, go sell more routers/servers/big data analytics/management consultants/business process integration. But anybody who thinks a company like Cisco is going to be leading in anything other than lip service in IoT for consumers should remember what happened to the Flip: A Garbage Can Full Of Flip Cams At Cisco Photo: Business Insider, courtesy of Motherboard In addition to Apple, I'd keep an eye on Google. If they wanted they could have been running this space already. Right now this space is about mobile, energy management, and monetization and Google is either dominant in two of those and highly invested in the third.