★What innate traits do great Internet product leaders share?If you were setting up a program to train user-focused Internet product leaders/creators, what are the traits you'd look for in candidates that can't be easily taught?
The great product people I've worked with weren't great because of their experience, in fact they came from many walks of life, but they tended to share the following innate traits: Human Curiosity Great product people tend to notice the sign in the airport that mostly works but could confuse 5% of travelers, have an idea for how the dashboard of the car could have been better, or how if the remote control where shaped differently it'd be easier to control without looking at it, etc etc.  They're just natively interested in how humans interact with everything - not just web sites. Forest and Trees The great ones have a very good ability to see the whole forest, pick a path, then bounce down in and make sure that the trees are as they should be.  They can find a winning strategy, but also create the specs for the product.  You can create great products if the strategy and the implementation are done together.  People who do one or the other are far more common than those who do both. Builders They tend to have played with Lego and Lincoln Logs when they were kids, maybe wrenched on cars or building models as youths, torn apart the toaster to see how it worked, they're the kid who made the sand castle instead of laying in the sun.  They just tend to have it in them, a curiosity for how things work, a drive to build, and a sense of "having left their mark" from their creations. A Concise Articulator An incredible ability to boil down to the main point, and then say it persuasively and in a way that teammates and users find intuitive. Decipher-er of Customer Input Most product people love qualitative (user testing, input from Customer Service) and quantitative feedback (NPS, A/B, web analytics).  But the great ones are good at determining what questions to ask, then deciphering which input is important, what the input is actually saying, and then turning that into the next great product. Speaker of Many Languages The great product person in a large company has to be able to understand/motivate/persuade/incorporate into the project, lawyers, marketers, customers, clients/partners, execs, engineers, customer service, designers, QA, accounting etc.  These people all approach things from different angles and speak different "languages" if you will.  A great product person has the innate ability to get along with and to understand all of the needs and translate them into the winning product. Charisma and Leadership qualities Related, the great product person can inspire and motivate all the various team members in the previous paragraph, and drive them to build something special. They're Incredibly Creative Product Designers They make great product.  Often it's design: The Aston Martin DBS, not the best car but man is it beautiful.  You'll pay more for it just because it's so beautiful.  It must be said that if something looks hot, you'll get more for it, your team will be more fired up to build it, and consumers will be more forgiving of it.  Great product people have a great design sense. Sometimes it's simplicity: The plastic lid on your coffee so you don't spill in the car but can still drink. Sometimes it's creating a category: An early Tivo. Netflix. Even the toaster you pulled apart as a kid was a new thing at one point.  Sometimes it's 'the best': Nike's latest hoops shoe the Kobe V (lightweight, lowtop, but somehow great support - and it has looks). All of these things came from people who figured out what the consumer wanted/needed and found a great way to deliver a great product.