★What was it like to be on the Internet during the 1990s?
As a counterpoint to James' answer, it was nothing like it is today in the early 90s, however the whole "in the cloud" and web-app paradigm is a move back to the early 90s when clients and storage were on a server and your home computer was primarily a dumb client. Today you can pretty much turn on any computer and if it's got a network  connection you can communicate over the internet in any variety of ways. In the early 90s there was no world-wide-web, most home computer OSes didn't have an IP stack, and 33.6kbps was about as fast as you could reliably get. In the early 90s you used a dial-up shell account. You would open a terminal, dial your service provider, and log in to a shell account. From there, the four primary ways of exchanging information with servers were: POP (email): FTP (file sharing): IRC (chat, later P2P file sharing): NNTP/Usenet (newsgroups, file sharing, pr0n): Another answer mentioned gopher, which I remember using only a couple of  times.  Either it wasn't widely used or it wasn't used much in the field I was in. If you wanted to share a photo or video, you would first have to transfer it from your computer to your shell account.  You would then convert it on the server from binary to ascii with a tool like uuencode or (later) base64, you would then split it into manageable parts, and finally post the parts through tin to a newsgroup. Later TCP/IP stacks became available for consumer OSes so apps running on your home computer could communicate directly with the internet.  You could then either get a PPP dial-up account or use 'slirp' with a shell account to emulate PPP.  You could then use GUI-based apps (IRC client shown) on your own computer to access the services above, which made using the internet much easier. Later HTTP (WWW) began to be used more widely.  It looked like this (lynx): There was also no search. If you wanted to find out about servers and resouces, you either had to comb/ask on newsgroups or there were books like "The Internet Yellow Pages" that cataloged services and addresses. Then came Mosaic, the first popular graphical web client, which got traction around 1994. Then all hell broke lose.  Most old-timers and hard-core internet users argued that all these graphics were completely unnecessary and were just clogging up the pipes with needless data transfers.  If you wanted pictures just get a FTP client and go to photo sharing sites.  The WWW was really seen as internet for people not smart enough to figure out a CLI, and it was hogging the bandwidth with all it's GUIness.