★What was it like to be a programmer without the Internet?When there were no online documentation, no Google, no StackOverflow...
I started in 1966, before the Internet (or the Arpanet), before the PC, before Unix, before Java, C++, Pascal, or C, before the IDE, before source control. A high school teacher taught us a little assembly language (IBM 7094) and Fortran IV. That was (barely) enough to get an intern job and learn a little more (Univac 1108 assembly language). Then it was off to college (UC Berkeley), where I was fortunate to be able to take classes in programming and computer science. I was also able to get a programming job at the computer center that allowed me to support myself as well as participate in projects that greatly expanded my experience. As for others here, books were a major source of information. Volume 1 of Knuth's Art of Computer Programming was published my freshman year; another favorite of mine was Saul Rosen's Programming Systems and Languages -- a collection of papers on pioneering systems. The manuals that came with our computer system (the main one was a Control Data Corporation 6400) were important but there were only a handful relevant to us in our work creating new systems programs: the hardware reference manual, the operating system, and the assembler. In those days the Communications of the ACM was filled with articles on exciting new programming techniques (e.g., hash tables), programming languages, etc. The classes I took were very valuable, as were the "bull sessions" with my fellow programmers at the computer center. Since there was so little existing software, most of our time was spent analyzing the problems we faced, and devising and implementing solutions. There was some sharing between sites owning a particular brand of mainframe -- typically handled by mailing magnetic tapes around. A few years I was pleased to run across copies of the source code to the CAL SNOBOL system that Charles Simonyi and I developed during 1968-1971 in a repository at the University of Arizona maintained by the late Ralph Griswold, one of the designers of the original Bell Labs Snobol language. (I had saved a listing, but didn't have the actual source code.) Now I collect and preserve historic source code at a web site belonging to the Computer History Museum: http://www.softwarepreservation.org/projects .