★What will be the next big trend on the Internet after "search" of Google and "social" of Facebook?
For a difficult question, I think the answer is pretty clear, it's the age not of search of pushed messages, but pulled messages. This is the age of ( and I have two terms I move between), either predictive computing, or anticipatory computing. Search was about finding what you wanted when you looked for it. Social Search is about finding better results by leveraging those that are around you to provide content. Predictive computing is the opposite but based on the extrapolation of these trends into the future . It's using and considering more data points which help explain your context. When people know who you know and know your content, they PUSH messages and information to you based on expected behavior. Google is already onto this with Google Now, so are technologies like Mind Meld. When companies like Google know where you are, what you've been doing, what your calendar has in it, who is around you, what you've been searching, what your emails have said, where you live, how you are feeling etc, it can start to make suggestions for you. It's almost the opposite of Apple Maps, if Apple Maps see's you in Times Square, NYC and you search for "Broadway", magically it seems to magically totally ignore everything you could possibly think, and show you Broadway in a small town in Canada. Google Maps always inteligiently makes the assumption you  are likely looking for the Broadway thats 200 yards away. But imagine how poweful system, like the ultimate Personal Assistant, it knows everything about you and can just feel what you may want. You typically leave the house at 6:45 to get the 7:25 train, but traffic is worse today, so it tells you to leave the house a little earlier. You've booked a flight to Sydney that leaves tomorrow, why not show you the exchange rates. Your 200 miles from home, it's 8pm, you don't have any hotel bookings on email, it starts showing you local available last minute rates. You are 2 miles away from a meeting and you are not near public transport, why not show you nearby taxis.... and so on. Predictive computing is providing you with what you want but didn't yet ask for, but it's not making decisions, merely nudging you. Predictive computing will be a world where suggestions are offered intelligently how ads can be incorporated into this is one area of this which will blow peoples mind, a world of advertising as contextual suggestions and offers, not brand messages or pathetic generic banner ads.