★What was it like to be on the Internet during the 1990s?
A World With Borders I am writing this sitting on my couch at home with a laptop, using a wireless broadband internet connection that is always on. We treat the internet connection like a household utility, something that just works in the background like the electric service or the tap water. If I want to do something online I just pick up my laptop and do it without a second thought. The internet (the web, specifically) is my primary interface to communications media and reference material and facilitates many very basic, everyday tasks. If I need to look up directions, write a friend, reserve a hotel room, read the news, or consult a dictionary I do it all via the web. The internet is seamlessly integrated into my daily life. It was not like this in the 1990s. You "went online" as a distinct, separate activity. Once you had accomplished your intended purpose you went off line again. Broadband connections in the home were not common (I was a relatively early adopter of ADSL in 1999) so using the internet meant using dial-up, each connection heralded by the screech and fizz of the modem handshake. Maybe you didn't dial in until late in the day in order to avoid tying up the one household phone line. Maybe you kept a close eye on your connection time because your ISP, your phone line, or both were metered by the minute. I helped bring my high school online starting around 1996, and the idea of a public school having internet access generally available to students was novel at that time. We gave people long and unwieldy email addresses, name@titan.gunn.palo-alto.ca.us, I guess partly because the custom of short, easily memorizable domains and email addresses was not quite established. Paper books and journals were still our primary research tools, and our web access was generally confined to a collection of color X Window devices in the school library. The borders between "internet life" and "real life" were generally very easy to see. World Wide What? By the by, while we now generally speak of the web as synonymous with the internet that was not true back then. Usenet, BBSes, proprietary spaces like AOL and CompuServe, MUDs, and chat services were primary locations of activity, and social activity in particular. Needle In A Haystack Finding things on the web was sometimes a real challenge in the pre-Google era. I got pretty good at crafting queries using the Alta Vista advanced search functions, but search in general was time consuming and not necessarily productive. We didn't have the expectation that you could just type a simple query into a box and get back a decent result. There was far more competition among search providers, and I remember making a lot more use of curation sites like the Netscape What's New/What's Cool pages. Personalized content and automated recommendation engines were not common at that time either. I recall being deeply weirded out the first time I logged into amazon.com and was greeted with a cheerful "Hi, Sarah!" and told that "people like me" tend to buy such-and-such goods. Now, of course, I don't give it a second thought... and the way things are going, maybe soon I won't give a second thought to being informed about the minutiae of my friends' activities on the web either. You Are In A Maze Of Twisty Passages, All Alike There was plenty of binary trade taking place on the 1990s internet, and I downloaded my first mp3 file in 1997 (very slowly, over dialup). The first website I ever saw was for the Louvre Museum around 1994 and that site certainly had some graphics. However, due to the general lack of bandwidth text was the primary medium of expression and the internet was rich with narrative content. Entire worlds were constructed out of text in MUDs, and collaborative stories were told in real time, typed out over the wire. On The Internet, No One Knows You're A Dog One of the clearest differences I see between the 1990s internet culture and the current climate is the emphasis on Real Name identity and the idea that your internet social interactions will primarily be oriented around your meatspace social circles. When I first started engaging with the online world I remember getting a very clear message that activity directly linkable to one's real name should be confined to academic/professional content and perhaps a very vanilla personal home page. Today, it's a liability if you can't be found on the internet under your real name, but at that time not everyone took a friendly view of Real Name-linked content. The upside of that attitude was that the widespread use of pseudonyms and the separation between online and meatspace social worlds made the 1990s internet a place of freedom and exploration. You could read about anything you wanted,  talk about anything you wanted, and be anyone you wanted with limited fear of social repercussions. You could socialize with people from all over the world, and if you weren't quite sure whether that hot 20-year-old coed was really a 40-year-old man sweatily typing away in his mother's basement, well, that was part of the thrill. I watched genuinely supportive friendships form in a Usenet group devoted to tasteless humor, among people who had never met in real life. As a teenager in some sense growing up on the internet at that time, that sense of freedom to explore was very valuable to me. I won't try to make a pat claim about things being so much better back then, nor wring my hands about how much harder things are for "kids these days" in a time when the internet is fully integrated into mainstream social life. Each generation adapts to new technology in its own way. Nonetheless, I wonder if we lose valuable opportunities for growth when engaging with internet social spaces generally means engaging with the same family, peer, and social pressures we encounter outside.