★Is atheism a fad among Internet users?
The current (passing) enthusiasm for atheism certainly has many of the hallmarks of a fad. As others have said, simply saying that atheism has existed for many years (technically pre-dating religion, if you like) doesn't mean that it can't have a temporary upsurge in popularity where everyone suddenly has the bumper stickers, posts 'clever' atheist quotes everywhere and feels like they are part of a great movement. If you want to spot the point when a fad loses its impetus, look out for comedians taking the piss out of it. For a long time, comedians picked on religion. Way too easy a target, but they got plenty of material out of it, and some of it was fantastic. Now I'm noticing more and more comedians attacking first Richard Dawkins (again, way too easy a target) and then the hipster repetition of people declaring their atheism when they blatantly haven't thought for a moment what they even mean by that. Atheism seems to be indelibly linked to the Theory of Evolution somehow, even though hardcore atheists here on Quora claim that atheism just means 'lack of belief in god', and plenty of theists have no problem whatsoever with Evolution anyway. The current trendy Cod Atheists also repeat parrot-fashion the old 'fairy tales, Father Christmas, unicorns, Flying Spaghetti Monster' mantra, as if equating those things with belief in god is some kind of supreme intellectual revelation which instantly destroys any possible religious credibility 'in a puff of logic', as if centuries of philosophy and theology can be wiped out by a teenager retweeting a comment by Ricky Gervais. People will look back on this period of trendy atheism as they do on Ban The Bomb peace marches, for example. At one time, everyone was wearing the badges and shouting the slogans... and then they weren't. Meanwhile, the bombs didn't go anywhere. They could still annihilate humanity at the touch of a red button. Just that no one's that bothered about it these days. Atheism is the same. It's just not that interesting, and it doesn't have any particular goal. People will still declare themselves to be atheists if anyone asks them, just as people will declare their opposition to nuclear weapons if anyone asks them, but they won't spend any time proclaiming it, or campaigning about it, or even discussing it. That's just a passing fad.