★What was it like to be a programmer without the Internet?When there were no online documentation, no Google, no StackOverflow...
Way back in the mid 1970's, I was the author of the firmware code and some of the printed circuit board design in the MMD-1 (and MMD-2) mini-micro designer which was used to train people around the world (see Page on fgcu.edu).  I think it was a fabulous training tool and I don't think there's anything quite like this on the market today: When I wrote the software for this computer, there was no assembler I could use.  I used the 8080 Bugbook series THE 8080A BUGBOOK MICROCOMPUTER INTERFACING AND PROGRAMMING to look up the op codes for the instructions I needed to write:  Then I converted the code to octal, and wrote that with pencil on pads of paper - it took many dozens of pages to hold the code for the few K of code that lived on the circuit board. If I needed to revise my code, I'd literally cut and paste (with tape and scissors) until the code looked right, and use that pencil eraser.  I made way too many photocopies on a photocopy machine as I updated this hand-written machine code. I connected an EPROM burner to the MMD-1, and used the MMD-1 to burn new EPROMs for itself.  That means, I would key in (using that keypad you see in the picture above) all the opcodes for the new version of the firmware, and burn a new EPROM.  Then power down my development MMD-1 machine, pop out the old EPROMs, and pop in the new one.  I got pretty good at erasing EPROMs, which you did by exposing them to ultraviolet light. Sadly, I can still remember to this day many of the 8080 op codes, of course only in octal and not in hex.  So I know, for example, without even looking it up (and this is from the 1970's mind you), that 333 is the op code for input, 323 is the opcode for ouput, 076 was the opcode to load a value in the "A" register, and I could go on and on.  Is this impressive or depressing, I don't know. Next up was the Digital PDP 8/e, the precursor to the legendary PDP/11 series: Just to boot up this computer, you had to first load a paper tape program into the paper tape reader on the top, and then you'd have to toggle in (bit by bit) a boot loader program using those toggle switches you see on the front.  You'd launch the boot loader program, which would load the paper tape, which would then start the real operating system off a 4 megabyte hard disk. The only way to learn this kind of stuff was books or word of mouth - there was no Internet back them obviously. Such a different world!  Thanks for letting me reminisce about the old days.