★What are the greatest software misuses?i.e Can you give me instances of the biggest unintended uses of softwares you have encountered ? Please have a look at meaning of the word "Misuse" here http://www.google.com/search?q=m...
You may have read some of my answers referencing my early experience (circa 1982-89) with computers. Our family had a series of IBM PCs during this time, and we were encouraged to use them for schoolwork. I started right in, and I often claim I'm one of the oldest people I know (I am 46) who never wrote a single high school paper (grade 9 onward) that was not on a computer. First, it was my own WP software, then we got WordStar, and then, sometime around 1985, we graduated to the fancy stuff: Microsoft Word. I can't find the vintage Word screen, but the MS-DOS screen looked like this (except not in color, we weren't that fancy): Anyway, when she was in her second year of college (1987), my sister Mary decided she wanted to enjoy the benefits of this "word processing," too. So she sat down, wrote a whole paper, and then went to save it. Unfortunately, to save a file, you had to tab down to the fields at the right (not shown). The field "Load" appeared first, and "Save" appeared next. God help you if you press Load; this told the computer to clear off whatever was on the screen and open another file. No auto-save, no backup, nothing. (I think there was Norton Utilities back then but we didn't have this software.) She lost hours of work and vowed never to use another computer again. She stuck to this. For decades. It wasn't until she entered her 30s and went to grad school (in the mid 90s) that she was forced to use computers again. But only for email and maybe the occasional personal document. Fast forward to 2009. Mary is tasked with sending a recipe to each parent in her kindergarteners' class. She's working, hunt-and-pecking diligently at her iMac. I asked what she was doing. She was opening a new message window, typing in the "to" field, typing in the subject line, typing in the recipe, and then pressing Send. Then, she'd open a new window, type in another address in the "to" field, and RETYPE THE ENTIRE RECIPE and press send again. She was planning to do this 25 times!! My own sister, who had the same access to computers I did, still had no idea how group email worked. I showed her how to add multiple addresses, how to attach files, and how to cut-and-paste her recipe from the Internet (where she originally found it) so she never even had to type it in in the first place. This wasn't anyone's grandmother, it was my younger sister. She knows how to use email and even text nowadays, though she has no idea about the internet. Her son is on Reddit all the time and I don't have the heart to tell her (she's only concerned about Facebook because she saw The Social Network.)