★How did people waste their time in the pre-Internet era?
I am here since 1955. My internet-era as you call it started this year as my retirement plan. So my answer is regarding how I killed my time since 1955 till 2013. Throughout my life I have lived in a joint family with parents and sister and brother till their marriages. Even today my parents are staying with me. Most of these years I lived in small villages/towns. So the availability of basic infrastructure itself was limited. Affordability was another constraint. My life till 1975 did not include TV, Telephone,  tap water, fridge, electric heater, cooking range, servants, caretakers or any vehicle except a bicycle. So availability of time to waste, as you have described in your question, was a constraint. We had a radio, and listening to cricket commentary was one famous time waster. Standing on crossroads in the evening with friends and chitchatting was another one that can qualify. Friends and acquaintances kept on changing during those 2 hours. By 1983, still living in a village, I got married, had fridge, telephone and tap water. Night parties with friends was one which can qualify. Daily 7 PM to 8.30 PM, we used to sit in a small restaurant with friends and chitchatted over a cup of tea and dish of snacks. Seeing Bollywood films can also qualify, but songs in those days were really nice. Reading trash books may qualify, but personally I don't count them as time waster, since each book had at least one good thought provoking sentence in it. In 1985 and then in 1987 my two sons were born. Again availability of time became a constraint. In my school days, I do not remember having developed a concept of time waster. In college days, college canteen was a place to kill time. In my working life, killing time was a co-operative movement. So if I had some time to kill I would ensure that I spend it with at least two others to help them complete their quota. This year I joined Facebook first and then Quora. So all is well now.