★Is the Internet spoiling young children?
It seems like most older generations, when viewing younger generations look upon what the younger generations choose to do with their time as a waste of time. That there is something better that the youngsters should be doing. And that something typically ends up what the older generations chose to do with their time. There seems to be an air of "If only you lived like I lived, your life would objectively be better or be of a higher quality." But who is choosing what is "better" or more "quality"? Those who rate their experiences as "better" or of greater "quality". Sure I know it is human nature to wish happiness on those you love, like children, but many times people conflate what personally made them happy to be happiness itself. So when they see their children, or youth in general not doing the activities that made them happy, they imaging that their quality of life is some how less than when in reality it is only different. Sure it is easier to strike up a conversation with a stranger on the internet than it is with my own neighbor, but that isn't inherently bad, it is only different. Imagining that I am missing out on some deep experience that defines my humanity by not talking to my neighbor face to face, is a bit overly dramatic. What about me missing out some deep meaningful relationship I can get with someone across the world I would never have had the opportunity to interact with without the internet. Both interactions are valid; I only traded one interaction for another. To expect people to have both may stretch the limitations of people. I have never interacted with my neighbors, and without the internet I still wouldn't. At least I am interacting with people with the aid of the internet. Also, the whole rebellious teen is hardly something that the internet has caused. There have always been teens who drank, got pregnant, did drugs, felt like they were adults and didn't need parenting, etc etc. What the internet has allowed is this reality to be documented like it was never documented before. Fifty years ago, if a kid had a wild phase and then they totally became straight laced as an adult, they didn't need to worry about pictures on the internet popping up to haunt  them of their wild past. If someone took pictures, there was one copy maybe two if you count negatives, and people didn't have to worry about the press randomly going into their closet and raiding their shoe box of photos to suddenly splash them on the front page. In the past people were able to deny their past. Today, if you take one picture of yourself and post it to some obscure forum, you no longer have any control over that picture. There isn't just one copy, there are effectively a million copies with one upload. Today it is just easier to document the rebellious phase that has always existed and no one can deny that it happens. But now that people can't deny that it exists currently, they try to make it seem like it has just popped into existence. Seriously, did Shakespeare leave out the fact that Romeo and Juliet met on Facebook?