★What was it like to be on the Internet during the 1980s?A follow-up question to What was it like to be on the Internet during the 1990s?
image courtesy www.catb.org In the '80s, I did a LOT of programming on a 24x80 terminal such as the one above.  I even had one for my home, which I used along with a modem to connect to my office, so I could work in the evenings and on weekends. Being on the 'net in the '80s rocked, as long as you were at work, and as long as work was a place that could afford a decent Internet connection. I was quite lucky.  I first got unfettered Internet access as a senior in high school, in '82.  I then had high-speed internet access in college, and at work, throughout the rest of the '80s and '90s and '00s and today. It was a bit like being part of an information elite of sorts.  We all had friends and family that just did not grok the net.  The thought that I could chat with a programmer in Russia was scary to people back then. Some of my family was certain I was breaking some sort of law when I did stuff like that. The public thought AOL and Compuserve were awesome.   I remember explaining one day, to my father and some other business professionals, that AOL was like sitting at the kid's table at Thanksgiving.  You can get more turkey, or more mashed potatoes, or whatever, from the "big" table (the internet) but you had to ask and adult (AOL) to hand you whatever you were asking for. Early on, the Internet wasn't the information sewer that it is today.  Advertising was frowned upon.  Misinformation was frowned upon.  Anonymity was frowned upon.  That sure didn't last. UUCP and Usenet and FTP and Gopher and Telnet (for MUDding and remote login) all preceded "the web".  It wasn't until the early '90s that "web pages" emerged - the 80s was a text-based decade, for the most part. A notable exception were the products from Xerox and later Sun - impressive but expensive graphics workstations. images courtesy PARC, a Xerox company Toward the end of the '80s the workstation footprint got more reasonable.  The box below the monitor below is about the same size as a pizza box. image courtesy wikipedia and Mike Chapman  File:SPARCstation 1.jpg Both of those workstations cost considerably more than most people made in a year in the '80s, to put things in perspective.  Elite computing wasn't cheap.