★How do I become a hustler?
The first order of business is to clarify your definition of hustler, because there are at least two. One might take hustler to mean someone who takes advantage of others for their own gain, as in, "Man I think I just got hustled!" But the second is a far more positive meaning, as in someone who works hard and gives it their all all-day everyday. That's the kind of effort that leads to the saying, "Hustle never slumps." You can have good days and bad days in whatever field you're working in, but a hustler's effort and enthusiasm is consistently high. So how to become a hustler in that sense of the word? 3 Main Steps: Care. Plan. Execute. Care There are no shortcuts here. If you don't care about what you're working on it will be exponentially more difficult to put forth 100% effort all day everyday. The only "hack" for this is to gamify this a little. Even if you don't particularly care for the work itself, trick yourself into caring about being the best worker you can be. If you're in a job, do the shit out of that job the best you can. Abraham Lincoln once said, "Whatever you are, be a good one." Plan Another important part of being a hustler is that the energy and enthusiasm has a specific direction, like you're working toward a pre-determined goal. That means taking the time to plan out your actions in advance. Ever get to your desk and find yourself with an extra 15 minutes before your next meeting? A hustler knows exactly what he or she needs to get done in that time because they've planned it out. Execute And finally, even the best laid plans and ideas are meaningless without execution. This can take some practice, but it's all about getting things done. The good news is that execution breeds more execution. There's something addicting about being productive and making things happen that makes you want to keep doing it. And that's how the hustle "wheels" keep spinning in a perpetual motion machine. All the best, Nick Loper http://SideHustleNation.com