★What are the hottest startups in India?
Imagine two viewers, one in Mumbai and the other in Delhi, watching the same programme on the same TV channel but seeing two different advertisements at the same time. Taking geo-targeting advertisement concept to the next level, Amagi Media Labs, a Bengaluru-based company is country's largest TV ad network, helping advertisers geo-target (also called as adversioning in advertisement parlance) their campaigns on TV. Vision: When an ad is broadcasted on a national channel it is shown to the whole of India, there by making it difficult for the local businessman to take advantage of it as compared to the money invested in for the advertisement. Often small businessmen having presence in only one city or a couple of cities are at disadvantage because their advertisements when viewed in another state will have no impact on his local business. Sometimes, a big companies wants to target a specific regional market. With this concept, localized businesses and local brands can take full advantage of big branded TV channels like Star TV, Zee TV and Sony Entertainment's reach and advertisement platform for maximum benefits, to make advertisement affordable for small and medium enterprises. Technology: Amagi uses cloud-based technologies to create a reliable, scalable, and cost-effective alternative to traditional satellite TV broadcast infrastructure. Using its patented content watermarking technology, company overlays a signature/watermark on the video (TV commercial which needs to be replaced), then detected at the satellite receivers at MSOs (multiple system operators) and replaced with the regional ad. Partnered Brands: The company already has at least 2000 brands, including large corporates like P&G, HUL, ITC, Dabur and GSK, advertising on its platform. Currently, Amagi is present in over 10 countries and has installed over 1000 of its edge servers in order to solve the challenge of content regulations and licensing, and changing viewer preferences.  Company has successfully partnered with some of the leading channels worlwide including Zee TV, Zee News, CNBC, IBN 7, AMC Network, and Bloomberg TV. @Amagi - Brands Growth: The geo-targeted advertising market in India is expected to see an exponential growth in the next four to five years, is currently pegged at Rs 6,500 crore. Amagi Media has grown its revenues over 300% compared to the previous year. Being the country’s largest geo-target ad network, Amagi is the first choice of the country’s top advertisers to network their ads to specific markets. Over the last few years, it has served over a total of 30 million ad seconds. Today, they handle roughly a million ad seconds a month. Recently, Amagi raised undisclosed funding from its existing investor Mayfield (their second round) and PremjiInvest, the family office of Wipro Chairman Azim Premji. Prior to this, the company had raised Rs 68 crore from Mayfield and Nadathur Holdings, the family office of Infosys co-founder N S Raghavan. Amagi is headquartered in Bangalore with international presence in London, Singapore and Tokyo. Competitors: Rediff's Vubites and Star India's Adsharp are the other players that recently plunged into the geo-targeted advertising arena.