★What will the Internet look like in 2020?I'd like as many different descriptions of what the usage, adoption and structure of the Internet will look like in the year 2020 as possible. Be creative, and try to think outside the box how it will change in the next seven years. Let's see what the current early adopters of the Internet come up with (since we're all using Quora...).
There'll be some improvements coming from techs: faster, more available, better interfaces, lot of devices to use for it and that will use it - but the real changes you want to know are'n these: its about and coming from content! Content has many aspects which will change the internet and the world around it: Proprietary rights: new laws will be shaped to protect these rights: globally, the internet will be more expensive with lots of additional fees. By the time people will get accustom paying more, content will be more attractive and productive for our lives. New form of payment will be developed and globalised; new laws again extending communities over countries, unions, continents... There will be also an Internet-Prestige indicator associated with most of persons. Those persons will be called Internetuals. Internet tends to gather also lot of garbage. New methods/laws/habits will govern the collecting and rejecting this garbage. As we have now best services for querying the internet, there will be similar services to filter and destroy information garbage. An internet Police will prosecute individuals that will post false information on internet, since that information may bring prejudices. We find internet very useful in our lives/jobs/entertainment (the quality one.) However our youngsters becomes more and more addicted to useless games and cheap social media (or cheap usage of good social media.) Parental and School control will get new services as strong as today's search engines. Talking about school - it will use more and more the internet until the entire educational institution will change: students won't me required any-more to register to a certain school: they'll simply register for on-line content and perform on-line exams. (That will happen however way after 2020.) Governments or corporation and union of corporation will require new laws for tutoring and guiding young people for not getting lost or wasting their valuable time. This tutoring/guiding/enforcing will happen also through internet. Finally - most of us won't go to the office any more: we could already work from home, at least 20% of us. By the time Internet will get more and more points of access (as cameras and or robots/robots arms, or Internet aware devices,) at peak time people will crowd less the highways and more and more the information highway! And from here we touch another domain: Environment. Environment will change a lot as a result of the evolution of Internet - it will become greener: More and more people will stop commuting and will start telecommuting. Not only programmers, accountants, and IT but also family doctors, layers, and lot of services. Everybody will have a scheduler and keep their schedule as much as possible, allowing their profile to be public for their benefit. MyTime service will let those schedules to interact and offer better time-slots for classes, meetings, doctor appointments, extra activities for kids, etc.. Public Transportation would become more flexible - transportation service would be able to redirect bigger or smaller vehicles suited for the exact amount of people known in need for a certain ride. The portable personal assistant connected to Internet and doubled by a GPS with awareness of the owner's needs could continuously adapt the person route and interact with the transportation service. The payment will reflect exactly where you go, but also how much you've been in a hurry or did not respect your schedule. In house all family members will need an Internet connection in the same time. Since Internet services will use a lot of Voice, we'll see in many houses, well - cubicles! Corporates will create monster Intranets beasts: while they won't find productive to deny their employees the access to internet, they'll provide workstations allowing to copy from Internet and paste in their VM but not otherwise. Business Travel will be extinct. GM20 won't face protesters, and protesters won't have anymore a place where to protest. Police will patrol more on Internet than on streets. Most people will use Avatars for their on-line presence. In time, you won't be able to tell anymore if your co-worker is a man or a woman, a boy or a girl (or the family doctor - a person or a Dr.Watson robot (actually Doctor Quinn.)) Sex discrimination at work-place will be less frequent. Working from home, many will save not only on gas but also on clothes. Naturists in their backyards or in the neibourhood may become not so offensive. With not so crowded streets, cars may start to be driven by cyber-pilots and travel alone (to meet their owners, or simply bring supplies back.) Yong workers will find it interesting to move from place to place more frequently since they would not have to change jobs. Their houses (when not RVs) could be a lot more smaller and easy to exchange. Some may want to live on boats - owned or shared. Big lakes or sees will get their share of population. Tax Services will be in trouble to follow their alleged citizens; again new law... Cable, TV and Radio broadcasts will meet their end - very few On-Air services will survive mostly to distribute fresh news and to make noise in old cars. Same papers and flayers. (Papers and magazines may survive just to fill with garbage dentists and layers' foyers, although everybody will spent less and less there due to MyTime, and will prefer their personal tablet/whatever it will be/look like...)