★What is the best way to convert atheists to Christianity over the Internet?
Belief is a personal thing so you can never convert a person - you can only make it easier for the person to find his/her own way. So how can you make it easier for the person to find the way? The Six Don'ts Do not judge - this should be obvious to Christians, but seldom done on internet. The result of conversion on internet speak for itself on ignoring this rule Do not insult others' beliefs - when you do that, all you do is to make the person defensive and dig in harder, which makes your job more difficult Do not be pushy - people need to find their own way on their own term and time, you cannot rush the process, and when you do, you are driving them further from you Do not be argumentative - if you are trying to win an argument, you have lost, because you just made them refresh the other side's argument! And if you win the argument, you add insult to injury and make them feel worse about you Do not be ignorant - if you want to convert another person, you will need to know about the other person's positions - what the strength and weaknesses are, as well as yours. If you cannot do that you simply won't have a shot Do not rush to spread the gospels - become friends first. If they are your friends, you have all the time in the world to tell them your gospels. If you rush before that, you won't get another chance The Six Do's Do be open minded - if you want others to entertain your viewpoint, you need to entertain other's viewpoint first Do be okay with whatever the outcome may be - free will right? Walk the walk and let the person decide for themselves, even if the answer is not your desired outcome Do listen - the best way to make a friend is to listen! In order for you to have a chance to win another person to your way of thinking, you need to make that person a friend first Do be supportive - if you help a person in need, you will have their gratitude and they are more likely to open up to you. Be there at their worst time and they'll come to defend on you. Make sure your help is genuine and without string attached or it might have the opposite result Do collaborate - help them find their way means just that - help them, not tell them. Collaborate with them and let them come to their conclusions Do take one small step at a time - trust is like a sand castle, take a long time to build but quickly destroyed. Make sure you advance very, very slowly, or you will scare them away I recommend Dale Carnegie's How to Win Friends and Influence People. Follow it to a tee, and you will find your goal much more attainable.