★What was it like to be on the Internet during the 1990s?
It was slow life. But the life that is happening right now, I'd say 90s life is the best life happened to me. Here's what I have observed in 90s. Internet was way too slow in India. 64kbps modem sound. BSNL Late night free surfing hours. Expensive for pocket but that experience: Priceless. People used to be friendly on IRC. Remember A/S/L? Be it any age or gender of person, chatting to unknown person was fun. It was easy making female friends during that time. (Less paranoia and less safety issues for both sides) People used to be so cool and worth talking in that time compared to what I see now. I tried long distance relationship with two girls (one brazilian and another spanish). It wasn't hard to ask girls to get the phone numbers and exchange mails.  Napster for mp3s. Geocities. Tripod and Angelfire for web page hosting. Enough said. Flash just started in the late 90s. It was cool to stream through either flash or RealMedia Player. Porn in 70s to 90s was cool (either softcore or hardcore). What you see today is gore hardcore female abuse. Life was so slow. Less anxiety due to slow internet and slow people response and slow changes on internet. Usenet reached the end of it's serious participants time. Like startup trend today, there was dotcom trend with people burning cash to build .com websites with one pager site and fake promises of business. MP3.com   used to pay to artists for releasing music during 90s. Best electronica music found on the internet on this site during that time. People used to genuinely share content without much ads and compensation. Barnes and Noble had more ads and cool website design than Amazon. Netscape, Neoplanet and many other browsers fought to capture users. Some died even before reaching 2000. People used to feel 'arrived' when they used to share their email address. There was very less content on Atheism during 90s. A lot of conspiracy theories and mystic new age and religious content was hosted on Geocities and Tripod. Anime and mangas reached entire world during 90s. ICQ was pain in the behind due to it's bad design and number as an alias system. Hell it was popular. Driveway (now shutdown) and Xdrive (acquired and closed by CNET) had more web based features than Dropbox or Skydrive/Google drive during that time except app ofcourse. Making free website on sites like treeway, homepage, blinkweb, geocities,netfirms was craze during that time. People around me during that time used to call themselves webmaster for hosting their pages on these sites. "Make money online" didn't made much hype in 90s as it is making right now. However plenty of self help gurus made their sites and spammed the web and the cycle started. People during that time were not as jealous and miserable living life to fall for growth hackers and gurus who are selling pipe dreams.  Bozibuddy was spyware but used to do a lot of cool things that cortana and Siri are doing these days. Bonzibuddy monkey used to read emails, dance all over desktop and respond to mouse gestures. Later similar concept taken over by virtual girl and other adult desktop softwares. Free software and Opensource was limited in number and harder to acquire in 90s. Yahoo had a lot of services like Google during that time which they had to kill slowly. e.g. Notepad, Chat, Musicplayer, social forum etc. No wikipedia. No peer reviewed stuff easily found. A lot of webpages with shady information. University content locked behind libary access. People had heart and time for each other and it showed when you read their articles or chat with them real time. I can go on and on. I spent a lot of time online and feel that was best time of my life. :)