★What is the scariest thing you have experienced on the Internet?
I have been through many stages of 'Gee that was the scariest thing I have ever seen. How am I able to sleep from now on?' Looking back, unlimited internet access really isn't good for the curious young minds. Back in high school, when I was mainly just using the internet for World of Warcraft and Dota, I happened to come across a video on Youtube about babies born with Harlequin-type ichthyosis when the game servers were down. That scarred me a little, but it didn't stop me from going further into the 'weird side' of Youtube - you'd be surprised what kind of content is available on a mainstream website like Youtube! Tortures, gruesome injuries, surgery clips, beheadings with small knives... I really didn't know what kept me clicking on these videos even though I was being scared half to death. Then when I was in university, a trend started to catch on: 2 guys 1 horse, 1 girl 1 plate, 1 man 1 jar...After seeing them, I would laugh at friends who thought 2 girls 1 cup was bad! The thing about this phase of my internet curiosity is that things start to turn from the 'real but ugly' side of life into a sphere that is more perverted. Before, although I knew it is wrong, at least I could understand the motive behind people killing people for religious or honor reasons. But after seeing these perverted videos mixed with injuries and death, I began to question the integrity of humanity. What as a species have we come to? Then of course, things got worse. We were young and we were bored. Often times late at night, when the beer bottles got empty and the jokes got old, we boys would start to brag about anything that is brag-able. That of course includes stuff like 'a friend once showed me a forensic text book' or 'I once visited a website that has unedited news reels and police files'. With testosterone pumping, everyone kept coming up with more and more extreme contents. One of my friends, who is usually very to himself, kept out-gaming everyone with his vast knowledge in this field, to the extent that we start to worry about our safety being around this skinny nerd guy. Well, one thing led to another, he introduced me to "DocumentingReality.com" You need to pay a once-off $10 membership to access. He paid for it and he also got a free invite, so I became a member too. If you want to see the limit of humanity without venturing into the dark net, then this is it. The contents are unimaginable but the comments are worse. Parents! I urge you! If your son likes cars, bikes, girls etc. Let him! Kick him out of his bedroom and get him as far away from his computer as possible! If you catch him surfing Redtube or Pornhub, count your stars that this is as far as he goes down the abyss of this thing we call internet.