★What will the Internet look like in 2020?I'd like as many different descriptions of what the usage, adoption and structure of the Internet will look like in the year 2020 as possible. Be creative, and try to think outside the box how it will change in the next seven years. Let's see what the current early adopters of the Internet come up with (since we're all using Quora...).
My guess? The Internet will be omnipresent; the web will be 'dead'. The web as we know it is built upon, and limited by, the aging paradigm of static pages. It hasn't yet reached its limit, but as we approach newer ways of interacting with the Internet, the web becomes more and more constrained. The Internet will probably become more of a true protocol rather than a term used interchangeably with 'the web'. Browsing the web is already more accurate than saying 'browsing the Internet', and that's a process that'll continue. Everything can and should be connected to the Internet, with almost no exceptions. Should it be public, though? Not necessarily, but that's easy - just keep it on a secure connection and off the web. One only has to look at apps (more and more people use Internet without accessing the open web) or touch interaction (a finger and a mouse pointer requires different approaches in UI) to see that this is already underway. Will the web go away completely or transform, though? Well, technically, it will probably always be around - it's not a binary transition (all-or-nothing) but rather a gradual one. People still use IRC despite newer means of communication, people still use BBS instead of forums, people still use URLs rather than search engines etc. But will it be prevalent in equal amount of usage? No. Because it's not necessary. Ask any non-tech savvy person (in my case, my mother, my girlfriend, most colleagues and old friends from school etc) and they would never even know what a URL is. Because they don't use it. More and more people consume news using meta-sites or SaaS apps that aggregates it (Zite, Flipboard, Google Reader et al) which reduces their web usage but increases their overall Internet usage, since it's more efficient and easier to use. People always take the path of least resistance. So, the web won't 'die' per se - but it won't really be fully 'alive' either. And why would that be a bad thing? We have to remember that apps, touch interaction, mobile usage, even 3D - all of this is stuff happening now, it's not what's happening tomorrow. Thus, we can't argue that the current web will suffice by adapting to whatever is trending right now. We have to bare in mind, and accept, that post the current challenges, there'll inevitable be new ones. The Internet can be used to improve most aspects of life, the only barrier is cost. But the web? The web will be a casualty somewhere along the line. Not today, not tomorrow. But maybe the day after that. What I mean by that is that it's not a single, immediate shift to something new but rather a slow yet accelerating progress from the old.