★What was it like to be a programmer without the Internet?When there were no online documentation, no Google, no StackOverflow...
It was a time when the "Help" menu actually helped! I was a civilian hobbyist programmer. Not working for any of the big companies. I was 10. Started coding in QBASIC. It was awesome because it was simple and the help system was built right in. It took a MSDOS 6.x approach were you only needed the local in-program manual to start learning from the examples. Tons of examples!! I feel, before the Internet, enterprise level programmers must have put in much more design thought into their work. The fact that a 10 year old was able to learn directly from a help menu is really something. My parents are computer illiterate; they saw me at a family friend's house playing minesweeper and took a leap of faith. Looking back, buying a computer was no small investment. It was a leap of faith because my parents didn't use it and placed it directly in my bedroom. Maybe they thought osmosis or something *shrug*. Anyhow, I'm pretty average, just stubborn. Minesweeper on Windows 3.11 was amazing. Ski was great and I still hate that Olympic-level running snowman. "QBASIC.exe" was something I stumbled onto while browsing "dir". My drive to learn computer programming/scripting/architecture was to enable myself to play video games. I had to mess with EXTMEM and QMEM and buffers. Again I need to thank the thoughtful designers that added READMEs and FAQs in their installations. This took design thought! Especially during a rapidly changing and emerging market. I had a clear goal thanks to them. Learn computers == play games. (Scorched Earth, F117, Stunts, Doom, Dune2000, so many!!!) We were poor; I was an unknowing software pirate at the time. It was amazing. Had a 386 with 2 x 512kb of RAM. Modems were just recently commercially viable but I didn't jump on-board until 486sx and 14.4k baud was available and some friends at school told me about "AOL". Tada!! Internet!! (With the help of some keygen tools). In reference to this question my time programming without internet was short lived. I had a peek at it. But... Looking back now, with my Computer Science degree, I'm extremely appreciative of the efforts by early Computer Scientists. They knew they were on to something BIG. World changing BIG!! It must have been an AMAZING time to be a Computer Scientist. In college, I learned about their efforts to make programming available for the masses. Languages like LOGO, LISP, and BASIC were all designed to transition people into programming. I feel that I am a direct result of their design decisions. They had a world changing philosophy embedded in their design paradigms! And it worked! Without all the details... The History of Computer Science is amazing! It's a completely different view of life. I would go as far to say that Computer Science, at its core humanitarian values, is a philosophy, a culture, and an Art.