★Can I use the internet to save my mom, who suffers from Stage IV cancer?
My mother was diagnosed with Ovarian Cancer on 11/1/11. We joined the MMMT Yahoo group where I received great information. There was great information about cutting edge research. Tips and tools around chemo, treatment and handling pain and dealing with nutrition. Despite the information that was provided real life gets in the way. My mother was an incredible woman. She did not like the diets that were recommended. On one occasion she told me - "I'm not losing weight because of chemo. I'm losing weight because of this green leaf diet you are giving me." My mother died on March 5, 2013, a few days before her 63rd birthday. My mother was my best friend. We talked every day. When she was diagnosed I left my job and relocated myself and my children to take care of her. I love my mother and sometimes I regret that I didn't push harder or force her to engage in some of the practices that were identified as having better outcomes. But despite knowing those things she also had a choice and her choice was to move forward the best way she knew how. I have two daughters (6 and 4 years). They have had to learn that people die. That is the natural process of life. My mother died. She will not be here on Friday to celebrate my youngest daughter's graduation from preschool. She will not be here to help me prepare for their first date, their first dance, their prom, their high school graduation, the decisions regarding what college they will attend, she will not attend their college graduation or participate in their wedding. But that is life. Know that your mother loved you and that you loved her. I am not less than because my mother is dead. I am blessed because we had a wonderful life together and she taught me how to love and how to love my daughters. Technology does not mean that we are without death. I have friends that have survived Ovarian cancer and blood cancer but not because they had better care or support. They survived because they did. Acceptance is the only way to move forward.