★What was it like to be on the Internet during the 1980s?A follow-up question to What was it like to be on the Internet during the 1990s?
Marvelous. Wonderful. Interconnected world-wide intellectual communities of mostly well-behaved people (mostly? See the definition of "flame" in The Original Hacker's Dictionary). You could see the future of all human knowledge online & easily accessible coming (spammers showed up later to piss in the punchbowl). I arrived at University of California, Berkeley as an undergrad in the fall of 1980, when the ARPANET was only connected to one computer on campus (the Ingres Project's PDP-11), and the serial-line-based BerkNet (authored by Eric Schmidt, then a grad student) only allowed the rest of the campus to exchange E-mail with the other hosts on the ARPANET, through an E-mail gateway provided by Project Ingres (this is why the sendmail MTA for Unix was written by Eric Allman, also a grad student at the time). Still, that was enough for students such as myself to subscribe to Internet mailing lists like SF-LOVERS and HUMAN-NETS and UNIX-Wizards (and other social or technical mailing lists). On January 1, 1983, when The Internet was born (when TCP/IP was deployed formally to replace NCP; see my lengthy answer to Internet History: When and why was it illegal to use the Internet for commercial purposes?), Unix was beginning its take over of computing in Computer Science departments at universities, sidelining a number of other, strange & interesting systems (e.g. Lisp Machines, DEC TOPS-20), primary uses of the Internet continued to be: E-mail (SMTP) Telnet (remote computer terminal access, replaced by ssh today) File Transfer Protocol (transfer files from computer to computer - peer to peer file sharing in its earliest incarnation) While it was clear that online libraries would eventually come (e.g. Wikipedia), most knowledge was still either in less-accessible form (dead trees (a.k.a. "books") in libraries), or in people's heads. Since books weren't being put online anywhere near as fast as people, the trick to making knowledge more widely accessible was to provide communication links to people. Hence spreading USENET as far and as widely as possible - if you can't ask a computer for information, ask a human. I did my part in trying to foster online communities in supporting USENET atop The Internet with work on NNTP, and making Internet E-mail accessible to non-Internet connected colleges, universities, businesses and individuals through UUCP connections and E-mail gateways to Internet-connected institutions like University of California, Berkeley and the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory and Apple Computer (as it was then called). Oh, and gatewaying various of the Internet E-mail mailing lists into USENET newsgroups, and vice versa; see my answer to Internet History: How was the "Usenet 8" newsgroup hierarchy standardization developed and decided upon?). By the end of the 1980's, most of what moved around on the Internet was still text (though we were seeing lots more ISO-8859-1 in addition to ASCII, plus the Windows and Apple Macintosh character set encodings), Unix and Ethernet were everywhere, and spammers were in the process of destroying USENET and significantly degrading the utility of E-mail. And I was working at Apple Computer to convince them that the Internet was going to be a really, really big deal. I didn't do so well; see my answer to What are some reasons Apple employees leave Apple?