★Will the Internet ever become obsolete?
I would say the answer is a resounding yes. If not the internet, the notion of an "internet" is going to get obsolete for sure. As Joshua Engel posits, several parts of the internet's protocols or network architecture have changed over the 30 odd years of its existence. But one fundamental thing has remained the same till date. The internet as we have always known it, captures "ideas" i.e. data captured by humans and fed into a computing device and then translated into "machine - readable" language to perform tasks for humans and instead of them. That very likely will change in the future. The internet will not be a tool for capturing human - fed data, it will not perform operations instead of humans, but it will start performing functions despite humans. In an "internet of things" scenario, the internet will transcend the human barrier of ideas by directly interacting with things to gain inputs of data. The human intervention part will be totally circumvented, if only to prevent errors in "fallible human" data capturing methods like eyes, ears, and mind so on. While this in itself isn't a disruption of the internet, with the internet's steady integration into all quotidian activities, the idea of it as a separate entity will cease to persist. Advances like wearable computing, obsolescence of monitors/screens, audio web surfing etc., will mean that apart from "things integration", and "data integration", semantic integration, i.e. interoperability among diverse sources of and responders to data will transform life. For the very definition of the internet as an entity moulded by humans and existing solely in the "virtual" realm will change, when internet will transcend the boundaries of human (H) - machine (M) - human communication to also embrace M - M - M communication to H - M - M communication to M- M - H communication (addressing Konrad Szpirak's answer). Then internet will become the only means of communication, the internet will undergo a "generification" much like Xerox and a copier. Then the notion of the internet as one mode of communication or a separate entity will become obsolete and cease to exist, completing its transformation from a proper noun to an abstract/common noun. Phrases like "Ooooh, lets go onto the internet an check it out". or "buy it online" will not only attract funny stares and people making cuckoo signs behind our backs, but will also most likely loose all meaning for future generations.