★What innate traits do great Internet product leaders share?If you were setting up a program to train user-focused Internet product leaders/creators, what are the traits you'd look for in candidates that can't be easily taught?
There are crisp 15 Product Management 'thumbrules' borne out of experience (and learnings from Paul Graham and Jack Welch) that have made me and my team more effective in what we do. They also make the job more fun and satisfying. I have used these as a part of the training program for new Product Management hires in our team. It helps set the tone about our team-culture, acquaint them with the imperatives of the job. Always search for, and apply, the best ideas regardless of their source. Do not be afraid to reject ideas, regardless of their source. You can’t think of everything, so involve every brain in the game. You are not an authority on the Product. You are just responsible for it. Create what people want. A product must solve a real problem. Maintain transparency about metrics and stages of Product Development – all stakeholders should be privy to the same information. Acting on a simple solution is smarter than articulating a complicated problem. Communication to users, both textual and visual, is as important as Product functionalities. Brief and useful. Every communication to users and stakeholders must be that. Be rigorous and finicky with numbers. It is the language a website and its collective users talk to you in, so interpret it correctly and precisely. Data is not Information. Computers output data, but People, using manual-work and imagination, output Information. Meetings are for decisions not discussions, unless stated so. Don’t over-brain things to the point of inaction. Ask questions only when you know how to act upon the answers. Share relentlessly and frequently. It cross-pollinates ideas and sparks innovation. Make a big deal about your outputs, and that of others. Take ownership. Be Accountable. Sure, these thumbrules are applicable to any field of work, but are even more so pertinent to continually changing consumer-focused internet products. Hope this answers your query..