★What was it like to be on the Internet during the 1980s?A follow-up question to What was it like to be on the Internet during the 1990s?
Two words: ASCII PORN Take one 1200 baud modem, one amber-and-black monitor, one 12-year-old boy. Add a little puberty and a complete lack of social skills. And what do you get? Crushing disappointment, in the form of a 99-part ZIP file, each part representing 1.1111% of Teri Hatcher's (allegedly) nude body, rendered purely with text characters. It must have taken a week to download all those files. A week of dialing into a BBS (bulletin board system), starting up the next download, and casting furtive glances over your shoulder to see if your parents have walked into the room. A week of staring at a counter: 1/99 ... 2/99 ... 3/99 ... A week of watching that folder on the C: drive fill up. Don't worry, you named it "pr0n" ... nobody will know what that means ... Then it was 98/99 ... 99/99 ... opening the file ... palms sweaty ... hands trembling ... oh my god, this is IT ... now is MY TIME ... I AM GOING TO SEE BOOBS ... maybe just @@ but they're boobs god damnit have some imagination ... ... and ... ... and ... ... W ... T ... F ....? This isn't Teri Hatcher. Turns out, I had fallen for a hoax. There was no Teri Hatcher nude ASCII art. There was just me, face down in a puddle of failure and sadness. That's what it was like being on the Internet in the 1980's. At that time, it wasn't possible to transmit images over the Internet. It was entirely text-based. You dialed a phone number, which called a specific server. There was no interconnection. If you wanted a different "site," you called a different number. And this was in the days before free long distance that we take for granted nowadays. I found some phone numbers for government BBSs in Washington DC and spent HOURS dialed into them, "hacking". Little did I know, they were toll calls. My parents got a huuuuuuge phone bill. That was the end of my hacking career. (Good thing too, because I was thisclose to stealing plans for nuclear weapons and using them for my school science project.) I abandoned the BBS scene in 1990, when I got to high school. Quit cold turkey. Flash-forward to 1994, freshman year at Cornell. We were the first dorm in the country wired for Ethernet. BAM! There was the real Internet, as we (kinda) know it today. Always on, no modem, color photos, sound, animated gifs. It was like 1000 years of progress, but in 4 years. Unbelievable. Interesting footnote: In the olden days, it was possible to permanently burn characters from the screen into the monitor -- this is why screensavers were invented. Well, I think the same thing happened to my brain. 25 years later, I totally remember some of the images on this site: (NSFW, if you still work in the 1980's): http://www.asciipr0n.com/pr0n/pi...