★What was it like to be on the Internet during the 1980s?A follow-up question to What was it like to be on the Internet during the 1990s?
My online home of choice  in the late '80s to the early '90s was CompuServe, or CIS (the acronym for CompuServe Information Service). It was purely a coincidence that I chose CompuServe; I got a Radio Shack Tandy T2000 computer in 1987 (or '88..), which came bundled with various bits of software on floppy disks including a signup package for CompuServe. The computer also had a built-in 300 baud modem. If I'd gotten a PC just a bit later, chances are my first online experience would have been on AOL instead. CompuServe was initially rather intimidating. Once you logged on, you were greeted with a screen like this. but even more basic (since the screenshot shows a later development, a CIS-access software called Procomm Plus): Everything was text based of course. Most of the action went on around forums, the CIS name for interest groups. (The alternate name for forum was SIGs - Special Interest Groups.) Forums revolved mainly around the discussion boards, and most forums had a very useful repository of files of various sorts from programs ('apps' to you kids) to text files to images;  crude real time chat and instant messaging was also possible. To find the forums that met your interests you could spend hours pecking around - and in those days you were charged by the minute for your online time, plus phone charges in some cases - or look through actual paper books that had titles like "The CompuServe Directory" or "CompuServe White Pages". Over the next 5 to 6 years or so, I lived on CompuServe for hours every day. In those days they charged by the minute for your online time. In my worst month my bill was $800 - at a time when I was earning about $220 takehome pay a week. It got a bit dicey. I eventually found out a way to get a free account, one of the coveted SysOp or forum administrator accounts. The advent of software like TapCIS and OzCIS that automated your CompuServe sessions so you could log off and on fast helped a lot too. One of the things about CompuServe that reminds me of Quora is that they required the use of real names. As you all know, the use of real names faded over the years since those early days, to the extent that in many corners of the internet anonymity or using pseudonyms became the norm. But sites like Quora, LinkedIn, and (to a much lesser extent) Facebook requiring or encouraging the use of real names is kind of going back to the way things were in those bygone days. When it came down to it, the online world was, as it is now, just as much about connecting with other people as it was about gaining information or whatnot. At least for me. Among the things I did on CIS during those years: exchanged messages directly with  people like Michael Dell, who used to personally answer questions about  his company's computers, to individual users, on the IBM Hardware forum and such, just to give one example.  There were others like that too, from PC makers that are long gone now.  (Anyone remember Northgate for example?) I guess the closest experience to that you have now is people like Jimmy Wales or Stephen Fry answering the occasional question on Quora, except that it was a lot more direct and not that many people at the time were impressed. played fantasy baseball for several years ran a fantasy ice hockey league with 9 other people, and learned a lot of Quebecois slang along the way. I remember entering the entire NHL roster with all the stats into a spreadsheet, by hand.  made a lot of friends from all over the world lost a lot of friends too went to many real-life meetups (we called them 'bashes'). Stayed at the homes of several people that I had only known prior to that online. We may have been a lot more trusting then...although when I see sites like Couchsurfing I don't know. witnessed many hookups resulting from those RL meetings, some of them extra-marital (not by me though - was way too shy) fell in love, passionately, more than once (but most of those people didn't know about it. Again, the shyness) acquired a pesky online stalker met my future husband Everything anyone's been doing online in recent years was done back then too, so I chuckle when people still marvel about the 'new' phenomenon of people meeting people online. Been there, done that, have the (mental) scars to prove it.