★What was it like to be on the Internet during the 1980s?A follow-up question to What was it like to be on the Internet during the 1990s?
Admittedly, many a dark hour being overly thoughtful of text lines like this: "West of House You are standing in an open field west of a white house, with a boarded front door. There is a small mailbox here."             I spent so much time playing these games, and being completely lost, that I was forced to use the 330 baud modem to research for help. I think this was sort of at the start of the days of Nintendo Power, and marketable ways of revealing tips and easter eggs for games.  There was this whole community online doing maps, helping, etc.  So beyond my favorite game in history, Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, forcing me to read the entire Hitchhiker's series to know how to play (didn't help, but changed my life), I think Infocom was my portal to an online world in around 1987 or so. I wrote the below about my experience with Usenet and BBS, and which had a bigger influence on developing modern internet culture, and thought it was appropriate here: I *LOVED* BBS' - it was a crapshoot, almost like wandering in a stranger's bizarre house - from area to area, never knowing what you might stumble upon. I had my first internet international pen pal because of a BBS, as well as stumbled across a number of wonderfully unsavory bits on the wrong side of the internet tracks (which went unspoken about until now).  I found awesome files, games, etc.  But it was less than a community. Conversely, the Usenet stuff I was part of revolved around all parts of culture - in my case, mainly music. But I dabbled in other philosophical "boards", etc. It was fascinating, knowing there were all these communities burgeoning, in all corners, about all things.  I can't speak to protocols, so much, but it would seem obvious that Usenet had far greater impact and reach in the development of modern internet culture.  BBS likely had a great impact on protocol, but I think we would all agree that there are very relevant aspects of Usenet culture still in existence, from mischief, to the expectation of privacy, or entire groups of people acting as a linked superconsciousness. I vote Usenet. But *MAN* I loved BBS. *AND* - at least that's how I remember it.  I realize I may have used USENET and BBS differently than others, and my mind remembers things sorta funny... =)