★What innate traits do great Internet product leaders share?If you were setting up a program to train user-focused Internet product leaders/creators, what are the traits you'd look for in candidates that can't be easily taught?
I posted a blog about 8 months ago on the traits of a great product leader. http://www.robgo.org/post/516029... Three major characteristics are below: 1. A Winning Process: A new product is constructed through the efforts of multiple people collaborating to make progress with a variety of different tools.  Creating a process that allows this to happen quickly, with a great result, and in a way that all players feel ownership and satisfaction is not easy.  It’s especially difficult in a startup, where the unit of progress is not that obvious.  Usually, the process that works at a well oiled company completely fails in an environment of uncertainty and experimentation.  2. Focus: As Chris Dixon noted, product managers are a commodity, but excellent product designers and decision-makers are rare.  This is a very subjective thing, but I think it comes down to a product leader’s ability to prioritize the things that matter and focus their team along those vectors.  This is the difference between a product team that magically creates something unique and interesting with limited resources and one that spins a lot of cycles to produce something generic.  It’s as much about choosing what to say “no” to as it is about deciding what to actually do.  3. Metrics Obsessed Visionaries. This is perhaps the main reason why it’s hard to find great product leaders.  The best ones out there have to combine two skills or personality traits that typically aren’t associated with each other.  Great product leaders have an amazing sense of vision and intuition about where markets are going, how customer preferences will evolve, and how to delight end users with great usability.  They totally get that relying on customers to tell you what to build has major limits and can yield uninspiring products.  At the same time, most great product leaders are metrics obsessed.  They have an unbelievably precise sense of the drivers of product success and have figured out how to measure and optimize against these drivers.  Doing each of these well is really difficult in their own rights, and it’s really rare to find an individual who can do both. Couple related posts on Product Leadership: Product Leadership at Aardvark http://www.robgo.org/post/568227... Creating a Great Product Process at Opower http://www.robgo.org/post/631398...