★What are the most productive ways to spend time on the Internet?Please go through at least the top 20-40 answers (if not all) before answering the question. There have been numerous repeated answers which do not add to the quality of the information. Also, please don't answer Quora.com
www.goodrx.com: It has coupons for every prescriptions I have ever needed. At first I thought it had to be fake but when I went to pickup antibiotics I decided fuck it and spent $10.00 for a $110.00 prescription. www.Codecademy.com: I learned HTML/CSS from here for free. It's not gonna bore you with some dumb .PDF It will thoroughly explain every element and let you try it. www.duolingo.com: A great way to learn a language for free. ProjectFreeTV: watch all free episodes of any TV show at any time for free! Just make sure you have AdBlock installed in your browser Videogame emulation. Any decently powered computer today can play all your classic videogames, ranging from the classic systems like the NES, Atari 2600, SNES, and Genesis to more modern systems like N64, PS2, Gamecube, and even Wii. And there is so much more you can do to the games with emulation, such as texture mods, custom roms, superspeed, and more. See: http://coolrom.com/ Inkscape: free and open source software vector graphics editor (Like Adobe Illustrator). Powerful and easy to learn. If you know Adobe, it's very similar. http://www.inkscape.org/en/ OpenOffice: free opensource productivity suite by Apache as a replacement for Microsoft Office. Has presentation, spreadsheets, word processor, drawing, and a database. Can read and save as older versions of Office documents. Very clean interface. https://www.openoffice.org/ http://puush.me: Instant screen shotting device, allows sharing files/pictures instantly from your screen. Press a button, screenshot you can instantly link to anyone. MyFitnessPal, if you use it and you're honest, you'll lose weight. It is a great tool. Unfortunately I tend to either not use it or lie. The MyFitnessPal iPhone app is free and wonderful too. The fact you can enter a food by scanning a bar code is fantastic. Here is the complete list. Entertainment: Project Gutenberg - Free books OpenLibrary - download out-of-copyright books, borrow in-copyright books. LibriVox - Free audio books Podiobooks.com - free audiobooks mostly from self-published authors. Documentary Heaven - Free documentaries TopDocumentaryFilms.com and FreeDocumentary.tv - more free documentaries Last.fm - Keeps track of your listening habits Songza - Playlists for whatever mood you're in. 8tracks - Another playlist service with playlists created by users. Internet radio created by people, not algorithms. Popcorn Time Media Hint - Allows for US Netflix and Pandora access for those of us living abroad. Turns out Media Hint are now charging ZenMate - (Chrome extension) MediaHint alternative. Hola Unblocker - Same as above, allows access to US Netflix, Hulu, Pandora, etc. Soundozer - it's kind of like Pandora, but you can listen to any song you search for and you can create a station based on that song. You don't have to register either. Grooveshark - free music, online radio, streaming. Jango - Free music - internet radio that plays what you want, great for those who can't access Pandora. Pornhub - free porn, nuff said TBLOP - The big list of porn Courses and tutorials: Class Central - Discover free online classes (MOOCs) from top universities like Stanford, MIT, Harvard, etc. Coursera OpenStudy Open2Study FutureLearn - Learning for life, provided by UK and international universities. Udacity iTunes U - iTunes University offers many free open courses from leading university. Harvard Open Courseware MIT Open Courseware... (more)Loading...