★What are the most productive ways to spend time on the Internet?Please go through at least the top 20-40 answers (if not all) before answering the question. There have been numerous repeated answers which do not add to the quality of the information. Also, please don't answer Quora.com
The most productive way to spend time on the Internet is to create or do something with it. Learning is good but at some point you just need to get dirty and start doing things. And I hate to break it to people, but access to information and resources on how to do things isn't exactly new. You could have done that at something called the library long before the days of Yahoo, Alta Vista, Excite, Netscape, etc. Taking action and doing things is the best way to use the internet. Here are some ideas... - Start a blog. Write for other blogs. You have a chance to get heard by millions of people. People have no idea how much power they have at their fingertips just by sitting in front of a computer. - Write a book. Amazon and Createspace makes this easy. - Meet interesting people. Use Twitter to say hi. I wrote about how to use twitter here: How Anyone Can Win Free Stuff and Rule the World Using Twitter (links to: http://fescuefairways.com/how-anyone-can-win-free-stuff-and-rule-the-world-using-twitter/) - Meet the love of your life. There are dating websites out there for just about everyone. - Write about failed dates when trying to meet the love of your life on your new blog. - Test 10 business ideas. Run ads for $5/day and see which idea gets the most clicks. You might find that you're onto something. - Make a site and put your artwork or photos up there. - Record something on Soundcloud or a video on YouTube. How Anyone Can Make a YouTube Video and Get 31,854 Views (links to: http://fescuefairways.com/how-anyone-can-make-a-youtube-video-and-get-31854-views/) - Create a mobile app. - Write another book. - Use Linkedin to ask people you admire for career advice. - Find an event your area via Meet Up or some other common interest and RSVP for it. Then actually go. - Find an interesting attraction nearby you on the web and visit it. It's like traveling but not really. Some people buy plane tickets for places around the globe but they've never seen the great places near their hometowns. - Use Linkedin to research companies. Use Rapportive to look up people's emails at those companies. Then email pitch those people with ideas on how you can help them. - Volunteer and try to advance a cause or something else that you believe in. Can't find anyone doing it? Use Kickstarter and start it up yourself. - Start a podcast. : Start a blog. Write for other blogs. You have a chance to get heard by millions of people. People have no idea how much power they have at their fingertips just by sitting in front of a computer. Write a book. Amazon and Createspace makes this easy. Meet interesting people. Use Twitter to say hi. I wrote about how to use twitter here: How Anyone Can Win Free Stuff and Rule the World Using Twitter (links to: http://fescuefairways.com/how-anyone-can-win-free-stuff-and-rule-the-world-using-twitter/) Meet the love of your life. There are dating websites out there for just about everyone. Write about failed dates when trying to meet the love of your life on your new blog. Test 10 business ideas. Run ads for $5/day and see which idea gets the most clicks. You might find that you're onto something. Make a site and put your artwork or photos up there. Record something on SoundCloud or a video on YouTube. See: How Anyone Can Make a YouTube Video and Get 31,854 Views (links to: http://fescuefairways.com/how-anyone-can-make-a-youtube-video-and-get-31854-views/) Create a mobile app. Write another book. Use LinkedIn to ask people you admire for career advice. Find an event your area via Meet Up or some other common interest and RSVP for it. Then actually go. Find an interesting attraction nearby you on the web and visit it. It's like traveling but not really. Some people buy plane tickets for places around the globe but they've never seen the great places near their hometowns. Use Linkedin to research companies. Use Rapportive to look up people's emails at those companies. Then email pitch those people with ideas on how you can help them. Volunteer and try to advance a cause or something else that you believe in. Can't find anyone doing it? Use Kickstarter and start it up yourself. Start a podcast. As I mentioned the web is great, but it created an epidemic of "info-besity." Many people are consuming. Very few are doing. Start being productive today.