★How did people waste their time in the pre-Internet era?
Do kids still play nickel basketball? When I was in school, in the 70s and 80s, many kids would play paper games as soon as they got bored. Some of these games were quite intricate, and there were solitair games as-well-as team games. And our primitive version of texting (or sexting) was called "passing notes." We would doodle, daydream, play cards, gossip, read magazines, read books, listen to music, sing, dance, make mix tapes, play sports, watch TV, go to movies, make up stories, go for walks, run errands (back before the web, errands took longer and involved much more time standing in lines) and imagine people naked. Once personal computers were available -- but before most were hooked up to networks -- we created an ad-hock "internet" using a combination of PCs and phones. My friends and I would all have copies of the same game -- usually a text-adventure game -- and we'd all play our copies simultaneously in our own homes, constantly calling each other for tips and bragging rights: "Did you get past the wizard? You didn't? Do you wanna know how to do it?" I also remember watching movies in my head. Back before VCRs, your only chance of seeing a movie repeatedly was waiting for it to come on TV. Or, if you had a favorite movie, you would imagine it. I remember being bored in class and conjuring up "2001." And you'd endlessly quote your favorite movie, to sort of keep it alive in your head. I remember getting into "Jaws" and having a "Jaws" lunchbox and all sorts of other merchandise. I know merchandising still exists, but I think it played a more central role to fandom when I was younger. It allowed to to keep the ball in the air -- so to speak -- while waiting for a rare chance to see your favorite movie or show again. Just as today, lots of spare time was spent on sex: daydreaming about it, pursuing it, gossiping about it, flirting, arguing, breaking up... I remember some quaint pastimes like going to adult book stores and, later, visiting the back rooms in video stores. I remember being amazed when my friend's dad got him a subscription to "Playboy."