★What are the hottest startups in India?
This startup called Ineda systems. To me, they are one the hottest startups not just in India, but in the whole semiconductor world. This is a Hyderabad-based fabless semiconductor start-up working on next-generation mobile computing platform. It all started when a group of semiconductor veterans from USA and India decided to come together and build what is the world's first processor System-on-chip (SoC) dedicated to wearable electronics. They call it a Wearable Processing Unit (WPU). They designed a multi-level processor called Dhanush that incorporates unique combinations of MIPS CPUs and highly efficient PowerVR GPUs that make it ideal for being used in wearable devices. The wearable processing units (WPUs) represent one of industry's first SoC architectures built specifically for a new generation of devices, including fitness bands, smartwatches and Internet of Things. Their innovative design will allow the Dhanush WPU to break the one day charge cycle – potentially lasting up to a month or more! With poor battery life being the sole reason the wearable tech market has still lulled, the breakout of battery life could kick off a domino of newer tech, newer devices and newer applications. Danush promises 30+ days of battery with an always-on-connection, always-on speech recognition and sensor analysis in a sleek design.  While we still do not know as to 'How big a battery would last 30+ days?', they promise a 10x lower power consumption as compared to industry standards. Ineda is backed by some of the giants of the SoC industry, like Qualcomm, Samsung, Imagination Technologies, and Venture investors like Walden International. Their board of directors includes Dr. Sanjay Jha (CEO of Global Foundries), Lip-Bu Tan (CEO of Cadence Design Systems; He is also on the board of directors of some major startups like Ambarella - http://www.ambarella.com/). Ineda plans to start mass production of their SoCs in 2015. While it is very evident that wearables are the next big thing in the Tech industry, what Ineda is to offer seems very exciting. Intel taught us how to do computers. And when the world moved into mobile phones, we had Qualcomm teach Intel that mobile phones were different from computers. Now maybe we could have an Indian company teach Qualcomm the difference between mobile phones and wearables!