★Can I use the internet to save my mom, who suffers from Stage IV cancer?
I am terribly sorry that you have to go through this. I lost my wife recently to cancer and she was not even 40. I read all the answers and especially the number 1 answer by Jae Won Joh. And though it is beautifully written, my answer is completely opposite to it. The internet is a wonderful tool if used right. After my wife was diagnosed with a cancer that I could not even pronounce right, I used the power of the internet to do a thorough research about it. I cannot even tell you the number of hours I would spend online, besides the intense care-giving that I would provide my wife. I could not save her life because there is no cure in the world for the cancer that struck her. But here is how my internet research helped me. 1) I understood the exact nature of the devil that I was dealing with. How it starts, how it progresses, what are its effects - the very nature of the beast. As its said - Know your enemy well before you can strike at him. 2) I understood the diet and kind of sustenance that I would need to provide to my wife in order to boost her immune system and give her strength to face the surgery and chemo that followed. I stayed away from frivolous claims by cross-checking every thing that I read with legal medical resources. 3) I understood the kind of treatments that she would go through. I held detailed knowledge about the exact kind of surgery, chemotherapy drugs and all that would be given to her. I was 5 steps ahead of the curve and the answers given to my questions by the surgeon, oncologist and other specialists were just a validation in my mind that they were going about it the right way. 4) I understood the effects of chemotherapy and had everything ready for her in case she had any of those side effects. For e.g, getting a wig ready for hairfall etc. 5) After the chemo failed, I understood what needed to be done next, and moved her to hospice care which helped have nurses round the clock to comfort her during her last days. 6) After she passed away, I started with grief therapy right away because I knew that grief is another big monster with which I am still dealing with everyday. Do I regret that I should've spent more time with her ? Ofcourse. Do I regret that I should not have spend that much time on the internet ? No. I could not save my dear wife's life but in my heart I know, I did everything what a person who deeply loves another would do - Give it your all to save someone. Wish you strength in your journey ahead.