★What are the hottest startups in India?
What's the first thing that comes to your mind when you think of 'art'? Probably big galleries, exhibitions and high profile auctions that sell paintings at seemingly ridiculous prices, right? But.... what if great art didn't have to be restricted to just galleries? What if you could make art an integral part of your day to day lifestyle? The way we consume art and design has changed so much over the years, but you probably don't even realise it! Ever looked at a kickass design on a T-shirt and thought *Wow I just HAVE to get that* ? Behind all the awesome merchandise and apparel that you have bought over the years, there is an artist who puts his heart and soul into designing it but does not get an ounce of recognition for it. In fact, the designer merchandise that you see everywhere is just the tip of the iceberg because the overwhelming majority of artists who can create and sell such products don't have the means to do it. In short, you want to buy great merch that makes you stand out in a crowd while thousands of artists out there want to give you just that but have no way of doing so! Paintcollar is a one of a kind marketplace where you can buy great designer merchandise created by thousands of awesome artists. It enables artists to create products like T-shirts, prints and laptop skins and sell them online with their own profit margins and zero up front costs! Too good to be true? The secret lies in their awesome, superfast, next-generation product creation engine. Here's a look at how it works. You create. People buy. Paintcollar delivers. You make money. For every product that an artist creates, Paintcollar has a fixed base price which covers all costs. Over that the artist adds his/her own profit margin. The final retail price is a sum of both. Once a customer places an order, Paintcollar manufactures and delivers it using a just in time model while the artist's sales history is updated. Once a month the company transfers the artists' earnings to their accounts. Paintcollar also gives every artist a profile page with a custom url. Paintcollar's services are completely free for artists to use. So far they offer T-shirts, posters, laptop skins and canvas prints. They are planning on introducing mobile cases soon enough. The company is just 5 months old and already has over 500 artists who have created thousands of products. Paintcollar has been shortlisted by Exhibit magazine in the 20 Hottest Tech Startups of India for their March issue. Here is some of the awesome stuff created by artists on Paintcollar.