★What was it like to be a programmer without the Internet?When there were no online documentation, no Google, no StackOverflow...
Everything you knew about programming you had to either learn from a book or learn by talking to someone. Every tool you used you either had to write yourself, copy from a friend, or buy. I progressed from Apple II BASIC to 6502 assembly to Pascal on the Mac to C on the Mac and then made the transition to C++/Win32 as the modern era began. I learned assembly from a book that I ordered from a bookstore; I knew about the existence of the book because there was an ad for it in Apple II hobbyist magazines. I learned Pascal because it was what was taught in high schools in the late 80s. In my Pascal class I met a kid who was an evangelist for a language called C. To actually program in C I had to buy a C compiler (which meant physically going to a local computer shop and talking to the people there). Compilers were expensive -- I think, $300 -- and that's in 1980s dollars, so they were something you had to save up for. Then to do anything interesting on a Macintosh you had learn how to write to the "Macintosh toolbox" which was a huge (for the time) library of functions that would now be called an API. You had to buy the documentation from Apple by ordering it at a bookstore. Apple sold the toolbox documentation in multiple volumes, thick over-sized printed books; for example, I remember owning this one: Inside Macintosh: Imaging with Quick Draw. These were also expensive -- I don't remember how much exactly but they were expensive in the way that college textbooks are expensive. I couldn't afford to just buy them all and had to trade with Macintosh programming friends for volumes that I didn't have. It was a very different world. The cost of entry figuratively as well as literally was higher. You had to be dedicated. There were no casual computer programmers once you got beyond the fooling-around-in-BASIC stage of your development. I think the hardest thing was just knowing what it was that you should be learning. In a weird way, it was a lot more social. The main way you learned what to do next was by talking to people who knew and you would make friends this way.