★What was it like to be on the Internet during the 1990s?
Slow. But there was this new frontier excitement that I always had. At the beginning (before it became tiresome) the modem squeaks made me giddy with joy at having gained access to the new world in front of me. Look, I'm just going to cut to the chase:  I didn't even know that the internet had "other" stuff until about 2008.  It was pretty much a magical porn access portal. When I was at work and some lady was talking about butteries and kitties on the interwbs, I looked at my buddy (a Marine--so you know where this was going) and shrugged in confusion.  "You can get that online? I pretty much thought it was all porn and death videos.  Huh.  Learn something new every day". And, it was a labor of love, lemme tell ya'.  There wasn't no quick TimeWarner Turbo Boost 50megabit speeds like you young whipper-snappers have now.  No sir-ee-bob.  We had to sit and imagine the big boobies, the grotesque donkey show, the exaggerated genitalia and the inter-racial orgies because (a) most of the time we didn't have the ability to sit there anticipating the end product and (b) many times to quality of imagery was so bad that--frankly--what I had in my head was a bit better anyway. I was--am--a Trekkie.  I can't state this enough.  I don't obsess about it anymore because I think it's time has passed, but I spent a lot of time on SciFi websites, spending my paltry 30 minutes a day that I bought off my friend Pete (because, back in 1997,  I sure as hell didn't have a computer or the new fangled interwebs).  I tried to spend time on the chat rooms--those were the wild west of the web, while Sandra Bullock was battling bad guys in "The Net".  I learned about "Dune" in a chat room on Prodigy.  I went on my ONE AND ONLY (you're going to all punch me) blind--"lets meet at this hotel"--date/sex thing with a guy who "promised" he was really attractive.  Yeah.  Word of advice:  If a guy won't send you his photo and he's on the web bragging about what he has to offer, the end product isn't going to be so great.  Oh, did I mention that I let him drive me home?  Yeah.  Thems were the wild-west days back in my 20's or what I call "my stupidies". We didn't have the Googles or the Twitter or the MySpace like you youngins do today.  We only had really cranky connections to really sketchy chat rooms.  Yeah. I long for those days again when I had no through put and it took 36 minutes to load a CNN page. There was this if you were cool: But I only had this (Americans will remember):