★What was it like to be on the Internet during the 1990s?
My SO had an original 128K Mac but I did not get my own computer until the Macintosh LCII in about 1993. At first I used it with a 300 baud dialup modem but soon I upgraded to 14.4 and then eventually 56K (still dialup). I had accounts on AOL and CompuServe, but they were expensive. (At one point I even had a CompuServe branded VISA card.) I was living in Washington, DC at the time. My friend Jim Hendler was teaching CS at the University of Maryland and gave me a dialup shell account on a UM server. I dialed in one evening and discovered that other people "out there" on the Internet somehow knew I was there. I would get little instant text messages of greeting from people I didn't know. A guy in San Diego (well, he said he was in San Diego) was very friendly and persistent. He asked me questions about myself, where I lived, what I looked like, what books and movies I liked, etc. He was just text characters on my screen but it was weirdly invasive. Somehow he always knew when I came online because I'd start getting messages from him within minutes. I started ignoring him. He became a little more insistent and friendly, I responded very tersely, and then finally he started to back off. Beginning in 1994 when I joined The WELL I used my umd.edu shell account for telnetting purposes, because my other choices were long distance dialup to a modem in Sausalito or paying $6 an hour for Compuserve Packet Network. It was still all text unless I was on AOL or CompuServe (which, increasingly, I wasn't). I bought a copy of UNIX for Dummies and taught myself enough to get by on the Well's Picospan command-line interface. Later in 1994 Jim Hendler and his wife came over for dinner one night and afterwards he showed me how to configure my dialup connection in order to view the World Wide Web. It was a revelation, even though there were relatively few things to look at. Shortly thereafter I bought a copy of Teach Yourself HTML in a Week and the rest is history. Stephanie Vardavas' answer to What was the first website you built, and in what year did you build it?