★What are the hottest startups in India?
Housing.com Aren't all Indian startups bad clones? At the risk of sounding pretentious, I'll admit - I thought after spending two summers in the Bay Area not just working, but poking my head around at other companies, I'd thought I'd seen the very cream of all technology startups. Hell, the internet exists, and given past data and personal experience, I too had been a strong adherent of the general belief that companies in emerging markets like India and China are bad clones. Recently, I came across a startup (that I am in no way associated with or representing) that changed my mind about all that. It's called Housing.com. Wait, aren't all startups clones? To a hater, yes, this idea is also reducible to pre-existing startups. Just like Quora is reducible to "Yahoo Answers, except better", Housing.com is essentially "Zillow and maybe Airbnb, except ... better". If there's one thing I've learnt from venture capitalists, it's that companies are more valued by their execution than their idea. As it was with Housing.com. I'll attempt to walk you through my judgement of the site and the company. Hey, that's a fine name you got there Hmm, Housing.com seems like a pretty valuable domain name. I wonder how they bagged that. As a side note, in case you didn't know, Indian companies have a horrible reputation (at least in my books) for coming up with the tackiest names. Just check AngelList - India out if you don't believe me.  I think the mere fact that this company came up with a company name that is an English word (there's a company called Motorpaneer. One might argue that Baidu is Chinese and a perfectly alright name, but I just prefer simple pronounceable English names. Here's another - Webchutney. Like come on, mygola.com just doesn't sound usable.) is not a random nonsense word (why would anyone call their company fusedcow, or ixigo.com) is spelled correctly (try explaining to someone how to spell PlayCez or Delyver. There's another called MobiKwik. Like Jesus, would it kill you to call it MobiQuick) doesn't have random capital letters in it (ANTfarm. Major pet peeve) instantaneously tells you what they do (one would never be able to even guess what Unbxd or Airwoot do. At least Facebook is a book of faces and Quora just seems to mean Q&A) I mean sure - not all companies follow these rules, and there are obvious exceptions - but it's replenishing to see an Indian startup that does. A cursory glance They seem like they're worth checking out. Oh, wow, for an Indian company, that's a surprisingly minimalist landing page. I'm already impressed. Is that their helpline number? 03-333-333-333. Damn, and I thought Housing.com was professional enough, but for a startup, these guys made some darn pro decisions. A more than cursory glance Excited, I scroll down. Wow, still maintaining that minimalism. No ads too. Wow. Those are some darn beautiful icons, completely in sync with the color scheme. Not too much overwhelming text - simple curt messages. Some great statistics and wow - 638,000+ users. That's fairly impressive. I'm already hooked. Can't wait to see more. I also can't believe this is coming out of India. Professionalism at its best Wow, a video. I don't usually click on marketing videos, but I'm so impressed, screw it. And damn, this is some pretty snazzy marketing, some high quality animation in the video too. The video is also under a minute and does an incredible functional job. Wow. You gotta be mobile Damn. They're on mobile. What a professional picture of mobile. Complete with direct links to Android and iOS purchases. Right now, I'm still so surprised they're on mobile. I'm already half-betting their mobile app sucks, but if their website is any indication, it probably doesn't. I heard someone say Big Data You're kidding me. Add to a product a dedicated team of  data scientists. Fucking hell. Wow, wtf, p... (more)Loading...