★Can I use the internet to save my mom, who suffers from Stage IV cancer?
Hi. I've just recently come through a course of cancer treatment for endometrial cancer (cancer of the uterus), stage IIIc, and am in remission. I think I may be able to sympathize a little bit with what you and your mother are going through. Cancer sucks, and cancer treatment sucks. Sometimes the treatment sucks so much that you wonder if it's worth it. I felt like that a lot during my surgeries and treatments. The patient herself is either in pain, or fatigued, and experiencing all kinds of physical discomfort. And the people around her feel helpless. Doctors do what they can, but they are busy people and don't always have the time to hold your hand and explain things and calm you down. By all means do some research. At the very least it may help you understand better what your mother is going through. But the harsh reality is, at the moment there really is no 'miracle cure' for advanced stage cancer. Please don't let people try to fool you otherwise. In times of desperation it's so easy to fall prey to false hope and false information. Always keep an open, but skeptical mind. Talk to her doctors about what's the best thing to do for her. They know her condition the best. You'll have to make the judgement whether you need to talk to them in her presence or by yourself/with other family members. You can of course try to make her comfortable, and help keep her mind off her pain and discomfort. There might be some information on the internet that give you some good ideas in that direction. Above  all, don't give her any cause to worry about things unrelated to her  illness. Worry plus pain is the worst combination. Make sure she knows the people she loves are well taken care of. Beyond that, think  about the things she loves to do. Think about things that may make her  laugh, and make her feel happy. I know that the possibility that you may lose your mother is really depressing and painful to think about. I can't really offer much comfort for that. All I can tell you is what I felt like, at times when I thought that I might not make it. I wasn't really that afraid of dying per se. I was most worried about how sad the people I'd have to leave behind would feel, and how they'd get along without me. If you can show your mother that at least, you are strong and happy and leading a good life, that might slightly lessen her worries - and as her child, that may be the best thing possible you can do for her.