★Is the Internet spoiling young children?
Albeit, every single generation has claimed that some major innovation, whether it be technological, social, artistic, heck even religious spoils the members of the upcoming generation, the fact lies in the reality that humans like most animals on the planet prefer habits instead of major, ongoing  changes. Simply because it makes life easier when things remain constant. So it is no surprise that humans apply those ideals to almost everything. Having said that, it is not to say that those changes do not in fact change how humans, in this case children do things. At the risk of sounding like I am contradict myself, the internet is a very different animal, in fact your question can branch out in many fields from physical activity to psychology including social interactions and learning and it is enough fodder to write a paper on.   For example, it can be easily argued that introducing children to  technology and the internet at a very young age stifles creativity among other things. Why? Simple, the internet for the most part is a information consuming medium. A bit like tv and the radio but different due to the social (or the lack of) interactions the internet can create. When very young, children need to develop the tools of how they will handle, deal and see the world, which include exploration, socialization, play, exercise, and you are not going to get those if you stick a kid with an ipad so they can play Angry Birds for hours on end. Mind you, I understand this is a very specific example but one that encompassed the point I am trying to make. I think it is fairly obvious that social media sites, again when children are exposed to at an early age can create a distorted, obviously false sense of community and friendship. Sure you can in fact find more people like you, people who in theory you could get along with, but real, long lasting friendships are made in the real world not over snapchat. This is all very obvious you might say, since "those sites are tools," and you would be right. But sometimes children can only make sense of the the world they are exposed to and we have not gotten to the point that you can become a well rounded human being by staring at your FB's status update, waiting to see how many people like your post about kittens drinking milk.  That is not to say that the internet, along with the light bulb or the written word is not among one of the best inventions humanity has created as of yet. It's great dexterity is incredible, however that does not mean that it does not come with caveats which can in fact be detrimental to its users. Specially kids who do not have the experience to fully weight in what is flashing in front of their screens. Worse if it is on hours on end. There is so much more to this but I hope this covers a point or two. Hope it was helpful.