★Will the Internet ever become obsolete?
I think this question needs a clarification of what exactly is "The Internet". Is it the network infrastructure? Is it the the layer upon layer of software protocols build upon it? Or is the end-product we all enjoy? Most people when thinking of the The Internet will probably just  refer to a communication channel for media, online video, chatting and shearing information with friends, getting news and updates from around the world without even consciously considering all the actual technological elements which make it all possible. I would guess that when you boil it down to the actual meaning, by most commonly accepted definition of "The Internet" is just a form of "modern communication". It solves the problem of human communication. If you go by that definition then it could be that a radically new way of communication would be required to render The Internet obsolete. This would not be a simple "evolution" of the current technology such as building a virtual reality world "on top of" the existing Internet. It would need to be something which would REPLACE Internet as a whole providing a much better and more efficient fascility for human communication. Another words solve the communication problem better than the Internet (with all its underlying technologies) does. Perhaps a kind of advanced bio-engineered, nano technology which would be build right into our brains to provide instant, telepathy-like communication experience with other people and access to information? The type of technology which would use a wireless channels and work completely independently of the current global network infrastructure? Bottom line is that whatever the future technology could replace the Internet (and render it obsolete) would have to either: A) Solve the human communication problem better than the Internet does (ie. provide a much better facility for human and machine communication) B) Eliminate the problem (ie. eliminate the need for human and machine communication altogether). Although the latter option seems quite unlikely...