★What was it like to be on the Internet during the 1980s?A follow-up question to What was it like to be on the Internet during the 1990s?
It was wonderful. My first host was UCSB (#3) for my first two years of college. No email, just telnet and ftp. I learn to play chess on the MIT DEC-10. Ftp taught me that character sets on different computers varied (very annoying). So I was self taught architecture. This was 1973-1975. Then we left the net. It was enough for the 1980s. It was vastly more text based at 56.6 Kb/s. And a weird small world thing: I'd hear of names like Bob Taylor and Bob Kahn, a couple remote guys working in DC. Later, I would have dinner with Taylor and sit in a couple meetings with Bob Kahn and work with his people in the latter 1990s. By this time, the first ARPAnet mailing lists were started. I also learned about Usenet. Using both networks, I represented NASA officially: my objective was to be a presence (no other Centers were on these nets). I used them to starting the first FAQs to hire the best talent. Being computers: you had a bar to show you could at least text edit. It was a wonderful time to be on networks. It had a few small down sides. I could prepare the students for potential summer jobs with NASA, most never had any idea about the Zip codes and timing for internships (students would wait too long; I started by showing them to start preparing in Jan. rather than wait until April). I normally didn't show much bias to Centers, but this enabled us (Ames) to get the best CS people because only the best CS depts were online at this point. There were a lot of misunderstandings about NASA which one can see to this day even on quora. One time, a contractor for GE commenting on needs for a Network Systems Corp. Hyperchannel driver noted that it would take months to develop and debug a driver. Instead, I went on the net (unix-wizards) and asked if any one had a DR-11W driver? I got one from Clem Cole at Tek over night. This blew the IBM biased GE critic away to pave our way for our new supercomputer center. I tried to be a helpful representative for the agency, and learned quite a few things along the way to know that others would later have me take over as news group moderator, and later Big-8 administrator. My early 70s time on ARPAnet showed me that some of the Brits and others didn't get the point of networks. They saw it as an extension to chatting on BBS. They were clearly IBM biased and I'm surprised that they weren't more Bitnet oriented. In time http came on board in the 90s and the web was the next stage in evolution. In the 70s and 80 there were artificial distinctions made between wide-area networks (WANs) and local-area networks (LANs) and that's how we got classes of network addresses. At least in the field of computing: you would interact early on with experts in the field. You could send email to Don Knuth. But not all experts in one field knew everything. Many computer people were clearly well read, but it was apparent that there was holes in their knowledge. It's harder to do this now. One got to know people like Erik Fair and others who did the real work. For people not on networks, they didn't have a clue of our on line world. I had friends gained in remote places like Norway or Alaska before I ever went there. It was faster and generally more accurate than many other sources of information (if not perfect).