★What are the most productive ways to spend time on the Internet?Please go through at least the top 20-40 answers (if not all) before answering the question. There have been numerous repeated answers which do not add to the quality of the information. Also, please don't answer Quora.com
Disclaimer: This is might be seem a little different from what the OP is thinking, but it’s worked for me. YMMV. The most productive way for me to spend time on the internet is to minimize the amount of time I spend on it. I tend to have not so good self control when using the internet. Probably because I’m a naturally curious person. I remember when I was in primary school, every time I would lookup a wikipedia article, I would end up reading 10 wikipedia articles due to link hopping. This is true to me even today, so I have to consciously take measures to control that instinctive habit to browse curiously. I think the larger principle behind it though, is this: using the internet is like turning on a fire hydrant of information, and our brains handle this very poorly [1] In other words, I view the internet as pandora’s box (with good and bad, not just bad), and I have to control the opening and closing of that box otherwise it’ll swallow me up. So here are the main two main measures I take to control this fire hydrant/pandora’s box [2] 1. Content creation. When I perform tasks, I usually try to do as much of it offline as possible, and then “turn on” the internet all at once. I use GTD as my task management system- TSW is my implementation [3] - so this principle holds well for my implementation. For example, this  post was written all while I was on an airplane [4]- I read this question a few days earlier, marked it down in my tasks management system, then wrote it on the airplane, and then posted it when i got back. I email respond to certain lengthly emails this way- helps me to focus on writing emails 2. Content consumption. Anything longer than a short email I send to Pocket or to my Kindle using the Send to Kindle browser extension.  This includes articles, lengthy emails, and quora articles [5]. I prefer Kindle because it’s less distracting. Then i set a aside a block of time while reading (such as lunch) to crank through all the reading. This has a few benefits Gives me time to detach from the “emotional” attachment to content (i.e. “I must read this article now because my friend sent it to me!”) Allows me to read the content much more attentively I’m not distracted by link-hopping or anything else. I can click links on  the kindle, but the kindle's browser’s so slow it’s enough of a deterrent. Pocket is more prone to link-hopping, so that’s why I prefer kindle. === This is my first time sharing these thoughts publicly. None of it’s new, but I hope this particular synthesis is helpful Let me know what you think in the comments (unless you’re reading this on your e-reader, then don’t worry :D ) And read the rest of the answers to this question in a read it later app! Further reading Killing the Internet at Home Is the Most Productive Thing I've Ever Done | The Minimalists I'm Tim Ferriss, and This Is How I Work: note how he blocks of internet for as long as possible in the morning  Notes 1. At least, that’s the view I tend to take, I’m not a neuroscientist but from my own experience and what I’ve read 2. I don’t follow these to the letter of course. Depends on how attentive I feel that day, etc. 3. TSW- Page on thesecretweapon.org- an implementation of GTD- Getting Things Done 4. I’m really productive on airplanes, and I know others feel similarly. I’m sure part of this has to do with not having internet. 5. Quora is hard to get formatted properly… I usually copy the entire post to a text file and then send it to Kindle...