★What are the most productive ways to spend time on the Internet?Please go through at least the top 20-40 answers (if not all) before answering the question. There have been numerous repeated answers which do not add to the quality of the information. Also, please don't answer Quora.com
I find these lists are thorough with great resources, but they are missing the point of your question. The threat, and what I think you are experiencing, is while all these websites are great, the majority of your time ends up being spent chasing temporary gratification. As a result you can spend an hour or more reading Wikipedia but recalling the information is fuzzy at best.  Applying the information, well good luck. :) My solution to this problem was to start having personal projects. Over time I've developed a few checks to see if the personal project is a good one: must be something of immediate interest no definitive book on the subject short enough that a book would be overkill improves myself in some arena can I complete it in less than a month? Following this it allows you to focus your attention, this makes the information you gather and learn much easier to recall and apply. I find that because the subject matters to me it still provides that feeling of leisure. Examples of personal projects I've taken up using this method are: learning poker create a Wordpress website cold reading people (basically the art of tarot cards, palm reading, etc.) make a genetic algorithm in javascript (current) All these might be better addressed or covered in books they can be learned. These same skills can be learned online, at a slower pace. I would not say I'm a master at any of these things but my skills have improved dramatically. Following this has allowed to me to accumulate on average 5 more skills that I would otherwise not have. These skills would have been "lost" to reddit or Starcraft 2 or league or... well you get the picture. If you don't know or can't think of a personal project that interests you at the moment don't worry I have two suggestions. The first, no one in the history of humanity has ever improved if they are content with themselves. Contentment is the result of unchanging habits, we naturally acclimate to what we do. Get yourself out of your comfort zone, try new things, go rock climbing, try a new food, expose yourself to a different culture, etc. Second, read 10 pages a day in a book you would want to have read 1 year from now. This usually leads me to read books that are technical and I will to explore topics that were difficult to understand. Also I'd recommend books that offer different perspectives on things that society takes for granted.  My suggestions would be: Four Hour Work Week, Freakonomics, Blink, or Outliers. Best of luck!