★When will China join the rest of the world on the real Internet?
They already have It's trivially easy to bypass Communist party censorship if someone wants to. Chinese who work in international companies will have them. But, most Chinese just don't care. If they want to get around censorship, it's to get Japanese pornography, not to have discussions about Tiananmen or Democracy. Do you want the Communist Party hate machine on YOUR internet? Sure, there's internet hooliganism everywhere, but how many Americans have killed over the internet? In mainland China, it's happened more than once. Chinese online vigilantes have done things like harass a person's parents until someone commits suicide. Look at the Chinese equivalents of Youtube and Twitter (Youku, Weibo), it is FILLED WITH SPAM. I don't have any large amount of followers, but every day I get a fake follower or retweeted by a bot, it's really put me off using Weibo. Do you want that experience on youtube and twitter? Look at youtube right now, and you'll see the few mainland Chinese who bother to get over the firewall to post on youtube are more often than not ultra Communists who attack anything that insults the party. Remove that firewall and every single Japanese related video is going to be filled with Nanjing massacre statistics. Every blog critical of the Communist Party will be flooded with hateful flaming. And in mainland China, a lot of those hooligans are state sponsored, receiving a few cents for every pro-Communist party comment they leave on social media channels. Their incentive is to write as many flaming comments as possible. In many ways, the Communist party firewall protects the rest of the world from a billion of the angriest people on the internet. *Update, the Communist Party has declared war on the internet: Xi Jinping rallies party for propaganda war on internet And has begun jailing those they deem unworthy of being on the internet: China broadcasts confession of Chinese-American blogger