★What's it like to work for Rocket Internet?I've noticed they've been hiring alot recently, especially within the U.S. I was wondering if anyone has had experience working there. What is their reputation within the industry?
I am currently working as a consultant with one of the top tier strategy consulting firms. I interviewed with a Rocket Internet company in early August for an MD position in one of their companies (am posting anonymously for obvious reasons). I met the team several times and had been invited for a final round interview with one of the Berlin based Rocket team. In the course of the several meetings I had tried to push the guys to talk me through the business plan as well as the historic financials so that I could have a better idea of how the business was developing and where it was going. The Rocket MD representative in the country was very reluctant to engage in the discussion and was unprepared to disclose any specific information. All he and one of the MDs from Rocket HQ in Berlin talked of was how Rocket were committing millions of USDs to growing this company and how they had developed an aggressive but achievable business plan to reach profitability within several months. In addition to not disclosing any specific info, at the same time he was trying to put me under pressure to commit to an early start date if the final interview went well. I felt really uncomfortable with the lack of information disclosure (and with the style/arrogance of the Rocket MD) and ultimately decided not to pursue the process further. Two weeks later I found that they had shut down the company that I had been interviewing for - all staff were apparently laid off. It strikes me as hugely irresponsible and unethical to have been interviewing anyone for the MD position when I expect they must have known 1) that the business was in trouble and 2) had at least an expectation (if not explicitly knew) that there was a significant danger of Rocket pulling the plug. I could have quit my job and even before seeing out my notice period have already lost my job with Rocket. I would strongly advise anyone interviewing for a Rocket company to be forceful in getting them to disclose financial and business planning info to you to help you make an informed decision (sign a NDA or whatever it takes). Based on my experience I would never go near them again - a culture where such unethical behavior is par of the course is not somewhere I want to be.