★What was it like to be on the Internet during the 1990s?
I had my first internet experience in 1989, my 2nd semester of college. My roommate was an engineering major, and he invited me to give it a try. It was also my first exposure to Unix. I felt like a little kid riding a bicycle with training wheels. My first forays were painfully slow affairs. I first had to get familiar with the Unix command line, and some common tools (like vi). Then I had to get familiar with man pages, and then finally start doing some stuff on the internet, like "talk" for IM chat, and "write" (I think it was called) for pasting annoying IM messages on people's screens... E-mail and readnews came later, but the more I used it, the better I got. The tools improved with time as well. This was the first time I saw "smileys." I remember reading along with my roommate some news he was reading (using "readnews"), and I kept seeing a colon-dash-right-parenthesis. I finally asked him, "What's that?" He told me, "Turn your head sideways, and look. It's a smiley." :-) "Oh!..." The domain ".edu" was as ubiquitous as ".com" was from the mid-1990s onward. In fact, when I was first on the internet, I think the ".com" domain was unheard of. The ".edu" domain, used by universities, was the default for any student looking up stuff on the internet (from ftp and gopher sites). The only other domain I remember hearing about was ".mil," which was for the military. BTW, "gopher" was a protocol I used a bit toward the end of my school days. It was an attempt to make the internet more accessible, similar to the goals for HTML, which would become popular a bit later. It worked through a menu system, which was apparently part of the protocol. It didn't get far, because the creators kept the protocol proprietary, and demanded royalties for using it. HTML and the web took off like a rocket, because Berners-Lee released the protocol into the public domain. One cool aspect of the toolset we had is we had less of a sense of propriety. If you could find someone to chat with on the net, you'd just give them a ring, even if you didn't know them. I remember once a guy from Ireland took up a chat with me. I don't even remember how he found me. He personally knew the lead singer of U2, and his sister had dated him. Cool. That's all I remember about that conversation, except him joking with me about American cultural misunderstanding of Brits, like how only they (and most of their former colonies) drive on the left side of the road, and that they don't consider themselves a part of Europe! You could get really nice, high-quality GIF images from ftp sites, if you knew where to look for them. It was also possible to get them uuencoded through newsgroups. I'd heard of people getting "dirty" pics on the internet, but usually it would be pictures of ocean sunsets, mountain scenes, or swimsuit models from Sports Illustrated. Pretty tame stuff, that I remember. It was an involved process to uudecode images. You really had to know what you were doing. Readnews had no concept of decoding them. You just had to save them to files, and delete the message headers. I don't remember, but I might have gotten to the point of downloading large enough images, where I needed to merge uuencoded sections, so the decoder could go through it in one go. The whole process was done through command line tools. After that, it was up to you to find a way to view them. In my last 2-3 years of school, our CS lab got X11 terminals, so it was possible to display them that way. If you had a powerful enough computer at home, you could look at them on there as well. Desktop wallpaper made for a nice user experience in the lab. Even with the text internet not being as nice to use, I eventually found it indispensable. Over the summers, when I was back home, I wanted a Unix/internet account BADLY! I and a friend found a free Unix system at the University of Denver that I could call up remotely. It was run on a PDP-10 by some volunteer sysadmins. I was so thankful to them that after using it for several years, I sent them a $1,000 donation. For a time I was accessing the internet through the 8-bit computer I had, an Atari 130XE. I got curious about writing code in C for it, because I had heard about a couple C compilers that worked with it. I had already found the Atari Archive at the University of Michigan, and I had gotten in contact with the creator of CC65, an 8-bit cross-compiler, via. e-mail. While I was researching it, I decided to look through the source code of its libraries and document it, because there was no documentation available for them. (When I got that done, I uploaded my docs. to the Atari Archive. They're still there today.) I used my working relationship with the creator of CC65 as a reference for my first job out of college. When the internet was first commercialized, I didn't get the memo..., and I didn't like it. I got my first piece of spam e-mail in 1993, and I was offended! I knew the rules (or so I thought) that no commercial activity was allowed on the internet. I remember writing an angry message back to whoever sent it. No response. It was a bit-bucket, for all I knew. More spam followed, though not that often. Most of what I got was very offensive, sometimes advertising child porn. No pictures, as this was still the "text internet." I turned it in to the local police. Shortly after I got my first real job out of school, in 1995, a coworker of mine introduced me to the web, using Netscape Navigator. I tried it out for a bit. I liked being able to just click on links and get around, but at first I was repulsed by the ads. The idea was so ingrained in me that commercial activity on the net was BAD. I got over it after a while. I finally signed up for my own ISP account in 1996, using a second-hand 386 PC with 4 MB of memory (which I upgraded to 8 MB) that my employer wanted to get rid of, running Navigator and Trumpet on Windows 3.1 with a 14.4Kbps modem. Man, was that slow (the computer, not the modem)! Dying to improve the experience, I finally purchased my first new, 166 Mhz (I think) Pentium Windows PC in '97, with a 56Kbps modem. Much nicer...for dial-up. :) The annoying thing about dial-up was sometimes the connection would just go dead, or sometimes the other end would just hang up. And, of course, I couldn't get any phone calls. They'd go direct to voicemail. Those were things we just had to put up with. We had online video and audio then, but it was lower quality, for obvious reasons. To play this content you usually needed RealPlayer. I got my first experience listening to live online radio broadcasts using RealPlayer. It worked even over a dial-up modem. Another cool app. at the time for listening to online radio was Spinner. It was like Pandora. You'd pick a channel for a certain kind of music ('70s, '80s, alternative, rock, new age, ambient, etc.) and it would play music, with ads, just like a music station on the radio. Spinner eventually got bought by Yahoo, and got turned into something else. Downloading megabytes of material was doable, but you had to be patient. The rate was about 410 Kbytes per minute. So a 10 MB file would take about 25 minutes. You could do other browsing in the meantime, while you waited, but the throughput dropped dramatically, and your activity would just make the download take a bit longer. It was better to read e-mail, or readnews while that was going on.