★What was it like to be a programmer without the Internet?When there were no online documentation, no Google, no StackOverflow...
I started programming around 1975. I'm pretty sure that by "the Internet" you really mean "the Web," because networks and mailing lists existed back than. I didn't get into USENET until the middle 1980s. There were also bulletin board systems and mailing lists. They provided much the same functionality as things like StackOverflow today. However, we didn't use them to the same extent or in the same way that people do now. First, we had books. There were reference manuals, of course, for every system, and they were sometimes expensive. Two friends and I chipped in on the looseleaf edition of Inside Macintosh. There were also third-party books. There were very few, compared to today, but they were much better. One of my favorites was for the TRS-80, which was my first store-bought computer. It was just a list of comments. You could get a cassette disassembler, disassemble the code, and print it out (printers were rare, so you had to find somebody with one). Then you could cut up the sheets and glue them into the book with the comments and have commented assembly for the ROM. Of course, there's so much stuff today that you couldn't have something exactly like that. The point, though, is that it was innovative. It solved a problem in a particularly effective way. One doesn't see that today, although in the early days, the O'Reilly and For Dummies books came close. Even they have become mediocre, as all the other books on the shelf at Barnes and Noble with 600 pages, of which maybe 30 contain something you need to know. We also had magazines. Not simply the big ones, like Radio Electronics, Popular Electronics, Byte, and Dr. Dobbs, but also hundreds of little magazines distributed as text on a BBS or a mailing list, or even photocopied and mailed. These were unusual in that they could be approached by people at any skill level. We all read them religiously and discussed them. They told us where to get the big books we could use. There was also a different culture. The signal-to-noise ratio was very high. There was an ethic involved. People, with very few exceptions, respected each others' work and did not steal, so there was little incentive to keep a technique or a piece of software tight. When the Free Software and later the Open Source movements came along, it wasn't really anything new. It was how people had always done things, a preservation of the ethics of the old days when they were being eroded. There was a culture of being free with one's knowledge. How things have changed! It was a great shock to me, expecting after some commercial time going back into the Arduino "maker" culture, where I had hoped to find some of those values. But no. Even the old farts there are tight-fisted, rude, and dismissive.