★What is the best way to learn internet marketing?
A few things come to mind: 1. Find someone who is DOING it and MAKING MONEY.  You don't want theories.  You want to find someone in the real world making it happen.  This will probably lead to... 2. Networking.  Never network for the sake of networking, it will eat up your time like nothing else.  Network strategically.  Ask yourself: Do online marketers have a meetup group I can visit?  Is there a local group that has online marketers?  3. Learn.  You've been doing this, however I have to say that it's easy to get sucked up in "learning a lot of things" that are not relevant to the business you want to build.  Find some respected online marketers and follow them. Join their subscriber list on their website and also connect via social media. Absorb what they are saying and how they are saying it.  4.  The Big 5. My business partner opened my eyes to this.  There are ONLY 5 main reasons people buy: Love, money, time, career, health.  If you spend this week observing, you'll see this is true.  People spend money to stay healthy, to make more money, to get training to advance their career, etc.  People will do whatever it takes to spend more time with their family, kids, etc.  Whatever you sell online HAS to be connected to one of the big 5.  People don't wake up in the middle of the night saying things like, "I've got to get a life coach!" or "I've got to hire a professional organizer!" (No disrespect to those jobs. They're both great.)  People DO wake up in the middle of the night saying, "I've got to lose weight!" or "I have got to start making more money!"  Connect your business to one of those in some way.  5.  Both/and. Since you want to look for someone with academic learning, go for it. That's fine. However, I would add to that - find someone who is doing it now in the real world and making money.  I have 2 degrees so I'm not against academia, but my eyes have been opened in recent years to befriending those out in the world making it happen. (Some professors are making it happen as well). Learn from both sides of the fence. Finally, keep us updated on your progress.  :)