★What was it like to be a programmer without the Internet?When there were no online documentation, no Google, no StackOverflow...
Thanks for the a2a.  There's very little I can add that hasn't already been said better by others, but I'll contribute a couple of nuggets that I don't see in other answers. 1.  Microsoft Quick C for Windows.  Does anyone else remember this?  There was a page an a half in their manual that described what pointers were, and I stared and stared at those pages until (I supposed) it finally made sense. Being without the internet meant that I didn't know what other programming books were available, or which of them were any good.  I don't think I even knew what a compiler was, or if another C book would "work" on Quick C.  To give you an example, I later bought a remaindered copy of the Waite Group's guide to C (the one with the knight in armor on the cover).  Then I had to figure out what library calls were, what include files were.... progress wasn't swift.  (I was doing this as a hobby, and I didn't know any other programmers.) 2.  There was an internet, of course, and I got to it via compuserve for a while.  I understood that there were things called ftp sites that seemed to have an unending number of treasures hidden on them, but I didn't seem to have any way to get that them.  Then I found out that I could use email!  If I sent a command to something called decwrld (Digital Equipment Corp., I think), then the next day I would get an email back with the results. Now think about this, boys and girls.  I'd send an email with the "ls" command.  The next day I'd get back the listing, and I'd send another email with a "cd" command followed by an "ls" command.  The next day I'd get that listing back, and so over the course of a week or two managed to actually find a few things to download. 3.  When I got to university, we had BITNET connections on a VMS machine on some lovely green and black terminals.  No USENET, but there were listservers, and I would print out the day's traffic on green bar paper and take it to the bar next door to read.  My undergrad adviser had no idea how to get me an account, so he gave me his. Now get off my lawn....