★Can I use the internet to save my mom, who suffers from Stage IV cancer?
I am very sorry to hear about your mother. My brother and I went through this in 2010 when my mother was diagnosed with stage 4 mantle cell lymphoma, a kind of non hodgkins lymphoma. She ultimately succumbed after 6 months of excruciating pain. We got her the best possible treatment in India (Bangalore) and one or both of us stayed at her bedside all along. We got second / third opinions from family and friends who are in Oncology field in the US and read up everything about the cancer and its treatments. It was frustrating to know that there was nothing else to pursue and she wasn't fully treated and was in pain. I must caution you that the internet will give you that extra stimulus to pursue with hope but do not get carried away. Spending time with your mother and acknowledgement of her true state is the most important thing. If you can do the search while you stay with her and in touch with reality, that is OK.  Assess her situation from what the doctor is saying and also what is in between the lines. Advanced stage Cancer is so hard to treat and support even by medical professionals that they are also learning how/what to say especially in stage 4 cases. I made the mistake of taking the doctor's assurances for granted, which will haunt me for the rest of my life. The doctor's assessment was that she was responding to chemo/radiation and had 60% chance of survival.  We were really positive about pursuing opportunities to bring her to the US for advanced treatment at MD Anderson based on what we read on the internet and hoped that she can be saved.  Within 4 weeks, she relapsed  and she went from 60% chance to just surviving without pain, not necessarily to live. I will never forgive myself for being optimistic and thinking that we could save her somehow. Maybe it would have been better to just say it out loud to her that this is it,she wont make it and that all of us are aware that death is looming and say a proper goodbye. She was a very strong woman and would have been ok with it. In any case, by then the pain was so bad that she preferred death. That lack of acknowledgement leaves a vacuum that cannot be filled.