★What are the most productive ways to spend time on the Internet?Please go through at least the top 20-40 answers (if not all) before answering the question. There have been numerous repeated answers which do not add to the quality of the information. Also, please don't answer Quora.com
Digital Photography School — Read  through this goldmine of articles to improve your photography skills;  they're helpful even if you're a complete beginner. There's also an  active forum where you can find a community of other photographers to  connect with. Duolingo — Sharpen  your language skills with this fun, addictive game. It's a  college-quality education without the pricetag. If you're looking for  more free language-learning materials, you can also try BBC Languages. Factsie — Did  you know the horned lizard can shoot blood out of its tear ducts? Keep  clicking through this site to find unusual historical and scientific  facts, along with links to sources. Another great site for fun facts is Today I Found Out. Fast Company's 30-Second MBA — In  short video clips from from accomplished corporate executives, you'll  learn great business advice and life lessons, really fast. Freerice — Expand  your vocabulary while feeding the hungry. It's the best way to feel  good about yourself and learn words you can use for the rest of your  life. Gibbon — This  is the ultimate playlist for learning. Users collect articles and  videos to help you learn things from iOS programming to effective  storytelling. Instructables — Through  fun videos and simple instructions, you can learn how to make anything  from a tennis ball launcher to a backyard fort. You can also submit your  own creations and share what you make with the rest of the world. Still  wanting to learn more? You can visit eHow and gain a wide range of skills, such as how to cook, decorate, fix, plan, garden, or even make a budget. Investopedia — Learn everything you need to know about the world of investing, markets, and personal finance. Khan Academy — Not  only will you learn a wide variety of subjects through immensely  helpful videos, but you'll get a chance to practice them and keep track  of your learning statistics, too. It's a great way to further your  understanding of subjects you've already taken or to learn something  new. Other great learning sites include Udacity, Coursera, AcademicEarth, Memrise, Chesscademy, and edX. Lifehacker — On this highly useful site, you'll find an assortment of tips, tricks, and downloads for getting things done. Lumosity — Train  your brain with these fun, scientifically-designed games. You can build  your own Personalized Training Program to improve your memory and  attention and track your progress. Powersearching with Google — Learn how to find anything you ever wanted by mastering your Google search skills. Also, read this article on 100 Google tricks that will save you time in school. Quora — Get  your questions answered by other smart people, or read through the  questions other people have asked. You can learn anything from  productivity hacks to the best foods of all time. Recipe Puppy — Enter  in all the ingredients you can find in your kitchen, and this wonderful  search engine will give you a list of all the recipes you can make with  what you have. It's a great way to learn how to cook without the hassle  of buying everything beforehand. For a more extensive list of recipes,  try AllRecipes. Spreeder — This  free, online speed-reading software will improve your reading speed and  comprehension. Just paste the text you'd like to read, and it'll take  care of the rest. StackOverflow — It's a question and answer site for programmers — basically a coder's best friend. Other great sources to learn code are Learn X in Y Minutes, Codecademy, and W3Schools. TED-Ed — This  is a new initiative launched by TED with the idea of "lessons worth  sharing." It is meant to spark the curiosity of learners around the  world by creating a library of award-winning, animated lessons created  by expert educators, screenwriters, and animators. You can create your  own customized lesson to distribute around the world by adding questions, discussion topics, and other supplementary materials to any educational video on YouTube. Unplug The TV — A  fun website that suggests informative videos for you to watch instead  of TV. Topics range from space mining to "How Containerization Shaped  the Modern World." VSauce — This  Youtube Channel provides mind-blowing facts and the best of the  internet, which will make you realize how amazing our world is. What  would happen if the world stopped spinning? Why do we get bored? How  many things are there? Watch the vidoes