★How do I become a hustler?
If you really want to be street smart, white collar shrewd and know how to make money off others while disregarding ethics or even law... Read and apply Robert Greene's 48 Laws of Power (like it's the bible) Porter's Five: Doesn't matter if your product is legit or illegal. Know how much you can get away with your suppliers. Know how much weight you can apply on your distributors beneath you. Know who are your competitors are. Is there a new product substitute around? Your distribution channel -- know your reach and how frequent? Have a plan to grow it. Middle anything -- take a cut on everything. Take something whole -- and cut it smaller and sell for more. Or take stuff and bundle it to sell for more. Make your guys kick up to you... paying tribute, respected is either earned or taken. Kick back the guys that make things happen for you... everybody should be in your pocket. Understand the other guy's interests, constraints and options -- everything is always negotiable. Know when the other guy thinks he'll make more money screwing you over today than working with you long term -- chances are he will screw you over. See how a business makes money...  break down its step-by-step process and exploit its weakness (loopholes). Take bigger risks for bigger returns - go big or go home. "Don't let yourself get attached to anything you are not willing to walk out on in 30 seconds flat if you feel the heat around the corner." - Neil McCauley. Always have a exit strategy, escape plan or a get out of jail free card. Know when to layer yourself with a lawyer/accountant and when to shut up. Make other people money and do favors -- and know when to call and collect on those favors. Learn how to use guilt and obligation to influence behavior. Learn how to intimidate someone. Financially or physically. Whoever has might IS right. Appeal to people's greed... not sympathy. Understand people desires -- people want what they can't have. So they'll pay the premium. Time is fuckin' money...  if you're not making money - you're wasting time. Bonus -- your calendar should look like Rick Ross's: