★What are the real-life equivalents of "Trolling on the Internet" ?
WHEN IN THE OFFICE IN A LIFT: Next time you’re on in a lift and feel a little bored, liven up the  moment with some of these insightful ideas. Guaranteed to make heads  turn or your money back. 1.When there’s only one other person in the lift, tap them on the shoulder and then pretend it wasn’t you. 2.Push the buttons and pretend they give you a shock. Smile, and go back for more. 3.Call the Psychic Hotline from your mobile phone and ask if they know what floor you’re on. 4.Swat at flies that don’t exist. 5.Grimace painfully while smacking your forehead and muttering, “Shut up, all of you, just shut up!” 6.Crack open your briefcase or purse, and while peering inside, ask, “Got enough air in there?” 7.Lay down a Twister mat and ask people if they’d like to play. 8.Leave a box in the corner, and when someone gets on, ask them if they hear something ticking. 9.Ask if you can push the button for other people, but push the wrong ones. 10.Pretend you are a flight attendant and review emergency procedures and exits with the passengers. 11.Stand silently and motionless in the corner, facing the wall, without getting off. 12.Stare, grinning at another passenger for a while, and then announce, “I have new socks on.” 13.Draw a little square on the floor with chalk and announce to the other passengers, “This is my personal space!” 14.Fart loudly then exclaim “Was that you. There’s no way I could do that one because unfortately mine don’t come out loud.” 15.Before the elevator door opens shout “DING” and then laugh and say “beat you again Mr Elevator.” 16.Stand really close to someone, sniffing them occasionally. 17.Hire a labrador, wear sunglasses and repeatedly walk into the walls  whilst pretending to not hear the other passenger’s direction. 18.Drop a pen and wait until someone reaches to help pick it up, then scream, “that’s mine!” 19.Hold the doors open and say you’re waiting for your friend. After a  while, let the doors close and say, “Hi Greg. How’s your day been?” 20.Stare at another passenger for a while, then announce in horror, “You’re one of THEM!” and back away slowly.  IN GENERAL: 1) At lunch time, sit in your parked car and point a hair dryer at passing cars to see if they slow down. 2) Page yourself over the intercom. (Don't disguise your voice.) 3) Insist that your e mail address is:Xena-goddess-of-fire@companyname... or elvis-the-King@companyname.com. 4) Every time someone asks you to do something, ask if they want fries with that. 5) Encourage your colleagues to join you in a little synchronized chair dancing. 6) Put your garbage can on your desk and label it "IN." 7) Develop an unnatural fear of staplers. 8) Put decaf in the coffee maker for 3 weeks. Once everyone has got over their caffeine addictions, switch to espresso. 9) Reply to everything someone says with,"That's what you think." 10) Adjust the tint on your monitor so that the brightness level lights  up the entire work area. Insist to others that you like it that way. 11) Don't use any punctuation 12) As often as possible, skip rather than walk. 13) Specify that your drive-through order is "to go." 14) Sing Along at the opera. 15) Go to a poetry recital and ask why the poems don't rhyme 16) Find out where your boss shops and buy exactly the same outfits.   Wear them one day after your boss does. (This is especially effective if  your boss is the opposite gender.) 17) Send e-mail to the rest of the company to tell them what you're  doing. For example: If anyone needs me, I'll be in the bathroom. 18) Put mosquito netting around your cubicle. 19) Five days in advance, tell your friends you can't attend their party because you're not in the mood. 20) Call 999 and ask if 999 is for emergencies 21) Call the psychic hotline and just say, "Guess" 22) Have your co-workers address you by your wrestling name, Rock Hard. 23) When the money comes out of the Cash Machine, scream "I Won!", "I Won!" "3rd time this week!!!" 24) When leaving the Zoo, start running towards the parking lot, yelling "Run for your lives, they're loose!" 25) Tell your boss, "It's not the voices in my head that bother me, its the voices in your head that do" 26) Tell your children over dinner. "Due to the economy, we are going to have to let one of you go.