★How did people waste their time in the pre-Internet era?
Some things I remember doing at work in the early 90s: Someone in the office would buy a decent newspaper, make about ten photocopies of the cryptic crossword and hand them out. At lunchtime large groups of people would sit together and talk, play cards, try to finish off the last couple of crossword clues which no one could get. Communal, scheduled coffee breaks (tea breaks in the UK) were a major part of the work routine.  This has almost completely disappeared now. People read newspapers from front to back, or back to front if preferred, and swapped their papers with others. The equivalent of today's Photoshopping involved cutting and pasting collages and photocopying them.  Comic strips would have the speech bubbles blanked out with liquid paper, then photocopied and new words written in (or manually typed sometimes).  Just as now, these lash-ups would be topical jokes, or in-jokes within the workplace.  Many of the comedy email circulars which still do the rounds to this day originated in that era. There were a lot of practical jokes, often very dangerous, like loosening all the bolts and screws on someone's chair while they were out at lunch, for example. People played games like Squash quite a lot - quick, active, sweaty, shower, back to work. Lunchtime drinking was far more commonplace than it is now (it's almost completely died away in the UK).  On Fridays it was almost obligatory for everyone to pile down to the pub for a long lunch. The last thing on that list is something I really miss - not so much the boozing, but the banter, the laughs, the relaxed nature everyone seemed to have.  It still seems really strange to me when people do things like arranging a meeting at 4pm on a Friday.  This was always POETS day - piss off early, tomorrow's Saturday.  I often look around me at 5.30pm these days and no one is even thinking of heading home.  How much things have changed in less than two decades. I think a lot of that must be down to the Web, to the fact that people no longer rely on others around them, in 'RL', to give them their social fix and to entertain them and pass the time.  The Web has given us many, many things, but it has taken away that social interaction.  Cigarette breaks are the last remaining trace of those times, of socialising at work, and smoking is fast disappearing too.