★How do I become a hustler?
Years ago there was a public service announcement promoting fitness airing frequently on military TV stations overseas. In it, a pair of young men are at an outdoor track watching a third man run laps. They marvel at his speed and endurance. “How does he do it?” one of the men asks. Still watching the runner, the other man replies, “I don’t know, but he does it every day.” Obviously the man is able to run with such speed and endurance because he does it every day, and the point is to encourage people to develop a routine that promotes better personal fitness. Running can be difficult at first, but it gets easier the more you do it. If the two men were willing to pay the price, before long they could be running with the same speed and endurance as the man they envy. And that’s the big secret of all the Hustlers you’ve ever known. That’s the difference between them and other people. They pay the price. When you were young, you may have been told, “you can do anything.” However, when we say this to kids we usually don’t add the implied caveat, which turns out to be the most important part. What we should tell our kids is this: “You can do anything — if you’re willing to pay the price.” Everything has its price, even if that’s not so easy to see these days. Our media feeds us a delicious buffet of lavish living, huge homes, fancy cars and the beautiful people who seem to do very little to earn any of it. But even if we don’t see it on TV, these people are living lives financed by hard work and sound investment. Someone is paying the price or has paid the price; we’re just not seeing that part on TV because it’s not as sexy as whatever else they’re doing. So what we see is people seeming to live a fabulous life — a life we’d like to live — and putting forth little or no effort to earn it. Unfortunately, that’s not reality. Some people try to replicate the lifestyles we see on TV, buying cars and homes well out of their price range, and end up in serious financial trouble. One way or another, you’ve got to pay the price. The price of success usually includes a lot of hard work, and most people accept that. However, the price also often includes failure — or even a series of failures. This is too much for some people. The Hustler sees everything as an opportunity (even failure), so there’s no reason to fear failure, and no shame in failing. Hustlers know the only people who never fail are the people who never try anything (and it could be argued that they fail at trying). They understand there’s a valuable lesson in every mistake. To Hustlers, there is no such thing as “just a job.” Since everything is an opportunity, anything worth doing is worth pouring every bit of the Hustler’s self into. The Hustler’s name and personal brand eventually become valuable, and he protects them. He knows every piece of work he does is signed with his name. His personal brand is on the line, even (maybe especially) on the small and insignificant tasks. Therefore, the better a Hustler gets, the better still the Hustler strives to be.