★What's it like to work for Rocket Internet?I've noticed they've been hiring alot recently, especially within the U.S. I was wondering if anyone has had experience working there. What is their reputation within the industry?
Rocket has an extremely fast-paced and open working atmosphere, therefore everything you might gain or everything you suffer from your job mostly depends what you make out of it. I doubt there are lots of other jobs in the world that gives you that high level of responsibility, salary and international perspective than working in an entrepreneurial position at Rocket Internet. Since my experience is based on such a geneal position I can't answer for people that are employed as marketing managers or software developers with a focus on a certain expertise and don't change locations that often. Rocket mostly hires recent graduates (with some internship or 1-3 working experience from banks & consultancies) to become an EIR/GVD and help out in the projects that were recently started. Most of the time you get 1-5 options on possible ventures you can work at depending on your background and interests. You will be hired direclty by the MDs which request a certain number of people that can start quickly and help with the first steps of the venture. Since the ventures are growing extremely fast they urgently need people to build up things quickly and since you went through an assessment centre before they just put a lot of trust in you that you can actually do it for them. Once you've decided you get your ticket and fly there quickly. The concept is very similar to a consulting job because you are joining one project for 3-6 months and than go to the next one. But the work is extremely different. There is no big planning but rather doing - and because you have limited experience you will have to learn a lot really quickly by doing it yourself. There is no big safety net and no boss that tells you what to do. You get a goal ("build up this department", "define this process", "hire a team of 10 people and organize them", "solve this problem",..) which will certainly exceed your knowledge and everything you have done before. As I already mentioned, they will give you a lot of trust and more responsibility you thought you can fulfill.But it the end, although you will do a lot of stupid mistakes and start over again and again, you most certainly will do the job. It is just how it works and it works surprisingly well. Most tasks in building up a company can be done with rationality and hard work. Despite this very fast and dirty approach the level of proficiency is extremely high. You just have a bunch of very smart people around you that learn extremely fast and share a lot of knowledge. There certainly is a reason why Rocket is successful. Since it does hundreds of ventures at the same time in the most developed and also ridiculous countries in the world the knowledge within the company grows daily. For the very short time operational and cultural knowledge is impressive and everybody gains from it a lot. During your work you will get insights in a very professional way how to found companies fast and efficient and the resources are almost unlimited. These resources of course also have an influence on the entrepreneurial spirit within Rocket. Although everybody is working extremely hard and feels really committed to her/his project, it is not truly grassroots entrepreneuralism. If you join a new project, name, platform, funding, business model, basically the whole creative work, is already done. Focus is on executing. The challenges are still huge to build a company but is more about the operational excellence than feeling like a real entrepreneur with your own big vision. There is always someone that is your boss, even if you are very top level. You have to report and show KPIs that are hopefully growing. It is an extremely competitive job where people define themselves with having good results and performance. Rocket expects you to work really and smart on what you are doing, but at the same time failure is accepted. Everybody knows that most of the challenges you face in the foreign markets are more or less unsolvable, it is more how you deal with it. Because this makes the real competitve advantage of Rocket: To have experience in every important or growing market in the world. Although it is competitive, everybody is extremely nice. I have never worked in a company where everybody was so friendly, helpful and motivated as the Rocket employees. We know we build something extremely big and although conceptual creativity is certainly not the biggest strenght of Rocket, we just have the feeling that the approach of entering new markets with our broad international and operational knowledge will create something sustainable. However, of course not everything is perfect. There is lots of chaos, uncertainty and changes. You do not have a super safe job and people will put a lot of pressure on good performance. You even might get fired as a MD if you do not work as they want you to. How you take this totally depends on your personality. I personally do not care at all because I take my time in Rocket as limited anyways. You will stay for a certain time and then see what happens. And most of the people working for Rocket will get another job after because they've learned a lot. This is definitely a job for yound risk takers that want to learn quickly and have lots of fun doing all nighters in the most remote places on earth ;-). If you want to learn as much as you can about founding a big company, I can advice everybody to got to Rocket. You won't get a lot of inspiration. But you will definitely get an insight on how to do online marketing, operations, IT, product and etc. on a very high level. For me it is the perfect traineeship.