★How did people waste their time in the pre-Internet era?
Historians and anthropologists have studied this issue greatly, and there are different theories about what people did in pre-internet times. What Free Time? Some theories suggest that people didn't have much free time then, since everything took longer to accomplish. For example, to buy something, you had to actually go to a store (Or use a mail-order catalog, but who would do that). To communicate with someone, you had to actually send them a physical letter. (Or pick up a land-line phone and call then, but then you would be stuck in a conversation.) To lookup information, you would have to go to a place called a library, which contained "books". Clearly people didn't have time to "Library" any question they had. TV Other theories claim people spent much more time watching this thing called television. Before the internet, movies and shows were transmitted through the air as radio waves. That means you had to watch a show at the same time as everyone else. If you wanted to take a break, you missed part of the show. Despite these inconveniences, people spent a lot of time watching television, since they didn't have things like Facebook then. Paper Imitations Other theories emphasize the existence of paper versions of what people now get through the internet, and people wasted time with them. As mentioned above, pre-internet tribes were able to do many of the things people do now, it just took longer and was more physical. So people got their news from this large fold-out paper called a newspaper. People would pay to get a whole package of news sent from one publisher, and they would then unfold it and read it. Reading a whole article often involved turning many pages to get from one part to another part. (Anthropologists assume this was done to increase ad revenue, similar to the modern internet practice of splitting up web pages.) There were various other paper content forms that people spent time on, and many even had time to read through the above-mentioned "books" in their entirety. Although these are some of the theories, the questions does not have a fully satisfactory answer, and more research is needed.