★What was it like to be on the Internet during the 1980s?A follow-up question to What was it like to be on the Internet during the 1990s?
David S. Rose's answer took me down memory lane and deposited me on the campus of the University of Illinois, Champaign-Urbana in the early 1970's--so my answer here, strictly speaking, falls out of the "during the 1980's" timeframe. No matter. I will soldier on inspired in particular by Rose's reference to being online "through school terminals since about 1973." In was in precisely that time frame and through that same modality (i.e, the school terminal) that I experiences the nascent Internet, learning at the feet of PLATO. Not this Plato: But rather this one: The acronym PLATO stood for Programmed Logic for Automated Teaching Operations. Pretty snappy, huh? And like all great inventions its ultimate purpose and value was barely glimpsed at its inception. Conceived of an an aid to instruction, the untutored students quickly hijacked the system for its own mostly benign purposes. I was among those numbers. I recall many hours spent in the modernistic Psychology Building, even though I was actually a religious studies major and took no psychology courses. Nonetheless, I decamped in the computer lab as if I had every right to be there. I regularly commandeered a work station, typically in the back of the room, that looked very much like the one pictured above. In truth, I typically accessed the system in the fringe hours when the lab was scarcely populated. But I must say, even then most of those present in the room were not typically engaged in "automated teaching operations." We were typically playing games, posting on message boards and otherwise reveling in this newly discovered platform for networked hijinx. Here I sit, about 40 years later and I still marvel at how several of the objects of my PLATO-provoked desire would play out on the larger worldwide web and find such an interesting diversity of technological expression. Gaming, instant-messaging, role-playing, the projection of an online persona, gaining unauthorized access to the network (guilty!) were all aspects of this system in the 1970s. Heck, the thing even had emoticons. And that's really it in a nutshell: PLATO, by assembling a range of networked communications capabilities really spawned an online community. Sound familiar? If you want to learn more about PLATO, Wikipedia has a pretty serviceable treatment of it: PLATO (computer system). Much easier reading than, say, The Republic.