★Who are the best internet marketers?
Let's have a list of Internet Marketer Guru's/authors you've followed in your personal pursuit of happiness/life? Overall Marketing Jay Abraham - I follow Jay religiously. Most of his advice has Huge foundation in basics. In fact most of times, you'll find him discussing the basics of marketing. Only words change, message remains the same. Dan kennedy - Same as above. Can be boring at times as a speaker. But if you know he gets paid top dollar as speaker then you think you can too. Business Builder Rich Schefren - I am adding Rich to business builder list because his course is more complete in terms of optimizing your business. Whereas Jay n Dan kennedy were more of a collection of lots of ideas. You implement few ideas and then to highly optimize, you hire them. That's the reason many consultants had problem implementing Jay's methods as a system. Traffic Building Brad fallon (stompernet, I am following his courses/advice since 2004) John Reese. I bought his first traffic secrets off Ebay and I was amazed at the information he shared. No wonder he's the biggest Traffic legend on internet. Moreover check out his blog at Make Money With Your Small Business | income.com his writing will inspire you. Copywriting Gary Halbert+ John Carlton. Deadly Team combo. 2 of the greatest minds on copywriting/marketing. You should check out gary halberts old newsletters. Again I might sound like a moron by repeating same things... But Fundamentals/basics are the key here. His newsletter gives off better advice than most Top dollar courses (or gurus) out there. Influence/persuasion Kenrick Cleveland - If you are involved with hypnosis/nlp, then you should listen to this guy. Both hypnosis/nlp are taught very clinically. I've only seen Bandler who is fun to watch and then kenrick using NLP/hypnosis to influence and persuade. NLP/Hypnosis/Influence/persuasion Richard Bandler : Father of NLP. You should listen to this guy and read few of his books. "Using your brain for a change" and "Time for a change" are good start. E-commerce websites/Internet Marketing Discover Which Marketing Programs Really Work : Blacklight suggested Discover Which Marketing Programs Really Work and yup it's great resource on learning/optimizing your internet marketing efforts. Most of their info is FREE. I forgot to include them. Marketing Research: Articles, Reports and Case Studies Even if you don't buy their products, you should subscribe to their newsletter. Their 1 month of free newsletter will give you more solid(and workable) advice than most of the $1000 product out there. While subscribing chose these options. Best-of Weekly - Summaries of Everything Email marketing Great Minds: interviews SherpaStore Alerts Search Marketing Business-to-business marketing Marketing to consumers online ContentBiz: online pub. industry Opt for a daily newsletter and make new folder on your outlook (or email client). Raintoday.com : very much like marketing sherpa. Take a look through them Other Names That I sometimes follow Eben pagan (check out his marketing) Joe polish (marketing) Dynamic speaker/presenter. Clayton makepeace (copywriter) - Ok guys subscribe this guy's newsletter. If you just keep your eyes, ears open, you'll see one of the most persuasive techniques being used on you. Ewen Chia (affiliate marketing) - Don't follow what he says, follow what he does. He's selling same old information to same old crowd very successfully. His product packaging is 2nd to none. Jeff Walker, Frank kern  (Product launch) - Good stuff to share, Frank kern is funny guy, damn good marketer. Perry marshall (PPC and Gueirilla marketing) Chris (Mr X of Adwords black book fame for PPC) - Though Perry is great teacher, I tend to favor Chris on PPC. Darren Rowse/Steve Pavlina (both on blogging) - Again, you'll learn more by watching what they are doing on their blogs. Though Steve is in self development market, but you should study him. Lt. Corey Ruld (Make Money Online, Earn Money Online) I bought his course when I was starting internet marketing. I believe he was one of the most enthusiastic guy I ever listened to. (that guys used to speak like 400 words per minute lol). After his death Derek Gehl is taking Marketing tips the way Corey would have wanted. Derek is also pretty charismatic guy. (Oh btw I noticed we don't have any of Make Money Online, Earn Money Online product here) Kevin Hogan (Influence/persuasion) You should subscribe to his "coffee with Kevin" newsletter. He shares most of his persuasion principles by using them. Sean D Souza (Brain Audit/Psychotactics fame, Influence) : He's another guy who teaches things by showing them to you. Avoidable people in the market Pretty much the whole crowd way too long list in here... But here are big names Mike Filsaime & company (all his followers with butterfly marketing script )