★What free stuff on the internet should everyone be taking advantage of?
Some I don't see here... Ninite:  Provides easy, common sense way of downloading and installing a large number of very useful and popular programs.  Avoids all the add on garbage and you can use the install file as an updater (especially for Adobe and Java). I run the file in scheduled tasks to automatically update these programs in bulk.  You can find internet browsers, media players, antiviruses, CD burning, and more. Crackle:  A decent (and legal) library of movies and TV shows.  All free.  Ad driven. IP Chicken: Does nothing more than tell you what IP address the rest of the world sees you at. Old Versions : If you have an older computer, or find the newest versions of some of your favorite programs are buggy or just too new, this is where you can get an older version of those programs, such as IE, Firefox, and about a hundred or more others. Pogo: Great place for wasting time.  Lots of games, both solo and multiplayer.  There is a premium service, but the free stuff is just as good.  You earn credits for playing that you can use to buy avatar stuff, or use in auctions.  Ad driven. Sourceforge: Biggest repository of open source software.  Heaven for technogeeks, but also has some great stuff for the novice.  Saw this in another answer after this was written, but definitely worth a look.  Many open source home sites link to Sourceforge, but you need to be aware that much of the software is source code or compiled for specific operating systems.  It just takes a little patience, but you can usually find a high quality open source version of any program you need, for whatever OS you have. Duckduckgo.com: Google collects info on you every time you connect with them.  Duck Duck Go is a rising star with the privacy crowd.  It might possibly become the next "big" thing. Puppy Linux: If you have a really old computer that you don't want to throw away, but you want to use some of the more current software on, this flavor of Linux is a stripped down version of Ubuntu, with all the basics in office and internet software.  Burn it on a disk and run the computer from that.  Live linux disks are a great option if you have someone who likes getting viruses or changing your settings. Amazon:  Yes, the biggest online retailer has a lot of free stuff.  If you have a Kindle or Android device, Amazon has a free app download daily, plus a lot of free apps overall.  If you are looking for a classic book to read or something not well known, they have a lot of free books online (as well as a digital lending library).