★What is the Internet of Things?
Internet of Things is an environment of smart small hosting devices (because they get attached with any device and make them smart device) which are Always, Anywhere and Anytime (3As of IoT) connected with each other and sending some data or information which can further be processed over cloud to generate meaningful analytic result that can help a lot or to trigger an automatic action according to the analysis. These small devices are called the "THING" of Internet of Things and this environment comprises of 3 ingredients called Device, Network and Application also known as DNA of Internet of Thing. as an example of such device you can visit Open source IoT toolkit or Iota: Never lose sight of what's important. to become a "THING" of Internet of thing anything should qualify following criteria It should send some sensory data like pressure temperature humidity It should have unique identification so that it will get identify while communicating it should communicate with similar itself and internet gateway as well like WiFiWhat we need to do to convert any thing into "THE THING" of Internet of thing now some devices are already smart like your smart phone and sensors are already resides inside them but for others we need to put some sensors IPV6 or 6LoWPAN is already providing unique identification to these devices for communication we need to add some IoT gateway like most popular one out of many CC3200 by Texas Instrumentation. Next front end like a mobile app or website where all the data with analytic result or controlling device user interface front end is available. Now the thing is does after becoming a "THE THING" it is ok to say this system an Internet of Things? well i think till its not telling the real analytic data that can help you making decision. The analytic result of these things are so powerful that it can predict future too. Many applications not only help you taking decisions but sometimes they themselves decide and instruct you what to do next. there are endless possibilities where these devices can be used so there are applications of IoT. Internet of Things, Internet of Everything (by CISCO), Smart Things (by IBM) these are the terminologies coined by different companies for same internet of things. however there are some perceptions too that network of similar smart devices is IoT (like network of Smart phones only) while a collected device network (like smart TV, Smart Phone etc..) is Internet of Everything. There are other terminologies out there which confuse people from IoT like SCADA or M2M. here is my article on the same to clarify confusion. What is difference between DAQ, SCADA, M2M and IoT? – enCypher...  Hope now you understand what IoT and IoE regards Hitesh Kumar