★What's it like to work for Rocket Internet?I've noticed they've been hiring alot recently, especially within the U.S. I was wondering if anyone has had experience working there. What is their reputation within the industry?
Guide to Rocket roles: Entrepreneur in Residence: aka "cheap intern". The basic role. This used to be the workhorse of ventures particularly in countries with expensive labour. The official blurb is that you pay tax in your country of origin and are only a consultant. Unofficially (and in a few cases, was told orally as a selling point) the idea is to go tax light. Name sounds impressive on CV however. The role itself can cover anything from copy/paste 16 hour days, to much more advanced and varied things depending on ability. Was a good way to check out people before sponsoring a visa or offering a job (with the issues associated with HR law). We don't use it where I am now so cannot comment on current practice. GVD: a grand title used to lure fairly good people who might not be up for the EiR experiment. 30% of their salary is billed by Rocket to the venture on top of the salary itself (which is usually much higher than local salaries). Honestly still not sure what they actually do day to day, but they do dress well and look serious. Local contract: a normal job with a normal title following normal laws paying local currency into a local bank account, at around market rate. As funding goes up, they replace EiRs. VP: the standard full time job title. "Sounds more important, so people will take you more seriously". Backfired a few times when Berlin phoned local venture VPs thinking they were the head of their function as the title implied. MD: usually McKinsey/Goldman (with pockets of BCG/JP), usually WHU, usually German (with a sprinkling of Nordics), with some local guys to follow local law/pretend to follow local culture. Exceptions usually there for a reason - Swedish (Kinnevik), connected, etc. These guys can only be hired/fired by the Samwers, so turnover is almost nil, unless a venture folds (Turkey) or they quit. MDs are usually associated with a country, 1-6 will run a country together. MDs usually take up the C-level positions. CEO: there is something above MD! Paradropped from Berlin, always a male German with enough brands on his CV to make even the toughest Chinese billionaire trophy wife shopper salivate. Fast turnover in underperforming ventures. It has appeared in some ventures that there being a CEO or not makes little difference.