★Can I use the internet to save my mom, who suffers from Stage IV cancer?
No, the internet cannot tell you or anyone else what therapy will benefit their fight against cancer. The reason for that is straightforward: no therapy works in 100% of patients. Not a single one. Since any given therapy will work in less than 100%, there is no way to know if your mom (or any other *particular person* with cancer) will be helped by any given therapy. That said, there are a great number of very promising therapies that are not incorporated into the conventional treatment approach to many cancers. The internet can point you to many of those, but it takes diligence to separate the legitimate therapies from the hype, as you noted in your question. If you know how to search the research literature, follow these simple rules: 1) If there are only studies testing the "cure" against cancer cells in a lab, ignore it. Thousands of things will kill cancer cells in a lab; a trifling number will kill it in people. Blogs love to announce "suppressed" cures for cancer, that really are studies showing that some nutrient kills cancer cells in a cell culture (yawn). 2) If there are only animal studies, raise your interest level by 25%, but certainly don't go purchase it yet. The cancers *given* to animals is not like the cancers that *arise* in people, and they do not respond the same to therapies, either. If they did, we would not have a cancer problem today. 3) If there are human studies, take notes. If there are positive outcomes in human studies, bring it to the attention of a practitioner who is open to exploring unorthodox therapies. Perhaps that is her conventional oncologist. However, conventional oncologists, at least in the US, could be in serious legal trouble for pursuing an unconventional therapy, even if they are interest by it. All that said, this does not mean that only substances that have been subjected to the barrage of lab/animal/clinical trials are going to be effective against cancer. There are very likely substances out there (or, even more likely, combinations of substances out there) that will improve cancer outcomes. A lack of studies does not mean a lack of efficacy, it is only a way screening the candidates. If you pursue therapies without experimental backing, you may very well strike gold, it's just that the probability drops significantly.