★Are relationships on the Internet really real?Without any sound, facial expressions, or any kind actual, physical human interaction beyond sending lines of text to one another, words which one can edit and second guess prior to sending, are human relationships over the internet really human or are they actually superficial and fake to some degree?
I don't understand the reasoning behind this question.  Well, I do, but I think it's more of an emotional or conditioned response than actual reasoning. I'll illustrate with an analogy.  Recently I noticed that I, as a heavy drinker, have a very positive relationship with a devout Muslim who's never touched the stuff.  Why?   Because when I try to get people to go out for drinks ("blah, blah, blah, I have a family, I have to get home in time to see The Jersey Shore, etc.") I know he's not on the list, so I'm not putting any expectations on him or subjecting him to any social pressures, and he's not betraying me by jumping ship.  Freed of social obligations, our relationship is built primarily on ideas and concepts. Now just push this to an extreme.  The fact is that the friends we see in person aren't fully human to us -- they're also tools we use to navigate society.  If I want to play basketball this weekend, I need to get my friends together to play.  If they don't want to play, I don't care, and I certainly don't care why they don't want to play.  In other words, their thoughts and reasons -- the very things that make them human -- matter very little to me in this context; currently, I simply view them as a means to an end.  All of us do this to one another pretty regularly. After all, we're social animals, so we're practically built to, and our society isn't helping any either -- just try going to a nice restaurant as a party of one and see how people react to you. A relationship carried out entirely by correspondence, on the other hand, is absent these pressures.  You talk to someone because you're interested in what he has to say, or you do not talk to him.  If you're trying to get a group together to see a movie, you're not going to be hoping he can make it and cursing him if he can't.  He's probably not going to be having sex with you, either; nor would it make sense to try to borrow his car.  The relationship exists strictly on the higher plane of ideas.  If anything this is one of the only true ways to have a profound, deep relationship with another person, unsullied by petty crap like "body language" and "tone of voice."