★What was it like to be on the Internet during the 1990s?
My first internet experience came in early 1995 (I was 14) courtesy of Microsoft Windows 95 Beta. I acquired a copy through a friend, loaded it onto my (screaming fast for the time) Pentium 100 (64MB of RAM, I think, with a 28.8 Modem and my copy of the ubiquitous NEC Multisync 15" monitor). I had been an avid BBS'er for years when I first logged into MSN, which was included for free with the Beta release. I was a pro at QModem, text based games, primitive email, and the limited scantily clad swimsuit photos in the file sharing folder. Internet Explorer 1 beta probably sucked giant donkey balls, but for me at that time it was pretty cool. There were pictures, links, and lots of information about lots of things, all available in my mom's basement. USENET was the real center of the internet at the time, at least for people like me. For the first few hours I read through the car and computer forums, posting here and there. Then I stumbled across alt.sex.* I will steal from Domhnall O'Huigin here ... this was wild. I skimmed across the posts, a few messages in I saw one titled "modelsex.jpg part 1" or something like that. SCORE! But, hold your horses 14 year old me... Instead of the sexual amazingness I was promised all I could see was page after page of seemingly random text. Was this some kind of sick joke? Who did this to me? Had my mom beat me to the internet and scrambled all the porn? I did what any 14 year old with lots of free time and unlimted access to IE 1 beta would do. I started searching and didn't stop until I could see the goods! I found a DOS uuencode client, mastered the command syntax, and starting downloading message after message as text files and going back to the command line uuencode program. Within hours I had turned the scrambled text into mountains of porn. If only I had php back then, I would of actually had free time to do my homework. I would repeat this most days. After I went through the day's download stash (maybe a hundred files), I would open the folder and inspect the take. I will say it again, it was wild. Most files would match what the title, but often they would not. I won't detail the things that a 14 year could no-kidding accidentally download back in 1995, but I still have those awful pictures ingrained in my mind. I don't know what you're thinking of right now; but depending on how deranged you are I probably saw worse. I promise you. Fast forward a year or two and the web really began to take off. Coorporations invaded and homesteaded. Geocities let everyone design shitty webpages a decade before myspace made it cool. You could find some homework answers, as long as your homework consisted of nothing more than math and computer science. Like many, my first experience with high-speed internet came in college. This conveniently coincided with the peak popularity of Napster. Metallica apparently lost a ton of money and ended up butthurt and all, but the wild and crazy Napster days turned a lot of people onto a lot of music, myself included. I still listen to a lot of the artists I downloaded back then, lots of whom I would never have bothered to listen to if the song wasn't free, available in 15 seconds, and in the library of someone who I thought had decent taste (which Ping would do, if it didn't suck and people actually used it). In fact, I've legally acquired most of my Napster music (that didn't suck of course -- I'm still looking at you Metallica and that shitshow named St. Anger) out of a mix of respect for the good artists and a desire for an audio recording that doesn't click/pop/have some radio voiceover/etc. In sum: The internet today is incredibly useful to almost everybody. The internet then was not, unless you were a teenager in search of porn or a computer geek (not that the surfing habits of the two would vary significantly). The internet then was slow and largely devoid of accessible content. The internet today is incredibly fast and full of rich, meaningful, useful data that Google will kindly find for you in a millisecond or two. The internet then had character and felt really, really cool to be a part of. The internet today too often feels like a place crafted especially for idiots. I wouldn't want the 1990s internet back compared to what we have today, even for a second. But I'm really glad that Microsoft let me take part in the Web 0.9 for free.