★Who will be the leading companies of the Internet of Things?Everything relating to the ethos of connecting the worlds devices to the web makes sense. I wonder in what timeframe it will play out? And who will be the leaders of this wave of technology.
In 2001 nobody knew that one of the leading internet companies would be called Facebook. Facebook was founded in 2004. Already after one year college students were going crazy about this new cool tool called Facebook. I believe the next big thing can be measured today. Just like Facebook created enormous buzz in 2005 with college students, people these days are talking about company offerings that they find really good. And then other people who also like the company start engaging as well. The same happened to Facebook. And today it can be measured. We created the IoT Influencers ranking to identify exactly those companies that get people talking and engaged these days. On Google, on Twitter, on Linkedin, and so on. We think it is likely that these companies become leading Internet of Things companies in the future. Perhaps it is no surprise that the list is led by big names like Google, IBM, and Apple. These companies are dedicating enormous resources to creating great IoT products. History has shown that there are always smaller companies that disrupt the business models of big companies (just like Tesla is currently disrupting the automotive industry). That's why we looked beyond the big companies to see which companies are creating the biggest buzz relative to the company size. Currently Arduino and ARM stand out as "smaller" companies that seem to be on a good way to becoming leading IoT companies. Not all of these companies will become leading IoT companies. But chances are that some of them will. The more detailed analyses for the November 2014 ranking can be found here: Google, Arduino lead IoT influencers ranking We will be updating this ranking regularly from now on to see how the picture is changing. The latest ranking will always be here: IoT influencers ranking