★What are the hottest startups in India?
Delivery uncle A startup from Pune which now serves 20 major railway junctions in India. All this started when a gang of friends was bidding farewell to one of their friend and he was complaining about the food in his forthcoming journey. That caught their attention as in why, given the available technology on this earth, there isn’t any food delivery service that can serve the train passengers whatever food they want and wherever they want? With thoughts wandering in search of an answer to the question fixed in their minds since that day, they deduced a way of solving a passenger's main concern of food. The day passed in the office with the idea still glued in their heads and finally with few scribbles on the white board and lots of mind-crunching, the idea of “Delivery Uncle” was pen down. With a vision to become the best food delivery service, they immediately began working on shortlisting the restaurants and started calling them. Hitting the Pune streets in rains, visiting restaurants day and night and discussing with the restaurateurs about the novel feature of online food ordering and delivering to passengers of Indian railways finally started bringing Delivery Uncle into reality. The positive responses from restaurateurs and their interest in this gave them the confidence of pursuing the idea full-time. Having someone cook you exactly what you want and then bring it to your seat during your tiring journey is like an assurance that this journey is going to be a good one. Here are the stations which it serves: Abu Road            Kanpur Agra                    Kota Ahmedabad         Ludhiana Ajmer                  Manmad Akola                  Mathura Allahabad            Nagpur Bangalore            Nandurbar Belgaum              Pune Bhopal                 Raigarh Bhusaval              Rajkot Borivali                 Ratlam Chandrapur           Salem Daund                  Surat Durg                    Udaipur Gulbarga              Ujjain Gwalior                Vapi Itarsi                    Varanasi Jabalpur               Vizag Jhansi                 Warangal DeliveryUncle-Food for your journey Call : 08087747747 from any major station in India to order your food.