★What will be the next big trend on the Internet after "search" of Google and "social" of Facebook?
Many of the comments here are dancing around the big picture, but Raj nailed it. It's all about connectivity, immediacy, and interactive/dynamic communication. We are entering the age when there is no such thing as downtime. Yet, much of our digItal interaction is still with static sources. Go to a website, and it is likely the exact same as it was a day, month, or even years prior. Can you imagine having the exact same conversation with your friend day in and day out? Yet that is what it is like. Newer technologies than the 1990s concepts of websites and email slightly improved the interactiveness. Facebook's wall is an example of the next progression, with its timely updates of relevant news (that of those you care about). Now picture sharing is taking off because of the significance of sharing moments through images has to humans. It's like watching the industrial age happen over just a short years. First text, then images, and finally video. But not any kind of video. Interactive real time video communication. Sure, it has sort of been around for years, but it is not yet an instant experience. Humans communicate messages may be 10% using words, and the rest is non-verbal. To have meaningful human interaction, technology has to be able to meet that threshold. It will get there, not only when the barriers to video sharing within a personal network are further reduced, but also when video becomes interactive. When you have enough people within your network who have the technology to realtime video stream to each other to where it is just as easy to video conference as it is to call, then people will do it. Imagine these scenarios: A friend vacationing in Hawaii bringing you in to the moment of whale watching by live streaming you in with his phone camera instead of just posting the video on YouTube or Facebook. Bank tellers walking you through your online banking just as if you were at the drive up teller. A parent is out of town on business, and instead of being sent a static image using the new photo sharing tools, or receiving a Facebook text message, or watching a home video of the occasion upon the return home, the parent catch live stream in to the party and share in part of the celebration. When will we know when the barriers (like smartphone pricing, connectivity speed, standardization of devices, etc.) of this closer-to-natural way of communicating verbally and non verbally? I don't know, but all of the next big things are trending to where we will one day be able to interact with most our network just as easily as we could randomly drop into a coworkers office to shoot the breeze and the web will be dynamic enough to meet the relevancy required in an always online world. I probably could have summarized it by saying the next big thing will emphasize impromptu collaboration.