★What are the greatest software misuses?i.e Can you give me instances of the biggest unintended uses of softwares you have encountered ? Please have a look at meaning of the word "Misuse" here http://www.google.com/search?q=m...
Examples from the sad to the cute to the ridiculous: Example 1: Sad Not so much a misuse of software as a total failure to use software As a university student, I had a summer job in a government office. My boss wanted me to work on a revised version of a 300-page printed training manual, but she didn't have the original source files for any of the text. I thought I would have to reenter all the content in a word processing program (at the time, I knew nothing about scanning and OCR), but the reality was even worse: the boss wanted me to make the revisions by literally cutting and pasting the printed pages. Wherever she wanted a change (be it a few words or entire sections), I would have to cut actual pieces of paper and paste new copy in as neatly as possible, then photocopy the resulting pages. Sort of the way newspapers layouts were done before computers. Nothing I said could persuade her to let me retype the content. I type 90 words a minute; she was making hundreds of revisions affecting every page; having the content available electronically would make it easier to edit in future - none of this mattered to her. I actually went home and cried in frustration after arguing with her in vain, but since I didn't have any other job prospects, I ended up spending the summer with scissors, a glue stick, and the photocopier. Years later, my job involves trying to promote and improve the use of technology in a public-sector organization. Go figure. Example 2: Cute My grandfather, who passed away last year at 97, was pretty adept at using a computer for someone who began so late in life, but one thing he didn't figure out was how to share newspaper articles online. If he saw an article he thought would interest me, he would get the print newspaper, cut out the article, scan it, attach the scanned image to an email, and email it to me. Meanwhile, of course, the article was available on the newspaper's website, bristling with colourful "share" icons... Example 3: Ridiculous I sat down with a co-worker to collaborate on a document. He went to his folder to find the draft, and I noticed that his files looked like this: aaaaaaaadocument1.doc aaaaaaadocument2.doc aaaaadocument3.doc aaaadocument4.doc When I asked him about it, he explained that every time he saves a file, he adds more letter a's to the start of the filename so it will rise to the top of his folder, which of course is sorted alphabetically by filename. That way his most recent file is always at the top. When I showed him how to sort his files by date, he looked stunned for a moment, then harrumphed: "I like my way better."