★What is the scariest thing you have experienced on the Internet?
The Deep Web When I first heard of this term, I got curious and started to explore further. After knowing how to access the deep web, I was shocked to see what I saw there.  It is indeed a "dark" place as the name suggests. Many users are already familiar with the Internet's dark side, such as how to download music illegally, where to see the latest movies for free, or how to order prescription drugs for a little extra money, but the Deep Web goes further. Almost unimaginably further. Child pornography,  Arms Trafficking, Drugs, Hired Assassins, Prostitutes, Terrorism, etc.,  all make the Deep Web the largest black market ever to exist. On the Deep Web you can find sites that sell stolen credit cards, teams that will clone credit cards through ATM's, people selling cocaine, people selling Macbooks stolen from Apple stores, tutorials on how to make explosives. freelance hackers. these are just a few examples. A lot of strange and shady stuff exist at the deep web. Warning: To all the curious Quorans, do not try to access this stuff. apart from all the illegal activities you will be seeing a lot of dreadful stuff. I was disturbed for days after seeing some things which I cant describe here.  A Brief Explanation of what is deep web: The Deep Web is the invisible part of the Internet. To put it in simpler  terms, it is the part of the web that cannot be indexed by search  engines, a place where Google does not go: a "dark" web with limited access. edit: "In one sense the deep web refers to things like your online banking  account, since nobody can easily get to your balance – it is hidden  behind an authentication system that requires you to use a username and  password, and sometimes other measures such as two-part authentication,  to access. The other deep web refers to content that can only be accessed behind  an anonymizing wall, using services like Tor – which stands for The  Onion Router – to resolve addresses that can’t be addressed by your  regular browser. In Tor’s case, these end in .onion instead of .com or  .org, and are usually constantly changing so they’re never in one place  for too long" this answer refers to only the TOR part of the deep web. Tor  (short for The Onion Router) is the main portal to the Deep Web.  It  encrypts the user's information, in layers like an onion's, and sends   it to a wide network of volunteer servers all over the world. This   technique makes it almost impossible to track users or their   information. For those who started using the Internet in its early days, before  search engines or web portals even existed, navigating the Deep Web is  like a blast from the past. It is hard to find what you are looking for. every page looks very dull with most of the pages appearing only in text format with colours like black and yellow. People trade in strange currency called as Bitcoins. you need more than a passing knowledge of computer science, and you  will have to write down the exact addresses of the sites you manage to  find, and stock them in your bookmarks, because it is not easy to  remember pages with URLs like SdddEEDOHIIDdddgmomiunw.onion Offering anonymity and freedom, the Deep Web has transformed over the  years into a deep, almost inhospitable, little-explored information  repository that can host anything from the most innocent content to the  most ruthless and unthinkable. Within the Deep Web are private intranets  protected with passwords, as well as documents in formats that cannot be indexed, encyclopedias, dictionaries, journals, etc. But that is not all. Sources and Further reading: The Secret Online Weapons Store That'll Sell Anyone Anything Mail-order drugs, hitmen & child porn: A journey into the dark corners of the deep web Don’t get caught in the deep dark web Welcome To The Deep Web: The Internet's Dark And Scary Underbelly