★Is the Internet spoiling young children?
A lot of things have been said to answer this thread already, but I'm going to answer from the point of view of a 14-year old. A twenty-first century child, as it were. Maybe that means it'll be biased, but then again, who really isn't? And that's where I'll start off. Previous generations to mine didn't have the internet. And yet many are still (relatively) happy. I think this is where the problem with the perception lies. Because their lifestyles made them happy, it must have been right. And I feel that they are afraid that the change brought in by later generations will lower that happiness. The negatives are certainly there, as indeed there are with any things, but the positives are also, and all this adoption of the internet by my generation does is swap out one set of positives and negatives for another. The point is, there is more than one right way to get a happy life, and the dropouts? They've always been there, and that can't be linked to aspects of life, but rather to aspects of the people. But that's a discussion for another day. So what has the internet done for my generation? Well, there's certainly fun, gaming, but that's not unique to the internet. There's certainly the unique threat of these sites that "children shouldn't be viewing" and this is bad, harmful, etc. Sure, it can be inappropriate for a 10 year old, but it's not that common, and on a balance, it's not really enough to 'spoil' one of us without outside influences. What actually improves us, however, is that the internet is worldwide. As it stands, I'm learning Japanese. Off the internet. I've always been interested in Japan. I've looked up it's history, feudal and modern alike. I know that Oda Nobunaga, Tokugawa Ieyasu and Toyotomi Hideyoshi were the three generals that ended the Sengoku period. I know that the famed word kamikaze actually means 'God's wind' I know that internet is spelledインターネット and that that's Katakana because it's a foreign word. To somebody from Japan, that's nothing special. But I was born, and have lived all my life, in south London. Who here would have been able to, much less willing to, teach me all that? Not many, i'd say. And even fewer would be able to understand why I'd want to. Which is again, part of its beauty. On Quota I can say this where in my primary I would have been mocked. "The internet is a place where weird people can gather". But even the weird need somewhere to call home. If giving us all that is spoiling us, then yes, it is. But no more than the way all the previous generations were spoiled by what they did for fun.