★What will the Internet look like in 2020?I'd like as many different descriptions of what the usage, adoption and structure of the Internet will look like in the year 2020 as possible. Be creative, and try to think outside the box how it will change in the next seven years. Let's see what the current early adopters of the Internet come up with (since we're all using Quora...).
The internet in 2020 will be the main way that content is delivered to consumers, including music, video, television and books.  Publishers will have overcome their reservations about the internet, and they will be enjoying increased margin due to hugely reduced costs for shipping, printing, storage etc.  Video and music content owners will similarly be using the internet as the primary sales channel, and this will be on a mass scale beyond today’s iTunes, iPlayer and YouTube.  The television set will be internet-enabled and equipped with a UI that makes accessing content easy, whether from local storage, internet, or big content provider.  DRM will be gone, as the industry will eventually realize that this simply deters legitimate users (and buyers) and does nothing to control industrial-scale piracy.  By the way, industrial scale theft of content will still exist in 2020.  Movie content will be in the form of HD-quality video files that will be stored in home storage systems or online in the Internet.  Blu-Ray will be at the end of its life in 2020, but perversely content will probably still be sold in “shiny disc” format, just as a medium carrying the movie file.  This will be for reasons of familiarity, durability and convenience of storage. User devices will be wireless-enabled, but more importantly than that will not be using today’s WiFi, which is both too power-hungry and too difficult to configure.  Typical internet device configuration will be like the one-touch systems implemented by DECT phones today: you power on the device, and it sees your local network; you press a button (e.g. on a wireless hub/base station) and this provides the handshake that confirms the new device is authorised. You’re online.  I still think that there is room for simple low-end wireless devices to add connectivity to everyday home and office appliances.  Every device should have its own IP address (IP version 6, naturally), but today’s heavyweight protocol stack with WiFi, TCP/IP, HTTP, FTP and so on requires too much processing power and storage, and this kind of processing component will never be made cheap enough to be added to (say) a toaster or vacuum cleaner or light switch.