★What was it like to be a programmer without the Internet?When there were no online documentation, no Google, no StackOverflow...
I worked at Microsoft and Oracle before the web. These were the main differences from today: Reference manuals -- These were sometimes as long as a bookshelf with many volumes. Every system and library you used had a set of soft-bound programming guides. No O'Reilly or Wrox Press books -- You learned from the reference manuals or by asking your co-workers. No opensource libraries -- The only code you saw was code written and owned by your employer. Code was simpler for that reason: fewer lines of code, all internally created, no opensource libraries, and you could find the author if you didn't understand it. The main external libraries I remember using were clib (C library), and O/S libraries. Short function names -- The standard linkers had a limit of 8 characters; some operating systems only looked at 6. As a result, Oracle required that all function names be 6 characters and unique across the entire code base, which included the database kernel and all apps. What this meant is that the first 3 characters identified a company-wide module name, and the last 3 characters expressed the functionality of your function. Most function names were acronyms. Ugh. Memory record-keeping -- Before garbage collection, careful discipline around memory allocation and deallocation was what separated skillful programmers from average ones. Now no one thinks about that and garbage collection handles it for you. Shorter single-threaded call stacks -- Almost no software was multi-threaded. When something went wrong, 80% of the time the symptom was memory corruption leading to a segmentation fault. A typical stack trace only went 10 levels deep or so, and the function at the top where the error occurred often had nothing at all to do with the actual cause. Now, memory errors are virtually non-existent, stack traces are easily 30+ levels deep, and with threads, there may be many parallel stack traces, so things are a lot more complicated now. The good news is that the stack trace usually does point you to the cause of the error.