★What will the Internet look like in 2020?I'd like as many different descriptions of what the usage, adoption and structure of the Internet will look like in the year 2020 as possible. Be creative, and try to think outside the box how it will change in the next seven years. Let's see what the current early adopters of the Internet come up with (since we're all using Quora...).
I will tackle this from a sociological point of view (others have answered it from a technological, functional, or business one). The norm of anonymity will slowly be replaced by a norm of identification. Most websites do not require you to identify yourself. However, the most successful sites - those with high levels of investment and a profit motive, will want you to identify yourself in some way to participate fully.  These sites are businesses like Amazon, social networking sites like Quora, or fan-based or special interest sites that ask for you to register in order to receive the full benefits of the sites.  Again, it is not like there won't be millions of websites out there that only want you to read and comment anonymously, but these "mom and pop" websites will be washed away by the SEO'ing websites employing highly skilled coders that want you to identify yourself. The Internet will become less Anglophone, but the lingua franca of the Internet will still be the English language.  The rise of China, India, and other economies means that more non-Western, non-English users will produce content and content that is more suited to their culture.  However, as more and more websites are produced in Chinese, Spanish, and other languages, it will become more necessary for two versions of these websites - one in the native language, and one in English. Different Internet cultures will develop and become recognizable to everyone.  This is because the barriers to entry for the Internet will decrease, while the users of the Internet will become more familiar with the Internet.  Thus, we will have different groups and classes with identifiable Internet behaviors and websites.  Picture a "black Internet culture" or a "working class Internet culture".  This may seem a bit odd because we do not think of the Internet in this way.  But, an analogy can be drawn to almost any technology consumed.  We have different cultures attached to cars, for example.  And this culture is not just about money.  For example, in some parts of the country and amongst some groups, taking a car and changing the paint, the rims, and the muffler is common place.  For other groups in other parts of the country it is not.  Or, notice the disproportionate amount of hybrids sold to highly educated people in the northeast, versus the disproportionate amount of trucks sold to males in the southeast. Certain industries will become institutions.  What I mean by this is that certain Internet applications will become such a routinized part of life that a host of norms and symbols become associated with them, and they transcend space and time.  Google, Facebook, Wikipedia, and Amazon are moving in that direction, but there are whole swaths of the population - people over 50, for example - who do not use these applications yet.  However, if these companies survive they will become the Internet - the same way that AT&T became the telephone system for over 100 years. The search will die.  This is already happening.  The notion of "surfing the web" will die out for most people.  Instead of people going online, typing in a search box for answers, topics, or information, they will go directly to a website (like Wikipedia) or web portal (like Yahoo) for answers.  For example. 10 years ago if I wanted to find an odd item to buy online, I would search for a retailer for this item.  Now, I go to Amazon first.  Similarly, if I wanted to find out information about a sports team, I may search for a local website or online newspaper.  Now, I go directly to ESPN.  This phenomenon is most pronounced with mobile phones...where almost all Internet activity is done through apps, not through searching the web for anything.