★Are internet forums dead?There seemed to be a time where everyone congregated on forums. WIth the presence of Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr, Quora, etc. it seems like people are no longer into forums. Does anyone still use forums for online socialization, asking questions, discussion/hobbies anymore or have internet forums been rendered redundant?
Amazingly enough...no, they aren't dead. They aren't the single predominant communication tool they used to be pre-FB and Twitter, but they aren't dead. I'm going to set entities like Reddit, Slashdot and Quora aside and focus only on niche forums for the moment...and I'm going to tell you a story. There is a convention in Baltimore every year, it's called Otakon. It gets about 30K people which, in its niche, makes it one of the largest events in the nation. They have unbelievable guests, programming that spans 3 days, more vendors and artists than just about anywhere else in the country. One day I was vending there and I overheard two people talking about the event. "It's sold out." they agreed. "Too impersonal." They were going to start an event - right there in Baltimore - for REAL fans. Needless to say that did not work. They missed the whole dynamics of how/why Otakon managed to grow to the size it was...and the impossibility of starting the same event on the same turf. Okay, but online there is no impossibility. You involve yourself in Reddit and just think it's gotten too big, or Quora, the quality is going down, it's just too impersonal. So you start your own community. Bam. Overnight. Now you and the folks you liked can talk all they want without being downvoted. Depending on the niche you inhabit, I bet I can find half a dozen thriving forum-like communities. They will span actual forums, comments in blogs, FB groups, Google groups, LiveJournal groups and a host of other small-peanuts type group commenting formats. Back to the niche that Otakon inhabits, there is a large site called AnimeNewsNetwork and it is the largest news site about anime and manga. They have *very* active actual forums. And, amazingly, while they hold the majority market share for news for this audience, new forums are popping up *all the time* because of course, ANN is too big and impersonal. Lest you think I exaggerate - yesterday I received an email from someone pitching an idea for an app  that...created a community in the exact same space that already has oh, I don't know, thousands of news/reviews sites. And here's the thing - there are still a lot of actual forums active in that area. I mean like, actual PHP forums. So, yeah, forums aren't dead. And forum-like creatures are evolving.