Obama Presidency: Second Term (2013–present): If Ron Paul or Mitt Romney were in power, would the right-wing press and (white) Americans be happier?How would the country be better off?
As a well-documented "White against Romney/Ryan", I – like many of my low-melanin fellows from various political persuasions – balked at the implications of this question. I want to take a slightly different tack on this answer, though, since I think the fundamental flaws in the question have been well highlighted. If you're looking for behavioral patterns amongst people who happen to have genetic commonality, skin color tells you very little. You have to look much more closely at ancestry. Where someone's family comes from gives you a lot more potential (although by no means definite) insight into the sort of cultural experiences they've had and the sorts of values that have been likely (but not certainly) handed across generations. From Wikipedia: Race and ethnicity in the United States Click here for a really cool interactive map from Bloomberg that lets you look at ancestry density by county. Speaking personally, I don't typically think of "white" as part of my identity. The first thing that I think about is being "Scotch-Irish." (With a name like Ian McCullough, I'm sure that's a stunning revelation to you all.) Although I wasn't raised in the church and don't practice, I'm also highly aware of my Catholic cultural heritage, which adds another layer. White American people with Eastern European ancestry more likely have inherited Jewish or  Orthodox Christian memes. When you start looking at Protestant cultural heritages, Lutherans and Baptists and Methodists (for example) are not the same thing – to the point where we now distinguish between "Mainline Protestant" and "Evangelical" groupings. As the Mormons on Quora will tell you, that too is its own cultural experience. (For the purposes of this question, the state of people's current religious practice or non-practice, while impactful, is not as relevant as the culture that has shaped their family and thus shaped them.) With the rising Hispanic/Latino population, ancestry also comes into play. Mexicans, Cubans, Puerto Ricans, Chileans, Argentines, Peruvians, Venezuelans, and so forth are all different ancestries with different cultural experiences too. And heaven help you if you conflate any of those heritages with people who self-identify as Spaniards! It's worth noting that on many forms that solicit race/ethnicity information, Hispanics are grouped in as members of the "White" race. Spain is a part of Western Europe, after all, and it is that colonial legacy that has Central and South America speaking predominantly Spanish. African-Americans obviously have a different and difficult story in this country, since the majority who trace their roots back to slavery have been stripped of the story of their ancestry past that point in history. The majority of those families originated in West Africa, but that's still a huge area. With more recent (voluntary) immigration from the Caribbean and Africa , a range of cultural heritages and communities – Jamaican, Haitian, Creole, Nigerian, Kenyan – have become distinct. I can keep going and extend the point to Asian Americans (Chinese ≠ Taiwanese ≠ Japanese ≠ Korean ≠ Vietnamese ≠ .....you get the idea), Indian Americans, and Native Americans. "White people" are not a homogenous group that vote in a bloc, and Blacks and Hispanics aren't actually either. Are there discernible, targetable voting blocks that are likely – statistically speaking – to share common interests and political objectives? Yes, but race/skin color isn't actually one of them until you both dig deeper into cultural heritage and consider other variables like geography and household income Updated 22 Jun 2013 • View Upvotes