How fast is lithium ion battery technology improving each year in terms of power density, costs, recharge cycles, etc.?
Austin Li has provided an excellent answer for why we haven't replaced lithium ion batteries so far, let me extend that by explaining why we won't be replacing them anytime soon either. 1. Battery technology takes a long time to commercialize Believe it or not, a revolution in lithium ion batteries is in its final stages now. The use of polymer electrolytes was a dramatic innovation in lithium ion batteries that has enabled the proliferation of smartphones, tablets, and ultrabooks. A quick trip through one history of polymer electrolytes (there is a parallel but hard to research second history within the major Japanese conglomerates) will illustrate the timescales for battery commercialization. Polymer electrolytes offer many advantages over liquid electrolytes in Lithium ion batteries. Polymer electrolyte batteries are safer,  they are more chemically and mechanically stable, and they allow cells to be made in wider a variety of shapes. Polymer electrolytes allow the Macbook Air's battery to be the shape of its body and prevent an iPhone from catching fire when you drop it. Polymer electrolytes for lithium ion conduction were first considered (often with batteries in mind) in the 1970s and 1980s. The major breakthrough came in the early 1990s when Jean-Marie Tarascon's group at Bellcore (spun off form Bell Labs during the breakup of AT&T and later renamed Telcordia Technologies and bought by Ericsson) developed a polymer electrolyte made of Polyvinylidene fluoride (PVDF),  12% Hexafluoropropylene (HFP), and Dibutyl phthalate (DBP, a common commercial plasticizer). When impregnated with some inorganic filler particles and swelled into a gel using a standard liquid electrolyte for lithium, this concoction turned out to display all the properties required of a good polymer electrolyte. Critically, it also used inexpensive, standard chemicals and appeared to be easy to manufacture. When Bellcore's electrolyte made its debut in 1994, licenses were snapped up by major manufacturers. Then, nothing happened. Different theories have been presented as to why commercialization stalled. As far as I can figure out, a few unexpected challenges in scaling up manufacturing and the inertia of the leading lithium ion battery companies were the primary drivers of delays. Although there were a few attempts to introduce Li polymer batteries in consumer electronics (including the visionary but hilariously ill-fated Mitsubishi Pedion Thinner Than MacBook Air | Gadget Lab | Wired.com ), it was not until Apple adopted lithium polymer batteries in 2009, (Apple Skips Zinc in New Notebook Batteries, Apple - Batteries) more than 15 years after their invention, that they began to truly take off. 2. There's still a lot of room to improve lithium ion battery performance There's not a lot of visibility into what performance-improving initiatives the big lithium ion battery manufacturers are pursuing, but the lithium-ion startup scene gives a good sense of what's possible. Anodes: The Anode of lithium ion batteries is typically made of carbon. Carbon anodes are ok, but silicon and silicon-carbon composite anodes can charge faster and hold more energy per mass and volume. The only problem is that the incredible volume expansion silicon undergoes when filled with lithium during charging leads to cracking which in turn makes battery cycle lives impractically short. CALIFORNIA LITHIUM BATTERY, Envia http://enviasystems.com/, Leyden Energy, Sinode http://sinodesystems.com/, Amprius http://www.amprius.com/, Sakti3, Nexeon http://www.nexeon.co.uk, and many more startups all are trying to crack this. Lithium metal anodes are even better than silicon anodes, but in addition to their own cycle life problems (due to dendrite formation), they present a serious safety/fire hazard due to their reactivity. Seeo http://seeo.com/, Solid Energy Systems http://solidenergysystems.com/, and some of the startups mentioned above are all working on solid-polymer electrolytes (as opposed to the gels I discussed above) to enable the use of lithium metal with a standard Cathode http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cat.... Cathodes: Cathodes of lithium ion batteries are typically made of a lithium-bearing oxide such as lithium cobalt oxide or lithium manganese oxide. A123's core technology was a nanostructured lithium iron phosphate cathode optimized for high power and safety (and thus ideal for automotive applications). The cathode is currently the part of lithium ion batteries that most limits energy density on both a weight and volume basis. There are two potential holy grails here: Lithium air and lithium sulfur. Lithium-air batteries (with a lithium metal anode) have long been seen as the obvious end stage of lithium ion battery technology. Using oxygen from the air as the cathode eliminates a large portion of a battery's mass and volume. This has precedent in the primary (non-rechargeable) Zn:air batteries commonly found in hearing aids. As with advanced anodes, safety and cycle life are important problems but optimizing the air cathode has also proven to be quite challenging. Despite massive amounts of (largely secret) work by major battery manufacturers, car companies, large commercial research centers (IBM's effort is especially notable http://researcher.watson.ibm.com...), and at least one startup (http://www.liox.com/) many technical roadblocks seem to remain. This is one of those technologies that could have a big breakthrough tomorrow or never. By contrast, meaningful and visible progress has been made toward commercializing lithium sulfur batteries (also with a lithium metal anode). Although not quite as energy dense as lithium-air, they are still worlds better on that front than standard lithium-ion cells. In addition to energy density, a key advantage of using sulfur is that, by a chemical coincidence, sulfur passivates (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pas...) lithium metal so that it becomes stable (at least kinetically) in air. As a result, lithium-sulfur batteries could be as safe or safer than ordinary lithium-ion batteries. While they eliminate dendrites as a cause of cycle-life degredation, lithium-sulfur batteries have their own source of cycle life troubles. When lithium-sulfur batteries operate, they generate polysulfides which dissolve in the electrolyte and become inactive. This process removes active sulfur and lithium from the battery which leads to instability and short cycle life. Polyplus http://www.polyplus.com/, Oxis http://www.oxisenergy.com/, and Sion http://www.sionpower.com/ are all relatively well-funded startups attacking the polysulfide problem. To summarize, lithium ion batteries or their close cousins are likely to be our main consumer electronics batteries for the foreseeable future. Rechargeable zinc-air or magnesium-ion batteries may pose a threat, but if they succeed they will bear a close resemblance to the lithium ion batteries they replace. 