What's something that is common knowledge at your workplace, but would be mind-blowing to the rest of us?See also follow-up question: What is commonly known (or believed) in one country, which would be mind-blowing to foreigners?
Confessions of a former investment banker - I worked on several multi-billion transactions and this is what I've learned: 'Investment' banking has little to do with investments.  Your primary job is to advise corporations on equity/debt issuance and mergers & acquisitions.  Heck, that's not even true, you are really a 'salesman', and your primary job is to maintain a relationship with corporations and convince them to hire you on financing and M&A activities. Being a banker from Goldman Sachs or Morgan Stanley (or any bulge bracket bank) doesn't mean you know what's really going on in the markets or finance.  You are just a cog in the wheel. Investment bankers advise CEOs/CFOs on major corporate transactions on the premise that they are financial experts in the industries (tech, industrials, consumer, etc.).  However, most of them are quite clueless about their own company/industry.  Ask your Goldman Sachs investment banking buddy what's going on with Goldman Sachs.  Try it!  If they are honest, they will tell you they don't have a clue. Heck, most investment bankers are not that capable of managing their own money.  What they do with their own money is often very different from the advice they give others. While presentation and advice appear sophisticated and precise, you really don't want to see how the sausage was made.  Opinions range from educated guesses to made-up-stuff frequently masquerade as facts and well-researched advice.  I've seen and performed my fair share of number fudging/massaging to justify a conclusion. Reality is you will say anything to get a deal done.  I once worked on advising a client on acquiring a business which eventually got done.  A few years later, I advised the same client to divest the business.  You can always find some way to justify a deal. If you are a junior investment banker, you spend most of your time putting together powerpoint presentations/memos.  And even more time making sure they look *pretty*.  Junior bankers are the king of powerpoint/excel/word combo! At the junior level, your workweek easily averages 80+hr/wk.  During crunch time, it is not uncommon to work 120+hr/wk.  That's 17+hr days, for 7 days a week!  Sad thing is, most of that time is wasted on unproductive, wheel spinning tasks.  (sidetracking a little here, but why so many ivy-league students want to go into investment banking is quite interesting, I have my own explanation here: Henry Wong's answer to Why do Harvard undergraduates head to Wall Street?) (you may also want to see: Henry Wong's answer to Why do investment bankers need to work long hours?) Which brings me to my next point, investment bankers are pretty bad project/people managers.  The working hours I mentioned above could be cut in half if someone slightly higher up just managed a little better.  Some people justify this as a hazing ritual. Confidential and private information are rarely treated as such.  People can't help talking about what they are working on. Most bankers know they are generally overpaid.  But every banker thinks they are underpaid compared to other bankers.  It is all relative. It is a culture of greed and envy.  Envy being the more toxic one, in my opinion. The above is common knowledge to most seasoned investment bankers.  They just accept it as is after some time. On the topic of Wall Street in general, you may care to read: Henry Wong's answer to What are some mind-blowing facts about Wall Street? -- See also: Henry Wong's answer to Why do investment bankers need to work long hours? Henry Wong's answer to Why do Harvard undergraduates head to Wall Street? Henry Wong's answer to What are some mind-blowing facts about Wall Street? Updated 28 Aug 2013 • View Upvotes