Do Quora users tend to be more liberally biased than the population as a whole?
Originally Answered: Why is Quora so liberal?This Pew Research Study: Political Polarization & Media Habits may shed light on your implied observation. Overall, the study finds that consistent conservatives: Are tightly clustered around a single news source, far more than any other group in the survey, with 47% citing Fox News as their main source for news about government and politics. Express greater distrust than trust of 24 of the 36 news sources measured in the survey. At the same time, fully 88% of consistent conservatives trust Fox News. Are, when on Facebook, more likely than those in other ideological groups to hear political opinions that are in line with their own views. Are more likely to have friends who share their own political views. Two-thirds (66%) say most of their close friends share their views on government and politics.By contrast, those with consistently liberal views: Are less unified in their media loyalty; they rely on a greater range of news outlets, including some – like NPR and the New York Times– that others use far less. Express more trust than distrust of 28 of the 36 news outlets in the survey. NPR, PBS and the BBC are the most trusted news sources for consistent liberals. Are more likely than those in other ideological groups to block or “defriend” someone on a social network – as well as to end a personal friendship – because of politics. Are more likely to follow issue-based groups, rather than political parties or candidates, in their Facebook feeds. My personal take is that Quora has an unusual number of questions that imply a fundamentalist religious view, a doubt regarding global climate change, and a resentment regarding assistance to the poor. Such views are hardly "liberal." Perhaps we all inhabit one Belief Bubble or another. Many on one side of the aisle tend to think that objective data that conflicts with their own view is because the reporting is "biased." Political Polarization & Media Habits 