Is 50% solar efficiency enough to power a home on a cloudy day?
I agree with other answers. The answer is probably not.  There is a big difference between a one-level ranch home with large, flat rooftop than a multi-story home with slanted roofs in a dense neighborhood. There are other factors to consider besides efficiency that are significantly impacted by cloudy environments. One of the variables to consider is the "Christmas Light effect" which applies to PV solar systems due to the cell/panel and inverter architecture.  This is affected by the level of cloudiness and occlusion. The Christmas light effect is the following.  Take this set of PV panels:  there are  three uniformly shaded modules, three partially shaded modules and six non-shaded modules. Note that some of the panels are partially shaded from the sun (column 2).  What often happens in this case is that those panels which are partially shaded suffer from severe underperformance - anywhere from a fraction to ZERO output.   Similar to Christmas lights:  when a single bulb dies in a long string of serially connected lights, all the remaining lights in the circuit go out. The following I-V graph plots current/voltage of ths system.  This graph demonstrates the potential output curve based on the above example.  The max power is at 1700W at 220V for this array.   For an older system using traditional string inverters the power output would be close to zero for shaded and even partially shaded panels. There is an arms race of inverters (power electronics solutions to convert DC power to AC).  These solutions are all making various claims in the industry. List of worst to best performing (approximation) are the following: 1) Traditional string inverters - 5-10 or more panels per single inverter.  Single point of failure 2) Microinverters - Microinverters make each panel independent of each other so no panel effects the performance of another.  Typically higher cost per watt on capital expense basis. 3) Microinverters with Maximum power point tracking - Intelligence to determine the best combination of I-V curve vs load based on numerous factors.   4) String inverters with global Maximum power point tracking - Uses a more global view of the I-V curve to optimize output.  The point is that the equipment you could make a big difference depending on environment. A system in a desert facility with no occlusion that is washed regularly  is markedly different than a residential area with occlusions and debris (leaves, etc) that is not washed often.   A lower efficiency module coupled with more intelligent inverters could have a greater ROI than higher efficiency module with traditional centralized inverters. Images Reference:  Page on Schneider-electric Updated 19 Jan 2014 • View Upvotes