Does a Facebook Page, in any way, affect SEO?
Yes, it does, and here are a number of places on your Page where you can optimize for it: About box: This is the small area below the profile pic. You only get 250 characters to play with here but every little bit helps. Make it keyword-dense if possible. Info Tab: This tab is indexed by Google so make sure you fill it out completely. Use your keywords judiciously. The address and location data used here is used in Google location search. Product data is used in product searches. So fill this out. Links here can be used for inbound traffic, but notes that all URLs here are <nofollow>. Vanity URL: Once a Page has 25 Fans you can choose a vanity URL for it (like facebook.com/MyBrand). This presents a great opportunity to use generic keywords for better SEO; however, realize that Facebook requires this name to represent the actual business. Not that I've ever seen anyone get hit for using a keyword-dense URL. Wikipedia: wait, what? Thought we were talking about Facebook here... When Facebook switched to using the Open Graph last a in April 2010 they built a huge number of non-Facebook-user-controlled pages that pulled their content from Wikipedia. They're called Community Pages. So it's critical to ensure that your content on Wikipedia for your brand is up-to-date, relevant, etc. Links: Facebook status updates on the Page Wall are indexed. Post links to your site here to place direct links near the top of your Page’s CSS structure. You can post links in one of two ways: raw or using the Attach Link feature. Raw links go right to the page, obviously. Attached links are parsed to find a thumbnail, description, etc. (governed by the use of <meta > tags supported by the Open Graph Protocol). The problem with the second method is that the Facebook redirects it through a sharing link (like http://www.facebook.com/l.php?u=...) which could have an impact. However, the text Facebook adds around the link in the description when you attach it adds keywords right near the link. Testing is the only way to be sure which works better for you. Photos, Videos, and Events: make em public and tag the hell out of them. Add keyword-rich descriptions to them. Get Inbound Links: Get more inbound links to the Page by promoting the page wherever you can. Facebook offers badges for this purpose on their site. Get More Fans! The more Fans you have, the higher the chances you'll get for inbound links to your page from the default public profiles of users. Basically, by default Facebook leaves everything on a user's profile public (just about.) These public pages are indexed. Users have links to their 'Likes' on these public profile pages, so having more Fans means you are more likely to get inbound links to your Page for free. Tabs: So, what about those custom Tabs, you ask? Well, sorry. They are now required to be implemented as iframes and these aren't indexed. They *used to be* when they could be implemented in FBML which was statically cached - and served from - Facebook's servers. But now, all content is fetched from your server. To verify this, get the URL of the tab you want to check and use the Google 'cache:' advanced search operator to show what the Googlebot sees when visiting your page. Note that the iframe content is blank. That covers the basics. Check us out at http://thoughtlabs.com! 