How much of the difference between Democrats and Republicans is attributable to the difference between rural and urban life?
I've received a punt from Laura Hale, who in turn appears to have received a punt from Heinrich Müller. I wish I did have national (read: 3,000-something counties) data for this stuff, but as it stands I'm stuck with the limited data I have. I tend to just pick up the data that I have from when I'm blogging about individual states' voting patterns. I've got data for three states--Kentucky and Louisiana, which I've written about, and I also have data from West Virginia for some reason. The data I have show mixed results. Controlling for race, median income, college education, coal production (in West Virginia and Kentucky), and (in Louisiana) Catholicism: In West Virginia, population density was positively related to Obama's performance in the county (specifically, a 100-person-per-square-mile increase in population density is associated with a 3.8-percentage point increase in Obama's 2012 margin). In Kentucky, population density was not significantly related to Obama's performance in the county. In Louisiana, population density was positively related to the Democratic vote margin in both the 2012 presidential election and the 2014 Senate runoff election (but, strangely, not significantly so in the 2011 Insurance Commissioner runoff election). My dad has often hypothesized to me that perhaps cities are more liberal because living in close quarters with hundreds of thousands of other people makes you appreciate the need for good public services. There might be some truth to that, but it looks more and more like cities vote Democratic because minority voters tend to cluster in the cities--and minorities are voting Democratic, hard. The reason we observe this strong connection between population density and Democratic-ness is because we forget that population density is itself associated with other things (which is why, as Peter Flom has noted, determining causation from observational data is a seriously messy can of worms). In particular, high population densities are often (though by no means always) associated with higher black populations. In Louisiana in 2012, the share of a parish's population that was black explained by itself 88% of the variation from Obama's average performance. Another way of looking at it is this: When controlling for income, college education, and Catholic share, a 100-person-per-square-mile increase in population density was associated with a 2.7-percentage point increase in Obama's 2012 margin. But when you throw a control for the percentage of the population that was black, that association drops to 1.4 percentage points. In other words, race was actually responsible for half of the effect that we attributed to population density, in addition to its own effects. Point being, population density doesn't explain nearly as much of Democratic leanings as we sometimes say it does. 