How fast is lithium ion battery technology improving each year in terms of power density, costs, recharge cycles, etc.?
Any kind of battery needs to be able to store ions and electrons. Ions that freely flow inside the battery, and a gate that stops electrons flowing in between cathode and anode. 1. Why are lithium batteries the most common today? A battery requires space and weight to hold a charge. The less dense the the material, the more area it will take to hold the same charge, as  well as vice versa. The key to a good battery, would then be a material that individually as a molecule, relatively light, but one that can be tightly compacted together to reduce volume. To put the volume/weight perspective into a picture yields this (Copied from Wikipedia under GNU Free Documentation License): Notice how Lead Acid is at the bottom left and Lithium types at the upper right. The reason for this is because Lead Acid molecules are heavy, whereas lithium battery molecules to be relatively light. The graph shows two things: 1. For the same weight, Lithium based batteries hold more charge. 2. For the same volume, Lithium based batteries hold more charge. Thus: In almost every case where weight and volume matter, Lithium based batteries are more economical. Why? Because electronic devices that need batteries tend to be devices that are used while being transported. If the electrical device does not need to be used while transported, it would make more sense to use a wall outlet instead of a battery. Home appliances? Wall outlet. Laptop, cellphone, airplane, submarine? Batteries. Practically every example of electronics in motion requires some consideration of weight and size, making lithium batteries the ideal candidate. 2. Why is it difficult to move away from lithium batteries? Lithium comes in as the third lightest material element in chemistry. Under normal conditions it is the lightest metal. This explains why #1 is true. Combine this with pleasant electrical properties such as no "memory effect", relatively slow drain after charge, and relative maturity of the manufacturing technology, lithium would be very difficult to replace in the relatively short amount of time of a few years. Until we can economically miniaturize more complex energy solutions such as fuel cells or reactors, chances are we will be sticking with lithium batteries to come for a while. 