Obama Presidency: Second Term (2013–present): If Ron Paul or Mitt Romney were in power, would the right-wing press and (white) Americans be happier?How would the country be better off?
I think this question would have some interesting outcomes. Firstly Ron Paul came 4th in the Primaries. Only 11% of Republicans supported him. The chances of him becoming president were always 0 he got half the votes of Rick Santorum, he is just better at self publicity. It is interesting to look at the track record of both of these when they actually held power. Ron Paul would certainly not get away with his more radical/insane proposals, like the gold standard. Both were rather pragmatic in office. Ron Paul under Reagan was happy to see a huge budget deficit. Mitt Romney introduced a fore runner of Obamacare. So both would have had to moderate their positions to being mainstream politics. I think when faced with actual power politicians do have to buckle to the reality. I'm sure Romney would have carried out cosmetic changes like defunding NPR, he probably would have increased military spending. Whether he would have gone for austerity is questionable. Extra unemployment and a collapse in growth wouldn't be popular. Ironically I think Romney would have ended up like Reagan and just borrowing to create a false boom. Obama can't do this because he would be panned for it. Fox News would be in trouble. You can't have paranoia and conspiracy theories against your own side. I think Romney wouldn't have handled the crises in Boston or Oklahoma as well, he just isn't as charismatic. There is certainly a section of America that is appalled by having a black president, but I am not sure they would see a Mormon as an advance. I may be cynical, but I suspect Romney would have followed a more left wing economic agenda than Obama. No one is going to call him a socialist. Romney probably wouln't have been able to get much of his social policy through the senate and I bet he would be secretly relieved. The Republican President needed the religious right to get elected, but wouldn't want them actually running policy. Romney was Governor of Massachusetts after all, which hasn't gone noticeably confederate. 