What are the components in social network analysis?
I do not know what you mean by components, but I will answer freely to that I believe may be major aspects of SNA: The graph. This is the major aspect of SNA where the structure of the relationships is expressed through nodes and edges. When analysing the structure and main characteristics of the SN relationships, this is "nakedly" the purest expression of the relations, either undirected, directed or with weights. So, for instance, the structure determines communities of nodes, depending on how dense are the connections among a set of them, or roles in the relationships in the SN depending on the precedence relationships in the exchanged messages. The types of the nodes and edges. Having typed nodes and edges is important in SNs because the analysis may be strongly dependant on the type of such objects. For instance, different types of nodes may determine multipartite graphs, which are important because their analysis determines the relationships among different types of entities, such as individuals, cities, businesses, etc. Attributes of the entities and relations. The attributes of the nodes (entities) and edges (relations) determine values that may be quantified or restricted to analyse parts of the graph. User needs. This is among the most important aspects. Different types of SNs determine the type of analysis to be performed. So, in business SNs like LinkedIn, the types of analysis required by the users are sales/business oriented, being the most important community search to find groups of interesting people for the sales teams. In micromessaging SNs, the timeline of messages is the most important aspect to analyse. Algorithms. The algorithms that arise from the user needs are very important, with varying complexities and requirements. In this regard, knowing the type of SN managed determines also possible algorithmic variants that adapt better to the use case. The tool to perform SNA. The system to perform the analytics is important, mainly because it may be importantto focus on the size of the SN, the latency for each of the algorithm executions, the throughput required. Benchmarks. In order to test the best technologies for SNA, one may want to use benchmarks that are sound industrially. The Linked Data Benchmark Council is a project that has the main objective of developping industrial benchmarks, and one of its first instances will be the SNA benchmark in three flavours: interactive (for transactional workloads), Business Intelligence (for small Business Analytics) and Analytics (for full graph analytics). 