How did Tinder grow so quickly?
Tinder,though not a venture backed startup, has achieved tremendous business growth in a very competitive space dominated by the heavily funded Match.com , Plenty of Fish and others. What is more intriguing is the traction, Tinder has received in Asian communities such as those of India where the concept of Mobile App Dating is relatively new and people prefer an anonymous dating profile apprehensive of an impostors or conservative culture in the society.As of December 2014, Tinder had been downloaded more than 40 million times with users swiping 1 billion profiles every day. What drove huge traction for Tinder ? 1. Borderline Celebrity In US as well as while penetrating new markets  they roped in "borderline celebrities" from Miss America to Olympic athletes have all been quoted as using the app in the press, which drives buzz and additional user growth. An important step was to create an app portable with Android as well since major markets outside US have Android prevalence compared to iOS 2. Innovative new Extension Tinder has continuously rejigged and rolled out innovative features to keep users interested. Features like List, Moments and Matchmaker has kept the users curious . 3. Platform Integration It is a painstaking task to create new profile and fill out long questionnaire whereas your Tinder account integrates with Facebook ,Instagram providing instant identity verification and readily available information with little effort. This feature helps out in filtering out fraudulent identities and a much informed match - a great feature to attract the apprehensive non-users. However this ease of account creation has lead to Tinder bot problem. Read up more at : What Ignited Tinder's Explosive Growth? - GrowthHackers 4. Great UX Swipe right for Yes, Left for No. This is the most significant aspect brought around by Tinder , the mobile app addressed issues which were left unattended by their contemporaries with unique features a) Double Opt In : Most people dating online have either a paucity of time or don't find the nerves due to fear of rejection. Tinder crafted Double Opt In feature for their user where you know that your matched swiped right as well. b) No clutter of messages from men soliciting relationship with terrible pickup lines. This is greatly reduced since you can only message your match with a significant amount of information available to know their interests. This feature makes the Tinder experience more enjoyable for women and men ! 5) Gamification of Dating and Potential Rewards The urge to swipe right is extremely addicting, you want to swipe till you hit a match. And the huge ego boost it involves to find an attractive match makes people swiping all day long. This gamification of the dating game nails the dating psychology ! 6) Chicken Egg Problem The conventional business problem of Supply and Demand. To have the chicken or  egg - supplier or buyer ! We will all agree that in many dating and similar ecosystems the “supply”(read presence) of women on a platform is what triggers the participation of men. Tinder hacked this problem by focusing on sorority girls as the early adopters. As more women joined the platform, men were eager to download it and see who was available nearby for dates. This lead to a great Word of Mouth publicity for the app. 