Do Quora users tend to be more liberally biased than the population as a whole?
Originally Answered: Isn't Quora actually a mask to show off liberalism?Here is a graph depicting penetration of internet worldwide: (Source: File:InternetPenetrationWorldMap.svg) Note that the penetration is around 40 to 50% is the most densely populated south-east Asia and very low in African continent. Only regions with penetration more than 80% are USA, Australia and few European countries, where population density is lower. The I want to expound is: Internet, in general, does not entirely represent the whole world. Moving ahead, popularity of Quora among different countries: (Source: Quora Usage Data and Analysis ) Here, apart from US and India, Quora is not yet that popular (thankfully). Therefore even within limited internet community, Quora is not truly representative of net populace. Therefore we can conclude: Since Quora community represents only small fraction of entire world population, her exhibiting certain characteristics (read: liberalism) uncharacteristic of the world does not necessarily imply disingenuity. Maybe, the real question is why does Quora attract liberals in large numbers?       There are not many platform available where a curious mind can be part of engaging discussion/debate which is mutually enlightening. Delight of a liberal is a platform where they can express contrarian or unpopular viewpoint without being abused and threatened. Where ideas are discussed without fear of ridicule or isolation. Quora exactly does that. BNBR helps a lot in this case. And its' strict adherence has worked in the favor of all. Hence I can state with confidence, Quora is not a liberal show-off. It is a platform where curious, intelligent and tolerant people discuss stuff. And it is amazing. Quora doesn't represent world, that's quite tragic. tl;/dr: No. Quora doesn't represent the world. Quora is a relatively less popular platform where people respect each other and this quality attracts liberal people. Updated 7 Oct • View Upvotes