Where do most web startups fail?
It does not solve a problem people have. - Paul Graham @ Y-Combinator I worked at Facebook, and I'm currently working on my own company - and solving problems people actually have is the most important thing for success.  Facebook executed fantastically on some products that didn't really solve a social need, so they still failed. Making money, marketing, hiring, etc. all come after you've found a real problem to solve. Most startups will never find this real problem, and will never get traction.  They will die long before hiring, finances, or the other mature business operations become important. Think of all the "bad" ideas for websites you've heard. It is almost always someone proposing a solution to a problem somebody else, usually a "hypothetical user" is having.  For example, a social network for pets, proposed by someone that doesn't own any.  Or a social network for fashion, proposed by an engineer that can't name 10 brands.  These products don't actually solve anyone's problem - they just sound like successful models. Y-combinator's motto is "build something people want".  This is really just a way of stating that you need to solve an actual problem someone cares about.  This may sound confusing because people don't realize they want something if they've never seen anything like it before. For example "people would have told Henry Ford they wanted faster horses, not a car". Sure, people didn't know what they wanted, but they knew they had a problem of getting places.  Henry Ford solved that problem. In the start-up world you always hear the phrase "build for yourself". This phrase is repeated a lot because it is a great solution to "not solving a real problem". If you are joining a startup, see how much of their vision is based on an actual problem, as opposed to speculation of something cool. If you are creating a startup, you need to ask yourself whether you are actually solving a problem you have experienced. If you have not experienced it, you need to name the exact person (first name and last name) whose problem you are solving.  If you can't do this - you are likely building something people will not use. Updated 7 Feb • View Upvotes