What are some good computer science final year project ideas?
I was answering the same question to a friend of mine yesterday. The answer was, we have no idea what you would do. It is not a project, instead it is a test of yours. A test of your capabilities, experience and efficiency in the field. But, I (and a few other experts; I am no expert) can surely guide you to select a project for your final year project. First of all, think of what languages you learnt in your course. Most universities prefer C++ over Java while teaching Object-oriented programming. Some universities teach MySQL and some prefer Microsoft's SQL Server. Some prefer ASP.NET's MVC framework, whereas some prefer teaching Web Forms. So, it all depends on what you have actually learnt in your course. Computer science is not about making money by providing enterprise level applications. Instead it is actually about learning how computer works. What are requirements, and how an instruction actually gets executed. Your instructor needs to know whether you are capable of what you have learnt, did you get all the points, do you know how to apply that knowledge to real-life. That is all. Now, consider this. What did you learn? What is a web application, desktop, console or a simple command-line project? What language was used? Like already mentioned, most universities prefer C++ over Java, some may teach you C#. Consider them as a must option to be taken under consideration! Databases or simple text files? Data sources are not only databases, but text files, HTTP resources and much more. Depends on what you learnt back in your course. Your final project is hidden somewhere in between this. Start by joining the threads for "What did you learn" with "What language was used" and finally establish a good connection with "Databases or simple text files (data source)". This would give you an idea of where to start and where to go. Remember, most of the times people end up creating a Java application backed up by a MySQL database. Easy, free and already done! Just get started and make something up. This is not your doctorate thesis, so you don't actually have to worry about your teacher asking for something 100% new. But remember: Plagiarism is not a good thing. Avoid it as much as you can, this project would tell you what you are and where you stand in field of computer! Good luck. :-) 