What's something that is common knowledge at your workplace, but would be mind-blowing to the rest of us?See also follow-up question: What is commonly known (or believed) in one country, which would be mind-blowing to foreigners?
I used to work in a consumer goods company that sells products to buyers at retailers. The things that surprised me: 1. The display looks really full but is only 2 rows in Obviously it looks full because this gives the impression of abundance. This looks better and customers are likely to pick up a product if the display looks pretty. More importantly, we are afraid of selling too much stock to the retailer and/or the retailer is afraid of being too aggressive and buying too much stock (your manager will say, "Why doesn't the retailer have faith in our product? This is your fault."). If there is stock leftover long after the promotion is over, our sales suffer over the next few months as we try to purge this overstock. (via Coroflot — Design Jobs & Portfolios) 2. Displays at stores give you crazy paper cuts and take a crazy amount of time to set up This particular section/shelf at the store in the picture above is called an endcap. This is a smaller display. Sometimes, promotional displays can span the entire length of the stores. Whatever the case may be, all promotional displays are set-up by people. And sometimes, when there's a major promotion, these people are setting up the displays the night before it begins until 4am in the morning just so a consumer like you will willingly take out your wallet and buy, buy, buy. I didn't have to do this often, but I have a ton of respect for the merchandisers who are running about every day making sure the products are stocked, in the right place, at the right time. 3. There is a good customer and there's a grouchy one We get customers who don't know how to use the product, claim another product is better, or claim that our product doesn't work well. Whatever it is, if you're nicer to us when you complain, you're going to get nicer/newer samples than Mr. Grouchy down the street. 4. Placement of product is king Competitor's product placed at eye level and yours is on the bottom shelf? You're in trouble. If your manager happens to walk into that store and sees this, prepare to come into work the next morning accompanied by a long lecture (that is, if he/she didn't already text you a picture of the poorly placed product along with the text "why are we placed below [insert competitor brand name]?" Any product not placed at an optimal position? Then it's your fault because you've failed to maintain a good relationship with the store manager/buyer or you didn't plan your promotional budget well enough to secure the best space. 5. Planogramming down to the mm (millimeter) There's a lot of work that goes into planogramming merchandise -- how can you optimize the space allocated to you when you have X SKUs to merchandise? I spent many days and nights optimizing each store's planogram, forecasting the number of turns (the number of times each row I've stocked will be bought up completely by customers, requiring replenishment as an empty row is just wasted money) for each row of product. More facings go to products that sell well (i.e. 5 facings for the ketchup on the middle section bottom row) and fewer facings for the not-so-popular items. This is very simplistic, of course. We also need to take into consideration factors such as the size of the item and whether it'd be better off being placed somewhere else for cross-merchandising (i.e. display ketchup near hotdog buns). Today, when I go shopping and put a product in my basket only to decide that I don't want it anymore, I walk right back to the shelf that I took it from and place it back as neatly as possible. I didn't use to do that prior to working in the retail industry. Updated 26 Feb 2014 • View Upvotes