In what cases has the U.S. military (not wayward individuals) been accused of targeting civilians and to what degree do specific allegations have merit?For instance, civilian deaths have been mentioned in regards to, say, Hiroshima and the use of drones. Perhaps military should include agencies such as the CIA. Inspired by a comments discussion with Jon Davis here: Jon Davis' answer to What's the difference between freedom fighters and terrorists?
The quick and easy cases are World War 2 related, and you mentioned the atomic bombs.  We intentionally targeted militarily important targets but were well aware of the civilian casualties it would entail.  I think that would indicate that we weren't just gleefully attacking civilians for the sake of terror or intimidation.        Hiroshima included the headquarters of two field marshals, 2 army divisions, 40,000 military personnel, had a large military supply depot and was a major shipping port.  (according to Wikipedia Atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki)       Within the same article, Nagasaki was an important seaport. The four largest companies in the city were Mitsubishi Shipyards, Electrical Shipyards, Arms Plant, and Steel and Arms Works.     The other large scale attack was the Firebombing of Dresden, where again, there were arguably a large amount of military targets.  "As far as Dresden being a militarily significant industrial centre, an official 1942 guide described the German city as "one of the foremost industrial locations of the Reich" and in 1944, the German Army High Command's Weapons Office listed 127 medium-to-large factories and workshops which supplied the army with materiel."  In addition, it was the largest, unbombed area closest to the Russian front, and was being used as a communication and rail center to reinforce that front.  (Even after the firebombing, the US Air Force hit the railyard two more times.)     In Vietnam, there were free fire zones, which were areas where anyone there would be considered a legitimate target.  "A specific designated area into which any weapon system may fire without additional coordination with the establishing headquarters."  A civilian in this area would be in danger, but it is not directly targeting      Due to legal wrangling, commanders of terrorist groups don't qualify as civilians, and are viable targets for assassination/drone strikes.  A bit grey of an area.      If we include the CIA, however, there was a period where the organization was attempting to or supporting assassination attempts on foreign leaders.  That is definitely a civilian target, and the attempt to assassinate Fidel Castro is well documented.           If we care about military, however, the CIA has nothing to do with the American military structure, technically.  The CIA is, theoretically, an intelligence gathering agency, and does not have any personnel in common with the military.  (The CIA SAD teams, or Special Activities Division, recruit from the military though.)  The CIA provides intelligence, the military is about violence.  CIA SAD/SOG (Special Activities Division, Special Operations Group) is the para-military arm of the CIA, but the scale is so small I would hardly classify it as a military.   In summary, I don't know any cases where high level US military has specifically targeted civilians, although the US Government/CIA certainly has. 