What are some subtle aspects (humorous, romantic or mathematical) of Klein Four's Finite Simple Group (of order two) song?I get some of the jokes like wordplay on 'function', 'tensor' and 'identity', but I feel like I'm missing out on some of the more subtle jokes (especially the ones with category theory references). Thanks.
Here's everything I recognize in this song, including stuff that's likely obvious but I've mentioned for completeness. The band's name, "Klein Four Group", is the name of a finite non-cyclic group of order 4, and one of the smallest and simplest objects in mathematics to have a name. It's obviously also a reference to the band ("group") having four members. The song's name, "Finite Simple Group (of order 2)", refers to finite simple groups which are groups with no normal subgroups. There are many interesting families of such groups, but the blandest of all are the cyclic groups of prime order, of which the tiniest and blandest still is the group of order 2.  Lyrics The path of love is never smooth Paths, which are images of intervals under a continuous map, are a fundamental object in algebraic topology. "Smooth" functions (and, in particular, smooth paths) are ones that are differentiable any number of times. But mine's continuous for you Continuous functions are the basic object of study in topology. You're the upper bound in the chains of my heart Chains and upper bounds are terms in Order theory. In a partially ordered set, a chain is a linearly ordered subset, and an upper bound is an element which is larger than all elements of a subset. Zorn's lemma says that if every chain has an upper bound, the whole set has at least one maximal element. You're my Axiom of Choice, you know it's true The Axiom of choice is one of the basic axioms of set theory. But lately our relation's not so well-defined A relation is a subset of a cartesian product, and is a term often used in logic. "Well-defined" is a generic mathematical term that is used in reference to definitions that include apparent arbitrary choices, but turn out to be well-defined despite that (meaning those arbitrary choices don't actually make a difference). And I just can't function without you Function. Math. I'll prove my proposition and I'm sure you'll find Propositions are kinds of named results in mathematical expositions, lying somewhere between lemmas and theorems. We're a finite simple group of order two See above. I'm losing my identity "Identity" may refer to the identity matrix, the identity mapping of an object to itself, or to units in algebraic structures. I'm getting tensor every day Tensors are multilinear gadgets in differential geometry. And without loss of generality "Without loss of generality" is a common invocation when proving things, where the proof makes an assumption that is claimed to be immaterial. I will assume that you feel the same way Nothing much here, except perhaps a reference to the ubiquitous "let us assume that..." in logical arguments. Since every time I see you, you just quotient out Many algebraic structures admit a notion of a quotient, which can be regarded as taking a subset and "cleaning it away" or "quotienting out". The faithful image that I map into "Faithful" is an adjective used in various places, usually as a special version of being injective or one-to-one. In category theory, a faithful functor doesn't collapse two distinct morphisms into the same one. In representation theory, a faithful representation is simply one that is injective. The image of a mapping is the set of elements it maps onto, but there's no such thing as "faithful image". But when we're one-to-one you'll see what I'm about "one-to-one" means that distinct elements are mapped into distinct elements by a function. 'Cause we're a finite simple group of order two See above. Our equivalence was stable, An equivalence relation is a special type of relation (one which is reflexive, symmetric and transitive). "Stable" may refer to "stable homotopy" which is the part of homotopy theory that is invariant to the operation of suspensions, and related notions of stable mapping class groups and stable moduli spaces. Perhaps more appropriately, a "stable matching" in graph theory is one where no pair of elements prefer each other over their matched partners. A principal love bundle sitting deep inside A fiber bundle is an important notion in algebraic topology, differential geometry and related areas. A principal bundle is a fiber bundle with a group action, and is itself a central object of study in those fields. But then you drove a wedge between our two-forms The wedge product is the product in the exterior algebra of a vector space. Two-forms are differential forms of degree 2, and are thus indeed a linear combination of wedge products of 1-forms. Now everything is so complexified To complexify something usually means taking its tensor product (over some base field like the reals or rationals) with the complex numbers. This essentially transforms the object into a version of itself over the complex numbers. When we first met, we simply connected The best pun in the song refers to simply connected spaces which are those in which any loop can be continuously shrunk to a point (thus "simply connected" is an adjective). My heart was open but too dense Open sets and dense sets are basic notions in topology. Our system was already directed A directed system is a notion in category theory, where the notion of direct limit generalizes many algebraic constructions. A directed system is a functor from a directed set (a set with a reflexive, transitive relation where every two elements have an upper bound) into the category under consideration, and a direct limit is a universal limit of the resulting diagram. To have a finite limit, in some sense In real analysis, sequences and series may or may not have a finite limit. "In some sense" is just something mathematicians like to say. I'm living in the kernel of a rank-one map The kernel of a homomorphism or linear transformation is the set of objects taken into the identity element (0 or 1, as the case may be). The rank of a linear transformation is the dimension of its image, and a rank-one transformation has a one-dimensional image so it has a large (high dimensional) kernel. From my domain, its image looks so blue, "Domain" and "image" are general notions related to functions and mappings. 'Cause all I see are zeroes, it's a cruel trap Living in the kernel, the protagonist sees only 0's. But we're a finite simple group of order two I'm not the smoothest operator in my class, Operators are linear transformations from a vector space into itself and the terms is particularly important in functional analysis. "Smooth" as already mentioned is a property of differentiable maps, but unfortunately there's no such thing as a "smooth operator" despite repeated attempts at making use of this obvious pun. A "class" is like a "set" except that, when capitalized, a proper Class is a logical collection of things which is too big to be a set. But we're a mirror pair, me and you, Apart from the naive meaning of being mirror images, this may be a reference to the deep subject of Mirror Symmetry in string theory, specifically the theory of Calabi-Yau manifolds. So let's apply forgetful functors to the past In category theory, a "forgetful functor" is an unofficial term for a functor that maps objects with plenty of structure to objects with less structure. For example, taking the underlying set of a topological space is "forgetting" the topology, and regarding a field extension as a vector space involves "forgetting" the multiplicative structure of the larger field. And be a finite simple group, a finite simple group, See finite simple groups above. Let's be a finite simple group of order two (Oughter: "Why not three?") A group of order 3 is, indeed, simple as well (but uninterestingly so). I've proved my proposition now, as you can see, So let's both be associative and free "Associative" and "free" are common terms in algebra. "Associative" may refer to products satisfying a(bc)=(ab)c  as well as to the corresponding structure of associative algebra. "Free" generally means "satisfying no non-trivial relations", as in free groups or free algebras. And by corollary, this shows you and I to be A corollary is a consequence of a previously stated result. Purely inseparable. Q. E. D. "Purely inseparable" is a type of field extension in the theory of fields. They are the "worst" type of extensions from the perspective of Galois theory, being the polar opposite of the more benevolent separable extensions. 