When will the financial burden of owning a private automobile be high enough to dissuade most people from buying them?In some places, like New York and more recently San Francisco, one could argue this is already happening. The cost of parking, valet, and gas has made owning a car an unnecessary luxury for many people. In places like Singapore, the license to buy a car (not counting the cost of the car) is something like $68k. In what year will this happen for the rest of us? What has to happen first?
Decreased ownership of San Francisco and New York is due to parking and the inconvenience of urban driving. Would you drive a car if it required 20 minutes to go 10 blocks to work but cost $25 (early bird) to park? Would you drive if it took you 30 minutes (minimum) to park your car everyday coming back from work? Would you drive to work if public transportation was (inexpensive) no more than a block in any direction and ran 18 or more hours per day? Would you drive if it cost you $25,000 to buy a parking spot AND you had to park your car a mile away? Would you drive if you sat in perpetual gridlock? How often would you drive if the speed limit was 8 mph? Driving is about time. When time to do something becomes more inconvenient than it's perceived value then we seek alternatives. Nobody likes to look for parking. This is why car ownership (per capita) is lower in San Francisco and New York; a car is an inconvenience and often not worth the hassle. This is not to say New Yorkers and San Franciscans don't own cars but it's much easier to seek the alternatives. Parking is a luxury and we often don't have it. So, if society wants people to drive less give true alternatives to driving a vehicle or conversely make it suck to own a car. Freiburg, Germany has done this rather successfully and people seem happier. People talk to each, know what their neighbors look like and even hold conversations with each other. Bike and pedestrian-friendly streets are a good place to start. The day that Americans make their cities about people and not about cars is the day when automobile ownership will drop and their cities become more livable; a welcome place to be and exist. For most Americans, the cost to drive will remain low and unless gas takes a $2 jump overnight they will continue to drive.  Even if there were a big price bump that would only be a short-term deterrent.* If more cities were denser and less spread out this would be less of an issue. We can attribute a lot of sprawl and the general decline of cities to Proposition 13 but it the long run in comes down to central planning and political fortitude. Many politicians are do what's best for their career what's best to generations to come. Many people like to drive but do so out of necessity rather than pure desire. Let's give people options. Note: In China, the car is a status symbol. The plate fee in Shanghai is exceeded US$10,000 in April 2012[1], car not included. The plate can be placed on any vehicle and permits driving on the road. A Beijing or Shanghai place allows one to drive on their respective city streets, raised freeways, etc. during rush hour and other limited times. In perspective, it costs just 1-10 RMB ($0.157-1.56) to ride public transit. Nothing quells the demand for cars in these cities. Updated 2 Aug 2012 • View Upvotes