What are the best rules for reading effectively?
Here are my "rules" for efficient and effective reading as a professional today! You may want  to try this approach, based on my own fast and versatile reading experiences: 1.        First and foremost, practise some simple relaxation sequences, with  slow but   deep diaphragmatic breathing routines, so as to help you  center your mind from distracting thoughts, but more importantly, to  help you create a resourceful state of mind, with a physiologically  relaxed body to go along with it. 2.   Decide on your ultimate  application, and whether you want a global overview or detailed  information from   your reading, as well as how much time you are  prepared to invest, as   your answers will determine your reading pace. 3. Learn and apply the seemingly popular  SQ5R reading strategy. With  SQ5R,   a quick scan of the tapestry of contents, preface,  index  and      appendix,  and even the bibliography, all at the back, and also  the      end-of-book  summary, if available, will often  give you some  inklings   about the book's contents. That's why, to me, the SQ5R helps immeasurably in this respect. [Google    for it on the net. Many thanks to psychologist Francis Robinson of   Ohio  State University, who originated the concept back in the 1940's] 4. Learn to recognise all the Text Organisational Patterns and their Signal Words, often used by authors in the more intellectually intensive reading materials. 5.  Use a pen or pencil as a pacer, to control the visual sweep of the  saccadic movement of your eyeballs, a technique which is attested by  fast readers. 6. Apply Pareto's Principle, to help you segregate "core material" from "elaborative material". - "core material" = concepts; theories; principles; definitions; terminologies; nomenclatures; etc. - "elaborative material" = illustrations; examples, anecdotes; etc. It's always good to adopt the Index Card Strategy to help you learn and master "core material" quickly; 7. Learn to spot Key Ideas, and salient points, using the knowledge gained in  (3) and (4). One   quick way to achieve productive results in your reading navigation is   constantly  asking: - what   is   the author talking about here? - what is   important and relevant  here,  in   terms of my desired outcomes? [To use the Tomahawk cruise missile analogy, your mind goes automatically into active search mode!] 8. Don't hesitate to make Marginal Annotations, by making notes in the white spaces of text passages, with personal relevancy to call-to-action. Always express them in terms of: A2T (Actions-to Take)/T2D (Things-to-Do)/Q2P (Questions-to-Ponder). 9. Upon completion of your reading endeavour:  Recap and Summarise,    preferably with an idea map or cluster diagram or graphic organiser,   so  as to consolidate and synthesise quickly what you have just read. 10. In conjunction with 9): Think and Reflect:       - Where do I go from here? - What's(are) my Next Step(s)? -  [Refer to   (8)]     How can I use these readings to  add/compound/multiply value in   my academic pursuit/in my life/in my  work/in my business/or even for my   client(s)? A word of expert advice: Read  only what you need, so   as to fulfill your ultimate application and  time urgency. So, in a nut   shell,  you    actually don't  have to  finish the whole book! It's   also pertinent for me   to point  out that, the fire test of your   personal or professional reading  actually   comes from what you   eventually do with the ideas gathered  and and insights generated  from what you have   read. Godspeed! Enjoy your reading and assimilation! 