If water is contained in an unbreakable container with no room to expand, would it freeze at freezing temperatures?In other words, can one prevent water from freezing simply by not allowing it to expand? Has it been done?
So great to find this question and very impressed with both the variety and common denominator in the answers. We published about this phenomenon in 2009, using the idea to generate high pressure frozen and preserved cells for electron microscopic observations. Most of the explanations that were given are  pointing in the right direction I think, with quite a few that made me smile thinking back to the possible explanations we came up with over time. It is all there in the answers, so nice. Anyway.. We froze water and water with cells in copper tubes of about 1 mm outer diameter and 0.5 mm inner diameter. The tubes were clamped tightly shut at the end and immersed in a cryogen like liquid propane at -180°C. Although we can not look inside the tube as it happens (I wish!) what goes on is probably this: when a non deformable container filled with water is immersed in a cryogen the water cools inside and expands somewhat in its liquid form when the temperature decreases below 4°C. Of course that generates some pressure inside the container but not huge. At the lowest temperature of ~ -43°C pure water MUST freeze, but if the water was containing particulates it would freeze at a temperature somewhere between 0 and -43°C. So 'at the latest' as soon as the inside temperature locally has dropped to below -43°C ice is formed. The ice is regular ice, initially at least. Because the density of this ice is lower than that of the water it is generated from (in other words the ice takes up more space than the water), the pressure goes up and continues to go up as more ice is being formed. At some stage, when about 50% of the water has been frozen into ice, a pressure of ~ 220 MPa is reached (2200 atmosphere). At this pressure the remaining water has been compressed and has reached a density of about 1.08. The ice that can be formed under that pressure is no longer limited to the regular ice form (Ice Ih) that we know from snow and frozen water puddles. It is plausible that Ice III and Ice II will be generated next to Ice Ih. As was pointed out in several answers Ice II and III are dense having a density of ~ 1.17, which is denser than the water these ice forms (called polymorphs) are generated from. If only these particular polymorphs of ice were formed, the pressure would drop since ice II and III take up less space than the water. So it is thought that some Ice Ih is formed at the same time and the pressure in this way kept at a flat level. Again, the assumption is that the container will not deform, or not deform significantly at least. Deformation is not a timeless process. So if the cooling is fast enough one can actually achieve this pressure and contain it for a short while. As soon as all of the water is frozen, the system stabilises and  containers can be stored at liquid nitrogen temperatures without anything happening practically for an indefinite period of time. It is interesting to not only look at what happens during cooling in the container, but also what would happen if the container were to be opened once the contents is frozen. Opening the container at liquid nitrogen temperature (-196°C) releases the pressure from the contents but only where the contents is exposed. Deeper inside the container (at least in our hands) the high pressure ice is preserved in its original compressed condition. Warming up however, results in recrystallisation of the ice from high density to low density Ice Ih. This starts from a temperature as low as -140°C at the exposed ice surface, but warmer temperatures (~-60°C) are required to convert the ice that is still held compressed deeper inside the container. We have a scanning electron microscopy movie that was recorded at low temperatures inside the microscope that shows how the ice expands from a copper tube container and is being pushed out from the opened tube like tooth paste at -60°C. Some will say that copper is a very soft metal and therefore likely to deform. This is really something to consider seriously as a possible threat to containing the pressure. What helps is the geometry of the tube (wall thickness is half the outer diameter), the fact that copper becomes somewhat stronger when cooled down and most of all the fact that the whole process from beginning (immersion in cryogen) to end (everything frozen) takes less than 0.5 sec. Having said that, occasionally we do actually hear soft "explosions" when some of the tubes give in to the pressure, but those are probably tubes with wall deficiencies. Impressive when one realises that just a few microliters (milligrams) of water can blow up a copper tube..... Hope that helps. For who is interested, this work was published in J. Microscopy 235 (2009), pages 25-35 