How does per capita income vary with income inequality at the county level?
This is mostly going to be fun with data.  I don't have a narrative to tell and I don't intend to because I will inevitably be wrong when I come up with one. Here goes. On a first-order level, it appears there is a relationship between inequality and income at the county level: The higher the median income, the lower the GINI index.  True, it doesn't look like it has a whole lot of predictive power since it looks kind of like a shotgun smattering. To first order, it also looks like GINI correlates to poverty. Now this seems like a pretty big fat 'duh' because GINI is the difference between the poor and the rich, and the more poor people there are, the bigger it seems like the rich people are, right? Sort of.  It's possible that the entire county is poor and there are no rich people, thus low inequality with high poverty.  From the data it looks like that's rather uncommon, though.  Also never mentioned is the very real possibility that rich people live in rich counties and poor people live in poor counties, thus hiding a broader inequality and masking it at the county level.  You could quantify that by the difference between the average county-level GINI coefficient and the country-level GINI coefficient.  If the county GINI is consistently smaller than the national GINI, then you know the counties are highly income compartmentalized. (Incidentally, US GINI coefficient:  0.42.  Average of counties:  0.435 -- not too compartmentalized, it seems.  I wonder how it looks when you go by city...) But yes, GINI is going to correlate positively with poverty in the US range. (Incidentally, when I actually look at the numbers, it looks like there's a bunch of fudge going on with the graph as-presented.  You might want to request to be able to play with the colors, because if the point is to look at inequality, then the high/low inequality colors should be dissimilar and the low/high income colors should be similar, but instead they did the opposite so what sticks out is income, not inequality.  Also, there's not a whole lot of difference between "low inequality" and "high inequality," and there's waaay too much in between zone to distinguish high poverty and low poverty.) I then took rankings and correlated them to see if there was anything a bit more useful there. GINI vs income rank: Compresses income level GINI rank vs income rank: Expands GINI coefficient out The correlation looks a fair bit more clear now, as you can see how it clusters in the corners. GINI rank vs poverty rank: Again, the correlation looks more clear. To see if there was anything more useful (perhaps a story the data could tell?) I broke it out by county population. Here's poverty vs county population: There's not a whole lot of information there, except that it doesn't seem that smaller counties are poorer as you might expect from all those movies that portray dirt farmers. Here's how the charts look when broken out by population: Income vs GINI: Poverty vs GINI: Looking at the correlation lines, it doesn't seem that population density has much effect on these relationships.  Hmm... But it does appear that when you change the population level, the strength of the effects change.  Here are the slopes of the lines by population level: Income: So the higher the population, the smaller the slope gets (note the '-' sign on the y-axis), but it's also a smaller slope at a very low population, too.  These places just are what they are, and giving them more money won't change the distribution much.  But for the 5k-50k counties, somehow increasing everyone's income (without anyone noticing) would drop the inequality just a little more than the other groups. Of course, I'm missing the great big elephant in the room -- the correlation between poverty and income level: Yep, that looks exactly like I expected it to. This obviously means that whatever positively correlates to poverty levels, will by default negatively correlate negatively to income levels. To get rid of this effect, I took the residuals -- taking out how much of the poverty can be "explained" by income levels. It turns out that after you remove the income dependency from the poverty rate, the correlation persists. overall: The worst offender:  the densely populated county. Or, when the area is densely populated, there is a stronger relationship between poverty and inequality, regardless of income level. Anyway, that's enough futzing around with numbers.  I don't really have a story except the first order thing. 