How did Jared Morgenstern get recruited to Facebook?
In late 2003, I started a social networking company with Eddie Lim and Eoin Matthews called Metails.com, short for "Details about Me." If you were looking a girl's profile, it was her Shetails; if you were looking at a guy's profile, his Hetails. The concept was to enable individuals to express the products and brands they loved - their style - as part of their identity. By doing so, our goal was to facilitate product and brand discovery free from any advertising bias. Metails enabled you to import your purchases from dozens of e-commerce partners. These products became part of your profile and when your friends purchased an item, our site got a commission and we redistributed the commission between the buyer and the recommender. The concept was to enable buying based on word of mouth, cut out the middle man advertisers, and redistribute value to those involved. In addition to products, your profile included many of the aspects of the then popular Friendster: photos, blogs, and comments. We launched on January 15th, 2004. Facebook launched less than three weeks later, as TheFacebook.com, on February 4th, 2004. I studied it hard. At first only current students could sign up, but there was a sign-up form for alumni to get notified as soon as the site was opened up. I filled that out and waited. Several days or weeks later, I was notified that I could sign up. I was user number 703. I was impressed with the speed and the simplicity of the site, including the 3 bullet points that described its purpose on the main login page. Several friends encouraged me to try to talk with Mark Zuckerberg about possibly working together. I did not do this immediately. I waited four weeks to see how it would grow. I discovered that we were using the same hosting provider and that [sitename]/stats yielded traffic charts for both of our sites. Facebook's dense college network-based growth (at that time, Harvard only) was surpassing our product interest graph growth rapidly. Then, two things caused me to reach out. The first was that I realized they were going to expand to more schools. The second was that I read Mark's comments defending the site's privacy model and controls on a yahoo Harvard alumni group. It was clear to me that he was very sophisticated in his thinking. A friend of mine, I believe it was Tali Rapaport, introduced us via email and Mark and I planned to meet at Finagle Bagel in Harvard Square. Mark was 10 minutes late to the meeting, and I recall being frustrated. I'm not sure what I was expecting, but within 5 minutes of our interaction, I switched immediately to selling our vision and team members and a way we could work together. This was not what I had planned to do, in fact, I thought quite the opposite - that Mark would try to pitch me on why Facebook was the next best thing. But it was clear from the start that Mark was different. He wasn't reacting to normal social cues - jokes, pauses - he was very concentrated on evaluating the content of my communication. And he was very excited that our monetization approach - friend recommendations - was built into the fabric of the site, a stark contrast to the banner ad companies that had been pitching him. After that meeting, I focused more than 50% of my effort creating screenshots to fill a proposal for how Metails could power word of mouth recommendations and advertising for local businesses, national products and global brands, including how we'd walk from door to door to all the merchants in Harvard Square to get started.  The email dialog around the proposals gave me an opportunity to understand a little more about how Mark thought about the world and the same of me for him. Previously we had seen each other in the computer science labs. The proposal was never accepted, but Mark and I became email pen pals and bounced ideas off of one another about once every quarter. He was rapidly opening up school after school my team was acquired by Buy.com, one of our partner merchants. We both had moved from our college towns to the west coast. After a year at Buy.com, it was clear to me that the innovation in the social space was occurring elsewhere. I had learned a lot about myself - both my limitations and my strengths - transitioning Metails into Yub.com (http://www.yub.com/people/?userID=1 - it remains largely the same today as when I left). At each step of the way I was observing what we were doing and how Facebook was approaching a similar problem. It was clear I wanted to start something new, work for Google, or work for Facebook, and Facebook was at the top of my list. I reached back out to Mark directly in November of 2005: Mark said, you should come here, and here's our recruiter. My interviews included Dustin Moskovitz, Aaron Sittig, and Soleio. Dustin and I talked about mobile, his desk side by side with Zuck's in the corner of 156. Aaron wore a very intimidating asymmetric sweater and was very hard to read. Soleio had standing desk and made me draw wireframes on photocopied outlines of the main components of the site. I received 2 homework assignments that night, and I stayed up late - powering through the start of a cold - to make sure they had it by 2:00am (assignment 1: http://www.facebook.com/photo.ph... and assignment 2: http://www.facebook.com/photo.ph...). I started on February 13th, 2006 with Eddie Lim, Jon Warman, and James Wang, about two years after Facebook launched. Since then, my focus has never strayed too far from the original conversation I had with Mark at Finagle Bagel in Harvard Square - aligning company monetization with the interests of our users. 