How do social network algorithms work?How do social networking sites like Facebook & twitter link users together so quickly?
For a quick and non-technical treatment of the basic concept involved, enter one of the building blocks of network analysis: Granovetter's "Forbidden Triad." I'll let wikipedia lay this out:  If we consider any two randomly selected individuals, such as A and B, from the set S = A, B, C, D, E, ..., of all persons with ties to either or both of them, then, for example, if A is strongly tied to both B and C, then according to probability arguments, the B-C tie is always present. The absence of the B-C tie, in this situation, would create, according to Granovetter, what is called the forbidden triad. In other words, the B-C tie, according to this logic, is always present, whether weak or strong, given the other two strong ties. In this direction, the "weak tie hypothesis" postulates that clumps or cliques of social structure will form, being bound predominately by "strong ties", and that "weak ties" will function as the crucial bridge between any two densely knit clumps of close friends [Wikipedia: Interpersonal ties] So, once Twitter/Facebook knows a couple of your friends, it has some pretty good guesses about other people you are likely to know, and the more friends you have in common, the stronger the likelihood that you will close the loop and be friends with the person. There are a number of other methods involved, but this one is fundamental. As for how the actual algos work, you're going to want to explore a topic area known as "Graph Algorithms." Essentially any social network can be thought of as a graph, where each person is a node and the link between each node is an edge (if two people are friends, an edge exists, and if they have a strong tie (e.g. contact each other frequently) that edge becomes stronger/thicker). That's why Facebook's method of serving you content used to be known as "EdgeRank" because they use edge weight to determine what people they think you are most connected to and thus whose content you will be most interested in. There are a large number of algo methods to explore/exploit social graphs. 