What are the two or three graphs or tables that a topline investor pack should contain?
Three elements that go into a good pitch deck, apart from the elements mentioned  (cap table, potential growth, market sizing): 1. Early Market Traction - Charts tracking the initial traction you have had with your product. Demonstrating a good grasp of the metrics you should be measuring and tracking in your respective vertical is key. If you're an e-commerce site, it would be the usual - CAC, CLTV, conversion rates, cart abandonment rates, average basket size, churn etc. If it's a SaaS product, it would be monthly recurring revenues, ARPU, cost per acquisition, so on and so forth. Data/infographics on what you have achieved already with your product always makes a stronger impact than what the growth potential could be. 2. Revenue vs CF Chart - to give a sense of timeframe to breakeven, and more importantly, Use of Capital - Revenue - encompasses several important factors like your pricing strategy, volumes you are expecting to reach - Burn rates? What are you spending money on? Major cost buckets? - Payables cycles. Great if you book lots of revenue, but not so great if you have poor pay masters making up for a significant portion of your customers, especially if you are a B2B company which relies on a small number of big account customers. Of course, investors would discount your said forecasts accordingly after testing assumptions, but it is always good to see how the entrepreneur is thinking about cash management, especially for the next 1-2 years, or however long you think the funds you are raising will last you until you raise the next round. 3. Timeline Graph on Hiring/Expansion Plan - What are the key hires you plan to make this year, with the funding you plan to raise? - Total estimated team count as per time line? Of course, it is key in every pitch deck to put across messages in a simple but effective way. Pitch decks need to be short and information dense. Updated 18 Apr 2014 • View Upvotes