What is the significance of the expander mixing lemma?
tl;dr It's really useful if you need to sample from a space and you are able to walk around in it. I'm taking a class and we've been learning a lot about this stuff. The expander mixing lemma says that if you have a certain type of "well-connected" graph called an expander, then if you take a random walk on that graph, starting at an arbitrary vertex, you will approach the stationary distribution pretty quickly. Besides being interesting, this has a lot of algorithmic applications, because it gives you a way to sample (usually uniformly) from interesting spaces. All you need to do is have a way to walk around in this space and then show that the graph for this space has sufficiently good expansion. For example, you can sample from a (high-dimensional) convex body this way. This is technical so I won't go into details, but you can form a grid of points inside the body and walk around on them, jumping from a point to one of its neighbors, until you have mixed. Sampling from a convex body is useful because it can also be used to estimate the volume of a convex body in polynomial time (see A random polynomial-time algorithm for approximating the volume of convex bodies). This is really interesting, because it's one of a few cases where we know how to do something with randomization, but not deterministically. Another thing you can do with the mixing lemma is approximate the permanent of a matrix with non-negative entries. (It is #P-hard to do so exactly.) This uses similar ideas as above. I'll attempt to illustrate. A special case of estimating the permanent is estimating the number of perfect matchings in a given bipartite graph. Here is the basic idea for doing so: let M k   be the set of matching in the graph of size k. We will estimate the ratio for M k+1 /M k   for each k. Then we multiply these all together to get M n /M 1   . M 1   is the set of edges, so we can estimate M n   this way. To estimate M k+1 /M k   , we will sample uniformly from the space of matchings M k ∪M k+1   and estimate the probability that such a matching is in M k   : this will give us the ratio M k+1 /M k   . For certain dense classes of graphs, M k   and M_{k+1] will each be a substantial fraction of M k ∪M k+1   that the ratio is feasible to estimate by sampling. Then we take a random walk in the space of matching M k ∪M k+1   , where at each step, we either remove an edge, add an edge, or replace one of the edges. Thus, you are taking a walk on a graph whose nodes correspond to matchings of a bipartite graph. You can show that this larger graph has good enough expansion, so by the expander mixing lemma, this random walk converges to the desired uniform distribution quickly enough. The more general case of estimating the permanent of any matrix with non-negative entries is more complicated, but I believe it uses some similar ideas: see http://www.cc.gatech.edu/~vigoda.... I'm sure there are more applications but these are just the ones I've learned about. 