In what cases has the U.S. military (not wayward individuals) been accused of targeting civilians and to what degree do specific allegations have merit?For instance, civilian deaths have been mentioned in regards to, say, Hiroshima and the use of drones. Perhaps military should include agencies such as the CIA. Inspired by a comments discussion with Jon Davis here: Jon Davis' answer to What's the difference between freedom fighters and terrorists?
There are numerous times when the United States has intentionally targeted civilian centers and populations. Most of them, however, did not take place in the current era of warfare, which I am considering after the fall of the atomic bomb. This is a rather long and in depth answer on the history of attacks by the United States military as well as some of their reasons behind doing so. This is admittedly blank for much of history. I simply don't want to write that much and want to focus on major events of history and more current actions taken in the course of modern warfare. Some of your favorite wars may not be mentioned, such as warfare against the Native Americans, Korea, Vietnam or many of the other acts of warfare in the history of the United States. Also is not listed any of the actions of intelligence agencies such as the CIA. Frankly, I am not an expert on them and to say that their history is muddled would be an understatement. So, please enjoy my lengthy screed on the subject in question. Revolutionary WarThere is a great deal of evidence that shows that the early exploits of John Paul Jones and the early Continental Navy engaged in targeting civilian trade in efforts to disrupt British supplies and revenues. Some might go so far as to call many of the tactics of the time and the overall strategy piracy. I have in jest numerous times. In that era it was generally considered a legitimate form of warfare and practiced widely by all the major naval powers of the era. Of course the military takeover of a civilian vessel and its cargo would not be acceptable by today's standards. American Civil WarSherman's March through the South during the Civil War is a famous example of this concept in action and one would be fair in wondering if this is something we should compare with modern terrorism. Yet, it isn't and there is an important reason that you need to understand for where we are going. What General Sherman did toward the end of the Civil War was lead a large army deep into Confederate territory. There he torched farms and even cities. He destroyed ports and severed communication lines. Famously he even dismembered railroad tracts, heating up the steel and wrapping the beams around trees in what was referred to as "Sherman's Knot". While I can't say for sure if civilians themselves were targeted, I have never seen that they were, it is sure that thousands probably died at least from the lack of infrastructure that the General destroyed. So why would you do this instead of just fighting the military? This is a case of total war and is the final point when wars have reached their ugliest. In the mid-19th century, "total war" was identified by scholars as a separate class of warfare. In a total war, there is less differentiation between combatants and civilians than in other conflicts, and sometimes no such differentiation at all, as nearly every human resource, civilians and soldiers alike, can be considered to be part of the belligerent effort.[1] During that period the theory on war was that in truth, you went to war with an entire country, not just between militaries. Still, civilian casualties were a thing to be avoided. We were all Americans afterall. That isn't, however, to say that the civilian infrastructure wasn't a valued target. As the old axiom goes, an army marches on its stomach, and more modern translations of this is a focus on the incredible importance that logistics plays in warfare. In the case of the Civil War South, their entire nation was geared toward fighting or funding the war. To damage their exports through naval blockades or just to outright burn their crops, had a direct and measurable effect on ending their ability to fund their army. By dismantling their railroads, the country was literally cut in two to the point that shipping goods, supplies, and fresh troops to and from one side of the country went from taking days to weeks or months. Essentially, it was a strategy to starve the South. Barbaric? Not really. We have to remember that the Civil War was by far the bloodiest event in American history, military or otherwise. You can observe the total American dead from the Civil War was so great that it equals about half of all wartime casualties of the entire United States military history.[2] The call to end the war as quickly as possible was a life saving one that almost all good historians will agree to. By severing the South's ability to raise money, move troops and goods, and respond to the North's actions they quickly lost the war. It was truly a study of utilitarian virtue where the loss of few hundred people and the economy of the South, saved tens, if not hundreds of thousands of American military and civilian lives. For this type of event to be considered ethical or humane, however, the belligerent force must have the means to quickly and completely stop the enemy's infrastructure and capability to function as a viable military or economic power. Reasonably they must also be capable of providing the reconstruction of that infrastructure as well, along with the ability to treat and care for the welfare of the displaced and battered civilian population when the war is over. So that I am clear and not misquoted later, four planes are in no way capable of doing these things. Indian WarsI wanted to address the Indian Wars where attacks against civilian populations took place at the command of at least General grade officers. I will be the first to admit that I don't know that much about this conflict, that what I do know I don't like. Since I am admittedly ignorant of this period I have written what I believe to be true in a response to Jim Gordon's comment below. World War II Seeing that this answer is getting longer than I had expected, I am skipping to WWII for obvious questions. In World War II the type of warfare that was practiced the same type of "total war" that I talked about during the American Civil War. In fact, it had evolved to become a much, much more potent form of violence. While we can trace it to many things, I am going to put the start of the WWII era practice of targeting civilians during the Spanish Civil War. There German involvement in the Spanish Civil War included military advisers and the addition of a Luftwaffe unit and modern warplanes. Italians also sent support and on the opposition, Mexico and Russia aided as well. During this war, the strategy of what we now call "carpet bombing" was tested for the first time successfully. The example of this is the city of Gernica in 1937. The Germans tried out many prototypes in Spain, and a variety of aerial tactics, from dive-bombing (in restricted and near-secret experiments) to large scale bombing of civilian populations.[3] Large scale artillery, which had been a city leveler since well before World War I was also becoming more and more advanced, now rivaling the class of weapons many countries now rely on even today. Guernica following the German and Italian bombing of the city in 1937. The reasoning for this amount of carnage was that the Spanish Government was desperate to wipe out the Rebel Nationalists once they had gained a foothold. With that, absolute destruction of the city and many others became an accepted and adopted practice because of the success that had shown in ending a rebellion's will and capability to fight. After Gernica we skip ahead to some of the major events of the rest of the war in Europe. Germany's relentless press for domination of Europe was total indeed. Numerous cities fell when they were blasted into complete ruin. What was important for modern readers to understand is that by the time the Germans did it, the strategy was actually part of their overall Blitzkrieg (Lightning War) strategy. Essentially it held the same premise that Sherman had in the Civil War. The goal is to essentially wipe out an enemy's capabilities to fight. This doesn't mean kill everyone until no one is left. The truth was that there were many more populated cities that could have been targeted, but had little strategic value. There weren't enough bombs in the world to hope to achieve this anyway. The goal was to destroy the war machine, the military support infrastructure that kept the military moving. Factories which produced everything from planes to ball bearings were crucial in the fight and were crucial targets as well. The allies countered by adopting the same strategy, if not for survival than at least for revenge. This continued throughout the war and the tactics only increased potency. By the time the Americans entered the war a typical bombing mission had already evolved into what would now be considered the attempted complete annihilation mission for either side. Massive area carpet bombing was the new norm. It wasn't really that it was the goal to destroy everything, but only what was really needed, however, technology was the limiting factor. We forget that we didn't always have precision guided missiles and robot planes. At the start of World War II for the Americans we had little more than planes flying so high that they avoided anti-aircraft fire, a few miles up, and 300 lbs. bombs propelled only by gravity. The USAAF believed the B-17 had a 1.2% probability of hitting a 30 metres (100 ft) target from 6,100 metres (20,000 ft), meaning that 220 bombers would be needed to ensure a target's destruction. This also means that miles and miles around the target were going to be destroyed as well. I want to remind readers that all parties involved were guilty of this sort of warfare. With that we can see by the end of the war across the board the world lost many of its cities and would see them in smoldering ruins. In no particular order:  Shanghai, Wuhan, Chongqing, Juelich, Berlin, Dresden, Coventry, Malta, Warsaw, Cologne, Rotterdam, Tokyo, Berlin and London, just to name a few. And of course, there is Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Dresden after the Allied bombing campaign. The Dawn of Atomic Warfare. No history of U.S. military targeting civilians could be respected if it ignored Hiroshima and Nagasaki. These were the most obvious cases and so frightening in the way that they were carried out that their memory haunt many of us today. First, however, some context. While bombing missions had become more efficient in the European theater, strategic pressures were now on the Americans to end the war quickly. While our sacrifice was minimal when you consider what was faced by the Chinese, Polish, French, Russians, English and scores of others, the war for many had gone on long enough and needed to come to a close. Perhaps more importantly, now that Europe was done Russia was gathering itself back together and preparing to fully join the war in the East. The history of warfare between the Russians and Japanese left them more than willing to fight their old enemy and claim their lands. The Americans knew that pressure was on to secure a Japanese surrender before the Russians could mount an invasion which would have likely led to a political and culturally divided country in the same that Germany was to end up Korea would become years later. The Americans were determined to prevent this. This urgency to end the war led to a terrifying bombing campaign against the Japanese mainland toward the end of the war. This of course culminated with the bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Factually speaking, these cities were similar to others in Europe that had far worse fates. Yes, the devastation suffered by the bombs were actually less potent then attacks that took place in most other parts of the war. Even the city of Tokyo, an attack most forget, suffered a worse fate. In one raid on Tokyo in the night of March 9-10, 1945, 100,000 civilians perished during a firestorm that occurred after the incendiary bombs hit the ground. This number is in fact more than many estimates for either of the atomic bombings. Rationally we can explain that these cities were devastated so completely because of their importance to the Japanese Empire. Both cities were labelled as urban/industrial zones with significant military production, including numerous military facilities. Most factories and strategic targets to the war were surrounded by densely packed civilian centers. These residential areas all served to funnel workers to the large factories at their hubs and created essentially towns around the factory. This may have been an efficient model, but when it was decided that the factories had to be destroyed, it meant disaster for the Japanese. This was the same story for Hiroshima, Nagasaki and the Japanese capital of Tokyo as well as others. What does make Hiroshima and Nagasaki different is that they were the result of only a single weapon each. One single bomb was now able to do the damage of thousands that were necessary to take down cities like Tokyo, or the many thousand needed for attacks like Dresden, Berlin or London. We had reached the final point in warfare up to that point. I do want to state that there was significant military value to attacking these two cities in particular. They were major production centers for the war effort in Japan and part of its military production backbone. To also make the point that it was more than simple terror, there were much more populated cities that could have been the targets for those attacks; Kyoto, Yokohama and Niigata for example. Nagasaki was a late addition to the list of possible choices because, being surrounded by mountains, it was thought that it would have an increased effect if the weapon were used there. It fact it the original target for that day was the Kokura Arsenal with its naval base and weapons stores was the primary target, a much more obvious military target. Nagasaki only received it's sad fate, because Kokura was blanketed in cloud cover which it was thought may hinder the mission. Since it was decided that the bombs had to be dropped visually and not by radar, the mission was sent to Nagasaki. [4] What we can say with absolute certainty is that, while the extended carpet and fire bombings of cities like Dresden, Berlin, London and Tokyo did not bring about the immediate surrender of their countries, Hiroshima and Nagasaki did. Though devastating and remarkable in power and awe inspiring fear, these bombs, labelled as the most evil and terrible invention of war in the history of humanity, ended World War II in a matter of days. While the loss of a few hundred thousand in a matter of moments is something that even today we can't fathom, it was the event that ended a war that took the lives of as many as 85,000,000 people, a whole 4% of the world's population at that time. Estimates for what would have happened had a full on invasion of the Japanese mainland taken place have placed American casualties at around 90% with the Japanese likely loosing another several million at least. We may even have had to settle a country that would look much more like the divided Korean Peninsula today than the Japan we now know. While I don't want to stand up and say what a good thing for the world the Atomic bomb was, I do hope that I have shown an argument for how deeply misunderstood these weapons and their usage are today. There is a utilitarian truth that they saved many lives times the lives that were lost to them. Pragmatically we can't help but realize that since they were dropped, the world has changed for the better. The threat of war has most frequently been the worst thing that could happen and even when wars do break out, they are never more than regional conflicts with international support. Even in the last decade of warfare, we can see that at no time in the last 70 years has the world been more at peace. Check out this graph to see what I mean. It was created by a team in Norway to research the changes in war since the start of World War II. I don't want to be mistaken. I am going to drop the attempt that I am trying to feign being a good essay writer or even a decent historian and just be me for a moment. I don't think that the Atomic Bombs were a wonderful thing that brought the world peace at last. Quite honestly, for the decade leading up to their fall in 1945, the entire world lost its damned mind. Military technology cascaded in the most advanced grasp for power in the history of man. No other time including the present could hope to compare. It was a terrible time to be a human and a legacy we will all carry for the rest of history. While I do believe that the bombs were pivotal in ending the war, I believe more so they were a wake up call. They fell and everyone was forced to stop and ask with a deep sense of honesty, "What have we become?" not as individual nations, but as a species, to require such acts to maintain our survival. World War II was important for us all because it truly changed everything. Because of that realization of our destructive power we changed the way we fight, the way we communicate and our values. Where that is relevant to this question is that we would no longer accept the wholesale slaughter of civilians. World War II was the end of an era of warfare that would leave the world with a legacy that whole populations could never again be the target of warfare by a modern nation. From this point on we had to evolve. Warfare could never be the same again. Modern WarI'm skipping quite a lot again so that I can focus on the last section being how the military can collide with civilians today. I know that many individual events are being skipped, but this answer is already long enough. With that I wanted to focus specifically on two main events in the modern conflicts that most people want to talk about today; those being the United States initial attack on Iraq labelled, "Shock and Awe" (which in fact brought about this question) and the much more recent and controversial drone warfare program. Iraq War The Iraq war began with the most advanced strategic bombing campaign in history. This was termed "Shock and Awe". It follows the line of strategy known as rapid domination. Shock and Awe was a miracle in execution from a military examiner's prospective. Before it, when a war had to happen (not arguing that Iraq had to happen), it was expected that civilian casualties should be expected to number in the tens of thousands during the opening hours of the war. However, through advances in guided munitions technology, the Americans were able to bring that number down into the hundreds. It is a ridiculous notion to assume that reducing civilian casualties to zero is truly impossible, but to reduce it by more than 95% of what we might have expected only a few decades before and still completely stop the enemy from mounting a counteroffensive is miraculous. If you knew the complete history you would be surprised to know that it was even done with about a tenth of the people that were initially called for before Rumsfeld shaved that number down. There is a reason why Shock and Awe is listed on this answer. Namely because of the perception of many that it was an attack intended for Iraq, the government, military, and most importantly its people. Normally, a key element of the rapid domination stratagem is to disable your enemy's abilities to fight back through disabling their military infrastructure and communication networks. When attacking a country, such as was done in Iraq, to do this you would also need to take down not only military assets, but also civilian power and communication systems as well. It was my belief leading into this write up that this was done in 2003 as it was done in in the Desert Storm invasion of the early 90's. In that invasion facilities like power plants and civilian radio communication centers in and around Baghdad were targeted and destroyed. I was surprised, however, to find that these facilities were in fact not targeted for destruction during the attacks. Key targets included buildings crucial to the Iraqi government, the Iraqi military, Baath party, and several of Saddam's personal palaces were. Targets that were left unharmed included the previously mentioned power stations as well as most civilian communication networks and other facilities. We see evidence of this by the massive number of civilian reporters present at the time of the attacks. We can also see that even after the bombings were concluded, the power to Iraqi street lights continued to shine and the reporters began emailing out their observations that night from rooms with light and running water.  Government television is still broadcasting news that Saddam Hussein is untouched and still in control along with the radio and telephones. Clearly the citizenry and their infrastructure were not the targets of Coalition bombs. Iraqi military and government centers on the other hand were annihilated. There is also the misconception that the "Shock and Awe" is meant to instill terror in the common citizen.  I see that perhaps it could have been named better, but the citizenry simply aren't the target of this effect. As I have mentioned, it is the armed military personnel who were the target of the "terror" element of S&A. It was meant to scare them enough to abandon their posts or surrender for absolute certainty of annihilation. This was the perfect way to end a war as soon as possible with the fewest possible casualties on either side and not pulling the people into a prolonged war. Here is a video that shows some how a precise and devastating military engagement by a disciplined military force, can utterly decimate an enemy military without inflicting unnecessary casualties. This is a report made by a member of the Associated Press on an attack he witnessed where US ground forces engaged an Iraqi force with a single missile which lead to the surrender of more than 50 Iraqi troops. Don't get me wrong. I am not a fan of most of what happened during the Iraq War. It was a cluster from everything after the first two months fraught with political mistakes and disaster after disaster that didn't start to redeem itself until late 2007. Still, it is important to understand the true nature of Shock and Awe, as well as the history of it, to understand from a military point of view how the opening hours of a war should be fought. The military truly did something amazing in the opening days and weeks of the Iraqi war. No other time in history has so much ground been unquestionably taken with so few lives lost on all sides in an actual military invasion then what the Americans and coalition forces did in March of 2003. The military never get any credit for that because what happened next descended into a scaring event that will mar the image of the United States for many years to come as well as the rushed decision to even go. My fear is that wars in the future will be fought in the old way, which incur massive civilian casualties from the beginning only because "Shock and Awe" was what they did in Iraq and Iraq was a failure, so we won't do anything as they did in Iraq. If the lessons of Iraq, both the good and bad, aren't truly understand in future conflicts many millions of people will die in the wars to come, whether the United States has any part in them or not. Drone Warfare The current fount of military ethical debate is without a doubt the use of Unmanned Aerial Vehicles (UAV) in places throughout Afghanistan, Pakistan and much of the Middle East. They are being held responsible for an untold number of thousands of Pakistani civilians and the like. Abroad they are hated and scorned though every major air force is already deep in efforts to attain them themselves. Prior to the invasion of Iraq, even they even had a drone arsenal, though nowhere near as advanced as today's weapons. They are highly profiled in the media, misunderstood in their scope of power and use, as well as in the alternatives to their use. Drones are used today because of their efficiency in delivering reconnaissance and military strikes against enemy targets in extremely remote and geographically difficult terrain across vast distances. In most instances they are welcomed or at least allowed by the governments that control the airspace. In Pakistan the most important actions that have taken place are in a region known as the province of Waziristan, which forms the Northwestern border of Pakistan and runs along the Southeastern edge of Afghanistan. This region is the primary location that Taliban agents seek refuge after attacks in Afghanistan. To make a reference, this area is not too distant from the capital city of Pakistan, Islamabad. It also lies somewhat between Islamabad and the capital city of Afghanistan. It is also not far from the sight of Osama bin Laden's compound. Geographically, though it rests between large population centers, it is still in the extremely mountainous region before the Himalayas retreat into the Indus River valley. This remoteness makes it an ideal hiding place for escaping enemy Taliban. As I mentioned before, the key strategic value to the sight is it's location to former Taliban strongholds in Afghanistan. Today many Taliban fighting in Afghanistan continue to use it as a base of operations with which to conduct operations in Afghanistan. This began when it became known that US military forces were weary to enter the region as they were now crossing over into Pakistan. Knowing this the region soon became a safe haven for Taliban insurgents. Operations and training facilities quickly took root in the area and as I have mentioned before, was near the location of Osama bin Laden's hidden stronghold. It is important to remember that once these forces went into Pakistan, they did not stay. Raids on American and Afghan forces from the region were frequent and resulted in the deaths of many during the war. Forces trained here were also set out throughout the country to conduct operations from reconnaissance to sabotage and suicide bombing. So we see that in Pakistan we have many things working against the efforts to stop the militant insurgency. We have enemy forces safe within the confines of Pakistan, a country which either can not or will not intervene to remove them. The area is highly inhospitable to ground forces, both geographically and politically. The continued presence of the threat only strengths their ability to make war upon Afghanistan in the future and permanently a successful withdrawal by the Americans. Air strikes may be possible, but continued air strikes are expensive, far too much so to maintain in the long term. The current arsenal of fighting vehicles are made for either large area bombing, bombing of large targets, or for air combat. We have little that can efficiently deliver strikes from a long distance with precision throughout the duration of a very long campaign. I am going to be absolutely clear on this one, we have no choice but to eliminate these people. What we do have that can do this job is the US military unmanned aerial vehicles known colloquially as the "drones." The drones are an excellent force to take down enemy forces in Northern Waziristan. While reports would have you believe that for every insurgent killed there are thousands of innocent civilians caught in the attacks, the truth of the matter is that it is among the most efficient striking systems yet devised in the way of preventing civilian casualties while eliminating the threat. Todd Gardiner has collected a great deal of information on the subject and shows in his answer to How are drone attacks different than manned airstrikes? that this form of warfare is far less deadly to the a local population than what you might expect in traditional warfare where troops are forced to clear cities in house to house fighting and civilian targets quickly become the targets of terrorist bombings such as what happened in Iraq or Afghanistan. Drones are hugely more effective, produce far fewer civilian casualties and are usually conducted with the tacit (or proclaimed) approval of the government controlling the air space they are operated in. Overall casualties for the Pakistan Drone Campaign (2004-2012) are as follows: [Group: High Estimate to Low Estimate, from The Year of the Drone] Militants: 2769 to 1618 Unknowns: 268 to 130 Civilians: 192 to 153 This means the average non-militant casualty rate over the life of the program is 15-16 percent. In 2012 it was about 1%. What makes them more effective? Over the past eight years the on-the-ground information network has improved. Waziris understand that informing the Pakistan government of the locations of Taliban and Al-Qaeda compounds means that they can be invisibly observed for days on end from the sky and a targeted strike made when it is prudent and highly effective. And the strikes are made to be effective. The average number of deaths per strike is less than seven people over these past four years. This to be compared with the 110,000 people reportedly killed throughout the campaign in Iraq over the last decade, around 50,000 to 60,000 of them being civilians. Most of these were killed by none other than the types of insurgents that we are fighting in Pakistan. We can also see why, the alternative to this kind of warfare is much more deadly than what we are seeing today. So then, why am I putting this kind of attack down on an answer like this down if it is my belief that in spite of popular belief, the drone program does not specifically target civilians? Perception. It is my belief that there is a great deal of misunderstanding surrounding the drone program. Namely that people don't think it is right, moral, fair and most importantly necessary. I would like to go on longer about the issue, but there are only a few points about it that feel need to be made clear about the campaign for a truly informed populous to rationally give their consent or condemnation. There is an insurgency force attacking Afghanistan that seeks shelter in remote regions of Pakistan. They utilize true terrorism, the purposeful targeting of civilians with the intention of motivating them to political action. This includes threats, kidnapping and murder. They hide in and among civilian targets and do not act as a recognizable military nor do they adhere to the any of the laws of warfare followed by legitimate militaries. Pakistan has shown either an unwillingness or an inability to police this issue, or a the very best a token effort to do so. Some of their tactics have included manipulation of the media to show unverifiable and exaggerated numbers of civilian casualties. To compound this the claims of civilian casualties will always be exaggerated because the United States is the only nation today which pays the families of victims of collateral damage condolence payments. As Dan Holliday puts it in Military Ethics: American Drone warfare in Pakistan ... How is this comparable to the actions and tactics of Al Qaeda? "The USA doesn't spend a lot of time vetting claims -- it generally pays the expected amount (within reason) and wants the issue buried.  For this reason, few of the actual civilian claims are verified." [5] Continuing with this we must accept that: The insurgent forces must be killed to ensure that the Afghanistan government will have the ability to ensure that Taliban rule is not reestablished after the US leaves. Of all possible methods, drone strikes are by far the best way to ensure that militant threats are eliminated and that civilian casualties are minimized. The lives lost to drone strikes can be measured, be they civilian or militant. The lives saved by attacking those who willing do harm to civilians cannot be measured so easily. With that, I hope I leave you with at least a little bit of what you should know about the drone attacks on Pakistan, whether or not it is my belief that they should be included in an answer like this. SummaryWhile I hate to say trite things like how necessary the atomic bombs and drone strikes may have been, that they may have just been a necessary evil, or to dismiss so much as collateral damage, I hope that I have shown an argument for how deeply misunderstood these weapons and their usage are today. Dealing with ethics on matters like military involvement in death and destruction of civilian populations is a harsh battleground for ethical debate. It isn't, however, devoid of ethics because at least few of the ethical options include the death of other individuals. Within the muck and mire of total warfare we deal with the utilitarian and pragmatic search for greatest good available. Warfare is a reality and those who believe that it is the absence of morality suffer from a dangerous naivety and ignorance about how wars are fought. By looking at these wars in the passivist's deontological argument, all warfare is wrong. While the opposite extreme, we today don't understand there ever being a time where a civilian would be allowed to be attacked in the hopes of ending a war. To explore the true nature of real war you have to accept that wars are fought by men who are fathers and sons, women who are sisters and daughters. They each have a moral footing that allows them to fight and do so with the belief that they are the good guy. A nation and a people can't do this if there is not some ethical base with which to stand on, some reason that years later they will be able to accept that the choices they made in war were the right ones. I took part in what we call the War on Terror. From my perspective, I am proud of how we conducted ourselves given history as a context. To be clear that is, how the United States military has conducted itself. Yes, we are responsible for most of difficult things that are going on right now. We are making the most controversial decisions across the world. The choices we make are hurting the most people. It is easy to measure the deaths, but it is impossible to measure how many lives have been saved by making difficult decisions. All these are troubling, but need to be understand. With that understanding I believe that when we are a few paragraphs on pages of some future civilization's history books, our story will be one our predecessors will understand and be proud of. ^ Edward Gunn. "The Moral Dilemma of Atomic Warfare", Aegis: The Otterbein College Humanities Journal, Spring 2006, p. 67. NB Gunn cites this Wikipedia article as it was on 27 September 2005, but on only for the text of the song "The Thing-Ummy Bob". United States military casualties of war Beevor, Antony (2006). The Battle for Spain: The Spanish Civil War 1936–1939. London: Phoenix. ISBN 978-0-7538-2165-7. Andrew Warinner's answer to Why did the US use its last nuclear weapon of World War 2 on a relatively insignificant city? Hearts, Minds and Dollars: Condolence Payments in the Drone Strike Age 