What's something that is common knowledge at your workplace, but would be mind-blowing to the rest of us?See also follow-up question: What is commonly known (or believed) in one country, which would be mind-blowing to foreigners?
What if I told you that in the shop on earth where you buy the most expensive items, most salesperson actually know very little about their product ? I had the opportunity to work a month in the biggest and historical shop of the world's top jewelry brand, the shop was situated at Rue de la Paix in Paris. It was in December and billionaires were doing their Christmas shopping. I was a sales assistant and my role was basically to take care of everything while the salesperson could focus on the customer. What was impressive is how well every salesperson knew their customers, they were most of the time friends. One of them told me he had been invited several time on a customer's yacht for holidays for instance. Or there was this billionaire coming every week -and buying- items, just to spend time with a saleswoman he was probably quite in love with, (since the guy's wife didn't wear jewelry). What blew my mind was to see how little they knew about the products they were selling. They had pre-made arguments but they wouldn't really understand them.   A large part of my family is in the jewelry craft making business. I grew up in it and I could see that they didn't really know what they were talking about. I mean, if you'd buy a 500K€ watch or ring (they sold some while I was there) wouldn't you expect an expert telling you everything from A to Z about the movement or the stone? But wait, one story is quite mind blowing. In the shop, there were private lounge for the most important customers. And of course only the most experienced salespersons who were greeting customers there. On average they had been working there for 20 to 30 years. One day one of these salespersons called me to come help. She had a customer who apparently thought she had a problem with her watch. The saleswomen showed me the watch and said there was a problem with the way the watch hands were moving. So she asked me to bring the watch to the after-sales service which was upstairs. I did. The guy upstairs looked at the watch and strictly didn't find any problem. So I brought back the watch downstairs to the saleswoman telling her they didn't find any problem to fix. She took the watch from the tray I was carrying and and approached the dial close to my eyes. She went like "Don't you see the hands have a jerky motion". I remember retaining myself to literally explode in laughing. She had not realized it was a quartz watch movement. (neither did the customer) Maybe 95% of the world watches have that type of movement with the hands moving in a jerky way. But no, she really thought it was an automatic watch. (see the difference here) The moral of the story is that in this shop, (but it is also the case in other top luxury shops), they choose the salespersons on a specific criteria which is their address book : who they know, which princess, billionaire of celebrity. But they are far from being selected on their product knowledge. Updated 6 Jan • View Upvotes