Population: How have you noticed the increasing population in your country?How have you noticed the difference in population when you were born(or when you were little or a teenager), when there were billions of people less.
I come from Calcutta/Kolkata, the “City of joy” and I’d say the name is very apt, precisely because of the population of Calcutta, which makes the city what it is. My love-affair with the city however started with intense dislike as I had moved from a tiny rural town of West Bengal, India to Calcutta in the mid-1980s and Calcutta with its ever-growing, bustling, throbbing, pulsating life with little green spaces was no attractive place to my very young self. When I had moved in to Calcutta, its population was somewhere close to 9,194,000. Today, the urban agglomeration, which comprises the city and its suburbs, is home to approximately 14.1 million (as per data collected in 2011), making it the third-most populous metropolitan area in India. The graph below shows that the growth rate of Calcutta was in somewhat similar levels with the growth rate of Los Angeles. Source: The Evolving Urban Form: Kolkata: 50 Mile City There's more to this population growth however, than a positively inclined straight line and this has a bearing on how you experience the population growth. The suburbian growth of Calcutta has contributed to 110% of population growth from 2001 till 2011, and South Calcutta (where I had moved to and used to live) has faced the brunt of it. The population growth in recent years (from 2001-2011) have slowed down a bit and much of the growth part could be attributed to in-migration rather than the fertility rate, which has been lowest among eight metropolitan cities of India: Source: http://pdf.usaid.gov/pdf_docs/PN... Loss of Greenery: On the whole, there has been little greenery anyway in North Calcutta (the oldest part of the city) and Central Calcutta, the areas being densely populated (Calcutta has a population density of 24,000 per square kilometre, nearly the same density as Manhattan, Bombay/Mumbai and Hong Kong.   There used to be bit of a greenery in South Calcutta, with some ponds too. It was no match to what I was used to as a child, but over the years the ponds and the greenery is gone too, as my area falls into those growth pockets. Today, if you want to see greenery in Calcutta, one has to go to certain pockets of the city, like the golf club in Tollygunge or the Maidan area in Central Calcutta (shown below): Loss of familiarity: Yes, there were more people moving in, more buildings being made, and the neighbourhood increasingly felt alien over the years and people were leaving and also moving in double numbers. The familiar particular small shops where you'd go for they make good singaras or because they have good cakes were razed down, because the roads had to be broadened. This is how attempts to build better infrastructure in the area had started, by razing down the old character first. Better infrastructure: Population growth brought in better infrastructure, in terms of better roads, more public transport, and more....and more.....and more....restaurants and eateries. More people, more eateries and take-aways. Calcutta is a foodie's paradise anyway. Mutton Kathi Rolls of Calcutta More shopping malls have come up. And they are always crowded. Buses, trains and LRTs (metro as they are called) are more crowded than ever. The general level of crowd has swelled in waves....and these are but obvious indicators. In general, the growth pockets have seen rise of particular businesses, like eateries as mentioned before, and also beauty parlours or salons, day-care centres and creches, more schools, more sweet shops. Individual cinema theatres have already closed down or are surviving with utmost difficulty. Multiplexes are the popular choice these days. Change of character: In my experience, the crucial change has been in the character of the city. As I had mentioned before, Calcutta is called the "city of joy", and the ability to remain happy and remain laid back inspite of huge mass of people and the associated problems, still remains today. But Calcutta also used to be the city where people were immensely helping, warm and bit of a moral guardian when push came to a shove, where strangers would rush to your aid if you happen to fall sick or are in any kind of a crisis situation, and your religious and caste background meant zilch to anyone, where the city prided itself on its liberal outlook towards women and men. Inspite of the dense population, this used to be my city. And now, one gets to hear how a man in his 50s was left to die in the roads where nobody even asked him what was happening. One gets to hear a single mother being humiliated for being a divorcee in a South Calcutta neighbourhood. One hears too many incidents of "eve-teasing". And then you know there has been too many people in the city, too much of muddy waters that has flown in. All images sourced from Google images. 