What fluids or materials reduce their volume when the temperature rise?Preferably by a reversible process
First off, I am sorry that I can not actually answer your question.  I have heard there are several other systems where this is true, but water is the only system I know of.  I can however, explain why this happens. Pressure and temperature affect substances in different ways.  As an example, if you heat and cool water, it transitions between gas, liquid, and solid.  When you pressurize water, it also transitions between these states.  These states are referred to as phases, and for simplicity sake, let's pretend they are the only three.  Imagine if you made a graph for water at every temperature and pressure, marking down what state/phase it was in.  These graphs are called phase diagrams, and they look like this: This graph is for carbon dioxide, and illustrates the variation of state with changes to temperature, pressure, or both.  An interesting aside, the point labelled D is known as the "triple point", where the substance exists as a solid, liquid, and gas at the same time! As you can see in the las figure, the transition between solid and liquid (B) slopes to the right (positive slope).  If carbon dioxide is held at a constant temperature, an increase in pressure will push the molecules closer together, until their movement is restricted so much they form a solid. Water, on the other hand, is tricky.  The molecule, H2O, consists of a slightly negatively charged oxygen atom, and two slightly positively charged hydrogens.  Just like north and south magnets attract, positive and negative charges attract as well, and water molecules are attracted to other water molecules.  When water is pressurized, the molecules rearrange, and this new packing scheme of theirs just so happens to take up more room.  Pretend people are water molecules, their torsos being the oxygen, and their arms being the hydrogens.  If you are flexible and pliable, you can fit many people into a room, but imagine you are rigid, with your arms sticking out from your body in a V-pattern.  It would be very difficult to fit as many people into the same room!  This is the case with water, the rearrangement causes it to take up more room when rigid (solid), than when flexible (liquid).  The result is a phase diagram that looks like this: Unlike carbon dioxide, and most other molecules for that matter, the slope of the line between solid and liquid is negative (slopes left).  To come back to the question, this means that water reduces it's volume as the temperature increases, because solid water (ice) takes up more room (volume) than liquid water.  Incidentally, density is the ratio of how much substance you have, divided by how much space it takes up.  To put it another way, water is one of the only molecules to have a solid phase which is less dense than its liquid one... and this is why ice floats! 