In what cases has the U.S. military (not wayward individuals) been accused of targeting civilians and to what degree do specific allegations have merit?For instance, civilian deaths have been mentioned in regards to, say, Hiroshima and the use of drones. Perhaps military should include agencies such as the CIA. Inspired by a comments discussion with Jon Davis here: Jon Davis' answer to What's the difference between freedom fighters and terrorists?
Good summary by Joe Davis. I've written about the WW II Allied strategic bombing campaign against Germany and Japan in answers and comments on related questions. For obvious reasons it's one of the controversial issues arising from the war but unfortunately a lot of the commentary fails to rise above the “Churchill was a war criminal too!” level. Nowadays there’s very little understanding of the background to and the rationale for the area bombing of German cities, the atomic bomb strikes, etc. Regarding the former I made these points elsewhere: The strategic bombing offensive against Germany was controversial at the time and remains so today. In the 1920s and 1930s, air power advocates confidently asserted that strategic bombing could rapidly destroy an enemy’s will and capacity to fight by smashing key industries and infrastructure and demoralizing the civilian population. British Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin famously asserted that “The bomber will always get through,” and the idea that the next war would begin with a knock-out blow from the air became firmly fixed in the popular imagination. The doctrine of strategic bombing was enthusiastically embraced by the leaders of the Royal Air Force, which had been made an independent service in 1918. It justified the RAF’s existence and pointed toward a revolution in the art of war that would reduce the Army and Royal Navy to mere adjuncts of the main weapon, the Air. There were dissenters from the concept of strategic bombing, Winston Churchill prominent among them. And when war began in 1939 it quickly became apparent that the Air Staff's prewar planning had badly underestimated the challenges and difficulties of bomber operations in wartime. It also became painfully obvious that the RAF possessed neither the expertise nor the technology to deliver an aerial knock-out blow. Daylight bombing raids resulted in high losses from German fighters and antiaircraft artillery (flak). Night bombing raids revealed that the RAF was pitifully ill-equipped to locate and bomb targets in darkness. The Battle of Britain ought to have raised further doubts about the validity of strategic bombing. Despite all its advantages of numerical superiority and possession of bases in close proximity to targets in Britain, the Luftwaffe failed either to paralyze British industry or to demolish the morale of the British people. But with the fall of France, Britain stood alone against Nazi Germany. Winston Churchill, now prime minister, realized that strategic bombing was his country’s only means of striking directly at the enemy. Great resources were accordingly devoted to the creation of a bomber force capable of delivering on the promises of the interwar air power prophets. With the appointment of the able and energetic Air Marshal Sir Arthur Harris to lead it in 1941, RAF Bomber Command was soon transformed into a powerful weapon of mass destruction. Along with Churchill’s scientific adviser, Lord Cherwell, Harris pressed for the adoption of area bombing by night. Germany’s cities were to be laid in ruins, the objective being to kill and “de-house” German industrial workers. Cherwell and Harris argued that industry, hence industrial workers, hence the cities where they were located, were valid military targets. Anyhow, attempts to conduct daylight precision bombing would only result in prohibitive casualties. Determined to take the fight to Germany in some way, Churchill suppressed his doubts and fell in with their plan. Between 1941 and 1943, new and far more capable aircraft such as the Lancaster and Halifax four-engine bombers were delivered to Bomber Command’s operational squadrons. New, sophisticated navigational aids were introduced. A specially trained Pathfinder Force was created to locate and mark targets for the bomber stream. By 1943 Bomber Command was a formidable force that posed a deadly threat to Germany’s cities. Meanwhile, the US Eighth Air Force, based in Britain, was adding its weight to the strategic air offensive with daylight bombing raids. Considering the enormous effort, the vast human and material resources, that had gone into the creation of the Allied strategic air forces it was inevitable that what had been created would now be used for its intended purpose. 