What are the Dover Publications on mathematics that are absolutely fantastic readings for an undergrad?I’m reading “Infinitesimal Calculus”, by Henle and Kleinberg, a fantastic Dover Publication. I’m loving it, hence this question for people better read than me. I'm looking for books like the one I mentioned: the topic is modern, all the relevant technical details are there, the writing is excellent, and it’s easy to follow even for an undergrad. Thanks!
I have quite a collection of Dover books. Here are a few of my favorites: A Book of Abstract Algebra (Pinter). Very readable, excellent coverage. A great first book on algebra. Introductory Graph Theory (Chartrand). Also quite readable and enjoyable as a first book on graph theory, though not as deep or rigorous as someone with a strong mathematics background might like. Linear Algebra (Shilov). This is one of my favorite texts for linear algebra at the undergraduate level (though a downside is that it doesn't cover inner product spaces). Shilov also has a real and complex analysis text as well as a functional analysis text. They are all quite dense, though, so be warned. Introduction to Topology (Mendelson). This is a fairly short book but, like my other recommendations, it reads very nicely and does provide a very nice introduction to topology for someone that knows very little about it. I also found the introduction to set theory and metric spaces to the clearest of any of the books I own requiring such an introduction. General Topology (Willard). I haven't read this book myself, but I have heard it referred to as a gem several times. The coverage is much more than you will find in my previous recommendation. Partial Differential Equations for Scientists and Engineers (Farlow). If you're interested in partial differential equations at all, this book will serve you well. It covers a wide range of PDEs that anyone interested in applied math will find useful. Elementary Number Theory (Dudley). I nice introduction to number theory. I haven't finished it yet, but it has served me well as a nice introduction to the field. Group Theory and Quantum Mechanics (Tinkham). If you have some background in group representation theory and are interested in physics at all, this book gives a very thorough coverage of group theory's application to quantum mechanics. You mentioned that you want modern topics. Most Dover books are reprints of older texts, so that might be hard to find. Hopefully at least one or two books off my list interest you (even if they aren't exactly covering modern topics). Most of these books are introductions so don't expect them to be at the level of Springer graduate texts. My advice would be to pick up the Dover introduction if you are completely new to the field and look into Springer texts if you want to go further. 