Edward Tufte vs Wisdom of the Crowd: given the technological capability to evaluate the merits of a visualization technique on massive numbers of ordinary people, has any of Edward Tufte's wisdom been upheld, disproven, or found to change (in the society) over time?This question raises one practical possibility of answering this related question: Is there any "bad advice" in Edward Tufte's data visualization books? My motivation for this question comes from the well known fact that large internet companies tend to evaluate web design by doing real-time A/B testing, as a matter of the final stage of validation.
I am a big fan of Tufte’s, having read his books, attended one of his workshops, and followed his writings. I research the best ways to display data in order to support understanding and appropriate use of that data (e.g., effective data visualization, embedded help systems, supplementary data guides, etc.). When researching this topic to develop standards for effective data reporting within the realm of Education(Page on overthecounterdata.com), it was apparent one needs to add other research and common sense to implementation of Tufte’s teachings.   For example, there is a mountain of research on how people of varied roles can be overwhelmed (often causing them to stop viewing the data display) by information abundance and/or density. Thus Tufte’s recommendation for “data density” should not be blindly applied, and the data report’s/display’s audience should be carefully considered. For example, I could be more data dense in an education data display intended for a school district administrator who is more likely to be familiar with the data being communicated than I could be in the same data’s display for a student’s parent, who is less likely to be familiar (and thus more likely to be intimidated by) the data. Personally, I get more from displays that are data dense, but I realize not everyone does.   The manner in which users will be viewing displayed data also merits careful consideration. For example, 56% of educators read printed versions of data reports/displays others use data systems to generate for them (i.e., only 44% of educators actually view the displays online), regardless of efforts to change this reality. Due to the poor printer quality in many school districts (not to mention common black & white printing), some of the borders Tufte mentions omitting from graph elements should not be done without also adjusting the fill/color to ensure delineations have the best chance of being understood under printed circumstances.   Of course, one of my favorite recommendations of Tufte’s is to do “whatever it takes” to communicate intended messages. Thus I imagine Tufte means for a variety of considerations to be applied when crafting data visualizations, and thus I don’t see my comments in this post as contradicting his teachings. Rather, the wealth of conflicting research and varied circumstances are testament to how complex and display-specific the art of data visualization is. Even the research-based data display standards I crafted are meant to be “most case” guidelines, as I imagine Tufte’s recommendations are. An understanding of the many evidence-based guidelines out there and the evolving research base on the topic provides a toolbox from which data report designers can draw (with Tufte providing excellent tools for that toolbox). That’s part of what makes data visualization so fun. :-) 