Lists of Top Quora Content: What are some of the best answers on Quora?Could be the most brilliant, detailed, enlightening, greatest, best source, smartest, wittiest, mind blowing, simple, crazy, touching. In short, answers that makes you say wow...this should be on the all time top answers list of Quora.   For starters, I nominate Tim Morgan 's answer to What do all the controls in an airplane's cockpit do?
knowledge-Raj Arjit's answer to How do barcodes work?  Subhasis Das' answer to How does a computer chip work? Robert Frost's answer to Why does a calendar have 12 months? Why does a clock have 12 digits? What is the logic behind the number 12? David S. Rose's answer to How come no one has been able to figure out or leak the formula to printing money? Faisal Khan's answer to How do they get the graphite leads into a pencil? Faisal Khan's answer to How are major undersea cables laid in the ocean? Yishan Wong's answer to Distribution of Wealth: Can the poor be handed out lots of money to make them rich? Ravi Malani's answer to What events would follow on Earth if the Sun suddenly disappeared? Inspirational- Anonymous' answer to What is the nicest thing you've ever done that nobody knew about until you revealed it here? Subhrajyoti Ghatak's answer to What are the most gripping stories in human history? Ajay Kr. Gautam's answer to What does it feel like to be poor? Intresting-Ajim Bagwan's answer to What is the most awesome paradox? Aditya Rao's answer to What is the most interesting conversation a guy and girl can have? Dinakaran Sankaranarayan's answer to Which is the most awkward moment of your college life? Anonymous' answer to What does it feel like to be secretly rich? Amulya Satish's answer to What are some good short stories? John Levidy's answer to What is it like to have won an unlimited supply of something? Matthew Manning's answer to What do you like most about this world? Garrick Saito's answer to What is the meaning of life? Brijesh Chandrakar's answer to What is the moment when you feel/felt you are alone? Anonymous' answer to What are the best examples of people who have "gamed the system"? Science- Sam Sinai's answer to Why is water transparent? Colm Tuite's answer to Is there a science to picking colors that work well together or is it just subjective? Trym Bruset's answer to What is a cool mathematical thing I can do on the back of a notebook? Health-Kent Fung's answer to How can I stay fit without going to a gym? Why Everyone Should Try Meditation by Jordan Phoenix on Uncommon Sense for 21st Century Living Business-Angad Singh's answer to Which startups have the best stories? Balaji Subramanian's answer to What are some of the greatest marketing disasters in history? Subash Raj's answer to What is the main revenue source of FreeCharge? Productivity- Ashish Gaikwad's answer to Self-Improvement: What things or skills should every 21 year old know? Sibish Rajangam's answer to What's a cool/useful skill/tip that only takes five minutes to learn? Jimeet Shah's answer to What can I learn/know right now in 10 minutes that will be useful for the rest of my life? Vijayraj Kamat's answer to If a ten year old asks me why a US Dollar costs 60 INR, how should I explain it? Anshul Dixit's answer to What are some smart moves a 22-year-old can make as soon as he/she starts earning? Life- Mike Leary's answer to What are the top 10 things that we should be informed about in life? Mohamed Riyaz's answer to What are some small facts that might save your life one day? Rich Tatum's answer to What are the most difficult and useful things people have to learn in their 20s? Ayush Kumar's answer to What are the top ten things I should experience in life? Saravana Msk's answer to Why do we fail? SIX LESSONS OF LIFE by Pritesh Kalantri on Mind Boggling Stories Aswath Krishnan's answer to If we all end up dying, what's the purpose of living? Travel- Shesha Shayana C's answer to How does it feel to travel alone? Arvind Bhatt's answer to Whats the most inexpensive way to travel across Europe if going from India? Emmanuel Orozco's answer to What is it like to quit your job, get a backpack and travel the world? Tips- Shikhar Agarwal's answer to I get angry a lot. What should I do? Great DSLR Learning Resources by Philippe Dame on Learning DSLR Steve Denton's answer to How can 20-year-olds enhance their intelligence? What must an educated person know? Tejasvita Apte's answer to What rights do I have if I have been arrested by the police in India? Deepak Mehta's answer to What are some good house hacks? Tricks- Sergey Gospodarets' answer to How can you unfollow everyone on Twitter at once? Jason Lancaster's answer to What are the best bargaining techniques when buying a car from a dealer? Anjali Maniar's answer to What's a cool/useful skill/tip that only takes five minutes to learn? Updated 18 Apr • View Upvotes