How do I start a SolarCity-like company in a developing country?A group of us is in the early planning stages and would appreciate any input, basic or strategic. Contact us at brightpowercorp@gmail.com and we'd be happy to talk more!
I considered this over the summer. It is a very high capital proposal and even harder in developing countries. See my answer in How does Solar City work? for details on what exactly a SolarCity-like Company is. Maintenance is only economical with a large installation base, otherwise it is surprisingly expensive. 2nd and even 3rd visits to replace inverters are commonly needed, which is a small cost with a large amount of geographically dense customers, since the company can simply wait for a few failures nearby then send an engineer to complete multiple projects in a single day. At inception, Solar City only installed panels on entire COMMUNITIES at a time for this reason, to make maintenance economical. Installation is also very expensive unless done on a large scale very efficiently. Cheaper to buy panels in bulk, more kW to spread OpEX costs. These factors make the finance-buy panel-lease-sell electricity model NOT economical at small scales. The liabilities that a Solar City-like company carries are significant, many less efficient Solar Panel installers simply could not meet them. They may be able to provide price competitive Solar Panel installation and SALE (passing the warranty and replacement headache to the customer), but this does not imply that they could LEASE Solar Panels at competitive electricity prices since a large part of the lease business happens after installation. But I'm generally a optimist. You may be successful if the firm starts by targeting geographical dense communities who are willing to commit to going entirely (or mostly) solar. But do not attempt to offer a lease product that you cannot maintain without bankruptcy. Also, the developing country's grid must be able  to both provide backup power at nighttime and receive excess generation at noon, but this is a basic requirement of starting almost every business. The other major problem I see is that, since developing countries generally have worse transportation infrastructure, maintenance travel time would increase, and consequentially be even more expensive to preform. Here's some light reading about Solar Cities early business. "SolarCity estimates that Phoenix-area SolarLease customers whose monthly electricity bills average more than $150 can often begin saving money immediately by switching to solar power. SolarCity also guarantees the amount of electricity output by SolarLease systems, and provides free Internet monitoring and repairs for the full term of the lease through its SolarGuard service. SolarCity is known as an innovator of products and programs designed to make solar power more affordable and easier to use. The company’s community solar programs—which encourage entire communities to install solar power together—have been emulated across the country as a means to increase solar power adoption."SolarCity Expands in Arizona with New Phoenix Office and Installation Center Here's Solar Cities raw installation costs per watt and total installation volume, to give you a sense of how important scale is to lowering installation costs. Solar City has spent over 2B to get where they are (1.5B assests, 500m loses, although most of the losses are actually entirely offset by deferring ITC credit). I wish you luck trying to compete with that type of inertia, but I consider it unfeasible without 10m+ in startup equity capital AND personal ties to banks/tax equity business partners. Especially since they've continually stated they intend to expand internationally next year. Even though Solar City only has 24m in Lease "Revenue", they invest (aka deploy) over 200m+ (which will be 250m next quarter) in Lease "Assests" every QUARTER. Think about that. To reach the same scale and enjoy the cost advantages of that scale, you would need to raise over 200m every quarter, somehow. No one will agree to that. It's actually amazing that Solar City has gotten the securities market to agree to fund them as quickly and in the amount that it has. Below is a graph of Solar Cities total investment vs financing raised. They finance the majority of their investment. (sorry its only recent #s for financing, they've been public only a short time). Millions USD To give you a sense of how much money they spent in their starting and currently largest market, California. Trailing 12 month Figures, in nominal $ Solar City had 20 million from Musk + 3 other Venture capital firms when they started offering to sell installations. And has raised a huge amount continually. source: VCexperters To make a Solar-City like firm, first you need access to capital markets. Anyone can do this through a friends and family round or, after product demonstration, VCs & Angels. But in order to do access capital markets on a regular basis, you need  scale to provide both legitimacy and sizable [25M+] funding requirements in order to attract bank or securitization financing. In developing countries, that's harder to achieve simply because the size of the electricity market is smaller, so there is less demand to poach. Honestly, I don't think Solar-City would have been financed as quickly and cheaply as it has without the legitimacy provided by Elon Musk's involvement. Operating in the US certainly helps, but a well known backer could work wonders for you. If you still want to try, first develop a strategy for raising funds in quantity in your 'developing country'. No idea what types of tax incentives, other credits or asset backed security markets are available to you without more information. Then find 10 million in equity capital. Unfortunately, this is where I got stuck. Any less then 10 million, or perhaps 5m since the cost of panels has dropped dramatically, will not be sufficient for a LEASE model. This is not a website that requires 200k, leasing capital assets is very expensive due to maintenance, insurance and collection requirements. Solar City started in 2006 with a 10 million investment and 16 people. Musk leads $10M investment in SolarCity -- to provide solar for all They experienced the absolute collapse of all capital markets in 2008 while still in infancy. Despite this, by the start of 2012, they were investing over 80 million per quarter (240/year) in Solar Panels which were leased to customers. By the start of 2014, they will be investing 250 million per quarter (1 Billion / year). It's one of the more impressive accomplishments which absolutely no is talking about yet. The next 2 years of the ITC, the new access to the ABS market, and their 2 acquisitions (completing their vertical integrate) allows Solar City to expand dramatically across almost all US states while being very profitable. Assuming that the retained value metric provided by Solar City management is accurate , they are going to make (in PV terms, considering the discounted difference between payments on their borrowings and revenue from consumer electricity payments) $1.50-2.00 per watt deployed (incrementally, they are now at $1.91 RV per new watt deployed, but do not expect much more improvement, from their Q3 earnings call). They will deploy 500mW next year. That is 10^9 watts, or 750-1,000 million dollars of capital equipment. Not such an expensive stock if you think of their operating profit as retained profit addition. I did some calculations to work backwards to get their retained value figures from their balance sheet, and got slightly lower (1.29/W vs 1.37 reported) but similar results, for each of the last 4 quarters. Most importantly, I was able to work backwards to get them. It took a couple of days studying the nuances of their lease, investment and subsidy accounting, but management doesn't seem to be entirely pulling that number from thin air. We probably just used slightly different discount rates, or the customer payments are non-linear (they aren't) and I had to assume they were when discounting. I've decided to trade options on the equity rather than start my own. But make a proposal specific to your country and send it my way ;) Updated 13 May 2014 • View Upvotes