What are some good data visualization tools?
FusionCharts FusionCharts Suite XT gives you good-looking charts with exciting animation, smart designs and rich interactivity. It offers a unified experience across PCs, Macs, iPads, iPhones or Android platforms. It also works with all web and mobile applications, this includes IE 6, 7 and 8 that most components do not support. All it takes to create your first chart is 15 minutes. FusionCharts Suite XT gives you 90+ charts and graphs right from the basic ones to the more advanced Funnel, Heat Map, Zoom Line and Multi-Axis Charts. Dygraphs Dygraphs is a fast, flexible open source JavaScript charting library that allows users to explore and interpret dense data sets. It’s interactive out of the box, i.e. zoom, pan and mouseover are on by default. Moreover, it has a strong support for error bars. Dygraphs is also highly compatible – it works in all major browsers (including IE8). You can even pinch to zoom on mobile/tablet devices! Datawrapper Datawrapper allows you to create charts and maps in four steps. The tool reduces the time you need to create your visualizations from hours to minutes. It’s easy to use – all you need to do is to upload your data, choose a chart or a map and publish it. Datawrapper is built for customization to your needs; Layouts and visualizations can adapt based on your style guide. Leaflet Leaflet is a modern open-source JavaScript library for mobile-friendly interactive maps. It has all the features most developers ever need for online maps. Leaflet is designed with simplicity, performance and usability. It works across all major desktop and mobile platforms, thanks to HTML5 and CSS3. Should you need extensions for this app, you can implement them with a huge amount of plugins. Tableau Public It’s an easy-to-use app that helps you create stunning visualizations with ease. Just open data and explore it with Tableau Desktop Public Edition. Then, save and store the visualizations on your Public profile with 1 GB of space. Finally, share your visualizations with the world via social media, or put them on a site or blog. PiktoChart A brilliant app with which you will create beautiful, legible and transparent infographics. PiktoChart offers you a point-and-click editor, over 400 templates, icons and graphics, an extensive image library and unlimited customization that will make your infographic unique. You can create your piece in 3 simple steps: Preview themes from the gallery and pick one. Then, customize it with over 1000 images in their library or upload your own image. Finally, share your infographics with the world. Google Charts Google Charts offers a perfect way to visualize data on your websites. From simple line charts to complex hierarchical tree maps, the chart gallery provides a huge number of various chart types. Charts are exposed as JavaScript classes. You can customize them accordingly to your needs, but the default appearance will usually be all you need. All chart types are populated with data using the DataTable class, which makes it easy to switch between chart types as you try to find the perfect appearance for them. RAW Raw is an open web app to create custom vector-based visualizations. It’s a customizable project on LGPL license, and you can freely download it and modify it. Even though Raw is a web app, the data uploaded by you will be processed only by the web browsers, with no side-server interactions. You can export your visualizations in vector (SVG) or raster (PNG) format. You can read about more Data Visualization tools here, it's a great article 21 Essential Data Visualization Tools - UsabilityTools.com Blog 