Is it true that some people write long and detailed answers just to get upvotes and attract attention?Quora is more about sharing knowledge and not a race to get maximum upvotes.
People do all sorts of things for all sorts of reasons. It is possible that some people write long and detailed questions for upvotes and attention, just like it is possible that people ask provocative questions to elicit answers to get more points. The real question though is how successful this is as a strategy for actually procurring upvotes? What is the correlation between upvotes and word count? I went and found 130 different answers, recorded their word count using Word Count Tool - Free Tool to Count Number of Words. Word counter! and the total number of upvotes.  I avoided new questions, to make sure questions had time to get responses. The correlation is 0.697, which is a pretty strong correlation.  That number says: Yep, you betcha.  In general, you're going to get more upvotes if you write longer answers. The average answer has 324 words.  This is about three short paragraphs.  To give an idea of that length, Kate Lang's answer to What does it feel like to have OCD? is 311 words, and Biju Ashokan's answer to What is wrong with Manchester United? is 328 words long.  That number is really high though because of some of the outliers, including one answer of 5,400 words.  The median answer size is 128 words, which seems much closer to reality in terms of actual response length.  What does that look like? Lucas Braun's answer to What are some cultural faux pas in Spain? is 133 words long. Ward Chanley's answer to Does a therapist hold a right to question my non-theism? is 124 words long.  That's three shortish paragraphs. The first graph uses logarithmic axes, because you cannot see the individual data points so well.  The second graph does not. When we put this data on a graph, you begin to see the misleading nature of the correlation.  It is those pesky outliers to a degree causing that correlation.  (When entering the data, one number took the correlation from 0.3345 to 0.8991.  That's the outlier influence.  It is also why I reject average for this analysis, because they unrealistically skew.) The better view might be quartiles.  Let's go with that.  The shortest 25% of answers have a median length of 21 words.  That's pretty darned short.   The next 25% have a length of 62 words, substantially longer.  They both have a median upvote of 9.  That little bit extra is not enough to get you more upvotes.  The next quartile has a length of 225, which is substantially longer again.  The value upvote wise based on the median? 11. The longest 25%  have a median of 519 words, and gets 16.5 upvotes.  For the normal writer, that is a difference of a grand total of 7 upvotes. That is where you begin to see the futility of writing more for upvotes.  They payoff is not there as evidenced in the table above. The thing with something like this is Quora is a series of different microsystems at play.  The community around questions about Spain is different than the community around Indian women is different than the community around Astronauts.  Upvoting behavior can change from group to group.  Who answers changes from question to question. Let's compare male versus female responses to see if one gender has an advantage over the other when it comes to getting upvotes for longer answers.  There were 36 women who had responses recorded and 94 men.  Yeah, Quora has a gendergap: There are not equal male to female response rates on Quora. In any case, the correlation between a woman's wordcount for her answer and upvote numbers is 0.009.  That is really, really, really random.  Increased word count does not help women.  For males, the correlation is 0.71, which suggests men writing longer answers helps in garnering upvotes.  Strangely, it looks like women are also writing longer answers then men.  Their median answer length is 163.5 words to men's 121 words.  They are also getting more upvotes on the median: 12.5 to 11.  At this point, quartiles are going to matter. This is one where you go, "The data needs more women to double check this."  Women appear to be rewarded more for upvotes with shorter answers.  Their answers get longer and they start paying a penalty, with fewer upvotes.  (Note to self: Write shorter answers.) The situation for men is different.  They are appear much more likely than women to get awarded for long answers with additional upvotes, a signifigant number upvotes and way more than their female counters across all categories.  So conclusion: Writing longer answers may get you more upvotes but it isn't always a sure thing.  There are clearly variables like gender that may impact your ability to get more upvotes because you wrote a longer answers.  On the whole though, writing longer for the express purpose of getting longer answers is probably not worth the ROI. 