What will a business plan look like 10 years in the future?
Adam I think the question  is why are we waiting to advance to a different form of business planning, collaborating , posting, and pitching when the everyone agree the status quo doesn't work. We have all seen that investors and lenders can’t efficiently process the demand for capital with old paper and template business plans, which reinforces their tendency to go with people they already know. Or more often with no one at all, crippling innovation and the entrepreneurial spirit necessary for an economic recovery. Just because we have the steepest drop in lending since 1942 doesn't’t mean we should be using business planning processes like we still live in 1942. How can we talk about being a leader in  innovation when the everywhere you turn all you see are   business plan products and templates. Its the limitations and arbitrariness of the generally accepted business planning format that is the problem. The generally excepted Business plan is an old out dated model, not only for the entrepreneurs who are trying to plan a business using it, but also the investors and lenders subjected to have to read them, as you stated above. Its not the amount of pages that matter, its giving investors the ability to get to the answers that they care about quickly, and to not have to waste time reading boiler plate information. Worse, many creative, passionate idea people don’t know enough about business to realistically structure their visions, and the people who invest in them don’t know how to properly evaluate the propositions. Business plans themselves are either over-simplified daydreams, or ponderous static tomes built upon dubious suppositions with know due diligence information and are hard to navigate.   David, I could'nt agree with you more, so we did'nt wait 10 years, we reinvented the business plan and built the first cloud based business plan reporting system so entrepreneurs, investors and lenders could have the best chance possible to find each other and work together to launch, fund and grow great companies now when our econmy really needs them to be succesful. 