Obama Presidency: Second Term (2013–present): If Ron Paul or Mitt Romney were in power, would the right-wing press and (white) Americans be happier?How would the country be better off?
Speaking as one white person, I would personally NOT be happier if a Republican were sitting in the White House, and the question strikes me as more than a little bit inane. Having said that, I've been reading the other answers and comments and, as always with discussions where race comes in, there is a lot of heat and maybe a little less light being shed here. It is a fact that while most white people are not Republicans, the vast majority of Republicans are non-Hispanic white people (89%, according to Gallup, with 6% Hispanic and only 2% black). Let's look at that number again. 89% of Republicans are non-Hispanic white people. 89%! That's a huge number, really overwhelming, and so that lily-white image tends to seep into all of the discourse and discussion about the Republican Party and its future in an increasingly multicultural US. So while the question is appallingly worded, I can see where the OP is coming from. The Republican Party is not just an overwhelmingly white party, it is also a rural party. Here's a chart that demonstrates that with devastating clarity. At about 800 people per square mile, people switch from voting primarily  Republican to voting primarily Democratic. Put another way, below 800  people per square mile, there is a 66% chance that you voted Republican. Above 800 people per square mile, there is a 66% chance that you voted Democrat. A 66% preference is a clear, dominant majority.... Studying this graph, two important facts are revealed. First,  there are very few cities in red states. Second, the few dense cities  that do exist in red states voted overwhelmingly democratic. Atlanta, New Orleans, St. Louis, Dallas, and Indianapolis are all in red states — and they all voted blue. And there are no true “cities” in red states that voted red. The only  cities in red states that didn’t vote blue were Salt Lake City and  Oklahoma City. And by global standards, they are not really cities —  each has population density (about 1,000/sq. mi.) less than suburban  Maryland (about 1,500/sq. mi.). Historically, one can argue that red states have disproportionately  affected election results by delivering a material number of electoral  votes. Red states simply run out of population at about 2,000 people per  square mile. St. Louis is the only city that exceeds that density in a  red state. It voted overwhelmingly Democratic (82.7%). In contrast, blue  states contain all of the country’s biggest and densest cities:  Washington DC, New York City, San Francisco, Baltimore, Milwaukee,  Philadelphia, Boston, etc. Red States Are Just Underdeveloped Blue States As cities continue to grow in red states, those cities will become  more blue, and ultimately, those states will become more purple, and  then blue. The Republican party says it’s about growth and prosperity;  the best way to achieve that in red states is through the growth of  cities. If you follow the red state trend lines, you can clearly see that any  dense, fast-growing cities that might emerge in red states will be very  likely to vote blue. The few that do already exist already vote blue.  How would these new cities be different and cause them to vote red? Red state voters generally prefer low-density housing, prefer to  drive cars, and are sensitive to gas prices. Once population density  gets to a certain level, behaviors switch: high-density housing is the  norm, public transit becomes more common, and gas use (and price  sensitivity) drops. [1]   The United States looks red on those election maps because, to put it plainly, nobody lives in most of that red space. Here is a county-by-county map of the 2012 Presidential election returns. When you weight the blue and red states by population you get something closer to reality. [2] Counties weighted by population: Unsurprisingly, given these demographics, when one examines the favorite issues of the Republican base, one tends to find issues that are not associated with improving the quality of life for people of color. Instead of investment in job training and public education, the Republicans advocate for lower taxes on the affluent and additional restrictions on abortion. Instead of offering programs to improve access to health care, the Republicans in the House of Representatives have conducted almost 40 symbolic votes to repeal the Affordable Care Act (aka Obamacare). Instead of supporting the fundamental principle of democracy, but instead scorning all the known facts about the near nonexistence of voter fraud, the Republican Party has repeatedly supported efforts to strip voting rights from Americans lacking photo ID, who just happen to be disproportionately poor and black (and many of whom have been living and voting in the same small towns for their whole lives). The borderline unofficial house organ of the Republican Party, Fox News Channel, provides a platform for daily, even hourly attacks on the integrity, legitimacy, and qualifications of the first African-American President. None of this is probative of the politics of a randomly chosen white American, of course. Tens of millions of white Americans have ardently supported President Obama. I myself was one of his delegates at the 2008 Democratic National Convention, and my (white) husband was one  of his delegates in 2012. White people gave and raised hundreds of millions of dollars to support him, and voted for him in huge numbers. But it is not shocking that an observer could infer a preference for Republicans on the part of white people. [1] The Real Republican Adversary? Population Density [2] 2012 Election County-By-County [3] Demographics: The great shift from rural to urban life Updated 16 Mar 2014 • View Upvotes