Why are countries like India and China so densely populated? What are the circumstances and reasons?
Between 700 BC - 200 BC, China experienced a period of incredible productivity. Spring and Autumn period, Warring States period At that time, China was a loose federation of small countries, under a formal overlordship, basically like today's EU, but without religious differences, racial differences, or language differences. All countries were kingdoms with secular governments, and each country could only compete with each other on merit, so it was a crazy period when the kings were doing everything they could to attract the best people and the best talents. If you are a very capable government minister, and you don't like your king anymore, you just walk over to another country and be welcomed. The kings were literally willing to kneel down to talented people in order to get their help governing the country. And talented people, of course, had a habit of touring through all the countries to find the most intelligent and trustworthy king to work with (yes, this includes Confucius and Sun Tzu, both of them picked the kings they wanted to work with after "interviewing" a couple of them). It was called "the best birds pick the best tree to perch on". The result was an explosion in science, technology, philosophy, literature, and military strategy. During this time China invented cast iron tools for farming in 5 century BC, domesticated cattles and water buffalos to pull plows, and invented hydraulic power and water wheels as early as 6 BC.  Major hydraulic irrigation systems like the one below, which diverted a third of the river for irrigation, was accomplished in 256 BC, and it is used to water over 5,000 square kilometers to this day. Dujiangyan irrigation system has been working perfectly for 2,000+ years. And major canals like the 36 kilometer canal below, with 30+ locks to facilitate shipping, was dug in 214 BC. Lingqu Canal Remember this was at about the same time as Herodotus' visit to Egypt, and he was explaining to the temple priests that the Greeks relied exclusively on rain water for agriculture. Untitled Document Compared with their contemporaries, the Chinese were highly advanced in agriculture technology. Coupled with their cultivation of silk since 4000 BC and establishing trade routes for silk fabric since 2 century BC, you can say that while the Romans were busy conquering the Mediterranean and killing a lot of people along the way, the Chinese were focused on food, clothes, and making babies.   But of course it wasn't a straight line. Around 1200 - 1300 AD, Mongol invasion wiped out half of the population of China, which pulled the Chinese population down on par with Europe. So now you know why all the kings and princes in Europe stopped fighting among themselves and joined in defense against the Mongols, and it was totally worth it. The other time was the industrial revolution from 1700 - 1900, which quadrupled European population to on par with China again. Without industrialization, China would not be able to support the population it has today. 