Lists of Top Quora Content: What are some of the best answers on Quora?Could be the most brilliant, detailed, enlightening, greatest, best source, smartest, wittiest, mind blowing, simple, crazy, touching. In short, answers that makes you say wow...this should be on the all time top answers list of Quora.   For starters, I nominate Tim Morgan 's answer to What do all the controls in an airplane's cockpit do?
My list consists of answers that have opened my mind to a new perspective, or someone that has elaborated something much more thoroughly and clearly than I could have, or the answer just has high utility and is practical in multiple ways. I post all of them on my "Posts," but here's a good selection: Anonymous' answer to What life lessons are counter-intuitive or go against common sense or wisdom? The '250 Coffees A Year' Technique And The 'Get Your Dream Job Technique' James Altucher's answer to What is more valuable than monetary wealth? Leonard Kim's answer to Should a person take a lifetime supply of happiness pills if they were offered to them? Why? Robert Frost's answer to What is it like to have parents who are not asintelligent as you? Vivek Mehta's answer to Life Advice: What is the best way to stop feeling lonely? Sooraj Narayan's answer to I have given 5 interviews and failed in all of them. I've been unemployed for over a year. I feel very lonely and unworthy. I'm suicidal. What should I do? How do I regain hope? Zoletta Cherrystone's answer to Do women like unintelligent men? Anonymous' answer to Teen Pregnancy: My 16-year-old son has just announced that his girlfriend is pregnant. Not only that—they made a conscious decision to conceive a baby. I feel crushed, ashamed and defeated. Being told you are going to be a granddad is supposed to be a joyous occasion. Am I overreacting? Anonymous' answer to What is it like to talk to a serial killer? Marcus Geduld's answer to What should I do with life since I honestly know I'm not smart? Ellen Vrana's answer to Self-Confidence: How do you develop confidence when you have nothing to be confident about? User's answer to I put so much effort into writing on Quora, yet my answers never receive upvotes. What should I do? James Altucher's answer to Why am I so scared to ask for help? Kai Peter Chang's answer to How do I break up with an old boyfriend whom I have dated for 4 years, for a new, better guy I've known for 1 year? Joel V Benjamin's answer to How do I win an argument with someone who willnever admit that he's wrong? James Altucher's answer to Personal Finance: What important things does a 20-year-old need to know about money and finance? Marcus Geduld's answer to What do you do when you realise that you are an utter loser? Faisal Khan's answer to What one thing do you wish you had known about life when you were in your 20s? Michele Westfall's answer to What is it like to live without hearing? Jimmy Wales' answer to Is Jimmy Wales rich? Marcus Geduld's answer to What is it like to be the smartest person in the room? Daniel Wetterstrom's answer to What is some advice that most college students are not ever likely to hear? Goutham Harsha's answer to What is Roger Federer like in real life? Anonymous' answer to What is it like to be a geek in a prison? Michael Santos' answer to What is it like to rejoin society after a long prison sentence? Stan Hayward's answer to How do you approach getting older in an optimistic way without deceiving yourself? Anonymous' answer to What does it feel like to be a self-made millionaire under the age of 25? James Altucher's answer to I am in my late 20s and feel I have wasted a lot of time. Is it too late for me to achieve something worthwhile? Marcus Geduld's answer to What do you do if you're 24 and have wasted a lot of time? James Altucher's answer to What can I learn/know right now in 10 minutes that will be useful for the rest of my life? Evan Asano's answer to What is the most effective yet efficient way to get rich? Will Stern's answer to What learning strategies do "quick learners" follow? 