Why isn't India a superpower or global leader?India is considered to have a stable economy. China is almost similar to India, but is way ahead in terms of trade and economy. India is lagging behind and has been said to be developing for the last two decades. What actually is the problem in India? Is this the result of the attitude of the people or poor governance?
The reason India is not a superpower or global leader - is the economy itself. Here's why: List of IMF ranked countries by past and projected GDP (nominal) In US$ terms, India's GDP (nominal) ranks 10th highest in the world - about the same ranking as it was in the 1980s. Similarly List of government budgets by country This is what really defines the amount of "power" India has as a nation - not as a culture, an expat community of business leaders, a technological or defense collaborator. However, many BRICS  countries (well mostly China) have risen up the ranks in the same list. India is not the 4th or 5th most powerful "regional bloc" contrary to most claims - its actually about 10th, or about the same as Italy when it sits at the diplomatic table. Despite dubious claims of India being the 4th most powerful military or the third largest economy in the world, India is not a part of the G8. List of the largest trading partners of India India's quantum of trade with most of its allies is dwarfed by China's export surplus, whether it be Russia or Australia or the United States. This simple fact means that India rarely has any leverage whenever it comes to the negotiating table. What does this tell us considering that India is the 2nd most populous country and has the largest workforce in the world ? That India's people are not productively employed - internal consumption is low and most of the trade has an imbalance. International trade The conclusion is that India is still a "consumer" - the world can survive without it, but India cannot survive without the world economy. It's value to investors is merely that it has the "potential" to pull itself up - nothing more. India army equipment 'obsolete' The globalfirepower rankings are highly counter-intuitive because the Indian military is generally not regarded as a reasonably modern force. Much of the frontline equipment is obsolete and defence spending as % of GDP has actually dipped below the world average. India still does not have a robust defense manufacturing base. Also, given India's location and deployment - it has no real ability to "project" power externally as its forces are occupied on its 2-fronts permanently. The reasons for these problems are systemic and old. Firstly, the Feldman–Mahalanobis model never accounted for export trade leaving India dependent on aid to finance imports, The Second Five-Year Plans of India had far too little expenditure towards rural healthcare primary education and this problem continues till today: The economic consequences of Nehru. Thirdly, India's economy never really "evolved" from agriculture to manufacturing to services - its just that deregulation in 1991 led to some windfall growth in some services sectors. But India's agriculture is yet to be fully reformed, the country is yet to go big on manufacturing and then meaningfully control any economic supply chain. That said - Nehru is unfairly blamed here for not instituting land reforms in rural parts as this was never under his absolute control in a Democracy. Updated 6 Jun • View Upvotes