How do I switch from wetware neuroscience to computational neuroscience?
It is up to you whether you consider my background as appropriate to answer this question. I speak only from experience, and I started off studying Psychology, moved to machine learning, and am now developing electrophysiology and computational neuroscience skills at the same time. I've been at this for 18 months now, and I certainly feel comfortable in the knowledge that it is possible, even if I am no expert yet. You can self-educate to competency in the mathematical/computational aspects of modelling, and you will always improve with practice. Becoming familiar and fluent when talking about dynamic systems, electrical circuits, signal processing, and stochastic processes is a must for realistic biophysical modelling of neurons. For a more 'systems' based approach, graph theory, information theory, and linear algebra are all very useful. You don't need to learn all this at once; you learn what you need to solve a particular problem. For modelling hippocampal networks, you will need to pick and choose depending on what is appropriate, since there are multiple scales you can work at. You can start your self-education by playing around with existing models. Open Source Brain is a good repository for existing models, from single cells to whole networks. These do require knowing how to use NEURON or programming in python, but python in particular is quite easy to pick up. You could also just try selecting a paper with a simple model and try to reproduce their results. For example, in the hippocampus literature that I've been looking over lately, a simple paper that was fairly easy to reproduce was Outwardly rectifying tonically active GABAA recep... [J Neurosci. 2009]. Continuing your self-education, seek out educators. There are a number of summer schools that are looking for people with wetlab experience to branch out into modelling work. If you can afford it, both financially and for time, it would provide an excellent environment to learn in. The applications for most of them this year have closed, but to have an idea about applying next year, a few good ones are https://groups.oist.jp/ocnc/oist... http://hermes.mbl.edu/education/... http://fias.uni-frankfurt.de/de/... http://www.neurodynamic.uottawa.... In the mean time there is a highly rated Coursera computational neuroscience course. I personally would also recommend a course at the University of Edinburgh that is largely available online (Neural Computation: Course homepage; no videos, but very clear tutorials and excellent lecture notes that I still use as a reference). Other tools you will need are not really computational or mathematical. The most difficult aspects I have found is translation from experimental results to creating a model. Often the parameters you need are hidden away in the depths of a dense results section, being expressed in inconvenient units, and will still need tweaking to make it work within reasonable 'physiological' bounds anyway. You'll need decent people skills in getting a neuroscientist and a mathematician/ physicist/ computer scientist to talk to each other and collaborate. For my PhD project, I act as a bridge between a neuroscientist and a mathematician who have entirely different ways of thinking about the problems they encounter. Sometimes they will both be talking about the same thing, but use different language. Sometimes they will be using the same words to describe different things. There is something of a cultural divide between them that needs mediating, and that can be frustrating at times. Finally, you need to be prepared to make stupid mistakes and not care. Although, this can be said about any part of a PhD, especially if you have already been involved in electrophysiology for a while. I hope this helps. I've found merging theory and experimental data in neuroscience incredibly rewarding, and I think they are both exceedingly necessary in modern neuroscience. Being able to contribute on both fronts will only enhance your capabilities as a scientist. 