Where do most web startups fail?
Great answers and perspective from all - my take. 1) Customer focus (easy to throw this out as buzzword though) - meaning, finding customers who give you feedback on what is right and wrong. The "wrong" can be much more important than the right and many times egos and "they said this but they really mean this....." thinking drives the product marketing strategy into the ditch. 2) Funding, as others pointed out, certainly can rear its ugly head at times - if you don't have resources it can be tough bootstrapping and at times when customers perceive the startup as weak they will go with alternatives (perception is so important). 3) Picking the wrong platforms and markets as others have pointed out, but important to underscore. A year ago many mobile developers were not betting on Android but focusing strictly on iPhone or Apple. Easy to throw this out now though - hindsight is 20/20. 4) Doing strong competitive analysis. I had a former CEO who made the entire exec staff read Michael Porter's "Competitive Strategy" and then made us all implement it via product marketing and positioning the company.  It turned my thinking around about the importance of Competitive Analysis and positioning the company and products in a competitive context. http://www.amazon.com/Competitiv... 5) Wasting valuable time and resources on customers who become support drains - some times you have to know when to fold em and just walk away from an account or market niche once you understand how resource intensive they are. 6) Letting investors and BOD Members divert your focus away from what you know as the founder as being the market. Full disclosure, someone here on Quora touched on this and Ken Auletta's superb Book: "Googled: The End of the World as We Know It" also references same. Larry Page and Sergey Brin resisted all efforts (my details may not be as accurate as others, just trying to underscore the point) from their BOD and VCs to pivot Google as  portal like Yahoo and hung tough on building a search engine with an integrated advertising platform. It's "True Grit" tough holding your position against the BOD who wants to push your company in the wrong direction. But, sometimes essential to growing the business and/or surviving. 7) Not letting marketing come to the party - technology is awesome. But, at the end of the day, how the company and products are positioned will have a huge impact on customer receptivity, branding, generating partner interest, etc. Engineers need to marketers and vice versa - sad, but many companies ignore the wonderful collaboration that can occur between these two camps. 8) Confusing market hype with customer adoption and generating revenue. It's cool to be featured via Tech Crunch but this doesn't always bring in as many customers as being in the WSJ or even (heaven forbid) USA Today - mainstream media uplift can be a wonderful thing for customer awareness and adoption. That's not to say Tech Crunch isn't going to drive early adopters, clearly it will. But, some web startups can fall in love with getting "silicon valley" visibility and forget how great mainstream PR or media can be. 9) Forgetting that international customers outside the US can be very important and that there applications, tools, OS, browsers, etc. can be different than US customers. Important to develop a product for global markets. 