Why isn't India a superpower or global leader?India is considered to have a stable economy. China is almost similar to India, but is way ahead in terms of trade and economy. India is lagging behind and has been said to be developing for the last two decades. What actually is the problem in India? Is this the result of the attitude of the people or poor governance?
History has taught us that the world can afford only one superpower. Proliferation of more than one superpower has led to two world wars and balkanisation of the world into political blocs. The simple reason to the question “Why isn't India a superpower or global leader?” is that there is already USA adorning the superpower throne, with china giving it a tough competition. For now, India and china can fight for the second spot but it seems that the fight has already been won by the dragon. Since India and china became independence almost during the same time, a comparison between them is inevitable. I believe there is an inherent comparison to china in-built in the question. Polity: India is a democratic country with a federal structure whereas china is a single-party state governed by the Communist Party. This makes the political arena more stable and decisive. In India the government is on the whims of their collision partners. The government is so involved in placating its collision partners that there is very less time, space and energy left for policy decisions. This has led to policy paralysis in recent years. Political decisiveness has a major effect on the economy of the country. If china wants to build an expressway, it will bulldoze its way through forest and any number villages in its course (although that has led to many human rights violation and a complete ignorance for environment). In India, any projects faces a number of impediments like land acquisition, stringent labour laws, hoards of regulation by the environmental ministry and corruption in public institutions. This has led to adverse investment environment in the country well reflected in the ‘ease of doing business’ index by World Bank placing India at a rank of 134, a well below china having a rank of 96. Foreign policy: The influence of country over the rest of the world reflects its chance to become a superpower in the near future and for this a prudent foreign policy is sine qua non. India has a border dispute with china and china has always shown its fierce nature by violating the status quo. It has even laid claims on parts of Arunachal Pradesh in the north-east. If India is unable to protect its own territory then the superpower status is just a figment of imagination. In addition, China’s development of the port of Gwadar in Pakistan, of the Sri Lankan port of Hambantota and of a Burmese port on the Bay of Bengal, all reflecting its development of a naval capacity on India’s flanks, causes understandable concern that the proximity of such a presence is at least partly intended to choke India (Popularly called the ‘string of pearls’). Also, India has been ignoring the economic impacts of the foreign policy for long. Chinese petroleum countries have constantly outbidded Indian petroleum companies in securing petroleum reserves throughout the world.  China has successfully challenged India economic zone of influence in the world. Just for an instance, when the Maldivian government cancelled the GMR 500 million airport project, the Indian government was a mere spectator. China was quick to fill the space left by the Indian company. Economic liberalization: China opened its economy in 1978, while India took another 13 years to reap the benefits of globalization (this was only done in the wake of BoP crisis).  It soon shot up to a double digit growth rate while India was still hovering around 5% growth rate. The result: China is a three times larger economy than India. Graph: A comparison of GDP of India and china   Graph: comparison of Per capita GDP (PPP) of India and china Infrastructure: China is a country that has transformed itself from an agrarian society to a manufacturing hub of the world in the last four decades. This has been possible due to its giant stride in the infrastructure sector. they have been able to develop extraordinary cities with their dense forest of skyscrapers, their six-lane expressways, studded with flyovers or overpasses, their gleaming modern airports, their large and throbbing ports, and the growing network of high-speed railways. If we just make a comparison in the high speed railway sector we would find that china has taken a healthy lead pushing India completely out of the picture. China has built over 10,000 km of high-speed railway network as of 2012 while the Indian bureaucrats are still mulling over the idea, commissioning countless feasibility studies with no results. Military Prowess: According to Stockholm International Peace Research Institute the military expenditure of India is close to $47 billion as compared to china’s gargantuan budget of $188 billion. Also India is the largest importer of the defence equipments in the world. After six decades of independence we have not been able to develop a strong indigenous defence development and manufacturing. A quick look at the graphics indicates that we are no match to China’s military prowess. Unstable neighbourhood: In the west India has a very unstable neighbourhood in Pakistan. Pakistan has been a source of terrorism since independence. A significant portion of India’s army has been deployed along the India-Pakistan border to thwart any incursion by the terrorist covertly financed by the Pakistan army and its intelligence wing ISI. The problem of Kashmir has persisted as long as the history of independent India. In the east Bangladesh has been a source of millions of refugees. As per 2001 census there are 84,826 people in India who came from Bangladesh.  No reliable numbers on illegal immigrants are currently available. Extrapolating the census data for the state of Assam alone gives a figure of 2 million. Figures as high as 20 million are also reported in the government and media. Left wing political insurgency: India has been fighting the scourge of left wing extremism since the dawn of independence. China has long abandoned the Mao principles but there are a group of people in India that have embraced the Maoist principles and seek to establish a communist state. This had led to loss of large amount public money in order to combat this extremism. It has also cut off parts of India from the mainstream economic development and spread discontentment among the people. 