If f(x+y) =f(x) +f(y), what would f(x) be without the assumption of continuity?
It could be many (many) things. The standard way to construct such an exotic function is to start with a Hamel basis. A Hamel basis is a basis (in the ordinary linear-algebra sense) for R  regarded as a vector space over Q  . This is simply a set B  of real numbers with the following property: every real number can be represented in exactly one way as a linear combination with rational coefficients of finitely many elements of B  . I can't describe any such B  for you explicitly, since constructing it depends in an essential way on the Axiom of Choice. But you can imagine it being constructed like so: start with any rational number, say 1. You've now handled all rational numbers (they are all representable as a rational number times 1). Next pick some real number which isn't already covered - for instance, 2  √   , and add it as your second member of B  . You've now taken care of all numbers of the form p+q2  √   . We're certainly not done - for example, e  is still missing. So let's add it in. And so on... This "and so on" is a really long one, requiring way more than countably many steps. To do this you'll need to well-order the reals, or proceed by transfinite induction to an uncountable ordinal, or do something of this sort which requires the Axiom of Choice (at least a sufficiently strong piece of it). Once you accept that such a B  exists, constructing an "exotic" function that satisfies f(x+y)=f(x)+f(y)  becomes easy. Just realize that, as with everything in linear algebra, you can do whatever you want on a basis, and extend linearly. So, pick whatever values you wish for f(β)  for each β∈B  , and define f(x)  for any x∈R  by expressing x  as a linear combination x=∑c i β i   and letting f(x)=∑c i f(β i )  . This guarantees that f  is Q  -linear, and in particular it must satisfy f(x+y)=f(x)+f(y)  . For example, an easy choice for such an f  once we have B  is to set f(1)=1  and f(β)=0  for any 1≠β∈B  (we assume, as we did above, that B  contains a rational number, say 1). In other words, for any x∈R  we write x=c⋅1+∑ i c i β i   where the second sum is a finite combination of various elements of B  different from 1, and we let f(x)=c  , the coefficient of 1 (call it "the rational part of x  "). This works fine, and gives a nice solution of f(x+y)=f(x)+f(y)  , but unfortunately it's not a function that you can visualize in any useful way (its graph is dense in the plane) or do much else with. It really needs this pesky B  to be constructed, and Hamel bases are not computable or expressible in some explicit way. Updated 15 Sep • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by David Wan