Do Quora users tend to be more liberally biased than the population as a whole?
Originally Answered: Why do Quora administrators favor only atheist and liberal Democrats?Here, I'm responding as myself. I am not speaking for Quora or any other admins. We don't. I can't tell you how many atheist posts I've collapsed. I've also backed other admins in sanctioning and banning atheists. And theists. It's funny: I regularly get accused of being both anti-atheist and anti-theist. People seem to notice actions taken against their group more than actions taken against other groups, which is natural I guess. There are religious admins and Conservative admins. I can't comment much about political threads, because I avoid them. Other admins are more involved with them than I am. I will say, however, that though you'd probably call me a social liberal, I have zero loyalty to other liberals and absolutely don't consider them "my people." Many of them irritate the shit out of me. If someone violates a site policy, the fact that he's a liberal counts for exactly nothing as far as I'm concerned. Same with conservatives; same with theists; same with atheists. My loyalty here is to Quora, not to any political creed or religion. I am not unique. Most admins I know don't care whether people are believers or non-believers. They care whether or not people follow Quora policies. We're human, so when we seem unfair, it may occasionally be because we're biased, but more often than not, it's due to one of these two factors: 1. We have limited resources. We happen to notice thread A but not thread B. 2. We are taking action against policy but people think we're acting politically. I've seen the latter happen over and over. Here's a made-up example which will hopefully illustrate the idea. Let's imagine there are pro-muppet and anti-muppet users: Pro-muppet user: Muppets are awesome. Anti-muppet user: No they're not. They suck, you fucking idiot! Admin: Please stop violating the Be Nice Be Respectful policy. Anti-muppet user: Oh, I see. Clearly, there's a bias here against ant-muppet people! No, there' a bias against people who say, "You fucking idiot." We don't care if you're pro muppet or anti muppet. Our job is to enforce policy. Here's another thing that happens: Anti-muppet user: Muppets suck, and anyone who likes them is an idiot! Pro-muppet user: Fuck you, you asshole! Admin: Pro-muppet user, please stop violating the BNBR policy. Pro-muppet user: Oh, I see! The anti-muppet people can be as rude as they want, but I can't. Clearly, you admins are biased. No, the anti-muppet user did not insult another member. He was a rude asshole, but he didn't violate BNBR. We do sometimes take action against people who engage in hate speech against groups, but our first responsibility is to stop members from insulting specific members. Updated 26 Mar 2014 • View Upvotes