82 people were shot in Chicago over the weekend of the 4th of July, 2014. What is the cause of this continued surge of violence and what is being done to control it?See http://my.chicagotribune.com/#se....
Going from the 415 homicides we had in 2013, one would expect 3.4 homicides over a three-day period. So yes, the 14 homicides we experienced is about four times the average rate. The most immediate cause is the reasonably warm weather we had this holiday weekend. Violent crime, at least in Chicago, is extraordinarly strongly correlated with temperature: http://crime.static-eric.com/#top Click through to the homicide graph. There's fully a factor of three separating the homicide rate in the dead of winter to that in the hottest parts of summer. There is plenty of speculation about why this happens, but I think that part of it is that air conditioning is not standard in Chicago and, frankly, life here in the summer sucks. There are big cultural tropes about how awesome it is in the Chicago summer, but let's face it, it is hot and humid. Without air conditioning, you can only be comfortable indoors on the coolest days, and frankly, you won't be much more comfortable outdoors, either. Being well-rested and mentally focused is almost impossible without A/C. So if you're a poor Chicagoan with no car and barely any money, you make plans to spend some idle time outside during your holiday weekend. Maybe pull out the grill and pick up some cold beers to beat the heat. And it's a dense city, so you'll be stuck in the local park around droves of sweaty strangers. Maybe that guy you don't really get along with, too, and if it were 5 below, you'd just stay out of his way and get to where you were going, but now you're in the same city park and he just disrespected you. As night comes around, your home is still stifling, so maybe it's better to continue to hang out outdoors. Do the math; it is a recipe for conflicts, and sometimes these conflicts will go very, very wrong. People say and do all kinds of things to try and control the elevated levels of violence that are the symptom of violence baked into hearts by generations of inequality. Ineffectual things like bleating about gun control, reasonable things like jacking up law enforcement, and the deeply powerful things like socializing youngsters and strengthening communities that work so slowly that scarcely anyone notices. And of course, often what our politicians do in the interests of their budgets (both public and personal) are the things that actually destabilize communities, like shutting down the little public infrastructure (like schools and mental health institutions) that do exist in the poorest neighborhoods. Amid this mixture, maybe we should donate some window units. 