When will the financial burden of owning a private automobile be high enough to dissuade most people from buying them?In some places, like New York and more recently San Francisco, one could argue this is already happening. The cost of parking, valet, and gas has made owning a car an unnecessary luxury for many people. In places like Singapore, the license to buy a car (not counting the cost of the car) is something like $68k. In what year will this happen for the rest of us? What has to happen first?
When more of America looks like NY / SF, when more people move to cities instead of suburbs, if incomes decrease, or if fuel prices jump without technology like hybrids and electric cars catching up. In many areas this will basicaly never* happen (see also Jon Mixon's answer): What is so much better at getting people wherever they want whenever they want to go than a car, where they’re alone, they can listen to music as loudly as they’d like, they can leave on their own schedule, they have a place to store what they buy, etc.? Where they can, on a whim, go down the street or to the other coast? Americans love freedom, and associate cars with that freedom. Americans often hate taking public transport that requires them to get on a government established schedule. http://news.ycombinator.com/item... The financial burdens are much smaller in less dense areas: You'd have to implement minimum parking fees similar to those in big cities. In a place with lots of land unlike SF or NY, this is going to be hard to justify. Efficiency. Cars are actually quite efficient and getting more so, especially with hybrid technology. The average car is near or beats the average city bus in terms of energy efficiency. And we are quite likely to get 50+MPG Cars and electric cars in the near future. Interestingly, car ownership has been increasing in the last 20 years in San Francisco itself:  http://www.mtc.ca.gov/maps_and_d... Reasons given: increased income and trend of suburbanization in the suburbs (most of America's population growth is happening in the suburbs).  Eventually in the US car ownership will reach a saturation point, which requires the above. [*] by never, it's plausible the model of private car ownership may have changed into an on demand self driving fleet. But there would still be cars in 50-100 years 