How much of the difference between Democrats and Republicans is attributable to the difference between rural and urban life?
A huge amount. People who live in very rural areas have a fundamentally different relationship to government than people in dense cities. When I lived in the country, I was surrounded by stuff the government put in place: roads, power lines, mail boxes on the Rural Free Delivery route. But  in those surroundings, manmade things were an exception and natural things the rule and the manmade things I saw, like houses and cars, almost all bore the marks of private ownership. Our city hall was the size of a small branch administrative office of a single government agency in single neighborhood of one big city. That's not surprising, as the size of the population it served  was about the same.  Though my parents were transplanted city kids and staunch New Deal Democrats, many of my classmates had parents who supported Republicans.  In that world, of wilderness and private property it was easy for the idea that government is at best unnecessary and at worst an enemy  to take hold. Later when I moved to the city, my world became very different, so did my relationship to the government that I increasingly  came to see holding it all together. The subways and buses that moved me around were government projects. When New York relied on private contractors to meet its transportation needs, its horse-drawn street cars were a hot mess in more ways than one. The ubiquitous curbside garbage cans were noisily emptied by sanitation workers every morning and if they went on strike, it was a huge health crisis. Where I grew up, the sanitation department was one guy who sat in a shack at the town dump and shooed away the kids shooting rats with their .22s so they wouldn't endanger the local taxpayers. Cities are complex manmade environments and complex manmade environments have always demanded big government to supply their needs. When that doesn't happen, they quickly become socially stratified hellholes where shantytowns sit across town from walled mansions.  That's an easy reality to miss when you don't live in a big city. 