When will the financial burden of owning a private automobile be high enough to dissuade most people from buying them?In some places, like New York and more recently San Francisco, one could argue this is already happening. The cost of parking, valet, and gas has made owning a car an unnecessary luxury for many people. In places like Singapore, the license to buy a car (not counting the cost of the car) is something like $68k. In what year will this happen for the rest of us? What has to happen first?
Please note, this answer was provided for the original wording of the question which has now changed. Tushar A. Katira has the right line of thinking for this question. Jon Mixon's and others answers discuss the matter from a philosophical standpoint which i will not dispute, I will attempt to address from a more engineering standpoint of future energy costs. The following reads like something of a treatise on the power industry, but understanding this material is critical for understanding the issues related to this question. Economics tell us that people will always move from the cheapest available option, to the next cheapest available, to the next cheapest and so on and so forth. At present, the cheapest option for energy in vehicles is the burning of fossil fuels, specifically Oil. Oil has an incredibly high energy density which makes it a powerfully efficient fuel for vehicles. In the future, oil will become increasingly difficult to extract. It will not be fully exhausted, but it the remaining oil will be either of such poor quality, so deep or such a great distance away that it will no longer be the cheapest available energy source for powering vehicles. However, due to the existence of current infrastructure, oil prices alone will not dictate when a switch to a new fuel source occurs. The switch will occur when the oil price not only exceeds the cost of alternative energy sources but also the cost of conversion of existing infrastructure. At this point the scales will tip and the next available energy source, most likely natural gas, will be utilized to power cars. It is possible that the conversion will not be universal or complete, there may be a period of oscillation as the cheapest available natural gas is quickly exhausted, the oil may once again be cheaper for a brief period.  The exact dates for when these changes will occur are subject to much debate in both the scientific and political arenas. Here are some specific energies. Note that Gasoline is around 50, while ethanol is about 33, which is 33/50=665 or 2/3 the energy density. Eventually natural gas supplies will also be depleted, at which point a second transition will occur, to either bio fuels or possibly a form of electric energy.  At present, bio fuels do not compare favorably to gasoline or other fossil fuels. Bio fuels typically have about 2/3 of the specific energy of a fossil fuels. This means a gallon of bio fuel will only power a car about 2/3 as much distance as a gallon of fossil fuel. Biofuels require the use of biomass, which competes with other needs, specifically food. This will put an increasingly high demand on the cost of biofuel. Electrical energy sources suffer from different problems. First there is the question of where does the electricity come from? In the US, the answer currently is from coal and in some locations nuclear fuel. Setting aside Nuclear for the moment, we can see immediately that coal is a fossil fuel. Why do we use coal? It has two clear advantages for power generation when compared to renewable energies, such as solar and wind energy. First, coal is extremely cheap . This is logical in that essentially all we are doing is digging it up and burning it, which is a relatively simple process. And more importantly, coal is an "always on" energy source. Once we mine the coal and have a quantity of it at a power plant, we have a very precise understanding of how much energy the coal can produce, and to access the energy, we need simply burn some of the coal, at our discretion. In this way, the coal energy is in storage for whenever we need it. This is the key shortcoming of current wind and solar energy technology, it is not solely a matter of producing energy, it is a matter of storing energy once we produce it. Without the ability to store energy, we are left unsure if the energy will be available when we need it. In the future coal cheap coal supplies will be depleted in much the same way that cheap oil is being depleted. At this point alternatives will be needed, these alternatives currently include wind, solar and nuclear energy. Nuclear has the advantage of being an established energy source that is very reliable. It is however not an unlimited energy source. Without reprocessing nuclear fuel, supplies of fuel will last decades, with reprocessing the fuel will last centuries, however this will have the effect of producing weapons grade nuclear waste. Nuclear, solar and wind energies will require the development of new ways of storing fuel such as improved battery technologies. If we are able to develop these technologies and store the energy produced from wind and solar energy without much loss (say 90% retention, vs current rates that are closer to 40% or 50%) we may be able to have effective electric battery powered cars, without this development, electric cars will not be very feasible, in which case they will become prohibitively expensive. The alternative will be larger scale mass transit and less long distance travel in general. My own personal estimates, based on general experience and readings  in the industry, as partially described in the above, suggest that oil prices will increase sometime late in this century, at which point the process of transition will be going full speed. I have my doubts about whether battery technologies will be developed capable of being efficient enough and being produced in large enough scale to replace the US automotive fleet. I believe a more likely scenario is that cars will in fact gradually become less economically viable for the average person. So my ballpark number is around 2100, give or take a few hundred years (if we do develop better energy storage technologies.) :) Updated 24 Jul • View Upvotes