Why is cholesterol such a complicated molecule?
The question as is posed can't really be answered, after all, the structure of a molecule is as it is, no "why is its structure is so complicated". If one means to ask why understanding and interpreting cholesterol blood levels is so complicated, I'll try to explain somewhat: Cholesterol is an essential molecule as part of animal cell membranes, regulating permeability and fluidity, so we can't function without cholesterol in our body. On the other hand, we know that high cholesterol levels correlate with Atherosclerosis, eventually causing the closing off of important arteries causing heart attacks, strokes, peripheral artery disease often leading to amputations of the limb, the cholesterol levels are especially high in Familial hypercholesterolemia.  Cholesterol is bound to a protein we call lipoproteine, clinically speaking we measure total cholesterol, HDL-cholesterol containing more protein and less lipid, and LDL-cholesterol (usually not directly measured, but calculated which often is very imprecise) containing less protein and more lipid.  We now know that HDL-cholesterol ("good cholesterol") protects against atherosclerosis, while LDL-cholesterol ("bad cholesterol") promotes atherosclerosis.  The size and density of the LDL-cholesterol particles also matter, if small and dense like in diabetics will cause more arterial vascular disease, that's is why we want to lower LDL-cholesterol more in diabetics. We now know that lowering total cholesterol, especially LDL-cholesterol, is effective is lowering cardiovascular mortality except stroke, but too much lowering of total cholesterol is correlated with a rise in total and cardiac mortality, because we think an "unhealthy" low cholesterol level is a sign of an underlying serious disease which causes death. This graph depicts the importance of high LDL-cholesterol and low HDL-cholesterol levels independently on the risk of coronary heart disease What we can do to influence these factors: As you can see the important measures one can take are: smoking cessation losing weight exercise keep dietary fats in check As for meds, Statins has been shown to be very effective in lowering coronary heart disease with almost no to negligable side effects, in spite of all the scare stories on the web, see Page on thelancet.com "Safety and efficacy of long-term statin treatment for cardiovascular events in patients with coronary heart disease and abnormal liver tests in the Greek Atorvastatin and Coronary Heart Disease evaluation (GREACE) Study: a post-hoc analysis" and Long-term efficacy and safety of statin treatm... [Pharmacol Res. 2014]. 