What can I read to help me better think in terms of networks?I'm looking to sharpen my thinking in terms of what it means to live in a connected world. Are there any essays or books that you have read that have helped you better approach the world in this framework?
Many great answers have been given already. Mine will focus on the influence of networks on culture and issues of representation. This particular perspective is valuable in understanding how people talk and act about technological networks, why they might not embrace them whole-heartedly, etc. All of the following books and essays have helped me get a better understanding of the world we now inhabit. -. From Energy to Information: Representation in Science and Technology, Art, and Literature. ed. Bruce Clarke and Linda Dalrymple Henderson. Stanford, California: Stanford University Press, 2002. COUPLAND, Douglas.Microserfs. New-York, New-York: Harper Collins, 1995. GLEICK, James. The Information: A History, A Theory, A Flood. London, UK: Fourth Estate, 2012. MARX, Leo. “Technology: The Emergence of a Hazardous Concept”. Social Research 64.3:965-88. New-York, New-York: New School for Social Research, 1997. MARX, Leo. “American Literary Culture and the Fatalistic View of Technology” in The Pilot and The Passenger. New-York, New-York: Oxford University Press, 1988. HARRAWAY, Donna. “A Manifesto for Cyborgs: Science, Technology, and Socialist Feminism in the 1980s” in The Haraway reader. New-York, New-York: Routledge, 2004. HAYLES, N. Katherine. How We Became Posthuman: Virtual Bodies in Cybernetics, Literature and Informatics. Chicago, Illinois: University of Chicago Press, 1999. LICKLIDER, J. C. R. “Man-Computer Symbiosis” in IRE Transactions on Human Factors in Electronics, 1:4-11, 1960. http://groups.csail.mit.edu/medg... PETTMAN, Dominic.On Love and Other Technologies: retrofitting eros for the information age. New-York, New-York: Fordham University Press, 2006. SCHAFFER, Simon. “Babbage’s Intelligence: Calculating Engines and the Factory System”. Critical Inquiry 21.1: 203-227. Chicago, Illinois: University of Chicago Press, 1994. WEINBERGER, David. Small Pieces Loosely Joined. New-York, New-York: Basic Books, 2003. For more specific bibliographies, I'd recommend you take a look at MIT's Science, Technology and Society program. Their Open Course Ware provides lots of quality materials on a wide variety of related topics: http://ocw.mit.edu/courses/scien... I hope this helps. 