What will a business plan look like 10 years in the future?
The first thing to understand is that business plans are NOT written "to satisfy bankers, angels and VCs".  Instead you write one for YOURSELF to use as your own touchstone, guidebook, and focus concentrator as you envision, build, pivot and expand your business. As such, a business plan is NOT a fundraising document, but IS a crucial element of a successful business. (Note, by the way, that a business plan does not need to be 35 pages of dense text: take a look at Aaron Patzer's funding slides for Mint.com (available at http://www.slideshare.net/hnshah...) which is one of the most comprehensive, intelligent plans I've seen...even though they are in PowerPoint form.) However, you DO need a variety of *other* communications materials to help investors make a case (to themselves and their partners) that your venture is worthy of their investment. I've written before about the various things a smart entrepreneur will have to aid in investor communications (see my answer to What materials or software should I use to pitch a VC?) but let's now go beyond my last point there (a special, investor-focused online web site) to answer this question. The Investor Attraction plan of the future (calling it what it is) will clearly be online, and it will clearly be a living site that is always current. It will also be carefully access-controlled, because while transparency is great, there will always be confidential things you don't want to share with the whole world. Because this is the world of Web 3.0, the plan will be completely integrated with all data that might possibly reflect on the company's investability. As the question suggests, it will have links to all the sources you listed, and a lot more (from your social graph profile to your competitors' Compete metrics to a live sentiment analysis of what your users are saying about you online.) It will combine information YOU provide (your strategy, target customers, etc.), information THIRD PARTIES provide (your public analytics, Klout score, sentiment, etc.) and information the INVESTOR brings to the table (people they know who know you, industry reports and analyses, comparable valuations from their internal databases, etc.) The plan will be truly interactive, allowing you AND your potential investor to play out what-if scenarios with live data, analyzing your pipeline, conversion rates and interactions with strategic partners, combining your SalesForce CRM system, your direct response channels and your marketing analytics. In this connected world of the future, while you are working on your Investor Attraction Plan, the smart investor is working on her Entrepreneur Attraction Plan, where similar tools will help her reach out to YOU and show why she would be the best partner to fund your venture. There, you would be able to check HER references, see her other portfolio companies, leverage her network in filling open positions on your team, and ensure that you can always get her [electronic] signature on the investment and governance documents you invariably need to have signed. Once your investor 'joins the family' by funding your vision, the Investor Attraction plan will expand into a full-featured Investor Relations plan, integrating your investor and board reporting functions, your cap table and option ledger, and coordinating your investors' collaboration in raising your next financing round and/or exit transaction. Best of all, the two worlds will be connected in real time, so that the entrepreneur and the investor can function as a team to support the company, and as individuals outside of that context. In an increasingly accelerating and fluid world, we will find that one entrepreneur's investor is another investor's entrepreneur, and we will each likely play multiple roles with multiple companies. Whether it's called a business plan, an entrepreneur attraction plan or an investor relations web site, the future of smart entrepreneurial funding, on both sides of the table, will rest on a foundation of real-time, transparent, web-facilitated, interactive communications. 