Why is mathematics so addictive?
As one who suffers from the disorder, bipolar is not the word you want. (No, I'm not offended. I make jokes about my condition all the time.) Mathematical "addiction" and that condition have very little, if anything, to do with each other. Not liking mathematics seems to be a cultural issue in the U.S., largely because many people are intellectually lazy. People don't like subjects that are hard and objective and resistant to grade inflation. You get the same complaints around foreign languages. "I'm no good at math" is like "I just can't learn French." (You're not better at creative writing; people just don't want to tell you that.) The problem is that most people don't want to expend the effort. If they don't need to do so, that's fine, but it's nothing wrong with mathematics, which is not innately dislikable. So, to answer your question: mathematics has a lot of "juncture points" where seemingly unrelated concepts come together. At some point, you figure out (or are taught) that every positive integer has a unique prime factorization. That's important, and it comes up all over the place, not only in number theory but in computer science. (Among other things, it means you can encode an infinite sequence of positive integers into a single positive integer.) There is an "Aha" experience that you get when you learn something new or make a novel connection. Is it addictive? Well, there are worse things to become "addicted" to. Now, as for the idea (expanding on your citation) that mathematics is some form of mental masturbation that compels people to neglect daily life, I don't buy it. Sure, there are mathematicians who've gone insane (Kurt Godel, Georg Cantor, John Nash) but I really don't think that mathematics caused their mental illness. In fact, I honestly don't think mental illness is more common among mathematicians than in any other field requiring that level of creativity (literature, visual arts). We know that creative ability and mental illness are (sadly) correlated, but ceasing the creative activity doesn't, in the long term, cure the mental illness. This suggests that, in fact, the mental illnesses in creative people are caused by low/volatile social status and just plain biology, and not creative endeavor. 