Where do most web startups fail?
My answer pertains to hardware but I think the lessons are just as applicable to web-oriented products. For the past 15 years I have worked for contract developers and manufacturers, some of whom are considered among the most innovative in the world. Their products have been seen on the covers of Time, Forbes, etc., and they have won countless awards. It has been my responsibility to obtain clients whom we can partner with, so that we can take their idea and turn it into a successful product on the market. Not stopping there, I meet with C-level executives in addition to the engineering and scientific teams (when applicable), and assist them in determining the market with which they want their new product to compete, since we will be assisting them. This means going over specs which reflect SWOT analysis, trends, competitors, etc. So I have been in a unique position the past 15 years to see the birth of many new ideas into products, with many different applications, from many different companies. While I cannot predict success or failure for any product, there are tendencies I have seen which carry significant weight in determining whether a product will sell or not. The first thing to remember is that there is something like a 90% failure rate for new products. That's right- approximately 9 out of 10 products or businesses will fail. So what does that tell you? First of all, it should tell you that whatever almost everyone is doing is wrong! What kind of craziness is it where we adhere to a paradigm that only has a 10% success rate?! It is at this point that one recalls Einstein's definition of insanity. Now, everyone pays lip service to 'customer-driven' marketing, or 'quick market response' or something to that effect. In my experience lip service is about all it is. Almost no one whom I have met with had made a product from the bottom-up, actively consulting potential clients (KOLs and VOCs) until AFTER a concept is agreed upon, and many don't do it consistently even after their product is on the market. Here is an example of what I mean- I once saw a medical device company that had received a lot of VC and had a developed prototype already made. I met with the engineering department and for an hour they proudly showed me their snazzy Powerpoint and images, etc. Theirs was a device which was to take a person's vitals in the back of an ambulance and forward that info to the hospital, so that a team would be better prepared to help the patient when they arrived. After their presentation to me I asked one question. I said "You told me this device has to delicately be placed into the patient and held in place for a period of time, in order to extract the info. The entry-point of the device is not user-friendly, however. Furthermore, with that design how do you hold it in place when an ambulance is going from 0 to 45 mph quickly and is stopping and starting all the time? There was silence for about 10 seconds while they looked at each other. Then the meeting was over. A few days later I was told that they shelved the existing concept and was starting over. They hadn't even thought of this. This type of mentality is not unusual from my experience. Stakeholders in a company get emotionally committed to their product and are unable, or unwilling, to step back and take a hard, cold, objective look at their product from a consumer's POV. For me, this is one of the biggest reasons why start-ups fail. It is amazing to me that so many VCs allow these failures to happen, as many don't get involved in this type of analysis. In fact, I was in the offices of one of the largest and well-known European VC when the 2 co-founders of the company were there. They had already received their Series A money a year earlier and one of the VCs asked "So how are you going to market yourselves?" Not only was I amazed that this question was being asked at this time, after they had already received their first round, but I was even more shocked when one of the co-founders said "We will build original products" and the other co-founder, in unision, said "We will have contract development & manufacturing and build OEM products." The VCs said nothing. The company is now over 10 years old but never got much larger after the Series A and, in fact, this particular VC pulled out of their investment. So my suggestion if you are a founder of an internet company, or major stakeholder, is to get off your ass and away from your keyboard and go out and have people try the demo or prototype you have. Have them compare it with your major competitors. Try to find fault with your product and talk about it with potential customers to see if they agree with you, and why. Trust me, you'll be happy you did in the end. 