Obama Presidency: Second Term (2013–present): If Ron Paul or Mitt Romney were in power, would the right-wing press and (white) Americans be happier?How would the country be better off?
I'm on the list of official Quora Reviewers, which means that I could unilaterally make this offensive question disappear. (See http://www.quora.com/Quora-Moderation/What-special-privileges-do-Quora-admins-and-reviewers-have) I appreciate the trust that Quora and its admin community have placed in me and I haven't used that power, ever. I was tempted to do so in this case. [Note: this all changed when moderation was taken over by Quora itself. I have no unilateral power at all.] If the candidate on the right had been elected, would the press on the right be happier? Duh. That's true by definition. Would (white) Americans be happier? What do the parentheses denote here? There is nothing that you can conclude based on their skin color. It makes as much sense to ask whether tall Americans would be happier, except that you're making an assumption based on the color of someone's skin, and there's only one word for that. And of course, if you voted for someone, you generally believe the country would have been better off. I am not shy at all about saying that I think the country would be significantly better off today if Mitt Romney had been elected. It certainly has nothing to do with my race. I believe everyone would have been better off, regardless of their race, ethnicity, gender or height. I have not changed my opinion that the question would be hard to repair in terms of logic. The first answer (the right wing press) is trivial and the second a non sequitur. I refuse to let 50% of the country be labeled as racist idiots. Right wing does not imply racism any more than left wing implies genocidal Stalinism. I'm all for debating these terms as long as anyone is interested. But I urge everyone on both sides to keep in mind that if a candidate gets 45% of the vote, there is not a sense of the word "extremist" that can be applied to them. And the construction is that if someone voted against Obama or fails to support him now, they are basing their opinion on race, it's corrosive, insulting, and not a bit funny even as a troll. Updated 27 Aug • View Upvotes