Why isn't India a superpower or global leader?India is considered to have a stable economy. China is almost similar to India, but is way ahead in terms of trade and economy. India is lagging behind and has been said to be developing for the last two decades. What actually is the problem in India? Is this the result of the attitude of the people or poor governance?
Let's get one fact straight. China isn't a superpower. And it isn't going to be one anytime soon. The main characteristics of a superpower aren't just limited to military and economy. They also include having the capability of influencing far off cultures and attitudes. Consider USA for example. It's companies, food, culture, movies and TV shows are known worldwide . Then there is the American dream. Nothing, just nothing has come close to the American dream when it comes to influencing the world. Millions of people have left their homes for USA to chase this dream. So if you consider all these, China is not even close to being a superpower. Now getting to the main point. Unlike the most voted answer here by Balaji Vishwanathan, I don't believe that Nehru and his kins share the blame for country to be lacking in development. I agree that Nehru's policies after India's independence really got the country on the wrong track but you can't deny he followed the socialist policies with the betterment of the people in his mind. His actions might have been objectively wrong but his intentions weren't so. And please, so what if his descendants have ruled most of the times in Indian history? Japan, Korea, Singapore (it's even more "dynastical" than India and ironically it's even more developed than China), Philippines all have political dynasties. It's unfair and quite frankly, absurd to blame the dynasties for our state of development. The main reason why China has become more developed than us, especially since we were on the same page once upon a time, is simply a mix of culture and economics. India liberalised its economy quite later than China did. China had already opened up its economy quite earlier under Xiaoping in late 1970s. Second, I mentioned about culture. No one, not even the most religious people can deny how much of an effect of our intrusive, caste based (especially in the rural areas) culture filled with a "chalta hai" attitude has had on our country. We become easily swayed by politicians using religion and caste. We (quite ironically, in my opinion) start opposing those reforms that will help in developing India more and (even more ironically) then wonder why isn't our country developing.. Most of the people who ask why isn't our country on par with China (i.e, the urban folks) don't vote. It's the rural people that vote the most. If we want to bring about a change in this country and help, why don't we vote? As I said earlier, China liberalised its economy a long time before India's. You simply can't compare India, because India has just had two decades of reforms while China has had three and a half. India is developing, but instead of asking why hasn't it developed, more appropriate question to ask would be, why don't we, as Indians, do anything to change? Updated 1 Apr 2014 • View Upvotes