How are Eigenvectors and Eigenvalues used in image processing?
There are multiple places where eigenvectors and eigenvalues come in handy, in image processing and computer vision: As Sravan Kumar mentioned in his answer, you can use PCA to do image compression. PCA involves finding the eigenvectors of the covariance matrix, and projecting the data onto the eigenvectors with the largest eigenvalues( Principal component analysis). PCA basically provably provides optimal compression (in some sense). However modern image compression standards like JPEG don't really use PCA and use a different kind of transformation ( Discrete cosine transform ) instead. One of the very first techniques for face recognition was based on PCA (Eigenface). The idea was that if you find the principal components of face images and project the face images onto these principal components, then things like facial expressions and random pixel noise will be removed and it will be easier to identify the face. This technique, however, performs quite poorly, and has been largely superseded by better techniques. A process that is very related to PCA is whitening(Whitening transformation). The idea behind whitening is the same as the idea behind PCA : there is a lot of correlation between the pixels of an image. In PCA you want to exploit these correlations; in whitening you consider these correlations as a nuisance and you want to remove them. Almost all algorithms that try to learn features out of image patches whiten the image patches as a matter of course. One way to whiten an image is to multiply by U T (S+λI) −0.5 U  where U  are the eigenvectors of the covariance matrix, S  is a diagonal matrix containing the eigenvalues and λI  is regularization to prevent  things from blowing up. Finally, eigenvectors and eigenvalues show up quite often in Image segmentation . A class of techniques for image segmentation represent the image as a graph with the pixels as nodes, and the eigenvectors/eigenvalues of the Laplacian matrix of the resulting graph can be used to cluster pixels which belong together. (See:Normalized cuts, one explanation here: Page on Sunysb.edu) (More generally, see Spectral graph theory). I have kept this brief, to the extent I can, so it might seem dense; the long and short of it is that eigenvectors and eigenvalues show up almost constantly. 