Obama Presidency: Second Term (2013–present): If Ron Paul or Mitt Romney were in power, would the right-wing press and (white) Americans be happier?How would the country be better off?
Ron Paul or Mitt Romney? Either the guy who is for ending the wars or the guy who is planning to continue the drone strikes? Either the guy who wants to end the drug war and fully legalize drugs or the guy who wants to keep it basically the same? Either the guy who wants to end the Federal Reserve, start a gold standard, and establish free trade, or the guy who wants to use the Federal Reserve and fiat money system to impose sanctions on China for manipulating their currency? Either the guy who wants to privatize marriage or the guy who wants to keep same-sex marriage illegal? I could go on, but you should see the point. One is a grass-roots libertarian constitutionalist, the other is a left-leaning neo-conservative that is virtually indistinguishable from Obama. As for the underhanded race comment, Ron Paul is the guy who is actually building bridges between demographics. He realizes that liberty appeals just as much to the black voters who are disproportionally locked up for non-violent drug offenses as any other voters who are concerned that they need to be constantly getting raises in order to simply maintain their quality of life. Ron Paul really isn't right-wing at all. He is outside of the right/left paradigm. He's anti-war. He's pro-free market. He's for legalizing drugs. He's pro-life. He thinks that the way government treats marriages needs to be modified in order to allow gay couples to recognize themselves as married. He's opposed to the welfare state. Once you break free from the whole right/left charade, you start to notice the fact that apart from a few partisan issues that people rally under, but nothing ever changes, they are both practically the same. They are all for deficit spending, constant war, money manipulation, constant invasion of civil liberties, and protection of corporate interests. 