How did Tinder grow so quickly?
*Side Note: First and foremost, the most important thing for their growth was having an absolutely awesome product. There is no getting around it - if their product sucked, we all wouldn’t be using it. However, this is a given and not particularly insightful in my opinion (especially because the question specifically asks about their strategy).   I heard Sean Rad (the founder) and the rest of executive team of Tinder speak at USC just a couple days ago and they spoke a lot about their growth. They shared some of their insights into why they believe Tinder was able to grow so quickly and explode into the smartphones of millions of users. Here is what I picked up from the Tinder team:   They Focused on Organic Growth Tinder did not take out ads on Facebook and they did not use the mass email lists of college students that people offered them. They understood that there is a huge difference between someone who downloads the app because they found it on an ad and then never uses it again, versus someone who downloaded the app because their friend had a great experience on it and told them about it. This helped them get the “right” people using Tinder. The one time they actually tried to enter a market through paid advertising was in Turkey, which ended up largely being a dud because their users were quote on quote “different” from users obtained organically.  Additionally, focusing on organic growth also helped them stay focused on their core users and refine their product so that it was one people would like enough to share with their friends.   They Targeted Key Influencers This was a big one for Tinder, especially because Tinder only works when enough people in the same area use it. Instead of simply mass marketing Tinder to everyone with access to the Internet, they instead focused on targeting smaller, tightknit societies and launched with the goal of reaching a critical mass within that society. In order to reach this critical mass they targeted key influencers – or people that have a lot of connections and influence in their respective communities. In Tinder’s case they initially targeted colleges and, in particular, students in the Greek system. These students hold a lot of influence into the social scenes and student bodies of their respective schools, so once these kids started using a lot more would follow soon after. Once Tinder showed traction in certain markets, they would then go on to start targeting famous people and celebrities in order to mimic the growth at college campuses except on a larger scale. This strategy of targeting key influencers helped them grow quickly and allowed them to create self-sustaining networks before it gradually was introduced naturally to other demographics.   They Made It Extremely Easy To Start Using The final thing that they mentioned which helped with their growth is that the signup process for Tinder is extremely simple and quick. Most dating services would require users to fill out a whole bunch of surveys and personal questions to fill out a profile.  They noticed that a lot of people wouldn’t even get past this initial stage to use the service. To fix this they simply require you to hit a “signup with Facebook” button and you can already start using the app exactly how it was meant to be used. A lot of people are not willing to take 15 minutes analyzing themselves and answering questions to use another dating website. However, most people are willing to try out an app that takes 30 seconds to download and immediately begin using. This made it extremely easy for people to share the app with their friends and made it a very small investment for new potential users.   These three strategies helped Tinder from just being a great, cool app, to actually giving you a chance to get matched up with that attractive stranger across from you in the bar whom you are too afraid to talk to… 