When will the financial burden of owning a private automobile be high enough to dissuade most people from buying them?In some places, like New York and more recently San Francisco, one could argue this is already happening. The cost of parking, valet, and gas has made owning a car an unnecessary luxury for many people. In places like Singapore, the license to buy a car (not counting the cost of the car) is something like $68k. In what year will this happen for the rest of us? What has to happen first?
In the Western and Southeastern United States, this will almost certainly never occur. This is for several reasons: Most Western US cities (and many Southeastern ones) have poor mass transit systems and no mass transit in many suburbs, Unless you own a vehicle, it would be impossible to travel in those areas. Or it would take amounts of time which would make it impractical to do so. Cars = Freedom - This is a uniquely American mindset and it will be difficult, if not impossible, to "break." While most people in New York, San Francisco and some parts of Chicago and Seattle have grown accustomed to either no longer owning vehicles or to never owning them, many Americans never will. They view a car as being a source of independence and will avoid any situation which results in their no longer owning one. Fuel efficient cars will always be available  Even if (or when) fuel prices soared to $10 or more a gallon, there will always be fuel efficient vehicles available. Americans will simply park their SUVs and sports cars and start driving smaller cars. Mass transit will now cost tens or hundreds of billions to implement in wider areas - Environmental studies, lawsuits and infrastructure construction costs will now cost the US billions more to implement in advance of mass transit systems. Since most states and municipalities are already cash-strapped, they are unlikely to take on the additional burdens of running and maintaining an expensive (but lightly used) mass transit system unless it absolutely necessary for them to do so., In short, failing a sea change in the American mindset or a sudden and massive increase in the cost and availability of resources, it is unlikely that the automobile will  disappear from the American landscape any time soon. Or that car ownership will significantly decrease Updated 19 Dec 2012 • View Upvotes