Where do most web startups fail?
Starts up tend to fail for a number of different reasons. They are: Product/market fit. If the market's not there or the product doesn't solve an important problem then you don't have users and you don't have a business (though this is often pivot time for startups these days). Too early/too late. They entered the market too early for there to be a viable market. This was the case for a lot of dotcom start ups from the early 90's. Remember Webvan, Pets. com, and others? Well, those are all thriving markets now. Turns out there were just not enough people online in the 90's to make them viable at the time. Too late is really just bad choices, but a startup might enter the market when a particular market sector is peaking (think of social networking in 2007 - 2010, daily deal sites in 2011 - 2013, and others). Lots of other companies saw the trend and are raising money and launching at the same time. The early startups in the space have huge first mover advantage. The team. The right team is critical for launching a successful startup. So much so that many VC's invest almost exclusively on the quality of the team. Though even if you have the right team, disputes and non-alignment can derail the startup at a later date. So it's important to work well together (another factor VC's consider before investing). Leadership. Without a doubt, you need a strong leader. Someone with a vision, who can communicate this and inspire the team. Someone who can adapt to the market, think strategically and execute relentlessly. A team with a great product that hits the right market can succeed in spite of great leadership, but great leadership will always give a start up a huge advantage in the market (read The Hard Thing About Hard Things by Ben Horowitz to see the value of great leadership in action.) Hiring. If your startups good and the market's growing, the founders will very quickly find themselves in a position to hire and hire fast. Those hiring decisions can make or break a startup. The team will need to be able to go from being heavily involved in the nitty gritty, to hiring great people to do their jobs and move on to big picture and management. Execution/scaling. Friendster is probably one of the best cases of a failed startup due to execution. As Friendster grew, it suffered huge issues with bandwidth and scaling their site. People trying to access the site that was not loading or slow, never had a chance to get locked into it, which made it easy to join Friendster's fast following competitor MySpace. If you read about Instagram's growth, you see a different story. The founder there build a simple app and then focused on the critical aspects of building and scaling the database. If the app was glitchy or had issues, then they'd lose users. They focused on this so much so that they didn't launch on Android for over a year and a half and were app-only (no website) until after Facebook bought them. Sales. Mark Cuban famously said, "Sales solves all problems." If you can sell, if you can build an effective sales team, then you won't have as much to worry about. Updated 17 Mar • View Upvotes