Do Quora users tend to be more liberally biased than the population as a whole?
Originally Answered: Does Quora aim to be welcoming only to liberals and progressives?"Toto, I've a feeling we're not in Kansas anymore." IMO American Quorans need to understand that they are no longer in a majority on Quora and that means the 'rules' change. There is an unspoken assumption on many websites including Quora that we are all Americans. Until recently this was a basically accurate assumption, sure you'd get some British, Australians and Canadians and the odd English-speaking European, but Americans were the bulk of the membership on any internet site and everyone else just had to fit in with American paradigms or get shouted down. But that has changed. Quora is attracting more and more non-Americans, to the point now where pretty soon there are likely to be twice as many Indians as Americans on Quora. People from other countries are not necessarily 'liberal' but those who aren't are 'differently conservative'. For example, clearly a lot of Indian Quorans are highly conservative, but I'm not sure they share a vast amount of common ground with US conservatives. As Americans are now only 23% of the Quoran audience,  and there is a substantial and vocal non-American audience, Americans are going to have to get used to the fact that they cannot assume everyone is working within the same set of unspoken assumptions that they are used to. Any site where this is the case is going to seem 'liberal' to a right-wing American who doesn't understand quite how international the audience is becoming. However, the idea that this is going to limit Quora's success is just American parochialism; if Quora wants to be truly successful it must attract a worldwide audience. And frankly, if some right-wing Americans can't deal with having their views challenged from a different perspective, that's their problem. They can always set up 'Conserviquora' (Look how well conservapedia is doing compared to the 'liberal' Wikipedia.) Updated 13 May 2013 • View Upvotes