Do Quora users tend to be more liberally biased than the population as a whole?
Originally Answered: Does the Quora community have a "liberal bias"?[Edit: I want to point out that the question that this was the answer to was:  Does the Internet have a liberal bias?  Not the current one.  It was changed after I answered it.  So if this seems a bit off, that's why.] Yes.  Why shouldn't it?  But, let's think about this a little.  We have to define "conservatism" and "liberalism" in terms of innate intellectualism and in terms of politics.  "What?  Huh?  What are you talking about, Dan?" Look.  The nature of what is "conservative" and "liberal" in terms of politics changes with each generation.  It's purely arbitrary.  The notion of females voting rights was once considered liberal on the fringe of revolutionary.  But, today it's a non-issue in most nations.  We, in the West, don't give it a second thought as if--yeah--it's the way things always should have been (regardless of your political slant).  Gay marriage--today--is considered a weird "lefty liberal thing" in most of the world (including the west).  I don't make promises much, but I promise you, in a hundred year's time, it will be on the same level of female suffrage.  Same went for manumitting African slaves in the South (and Brazil and elsewhere).  Same went for child labor laws, food safety laws, and on and on and on.  Those are arbitrary political measuring sticks.  They shift with contemporary ideals.  And if we're using that arbitrary measuring stick, then I would say, resoundingly, the web is liberal--as it should be (though, that is still debatable depending on which nation you live in).  Few people argue against child labor laws, female suffrage, etc.  There is much debate on gay marriage, but as arbitrary issues du jour go, it will pass and gays will get the right to marry regardless of how hard the Santorums fight the issue.  Then there is the intellectual process.  That is:  an intellectual liberal is an individual who is open to new concepts, ideas and doesn't have a judgmental view of differing ways of looking at things.  Many times (I think, a good majority of the time:  say 60/40), results in a liberal world view (i.e. politics), but not always.  My dear friend who works for the US Gov at State, is a consummate intellectual liberal (and an atheist), and he's also a devout Republican. So is Newt Gingrich (I assure you, though he's probably a Christian).  My friend--specifically--is a passionate intellect and is curious about everything from Islam to Atheism; gay issues to Aristotle; Horatio Nelson to Nelson Mandela.  He's against gay marriage, he is not a fan of Obama and has a general conservative world view (call him another Gary Teal). Likewise, there are intellectual conservatives.  I happen to think they end up, a bit more, as conservatives (say, 40/60), though definitely not always.  Intellectual conservatives tend to be selective about their intellectual input.  They surround themselves with people who agree with them, with periodicals and books that support their world view.  You see this a lot in devoutly religious people, but you also see it in crazy left-wingers who get their input from their Ivy League friends, the DailyKos and MSNBC and won't stray from that course.  An intellectual conservative typically is a fringe ideologue and sees only one worldview as "right" and all others as inherently malicious.  Instead of seeking a holistic understanding of things, they seek out information that supports their political view and, when hearing a well supported contrasting view, will seek out and accept ONLY information that detracts away from that view (in lieu of all general information that can be gleaned).  Since the internet contains--in essence--all information and worldviews available, it is inherently intellectually liberal, though if you try hard enough, you can filter your content and block out all other views.  As to the "political slant" of the web, yeah, good luck pinning that down.  I assure you, there are MASSIVE amounts of political slants to be found.  If one slant dominates over others, it might be fore a good reason, one worthy of exploring. 