What is the process for a normal student to start from very basic coding to high level coding so I that I can solve problems from CodeChef TopCoder etc?
Patience is the key. 1) Which programming language should I start? If want to be a top notch competitive programmer, learn C++ How do I start competitive programming? The Definitive C++ Book Guide and List 2) Resources for C++ If you are impatient then read "Sam'S Teach Yourself C++ In 24 Hours" first. Must read "C++ Primer". Please go through the following links:- What are some good resources to learn C++ for competitive programming? TopCoder Feature Articles 3) When should I learn DS and Algorithms? Hmm... you need to implement data structures in order to learn them. Once you are comfortable with a programming language, go for DS. Video Lectures | Introduction to Algorithms (SMA 5503) | Electrical Engineering and Computer Science | MIT OpenCourseWare Related book:- CLRS (initially skip mathematical proofs) Topcoder:- Algorithm Tutorials Algorithms - GeeksforGeeks 4) When should I start attempting question or practice question on top coder? Best way to learn new things is to try them. Once you get a grip on basic data structures, start solving problems on SPOJ and topcoder. Solve 1-2 problems daily. Please go through my following answers on quora:- I don't seem to understand programming practice problems on various sites like CodeChef, SPOJ, TopCoder etc. What am I supposed to do? Should I prepare algorithms first, then participate in a contest, or should I refer to them when I need them? Is there a list of algorithms you must know as a programmer? 5) I want to be excellent coder Yes you can but you need to practice hard. There's no substitute for hard-work. By doing practice can one become a red/yellow coder despite not being that intelligent? Thanks for A2A. I wish you luck on your journey. PS:- I think it will take around 100 hours to get started and solving easy questions on online judges. Set smaller goals and achieve them, one step at a time my friend. Dedicate 3-6 months to see the results. 