How many pages should a 'good' business plan be - on average?For a startup - not establishished business
Pages is the wrong way to measure business plans. If and only if you're going to show your business plan to potential outside investors, then in that case you might think in terms of pages, and the ideal for investors is 10-15 pages of simple easy-to-read text with a lot of white space and a readable font (investors tend to be my demographic, baby boomer, which means they like a font that doesn't require a magnifying glass). It's also important that even in this case you not confuse 10-15 pages of text with 10-15 pages total, because every page you occupy with a useful bar graph or pie chart is worth it to the investor who reads it. I read hundreds of plans every year, and I've come to hate the misunderstanding that leads people to cram a much longer business plan into 10-15 pages covered with dense small text. That's why I started this answer with my concern about measuring in pages. Give me any day, please, 25 pages that include 15 pages of comfortably formatted (12 point text, bullet points, section heads, etc.) wrapped in with another 10, interspersed, that show highlights in business charts. And don't leave out the tables showing the first year in monthly sales, cost of sales, personnel, expenses, profits, balance, and cash flow -- those are vital and I don't include them as pages. They are appendices. And from there, go back to the case of 99% of all startups, meaning that you aren't creating a document to be read by outsiders. In that case, screw page count and make sure you cover strategy, review schedule, milestones, responsibilities, tasks, and the basic numbers, and save pages for internal reminders of key points. And in that case, leave it on your computer, put it on the network, and don't ever bother to print it out. For the real business plans, done as the first step of planning, intended to help real startups reduce uncertainty and lay out the foreseeable future, don't ever print until you have to for some specific business reason. And review and revise every month. I posted on my blog about this a year ago this month, a post titled 'business planning isn't about pages.' http://timberry.bplans.com/2011/... 