When aeroplanes fly high, does it reduce the length of the flight?
The answer here assumes that you mean length of time, not distance. Short answer: Yes you fly faster up to a certain altitude, then slower unless the wind is favourable. A bit longer answer: The higher you fly, the thinner the air. An airplane will "feel" aerodynamically it's flying the same speed while it's actually flying faster.  But at a certain altitude there are other aerodynamic effects and you will start flying slower again if you go higher. And then there's the wind to take into account. More detailed answer: Pilots fly two types of speed when we climb out: IAS and Mach number. At lower altitude, up to around 26,000 to 30,000 feet (depending on the aircraft type and its limitations and the chosen speed schedule by the pilot) we fly an Indicated AirSpeed  (IAS).  This is an aerodynamic speed, important for pilots because it relates more to the flying than to the navigation.  It's a bit complicated to convert IAS into the True AirSpeed (TAS) but it comes down to correcting for airframe flow interference and instrument error on one hand and air compressibility and density on the other, which again depends on altitude and temperature. The TAS is important for navigation and not for aerodynamics, because together with the wind it's the TAS that determines the groundspeed to navigate on.  Of course pilots need to fly AND to navigate so we need to know both IAS and groundspeed.  As we climb out and the air gets less dense, for the same IAS the TAS will increase.  So say we climb at a constant 280 knots IAS, then the higher you fly you'll first actually fly maybe 300 knots TAS, then 340 knots, then 380, and faster and faster.  You get the picture.  So while the airplane aerodynamically "feels" it is flying the same speed, your actual speed is a lot higher and you'll reach your destination sooner while burning less fuel. So why not fly higher and higher then? Well, as you start flying higher and higher, there are different aerodynamic effects that start working and they are related to air compressibility and the speed of sound.  Therefore at a certain altitude we start ignoring the IAS and start flying a Mach number, a percentage of the speed of sound.  The speed of sound is directly related to the temperature of the air you're flying in.  When the air is warmer the speed of sound is higher and so when you fly for example Mach. 82 (82 percent of the speed of sound) you fly a faster True AirSpeed in warmer air. Yet the higher you fly, the colder the air you'll fly in becomes.  In general it's about 2°C less per 1000 feet higher.  That's true up to the tropopause, which is a layer of the atmosphere around 36,000 feet.  Any higher than that the temperature doesn't decrease anymore but remains stable (within civil aircraft range). So from the altitude where you start flying a constant Mach number the True AirSpeed actually decreases and the airplane flies slower the higher you fly... up to the tropopause where it will stay constant. The highest True AirSpeed is usually reached around 26,000 to 28,000 feet.  Of course in reality the conditions of the day matter just as much.   For example the tropopause is mostly not perfectly at 36,000 feet but anywhere between 25,000 and 55,000.  The temperature isn't usually what it is according to the standard model at a certain altitude either.  This affects the speed of sound, therefore Mach number, therefore True AirSpeed and therefore groundspeed. But most importantly there's wind to take into account too.  Compare it to a river if you like: when the wind/waterflow pushes you faster to your destination that's desirable and vice versa.  So if there's for example a jet stream blowing against you at 30,000 feet it may that day be better to fly at 26,000 feet or at 36,000 feet to get there faster. As an example here's a graph.  A normal flight's True AirSpeed would follow the red line.  In this case you'd fly fastest around 30,000 feet.  Note that above that there's a zone where the speed decreases when you fly higher and then above the tropopause it stays constant. This graph is for a standard atmosphere with zero wind of course. ​ ​ Extra distance flown due to the curvature of the earth is negligible.   In fact if you would fly all the way around the world 1000 feet higher, you would only fly pi times 2 times 1000 feet more, or about a mile.  That's about half of the average length of a runway.  At an average airliner's speed that distance is covered in seconds. 