What are all the tips and suggestions you would give someone who wants to access the Akashic records? Can accessing the Akashic records help teach us new skills like leaning a new language or making things?
Do you speak hologram?  That is a short way to answer a longer question, but gives a clue as to how one might engage with the Akashic record.    The problem is that, like a hologram, the Akashic record enfolds multiple layers of meaning.  A hologram might be considered as a 2-dimensional representation of a 3-dimensional event.  Each added dimension enfolds another "layer" or "axis" of meaning to an event.  Think of a line, then a piece of graph paper, then a "curved space" or "wire frame" diagram. Each of these dimensions adds a layer of information to the event, and when reconstructed in your mind it becomes a meaning.    Now add color to the wireframe, and then, put the whole assemblage into motion- complex motion, with spins and leaps- now you've added additional information and meaning.  The Akashic record stores meanings.    When we look at a hologram, we use a laser or other coherent imaging technique to "translate" the higher-dimensional information encoded there into something that we can access:   Similarly, to access the Akashic record one needs a "universal translator" to unfold the higher-dimensioned information into something we can understand and use.  (The Akasha speaks 128-bit words, but we have an 8-bit mind).   Luckily, we have such a "translator" in our High Self (Guardian angel, voice of Spirit or Guidance, the "still, small voice within,"etc.).  Learning to connect with this aspect of our personality is a huge leap forward in accessing all kinds of information that can aid one in their spiritual pursuits and life in general.  One easy technique is to simply write your question down, quiet your mind, and ask within. One might then receive an image or phrase in one's mind, or a "flash" of inspiration.    Write this down too, for it may be "information-dense" and you may need some time (or other tools) to "unpack" it successfully.  But knowing that it can be done is half the battle!   And then, accepting that you don't always get what you want...but you get what You need...is the other half.   Which should address your second question. (And my thanks to that great contemporary philosopher, Mick Jagger). 