Where do most web startups fail?
The error I see in many of the responses to this question is that they are characterized by the substitution bias, that is, answering a different but related question, which is, "what are the mistakes or negative circumstances that prevent startups from succeeding?" There is a critical difference between startup failure and a startup not succeeding. In order to understand this difference, we need a better definition of what a startup is. If we paraphrase Steve Blank's definition of a startup as an organized search for a scalable and sustainable business model, then the reason startups of any kind fail is always and singularly that they give up on the search. The only exception to this would be startups who actually go bankrupt--which is not the same thing as running out of money. Nearly all startups are a series of experiments--few succeed with their first hypothesis. Unfortunately, most startup founders and their teams do not see themselves this way. The Lean Startup movement has also perhaps overcorrected in the other direction. So let's be more specific. Most successful startups begin with a clear vision of what the world ought to look like if they were to succeed--we'll call this a macro-hypothesis. This macro-hypothesis will take the form of normative language like "people ought to be able to rent out their spare bedrooms in an online marketplace to create an alternative to hotels." This macro-hypothesis should in most cases be a single proposition, as single propositions are much easier to test than multiple propositions. The trick is that the macro-hypothesis cannot be tested with a macro-experiment. Startups often make the mistake of trying to do so, or substituting "surveys" and "market research" as an attempt to prove the macro-hypothesis. Instead, the only real way the macro-hypothesis can be proved is by implementing it in some particular and getting customers to pay money for that implementation. Each particular implementation is an experiment, testing a micro-hypothesis. Most of these experiments fail. Some of them succeed and because of WYSIATI (what you see is all there is), founders stop there, saying "Eureka! We've found our model," when in fact that model may not be the best, or even in the 50th percentile of workable models under the macro-hypothesis. Startup teams often quit because they cannot take the failures of the small experiments (perhaps they become demotivated, run out of money, whatever) and decide they will no longer purse testing the macro-hypothesis. They do not see that there exists an infinite array of possibilities for continuing to try testing the macro-hypothesis or for changing the macro-hypothesis and testing those assumptions. They do not see alternative ways of keeping the doors open and keeping the experimentation process alive--often because many startup founders have a childish mentality about their endeavors. "If the market doesn't like this the way I want it, then I'm going to take my ball and go home." Beware of these prima donna founders. Startup teams also often choose to quit because some experiment works, but it doesn't work well enough, and they assume that it won't be scalable or sustainable. Sometimes this may be true, but sometimes they merely need further experimentation and they should keep going. This is a perspective of "infinite game" thinking as opposed to "finite game" thinking. If you are thinking about pursuing a startup, you should not think about it in terms of mistakes or circumstances that will kill the startup, but rather, how do I avoid quitting and how do I help me team avoid quitting? This via negative approach will serve you better than all of the discussion of investment life cycles, co-founder conflicts, etc. Those are all merely symptoms of failing to understand the nature of the "infinite game" of entrepreneurship. 