Obama Presidency: Second Term (2013–present): If Ron Paul or Mitt Romney were in power, would the right-wing press and (white) Americans be happier?How would the country be better off?
You are aware that many white people helped put Obama in office, right?   That said, sure the right wing press would be happier. Their guy won. But to say that all white people would be happier because a white man is in power, I think we all know better than that. SPECIFIC white people probably would be happier that a white person as opposed to a non white person is in power, notably white supremicists or other people who would only look at skin color. But I would suspect that most white people made their decision regarding Obama vs. Romney strictly based on what they thought these men would do for (or to) the country were they elected.   However, I take no umbrage at this question, because, at the risk of arousing the ire of conservatives here and seeing my answer go down to the Hades of Quora via the downvote, let's recall that:    a) If you turn this around, and substitute "black" for "white" and "Obama" for "Romney", you'll see that this is the mirror image of what some conservatives have said about black people voting for Obama almost 100%- that black people voted for Obama ONLY because he was black and for no other reason. Even though black people, when Hilliary was a candidate were split between her and Obama, and even though black people have at least a 50 year history of overwhelmingly supporting Democratic presidential candidates, most of whom HAVE been white. Somehow, though, when black people are said to vote for a candidate because he's black in some idea of "solidarity", that doesnt' seem to register as being as offensive as your question, even though to me there is no difference between the spirit behind your question and this meme that conservatives didn't mind trotting out when pressed on why blacks don't vote Republican.   b) There are enough incidences of blatant disrespect via vicious ad hominems as well as personal slaps to him that go beyond normal politics that have been aimed at this president by prominent conservatives that no other president, Democratic or Republican, has had to endure-being accused of not acting American, being called a "liar" by a member of the Congress during the State of the Union speech in front of the entire country, being accused of not knowing what it is like to be American, accusing him of being Muslim over and over again despite no proof that he is, racist jokes aimed at him by federal judges (!) as well as other elected officials, accusations that he isn't eligible to be President followed by demands for his birth certificate that were so persistant that he was literally forced to produce his "papers" to get the right wing off of his butt. Not to mention that the number of death threats for this President have been higher than for any other President. I'm sure, given more time, I could come up with more breathtaking examples of outright jaw-dropping crapola that Obama and his family have had to deal with that have had NOTHING to do with his policies or governing style.   So, while this question might be offensive to some here, there is, in my opinion, ample evidence that some of the vitriol against this particular president IS rooted in a racist element on the right wing side. And, becuase of this, I think this question is not necesarily a junk question. It should make us think a little harder as to WHY Obama has had to endure a level of disrespect that no other President has had to deal with that is more tied to him personally as opposed to his policies. If this question offends you, than when conservatives trot out the "black people voted for Obama becuase he's black" routine, I want to see that same level of outrage and offense.   As to whether the country would have been better off with Romney, No. I dont' think so. Romney would have been a third Bush term. 