How fast is lithium ion battery technology improving each year in terms of power density, costs, recharge cycles, etc.?
Not by much, if at all. Lithium-ion is mostly an old technology, and some of the best in terms of energy density are lithium-cobalt-carbide, which are also expensive and stubbornly difficult to recycle. incidentally, they are also amongs the first li-ion battery developed. So we are switching to LiFeS, which are poorer batteries but are slightly more environmentally friendly. Probably the top research regarding current mass produced portable batteries is with their original creators, i.e. Sony et al. I'm not sure to what extent are vehicle manufacturers trying to improve the technology by reducing charge leakage, adding multiple layers or doing whatever touch-ups. in terms of energy density, the current way of manufacturing batteries is doomed to fail: if we increase density, we increase the likelihood of them exploding. Universities and smaller corporate research centres (that are willing to take long-term risks) are working on nano-wire mesh lithium batteries which do promise a 8-15fold increase in energy density, getting a battery much closer to that of petrol. Problem with research is that they always think small scale, and leave it up to others to adopt this into an industrial process. How can you produce enough nanowire reliably and preferably not too energophagic? How can you make sure the new batteries will be safe for all sort of environmental conditions (heat, dust, humidity, radiation, cold, chemical vapours, etc.)? How can you gambe that there will be enough demand given a steady supply process for these battery types? Newer battery chemistries like Li-Mn don't offer any considerable advantages over the classical one, so they are not that favoured. These issues have to be addressed to get the performance increase you are expecting. We badly need a new lithium battery type. And I'm saying lithium, because that's the 3rd element - He is not exploitable, because having a full orbital it will not conduct electricity (a less obvious consequence of pauli exclusion principle) - gaseous hydrogen is difficult to get stable inside a battery, so instead you want to use it as a carrier, preferably in a hydrogen cell, which is not a battery! Otherwise, a Lithium ion battery from a cell phone 10 years ago is not hugely different from one today: if you look closely, they will have similar capacities measured in mAh. for a typical smartphone, expect ~ 1300mAh. They're even roughly the same size! What we did do is slash the power consumption of the electronics. 