If water is contained in an unbreakable container with no room to expand, would it freeze at freezing temperatures?In other words, can one prevent water from freezing simply by not allowing it to expand? Has it been done?
Originally Answered: What would happen in you filled an unbreakable and unexpandable box to the brim with water and then froze it, would it expand still?I'm assuming that your hypothetical box to be unable to expand either. Now, without having any real knowledge about what would stop freezing the water, I'm prepared to bet that it would just enter a super cooled liquid state, but couldn't freeze solid as we know it, like sea water. You cannot observe it though, because to be able to withstand the amazing amount of pressure caused by the desire to expand, your box would have to be pretty hefty. You could leave a solid ball of any metal in there though, and by tipping the box you would be able to tell if the fluid was still in an un-solid state, by the "thunk" noise. I'm theorising that there should be a rise in temperature at the very lowest level, pressurise something, it gets warm, but again how would it be measured? The only reasonable argument I am hypothesising with, is that the water way way down below does not freeze, and maintains an above zero temperature. I'm pretty sure that you would have to take it down to pretty much absolute zero before it would start to break down its atomic glue and make metal water. But I am not that versed in the characteristics of how far water can be pressurised in a cooling experiment against the physical atomic bonds, and my answer might just get shot to bits by the big boys as hokum. I'm waiting with bated breath, as it sounds really quite an interesting idea. Just found that it has already been answered more or less here on Quora;- interesting answers, good reading. If water is contained in an unbreakable container with no room to expand, would it freeze at freezing temperatures? so, what do you say, I was kind of right in my ideas, according to some smart people. 