What places in the human brain does schizophrenia affect and originate from? Why?
While schizophrenia has been under study for over a hundred years, the exact physical causes of the disorder remain obscure. We know that schizophrenia occurs in about 1% of the general populace, and that there are definite genetic factors in developing it: schizophrenia occurs in about 10% of those who have a first degree relative diagnosed, and identical twins have an even higher rate of risk, ranging from 40% - 65%. The graph below details rates of risk by type (and distance) of relationship: However, environmental factors also play a role. We  know that those with schizophrenia have, on average, a smaller cranial cavity than those without, which could result from pregnancy complications or exposure to viruses. We also know that children whose mothers suffered from famine in the first three months of pregnancy are twice as likely to develop the disease. African Americans and Hispanics are also also at a higher-than-normal risk than the population as a whole, although it is currently unknown if this is due to a genetic predisposition or the factors related to hunger/class mentioned above. People who are born in densely-populated areas are also twice as likely to develop schizophrenia as their country-born counterparts are. In terms of neurophysiology, there have been studies linking abnormal production levels of the neurotransmitters serotonin, dopamine, and glutamine to schizophrenia, as noted in the upper left of the diagram below. Researchers have also noted that those with schizophrenia often have enlarged lateral ventricles, as indicated on the right side of the diagram below. The greater the enlargement of these ventricles, the greater the severity of the individual's thought disorders or hallucinations. There is also some evidence that schizophrenics have both a decreased size of and decreased amount of blood flow to the frontal lobe (hypofrontality). Now, the symptoms of schizophrenia include hallucinations, delusions, thought disorders, and movement disorders, which makes this a disorder that impacts many regions of the brain: Recent studies also suggest that schizophrenia may be tied to the insula region, a part of the brain key in differentiating internal and external realities, and inhibitory interneurons, whose malfunction results in individuals being unable to filter out irrelevant information, resulting in a sensory overload. In the long run, we know that those afflicted with schizophrenia lose grey matter at a much quicker rate than those without: This means that, as time goes on, patients' conditions can deteriorate drastically: There is also the worrisome finding that those who are treated with anti-psychotic drugs tend to have the highest rates of tissue loss, with those receiving the heaviest doses losing the most tissue. To sum things up, schizophrenia results from a combination of genetic and environmental conditions and, physiologically, from faulty structural (lateral ventricles and frontal cortex) and chemical (serotonin, dopamine, and glutamine) factors within the brain. Those with schizophrenia also tend to suffer a drastic decrease in grey matter over time. Schizophrenia is a complex disorder that spans multiple areas of the brain and cannot be comprehensively explained with the research done to-date. 