In what cases has the U.S. military (not wayward individuals) been accused of targeting civilians and to what degree do specific allegations have merit?For instance, civilian deaths have been mentioned in regards to, say, Hiroshima and the use of drones. Perhaps military should include agencies such as the CIA. Inspired by a comments discussion with Jon Davis here: Jon Davis' answer to What's the difference between freedom fighters and terrorists?
1968 My Lai Massacre "It became necessary to destroy the village in order to save it." A company of soldiers entered a village in Vietnam and ran amok. A lot centres on young conscripts, far away from home fighting a war they didn't understand for a cause that was conflicted at best. Over 500 civilians died. It is true that not all the US soldiers on that day joined the wanton killing by an indisciplined rabble, and there were acts of heroism, but it is one of the lowest points in US military history This article does have disturbing pictures. There isn't much else left after a massacre. http://life.time.com/history/my-... "Bomb them back to the stone age." -- U.S. General Curtis LeMay during the Vietnam War 500lbs of bombs were dropped for every person. 7million tons in all---more than unleashed in WWII on a country the size of New Mexico Vietnam led to unrivalled levels of insanity. The US was supporting an unelected dictator against a popular party. Very small events in terms of bodycounts but deeply symbolic were when troops fired on protesters at Berkeley (1967) and Kent State (1970), when the government shot unarmed citizens, protesting lawfully. There is President Nixon's Christmas present to Hanoi----- 20,000 tons of bombs dropped on Hanoi. This was carpet bombing WWII style, not strategic bombing. This was 1972. Remembering the Christmas bombing of Hanoi Laos. The American government denies in ever had any intervention there. It also says it dropped 2 million tons of bombs on the place. The American definition of "no intervention" is a standing joke. September 11, 1973, Chile. If anyone mentions "America" and "Democracy" to a Spanish speaker it will be treated with derision. This stems largely from the events of 1973: when a civilian government was overthrown by US sponsored thugs torturers and murderers. US backed dictator Pinochet ran the caravan of death, a touring group of torturers that terrorised the people. America claims it is in its backyard, it is 5000 miles (8000)km  from Washington DC to Santiago Chile. That is a lot of backyard. This was not an isolated event. The US backed all the worst regimes, in Nicaragua, El Salvador and Panama. In a re-run of previous slaughters the US invaded Grenada and overthrew a democratic government. This was so clearly against international law that even Britain under Margaret Thatcher condemned the action. The civilian casualties were large in comparison to the population. It was judged a war crime by the UN. The US vetoed the resolution. Invasion of Grenada This is the list of US bombing of civilians by Wikispooks US Bombing campaigns since 1945 During Gulf War II one of the first targets hit was a "major communications centre"---the Baghdad Post Office, with huge loss of life. This may be a "legitimate target" to some, but postmen are civilians and not really responsible for the regime. Possibly it is because I worked as a postman that I felt the horror of it. I wouldn't want to be bombed for the sins of the government. Updated 25 Nov 2013 • View Upvotes