★Why should I use an existing ETL vs writing my own in Python for my data warehouse needs?I've been reading the Kimball Group Reader and they strongly recommend I use an existing ETL. Looking at solutions such as Kettle, SnapLogic, and Talend it seems their GUIs complicate the solution instead of making it easier to model and understand.
The topic of ETL tools vs hand-coding for ETL development is not one that can be dismissed with a simple statement, like “use ETL tools because they have a graphical interface”. There are many advantages and disadvantages to both approaches, and if somebody is interested in a detailed analysis, I suggest to check pages 10-12 of the excellent book “The Data Warehouse ETL Toolkit” by Ralph Kimball and Joe Caserta (2004 Wiley). To sum it up, in my experience both approaches are valid and can deliver excellent results. It’s not true that the “ETL tool” approach will always deliver a better solution; the quality of the solution totally depends on the ability of the team to design and implement a well-structured system. If you don’t put in place a solid architecture with good naming and coding standards, you are opening the door to trouble, no matter what ETL tool you are going to use. I have personally seen ETL systems with thousands of jobs that were very difficult to maintain, even if they were implemented with one of the leading ETL tools. Finally, there are a couple of myths about coding vs tools that I’d like to talk about: Myth n. 1: ETL tools deliver better performance. This is not necessarily true, although it can be true under some circumstances. It all depends on how the etl system is implemented, but in general it’s safe to say that with an ETL tool the data must travel from the database server to the ETL server and back, while using stored procedures the data stay inside the database server, which makes it easier to implement high-performance systems. Myth n. 2: using ETL tools allows even non-programmers to develop complex etl systems. This is almost always a bad decision: ETL is the most complex part of a data warehouse and needs engineers who know about programming and databases. If you owned a restaurant, would you hire a software engineer as the kitchen chef?    Embed Quote