★Business Intelligence: ETL : which is the best open source ETL tool to start working ? specially if we are kick starting a BI project
There are a couple of open source ETL tools in the market like (Talend and kettle). Though talend is much more popular with companies like ebay, Virgin, Sony etc using it. Now  which tool a company or a person should choose, it all depends on the  requirement because each tool is having their own separate way of  handling the data. Below highlighted are common differences between Talend and Kettle Talend and Pentaho offers some of the most deployed Open Source ETL tools, used in several mission critical implementations. Talend and Pentaho have strong community support  are healthy, well known companies. Open Source Business  Intelligence is  growing fast and real world applications are  widespread. Talend Open Studio and Pentaho Kettle are  both  user friendly, well documented and have a strong community support.   Talend Open Studio requires more initial effort to get started however   its great potential is highly appreciated from the beginning. The interpreted nature of Kettle makes it sometimes slower in some tasks compared to Talend. Talend  is a single threading code generator  (Java or Perl), Kettle uses a  metadata driven multi-threaded engine. So  it’s your choice: either  debug generated Java code (Talend) or debug a  graphical data flow  (Kettle). Pentaho Kettle is very easy to use and a  good  solution in Pentaho environments. Talend is a more general propose  Data  Management platform that can be used in conjunction with its Talend   ESB, Talend Data Quality and Talend MDM companions. Pentaho is faster (twice as fast maybe) then Talend. Talend  is more a tool for people who are making already a Java  program and  want to save lots and lots of time with a tool that  generates code for  them. Please refer to our blog for detailed answer and differences Talend Open Studio (TOS) versus Pentaho Data Integrator (Kettle) - Helical IT Solutions Pvt. Ltd.    Embed Quote