★How do ETL tools work?
ETL tools work because they prey on a CTO's emotions that want to solve a problem with their checkbook pen vs having to depend on their staff to hire quality people and manage a complex process well.  ETL tools work by giving the allusion that Cartoon to code tools that you pay for are cheaper than writing the ETL code your self.  It is assumed that this is viable under the false pretense that business analysis is always 100% accurate and the low paid Cartoon to Code "developers" just have to implement Cartoons to match business logic.    Something a real developer would not do without also doing data profiling, analysis and testing at a skill level a Cartoon developer will not have. It is also assumed that a single way of doing things will work on all platforms at a speed that is fast enough to meet business objectives and that leveraging all a native platform has to offer does not add significant value.   This of course being false  and every technical expert knows that leveraging native abilities always provides options than generic methods.  In practice, usually there are a large team of low paid cartoon developers that replace one or two quality custom code developers.  There is always a proprietary tool that must be licensed and occasionally additional hardware that has to be purchased.    In comparison to the custom code solutions there is no additional hardware or licensing required to write custom code.  It is rare that the TCO of a Cartoon to code tool is less than custom code unless the custom developers are obviously poor and the process is not close to ideal.   This is without measuring the tragic loss of not having  skilled developers with advance domain knowledge.   Only having Cartoon developers with little domain knowledge is a tragic sacrifice when compared to what a skilled ETL Developer can provide in very difficult to measure ways.  The time to market is usually much slower when you start the clock counting from the data analysis to final consumption.  In reality a quality ETL Developer will discover data problems long before Cartoons get deployed and re-deployed until business gets exactly what they want.  Where high demanding service level agreements matter I have never seen a Cartoon to code tool compete with good custom code.  There is a reason no Open Source ETL code tools exist.  They work by smoke and mirrors.    Embed Quote