★What are well-known preferably Python based open-source ETL tools?The target is to curate raw MySQL data for data-mining and machine learning purposes with a best alternative opensource ETL tool. Since I am good at Python my first choice is the tools governed by Python. Also, if oyu like to know, I my intended work stack is Pandas, Sci-kit learn, Pylearn2 for the latter mining and ML processes.
ETL tools only exist so you can replace developers with monkeys.  Monkey likes using mouse to click cartoons to write code.  Replace monkey #1 with monkey #2 and cartoons will still work.  Selling point is perceived that Monkeys cost much less than real developers.  I know of no other real virtue to ETL tools.  They are certainly are not faster than well written custom ETL.   They take up way more resources than well written custom ETL.  There is an illusion of governance with ETL tools but that is just silly ignorance on the part of IT leadership.   ETL tools actually break governance because there are so many limitations on implementation organizations end up molding governance around the tool which is ridiculous.  Only custom ETL has the ability to enforce governance based on business requirements.  ETL peddlers  will say that it is cheaper to pay for the tool and the monkeys than it is to write custom ETL but it isn't true.   Organizations usually end up getting a zoo full of monkeys and pay a stupid amount for Tool and hardware to run the tool on.  The Total cost of ownership of that solution compared to one or two real developers writing native code on the existing platform is just not the same. The reason why open source ETL tools do not exist is because there is no open source need.  It is a lie that only proprietary companies pedal to companies that are silly enough to buy it. If you already know python just write the extraction from MySQL to your python data objects.  Once in the python object transform it however you need so you can load it in whatever datastore you will use for your machine learning app. You do not need a tool to do this.    Embed Quote