★Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and Instagram are prohibited by Chinese government. Why does the Chinese government cut off its citizens' channels of communications with the outside world? What is it afraid of?I really don't understand what the Goverment thinks about it. Is it to protect the local Internet Companies? But some media called the Chinese Internet is flourishing. Is it really? Or maybe it is just an illusion?
: China is still far behind the western world, and is still an authoritative country like western countries before 20th century. For Most countries, the fastest development happens at the period of a authoritative government. Examples like Taiwan and South Korea after WW2, Japan at the beginning of 20th century, UK and France and most great European  powers from the period of colonization to WW1, and many other countries. Generally, authoritative country is able to develop at faster speed than democratic countries.  Since China is still far behind the western world, the most important thing for Chinese government to do is to become a stronger nation. Because we learnt that "if you are weak, you will get beaten!" from the experience of "century of humiliation (roughly 1840-1940)", in which time period all the great powers in the world have invaded China. Let me express the situation with an example: All students except Wang have done their work and go out to play, watching them playing from window makes Wang very frustrated and want go out to enjoy himself. What will you do if you are the teacher? Now, Chinese government is the teacher, he choose to close the window and let Wang finish his work first before he can go out to play like others. I personally will do the same. Close the window, finish your work to catch up with others first, then you can go out to play. The blocking of some sites is mainly a politic concern, the government worries that the western democratic ideas will spread in China and interrupts China's fast development and may lead to politic instable, which no one in China want to see. China is changing and getting better, both ecomonically and politically. I don't think a sudden change to "democracy" and total free media is good thing.