★Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and Instagram are prohibited by Chinese government. Why does the Chinese government cut off its citizens' channels of communications with the outside world? What is it afraid of?I really don't understand what the Goverment thinks about it. Is it to protect the local Internet Companies? But some media called the Chinese Internet is flourishing. Is it really? Or maybe it is just an illusion?
I'm Chinese，My English is very poor ,so some sentence i had to use the Google translation,If some of the sentence is not fluent, you can give me the right advice。 First of all ,in my opinion If you want to explain the problem you should first understand the “Great Firewall of China”；Because of the reasons I can not put up the shield of specific links, but you can explore the Great Firewall on Wikipedia，It allows you to understand the extent of China shielded network. I think the problem for people in different social backgrounds are different views，I was studying sociology，so I would like to say what I think. Take the moment, the government blocked some foreign websites is a correct decision, and why, because today the sustainable development of China's economy relies on a stable society, many Internet instability may affect China's social environment, the Chinese government may be trying to eliminate these uncertainties in order to stabilize society and rule.China since the reform and opening up the rapid economic development, but the concept of people's perception and judgment without a corresponding increase. At the same time the Internet age is an information era of rapid circulation and consumption, fast-paced life most people do not have more energy to confirm the authenticity of sources of information, which will result in additional wrongdoing excluding true and false. China may be in order to maintain social stability and economic development, and we are looking for is personal freedom, which is why, when individual rights and public power conflict, the country is a necessary evil Why do I always said it might be, rather than deterministic，If you read Harold“Idols of the tribe” you will know Political changes will affect social identity，I write is based on my recognition of the current government, since President Xi took office，China's system of government changes, this change is a good direction change, so I give the government confidence. If the government changes towards bad aspects, I think my answer is the government just to maintain their rule.