★Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and Instagram are prohibited by Chinese government. Why does the Chinese government cut off its citizens' channels of communications with the outside world? What is it afraid of?I really don't understand what the Goverment thinks about it. Is it to protect the local Internet Companies? But some media called the Chinese Internet is flourishing. Is it really? Or maybe it is just an illusion?
For the first question, I agree with one answer above that this is a means of supporting China's internet industry and a way to control information dissemination.          As for what is it afraid of, I would say it fears those separatists. And I would explain this regarding China's history.       Unlike other countries, China has a large population that is consisted of 56 nationalities, and each differs from each other so much. For example language, food, cloths, belief(I wouldn't say it's a religion since in my view Chinese religions are so different from those of the western world). If you learn more about China's history, you would know that China's major nationality, Han, which now made up 92% of the whole population, only occupies an area that is smaller than one fifth of China's nowaday territory. The whole China's history is like having wars with peripheral little nations and annex them into nowaday China.         The Chinese government and different emperors, throughout this 5000 years' history, did a great job on protecting each nationality's own customs. (Yes we NEVER had anything like Indian Removal Act of 1830 and let thousands of Native Americans die. Ethnic diversity is what Chinese people are proud of) However, just like Hitler, there are always people who think their own nationality is more superior than others, and this is why they want to separate the country and want an independence. This led to some high safety issues, for example, the separatists in Xinjiang province, which are mainly Uyghurs, led a riot in 2009 that used knives( since Chinese government has banned the use of gun) randomly killed a lot of citizens, burned down cars, and killed policemen(most of them were also Uyghurs) These kind of  issues wouldn't exist if Chinese government prefers to ASSIMILATE all of these different nationalities, but it preferred to protect them.      I still remember about three years ago, there were some separatists who used Facebook and Instagram to organize a riot in Shanghai's People Square subway station(which is the most populous area in Shanghai), and this was susccessfully prevented by the government because of their surveillance on the Internet. (This event was held secret by the government and I knew this because I used VPN to use those foreign websites. ) Think about what would happen if this wasn't prevented. Think about China's population density.         As a Chinese myself, I prefer not using Facebook to a dangerous and unstable country to live in. Yeah I know about all of those human rights' stuff, and I do value them, but I prefer a UNIFIED COUNTRY first.