★Square, Inc.: Why did a whole industry believed we needed a "near field communication channel" just to transmit payment info from payer to merchant?Now that you send, and access info to and from a mobile, at thousand miles away, why did the whole telco/payment industries think an NFC chanel was needed to transmit payment info from phone to register ?
The reasons for NFC are many and varied. Here are just a few: The first and foremost is non-repudiation. The NFC exchange between the buyer's device and the merchant's Point-Of-Sale terminal is secure, encrypted and unique, meaning that there is proof the phone was physically present. This allows for the transaction to be treated as card-present, which has implications on the merchant's cost per transaction, as well as the buyer's options when disputing the transaction, among other things. Advanced capabilities. Since both devices communicating have significant computing power, they can do much more than just be a stand-in for a credit card number (which is what most people assume NFC is limited  to). It is possible to preload the phone with the encrypted equivalent of digital cash, which can be spend at stores, or beamed to other phones via NFC with secure encryption and non-repudiation, even while offline without a network connection (keep in mind when this was conceived mobile Internet did not have nearly the same ubiquity as today). Multichannel promotions and tracking. While not strictly limited to NFC, the idea is to allow smart NFC devices to carry merchant-specific balances (e.g. that $10 Macy's gift-certificate) and receive promotions and special rates and discounts or coupons at checkout. Those supermarket coupons you toss? They'd be stored in your phone and automatically applied with your next applicable purchase. Hardware sales. Just like the electronics manufacturers trying to push 3D and 4K televisions in the face of nonexistent demand, the standardization of NFC would generate revenue from sale of devices to both consumers and merchants. Electronic Wallet Standardization. This technology is/was seen as a step towards defining and solidifying the eWallet experience, and being the first to foray into the field all but guarantees control of significant market share. Non-payment features. There are additional advantages to NFC, such as: Beaming data between devices - think contact info, or photo sharing features like the new samsung (or is it HTC?) phones have. Also, devices in and around the home/car/office could sense each other and communicate. Your'e reading/watching something on your phone or tablet, and want to switch to a big screen. Instead of beaming/chromecast/airplay you could just touch your phone to the TV and the content moves from the phone to the TV, no internet or wifi connection required. When traveling, instead of printing a boarding pass or trying to scan a QR code from your phone (it almost never works), you'd just swipe it at the gate.