★Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and Instagram are prohibited by Chinese government. Why does the Chinese government cut off its citizens' channels of communications with the outside world? What is it afraid of?I really don't understand what the Goverment thinks about it. Is it to protect the local Internet Companies? But some media called the Chinese Internet is flourishing. Is it really? Or maybe it is just an illusion?
One clarification before any further attempt to resolve the issue: nothing is simple with China; and when it comes to Internet censorship, it is doubly so. Recently I have been doing a lot of research on the relevant topic for a paper. Contrary to what many people would think, it is really hard for me to find any first-hand material with regards to China's Internet censorship policy. There has been no public guideline or document detailing the censorship aims or methods that are clear enough; there has been only vague clauses such as "strengthening the protection of Information Safety" or "further  the administration of online activities", that can, honestly, be found anywhere else in the world. Compared to the fact that historically, CCP has been known to communicate its major decisions and actions pretty well (for example the opening up in 1978, for which the party launched a lengthy media campaign and an entire new political theory for publish as it moves the policy forward), we can almost assert that the current level of censorship is either considered "trivial" by the government( which is not impossible, but unlikely), or is some sort of makeshift political move(pressure against the US), coverup(of some political scandal, or sensitive information), or plain protectionism of its own Internet industry. Of all the possible reasons, it is worth noting that none of them are ideological driven, "evil" ones, as many people assumed. China's government is nothing but pragmatic in present days, so the actual reason cannot be ideological. My speculation on the matter is that this is a little bit of combination of all of the things mentioned, combined with a somewhat outdated public relation model the CCP has. It has been known that China and the United States are probably engaged in a shadowy online conflict of some kind, where both sides try to steal information from each other, and information security and Internet freedom is something of a hot topic. The fact that Beijing is effectively controlling network flow and denying billions of users to American companies gives it leverage when it comes to negotiations; in other words, this is like a chess piece on the board of diplomacy.  Also, from the recent incident with regards to Bo, we can see that corrupt Chinese officials and conspirators have grown capable of manipulating Western media to achieve their political goals, possibly supplying falsified information to hurt the image of CCP. Inexperienced as it is against this, the Chinese government may just decide to shut the channels once and for all until it has done "cleaning house". It is also no denying that by restriction access to some of the western websites, Chinese Internet startups are earning a handsome profit. Alibaba without Ebay, Baidu without Google, Weibo without Twitter and so on... Although I doubt the Chinese government did this on purpose, it sure is a welcome(though probably unexpected) side effect. Perhaps the most pivotal idea in all of this is still the ruling model of the Chinese government. There can be no denying that CCP is the cream of the crop of a relatively undeveloped Chinese public sphere, the social elite of responsible, learned individuals( well, relatively), and not the rich. If you know a lot about the teaching of Confucius, you should be able to understand how the Chinese state run like a huge household, and how these social elite play the role of parents. So the Chinese government taking away the Internet from its citizens is analogous to a not-so-good Dad grounding his teenage kids so they won't be seduced by various bad this that could happen to them, like drugs.