★Why doesn't Beijing ignore the Dalai Lama?The Dalai Lama poses little threat to the structural integrity of China, yet anytime he meets with a Western leader Beijing throws a temper-tantrum. Instead of giving the Lama credibility as a human rights activist by opposing him and his cause, shouldn't China's leaders ignore him and those he meets with?
Just to avoid potential confusion, please note that I'm speaking from a real-politik point of view, as I am personally not a fan of justifying territory claims using history or cultural traditions. Transfer of national territory is a violent undertaking, and it happens all the time. Real legitimacy dwells and only dwells within recognition and support from the governed populace (though it could be trampled on of course). Now I'll turn to the Dalai Lama discussion: The Chinese government does not ignore Dalai Lama (more precisely the Tibetan Government in Exile) because it has the responsibility not to. Dalai Lama, despite the peaceful intention and teachings of his, is the embodiment of an active, separatist national revival movement that has considerable funding and international recognition and support. Given the lack of material action, the territory implied is equal to 1/4 of Chinese's landmass and if ceded, would fundamentally undermine the Chinese national identity as laid out by the ruling Communist government since 1950's. I don't know how you think, but it looks to me that if the Government in Exile successfully instituted Tibetan independence to whatever extent on Chinese soil, that'll be quite a blow to the Chinese government both externally and internally. The right to rule will be shaken and competitiveness of the Communist government would be called into question. In other words, as a major government keen on protecting its right to rule and national interest, the Chinese government should be expected to utilize its resources (diplomatic, economic, military[?]) to work, in public knowledge and secretly, domestic and abroad, to undermine the Tibetan Government in Exile from a variety of angles ranging from intelligence gathering, infiltration, surveillance, defamation (smear campaign), propaganda, disruption and sabotage (e.g. of funding sources, freezing bank accounts, office sabotage), or even physical attacks such as abduction and extermination. As an outsider, of course, I cannot speak to the actual range of actions adopted and operational rules of engagement as set by China's intelligence agency, but I suspect much of the above options are live as of now, especially non-violent ones. Also, I suspect the Tibetan Government in Exile to have some of their own programs covering the above areas, especially on the propaganda front. However, due to the Govt. in Exile's constrained resources I do not think they have that much of an operational capacity, and CIA collaboration at a 1950's level is highly unlikely in today's context.