★Is MailChimp a strong alternative to ExactTarget? Is it as robust?
I'm finding this harder (and longer...) to answer as I get into the details, but I'll give it a shot. First, what do you need to consider? Price? Integration with a CRM? Ease of design? Analytics dashboard? Personal account rep? "Robust" is pretty broad- I'm guessing you mean extent of features and integration with outside technology? Both services seem to integrate similarly with widely used CRM's & tech like Salesforce, Drupal, Wordpress, etc. The following are thoughts on some other aspects I looked at when comparing. Our priorities were list management (geo-targeting, segmenting, etc), design, ease of use, & price, after knowing that both services could integrate with our websites: Account Management If you need an account rep to be at your beck and call, Mailchimp is out- they provide great customer service at their main phone number, but no account has it's own rep. Mailchimp also doesn't do re-brandable agency accounts, but do cut you a discount if you're an agency managing multiple accounts. If you want to get started quickly without having a 'strategy' call with a sales agent, Mailchimp is the way to go. Geo-Targeting Exact Target (from what I gathered in several conversations with them) does not identify customers by IP address for geo-targeting, meaning you have to collect an address/country/zip code along with signups if you want to geo-target subscribers. Mailchimp, on the other hand, identifies the IP address of new sign-ups from wherever they submit their address, and then can also collect location of previously existing subscribers when they open any emails you send with their service by IP address. This is good and bad- IP address targeting is not always perfectly accurate, but if you have a legacy list and are missing geo-information for a large part of it, it's better to have something than nothing. And, you can combine this with efforts to get your most active subscribers to update their profiles with zip code or country info through contesting or surveys. Design On design options & the analytics dashboard: Exact Target is built for emails designed into a boxy template. By default (i.e. without a designer on hand) these end up looking very old school. Mailchimp has done a great job of allowing creative freedom, while still providing beautiful templates for less design-inclined users. Analytics The dashboard for Mailchimp is clean, easy to navigate and organize. Exact Target's is much more complicated, creating the feeling of providing a lot more information, but in my work (and probably most peoples') it's more important to be able to access the right information quickly rather than dig through tons of data in a complex dashboard system. Pricing Exact Target makes it harder to find straight answers on pricing and features on the website, focusing instead on getting you to call in and get into their sales pipeline. Mailchimp's site is geared towards getting you into their system immediately, with a free account for up to 2,000 users or 12,000 emails a month. Both can handle subscriber lists into the millions. Features They both are constantly in varying stages of integrating new mobile products, social network management tools, dashboarding systems, etc. Mailchimp just added an SMS component, and ExactTarget integrates with more extensive analytics programs like Omniture. ET has also acquired a few companies that promise things like "Cross Channel Marketing Automation" and "Harnessing the power of data to connect with your customers." I'm not sure all this is supposed to tell a potential customer, but again, depends on what you need and what they have at that time. Hope this helps in your decision making!