What do linguists do?Other than invent Dothraki and Valyrian!
Ryan Shaffer Music Composition major, expecting to declare Linguistics minor, at Pennsylvania State University Etymology, philology, and phonology enthusiast        Ever since the first class of LING 001, the professor had stressed that there were two types of linguists.  The first group consists of polyglots, speakers of multiple languages, popularly equated with "linguists" and "multilinguists" — the latter of which is a kind of polyglot that speaks multiple native, or L1, languages, rather than one native language and at least one L2 language learned after puberty (the approximated endpoint of a human's ability to learn a new language with native proficiency and to think in that language).      Linguisticians comprise the other half; these are more commonly referred to as "linguists" by linguists themselves, as evidenced in the fact that those of either group who use the term "linguist" properly and avow themselves to the identity of a linguist wince when 'laymen' who have just found out such identity ask how many languages they speak.      By the way, "L1" and "L2" are more preferred terms in linguistic scholarship over, respectively, "native" and "non-native," as nobody is born speaking any language.  In fact, language is considered to be arbitrarily formed at random by a population of humans as they go around naming things to help with comprehension of the items, processes, etc.; and the concept of linguistic relativity (a.k.a. the Sapir–Whorf hypothesis) builds on the previous notion to suggest that every language essentially depends on its speakers' collective perception of the world.      There are several branches and sub-branches of linguistics (I will list mainly the primary branches here): Phonetics is the study of systems of sounds or phones independent of language; when language factors into it, and such sounds/phones are compared to their accompanying letters in a given language, the topic becomes phonology.  (Note: sounds/phones are represented in writing by alphabets or character systems, the most universal of which is the International Phonetic Alphabet, or IPA, although others may vary by language and/or dialect(s); pronunciation guides in dictionaries use different phonetic alphabets to represent the same word entry, the simplicity of the alphabet usually correlating with the simplicity of the dictionary.  Also, the text characters of the phonetic alphabets are NOT to be referred to as "letters"; especially the IPA is constructed independently of any singular given language, and as a result, its characters should be regarded as the sounds/phones they represent.  In the IPA, phones are rendered in brackets [ ] ; letters are rendered in angle brackets or chevrons ‹ › ; and phonemes, a basic form summarizing various phones with little variation in between and represented by a single letter [all of which are allophones of their given phoneme] are notated between backslashes / / .)   Semantics is the study of words' meaning that is carried by the bare, unaffected words themselves (not to be confused with pragmatics, the study of meaning in the application or utterance of words; this is more of a sociocultural property than a linguistic one, as it concerns the effects of saying the exact same sentence in different ways, and which way carries what pragmatic meaning varies between dialects as well as languages).  Lexicon refers to a language's full set of vocabulary; lexicology is the study of a language's lexicon, especially concerning semantic relations between words.   Morphology comprises one-half of the general concept of grammar, along with syntax (see below).  There are two ways to divide morphemes (the most basic unit of language, at least one of which comprises a word), and two categories for each method of division: bound and free, grammatical and lexical.      Two examples of bound grammatical morphemes in English are the suffixes ~ing and ~ant, which necessarily attaches to lexical morphemes to form words such as we(e)p~ing "weeping" and serv(e)~ant "servant," changing not only the meaning of the word but also the word's part of speech ("weep" & "serve" = verbs [as used here]; "weeping" = adjective or noun; "servant" = noun).  In these examples, cr-y/i and serv(e) are free lexical morphemes, as they can form words on their own ("cry," "serve").  Now if you added the prefix man~ to "servant", you would have the word man~serv(e)~ant "manservant," which is a noun just like "servant."  Because man~ can neither act freely as a prefix nor change the part of speech more than it changes the meaning, man~ is a bound lexical morpheme.  There aren't too many free grammatical morphemes in English to cite;  indeed, the only solely grammatical free morpheme I can recall is "person": we(e)p~ing person.  Others tend to change the context or make it more precise: adding widow or willow to "weeping" instead of "person," for example, slightly alters the meaning ("weeping widow" = a widow who is weeping; "weeping willow" = a species of willow tree whose branches droop like the head of a weeping person).      Now this has been a long bulletin already, so one last note, and I promise I'll torture you with a different linguistic study's definition afterwards...  You've probably noticed that some of the letters are in parentheses, right?  That's because the parenthesized letters can be omitted when attached to certain morphemes, especially bound grammatical ones.  If I attach the prefix ~(e)d/~t to the free lexical morpheme we(e)p, the word becomes wep~t "wept"; if I switch out we(e)p with the synonym cr-y/I~ "cry," the word becomes cri~ed "cried."  Both cry and cri~ are — you guessed it — allomorphs of the morpheme cry/i~; likewise, weep and wep~ are allomorphs of the morpheme we(e)p.   Syntax is the other half of 'grammar,' which it comprises in conjunction with morphology.  (The adjective is syntactic; its students are syntacticians.)  Syntax is basically word order in a language's typical sentence, and the study of such order.  The English syntactical standard can be winnowed down to Subject-Verb-Object (SVO).  The subject, a noun, is what allows the action to take place; in the sentence I threw him the ball with a curve on it., "I" is the subject.  The verb is obviously "threw," but which word or phrase is the object?  Well, "him," "(the) ball," "(a) curve," and "it" are all objects of this sentence — "him" is the dative, or indirect object; "(the) ball" is the accusative, or direct object; "(a) curve" is the instrumental, or prepositional object used in conjunction with prepositions such as "with," "by," or "using"; and "it" is also considered a dative, expressed as a prepositional object that follows words including "in," "on," "onto," "at," et cetera.      Of the two terms for each grammatical case used in the sentence I threw him the ball with a curve on it. (and not all possible ones are used), the first is part of historical nomenclature for Proto-European languages such as Latin, Greek, and Germanic, and (especially in the case of instrumental) Indo-European languages such as Sanskrit, Arabic, Tamil, and Hindustani (the combined form of Hindi and Urdu).  The second term for each case used is English-specific and is most widespread today amongst Anglophones (especially native/L1 English speakers).      Now, because there are four objects in the aforementioned sentence, they can be reordered concerning each other, and usually rephrased and/or differently punctuated as well, while retaining the exact same meaning (ex.: I threw the ball to him with a curve on it.  I threw the ball, with a curve on it, to him.)  However, English no longer supports many deviations from SVO, except for an occasional OS(O)V sentence to emphasize the beginning object (ex.: To him I threw the ball, with a curve on it.  With a curve on it, I threw him the ball.  The ball I threw him with a curve on it.).  In the Elizabethan era at the latest, when rhetoric, wittiness, and ways with words were the most important factor in deciding one's treatment by society, it was more than common for deviations from SVO to take place.  Consider lines 157–158 of Act I, scene i of Shakespeare's Romeo and Juliet:       "Away from the light steals home my heavy son,      And private in his chamber pens himself,"   The first line shown here is a phrase that follows an OVS (Object-Verb-Subject) pattern; and the second, whose subject has already been mentioned once in the sentence (in the previous line), uses an SOVO (Subject-Object-Verb-Object) pattern, with its subject implied.  However, this is for poetic/creative effects, and although it was expected that noblemen and noblewomen of Elizabethan England would use, among other affectations, this method of word scrambling from time to time, it was by no means a natural way of speaking — utilized outside of theater and oratory solely to preserve one's height on the social hierarchy — and any objects preceding subject(s) and/or verb(s) would generally have to be either accusative pronouns or prepositional objects so that addressees or audiences could understand both the unusual word order and the meaning of the sentence.        All of the above studies are related to the six linguistic principles: phonetics, phonology, semantics, lexicon, morphology, and syntax.  However, there are also some other branches of or related to linguistics that combine these principles for purposes focused off of single principles themselves:   Etymology is the study of word derivations and origins.  Perhaps the most important and most globally hailed etymological and philological effort (see "philology" below) is the Proto-Indo-European language, the reconstructed language conjectured to be the ultimate ancestor of the vast majority of all dead and surviving languages (Proto-Indo-European, or PIE, is universally well-attested, yet completely theoretical; therefore, any mention of suggested words or word roots from PIE, especially as relevant to a self-evidently existent language, is marked with an asterisk * ).   Philology is the study of the history of a language.  Etymology plays an important part in philology, and other forms factor in as well to hypothesize about the collective construction of a language and what part came first from where.  A perfect example is Proto-Indo-European (see the above explanation of "etymology").   Cryptology is the study of codes and ciphers, and their formations.  All languages are considered to be codes, which in their strict sense focus on an interpretation of meaning out of form (semantic properties of lexicon); ciphers instead focus on an interpretation of a pre-existing language's form out of its codified form, or vice versa (for example, when applying the Atbash cipher to the 26-letter Roman alphabet [as opposed to the original 24-letter, sans ‹J› and ‹W›, used in Classical Latin as spoken by ancient Rome], all given letters are enciphered into their opposites: A ↔ Z, B ↔ Y, ...).      Cryptology is linguistic in its principles of especially lexicon, and it is important not only to government intelligence but also to translators and interpreters...wait, what?  That's right.  Since all languages are considered to be codes, translators and interpreters are simply encoding and decoding messages.  Furthermore, pre-existing, non-artificial languages can be used in government intelligence: towards the end of World War II, the Americans used Navajo to send messages to and receive messages from Allied troops in the Pacific Theater without the Japanese cracking the code; to further codify the message, leaders', enemies', and officers' names were replaced by Navajo nicknames to describe them (they referred to Hitler as the Navajo translation of "broom-mustache.")  And to mention artificial languages, how much money do you think the inventor of Klingon makes on average each day?  Whether it occurred to him or not, his use of cryptology for the Star Trek series (plural) has indubitably made him rich to an extent beyond our wildest, most "illogical" machinations.        Now, to be fair, I will mention that I have only taken one Linguistics class thus far, both college-level and otherwise.  However, I have been learning and studying languages, actively observing phonetic and phonological phenomena, and dwelling on linguistic matters my entire life before learning the standard terminology begotten and sustained by linguisticians in the English-speaking world.  For Christmas, I asked for and received a gigantic dictionary of etymology before I even knew Linguistics was a plausible college minor — and this was after obtaining most of my extensive hoard of translation dictionaries, beginner's learning materials, and traveler's guides to languages (though sadly, I have yet to travel internationally).  Thus, I consider myself both a polyglot and a linguistician, and thus a pretty well-rounded (though far from expert) linguist.  However, most linguists apparently are; they generally hate the question of how many languages they can speak only in response to others learning of their own "linguist" status without further specification).  I myself have one L1 language (guess what it is...) with two accompanying L2 languages in which I am anywhere close to fluent — Latin and French.  I have been trying on and off to learn Japanese, and I am back on, now that I have much more time to devote to learning a new language (although the urge to learn it has always been constant).  And finally, everything that I have stated as fact in this answer I know to be fact (on an unrelated note, notice the OSVO pattern [two Os representing one detached object: "everything that I have stated as fact...to be fact"; the syntactic pattern of this phrase alone, nevertheless, follows the typical SVO pattern]).  I am no less flawed than any other human being to have ever lived, however, so I will accept any corrections humbly and gratefully. 