How did you get recruited to Directi?Looking to learn what Directi looks for in potential hires, the whole interview process, anything particular one should know before sitting for the interview. For those who do not know it is an Indian Company which pays a pretty competitive salary and is known to recruit geeks without bothering about academic performance.
In all honesty, I knew little about the company. My neighbor in the placement team was all excited about it, he hammered the door till I woke up from my hungover slumber at 7.30 in the morning,  post the usual eventful evening and asked me to go sit for the campus placement process. (Horrendously early, given it was my elective sem where my first lectures were at 2 pm on alternate days). He knew, I was always into the sort of stuff relevant and  persisted. Anyway following the campus pitch and introduction of the company started the actual process.The first round was a standard mcq questions on bash, programming networks and OS. This was half an hour, it was really just a filter and not too complex, ticked of all but a couple of answers about some networks naming conventions I had never bothered to mug up and one question to do with some terminology of what I really hadn't heard off. Net time 10-15 min. Headed off to grab some coffee from Monginis to kill the sleepiness. Turns out I stood 2nd. Next up was a programming round. The question was about designing some standard unix utilities with specified subset of functionalities. Time allocated 90:00 min. I had worked on a few couple of thousand lines of production open source code in python and network based utilities over the course of multiple contributions and 2 google summer of code projects.That being said, a no nonsense simple 10-20 line code using python standard libraries and minimal exception handling and this was done in 3:42 min. The rest of the 86 min was spent in chatting with the folks from directi , a trip downstairs  to grab cola and "Uncle Chips" wafers to eat in the computer lab to kill time, and heck I was starved and dehydrated in the morning ! There was now this break, spent at nescafe chatting with some friends getting ice tea and maggi. Soon came the call for the interview. Generally there are like 3 or more rounds of technical and probably HR/"personality" interviews, turns out it wasn't headed this way for me. I walked in , greeted by this person, serious yet extremely warm and friendly and chilled out.Turned out he was the head of ops and one of the most senior employees in the company ( and now my manager :P ) First question was how I had come to pursue an electronics degree and what made me get all interested in this field. Next for about 5 minutes we had like a chat laced with a bunch of questions, we ended up discussing my GSoC projects and other open source projects i contributed to. A bunch of tech questions about the code ,architecture and some other related things. A 2-3 min debate on various init styles and comparison of arch vs ubuntu vs fedora (back then I was an ardent archlinux fanboy). Next comes the fun bit, he goes on to say : "Hey seems like  you've done enough with your time in college , I am impressed by it and satisfied by your answers.  This is a perfect fit for us, chill out. I know there is a nice beach next to your college, go head there with your friends, party and chill out! You'll have an offer letter in a couple of days . Congratulations !" And that was it. Watched big lebowski and headed of to bogamalo to chill ! Looking at it now, it's an incredibly fun place to work at! 