Who are the most important/respected unrecognized geeks on the internet?Many people have toiled in the dark and helped advance the internet in radical way, only to be forgotten by most people later on (for example, Peter Tattam, who created Trumpet Winsock. More on him here: http://news.ycombinator.com/item... ). So who are other people who made significant contributions to the internet but did not really profit much from those contributions?
I would recommend looking at the authors of various RFCs, IEEE Medal recipients, and seminal research papers.  In general, there are no individuals that did the work alone; all of these folks will deny credit, and point to the collaborative efforts that made the work possible. Here are some folks I know about, by no means an exhaustive list. Leonard Kleinrock provided some of the queuing theory models that provided the mathematical foundations for understanding packet switching, the data transport and sharing technique that underlies the Internet. Van Jacobsen and Mike Karels made some critical contributions to TCP in the early years to help allow it to scale (Van Jacobson Denies Averting Internet Meltdown in 1980s | Enterprise | WIRED) Ralph Droms wrote DHCP, which helped deal with collapsing IPv4 address space. John T. Chapman has driven a lot of innovation in the DOCSIS standards, which help high speed cable modems work. Yakov Rekhter (along with Kirk Lougheed and Len Bosack) invented the core routing protocol of the Internet, BGP4 (Tony Li also did a lot of heavy lifting in implementation and hammering it all out but points to Yakov as the driving force).  Yakov also designed Tag switching and MPLS as well as dozens of adaptations to MPLS to make it extremely useful (and profitable) as a data transportation medium.  Dave Katz did tons of work in NSFNet as it transitioned to the modern internet, and was a renaissance man of routing protocols, both in design and programming.  He had a real knack for implementing complex systems.  I remember him as the quintessential time geek that really for NTP working like clockwork (ugh, pun!) in cisco routers.  Later in his career he worked on protocols like BFD (Bidirectional Forwarding Detection) to improve stability in routed networks. Edsger W. Dijkstra developed his namesake algorithm which is used for developing loop-free topological graphs in many routing protocols, in addition to many other foundational contributions to the field of computer science. John O'Sullivan led a team developed the core algorithms that make WiFi possible. Taher Elgamal is the father of SSL, the secure protocol that makes e-Commerce possible.  Whitfield Diffie, Martin Hellman and Ralph Merkle collectively developed the foundations of public key cryptography used to secure most encrypted communications over the Internet. (Please suggest edits if I have goofed on details or credit, this is all mostly from memory and lazy Google searches) Updated 28 Jan • View Upvotes