How does the architecture of a network shape its function?
The graph structure of a network is deeply intertwined with the relative function of its nodes, or "cells". The dynamical system that characterizes a network's potentially many functions often leads to robust coordinated behavior among those cells.  The clearest example of this sort of relationship involves synchrony of cell activities within a network, where we ask, "Can cell X have the same activity as cell Y?" Network structure plays a fundamental role here. To appropriate some terminology from neuroscience, think of a cell's immediate "receptive field" as the set of all the inputs the cell receives from other cells or the environment. If two cells are to have the same activity, we can say (with the exception of some specially constructed cases) that cells X and Y must have equivalent receptive fields*. This has more "global" implications if we trace backwards from cells X and Y. Each cell from cell X's receptive field must match dynamics with a cell from cell Y's receptive field, which means that every cell in the receptive field must also have a receptive field with a dynamical match as well. A less confusing way to organize this sort of backward induction is that each cell has a "tree of inputs", and that two cells can have the same activity when their trees of inputs look the same**. In the network below (figures are from my dissertation defense slides), there are two types of input trees: Cells 1 and 2 have input trees of the same shape: while cell 3 has a differently-shaped tree. So we can say that cells 1 and 2 - the blue cells - may be synchronous. Note that this is quite different than saying they must be synchronous. In general, a network may allow many different coherent patterns of synchrony. For instance, the coherent patterns that can arise on a bidirectionally connected "ring" network with four cells are diagrammed below: While I won't get too much into this, the superstructure that links all these patterns together is a diagram of what is called a complete lattice. The bottom element represents a state of maximal synchrony, and the top element represents a state where no two cells are synchronous. There is much more to this story: phase-locking and temporal relationships between different cells, bifurcation theory, and network growth being but a few areas of active research here. As far as I know, there is no review article that really captures the state of this field post-2006. However, I very much recommend a paper called "Nonlinear dynamics of networks: the groupoid formalism" by Martin Golubitsky and Ian Stewart. It is an exciting introduction to a point of view that I consider nothing short of revolutionary. * This idea was first applied to "continuous-time" dynamical systems by Golubitsky, Stewart, and their colleagues, who called the tree-based classification a "balanced coloration", but it apparently made its first appearance in Grothendieck's work in algebraic topology. **"Looks the same" is not the same thing as "is the same". Also, note that although these trees are infinite if a network includes feedback, Norris's theorem  guarantees that we only have to look back n-1 steps, where n is the number of nodes. 