How did you get recruited to Directi?Looking to learn what Directi looks for in potential hires, the whole interview process, anything particular one should know before sitting for the interview. For those who do not know it is an Indian Company which pays a pretty competitive salary and is known to recruit geeks without bothering about academic performance.
I got a Directi offer on-campus. I'll try to put down as many details as I remember. First step was a online MCQ round which was to filter out the set of very bad candidates. Most questions were simple C/C++ concepts, aptitude questions, question using basic Linux commands. (Again I'm reiterating, this is what I observed, there can be questions from other topics too). As far as I heard, my performance was only average, I don't think they will use this result beyond filtering purpose. Based on what type of questions we got right, people were shortlisted for different profiles (Software developer and System Admin) Second step was coding round, I was in Software Developer profile (I don't have more details about the process proceeded for Sys Admin), we just had to find shortest path between two nodes in a bidirectional graph (Question was not given in this format, there was a lot of blah blah blah, the essence is just that). Only two of us had perfectly working solution. And one girl had nearly correct solution. We three were through to interviews. There were two interviews. First one was just problem solving. Interviewer had a prepared set of questions to ask, which were not very hard in my year (I heard it got harder now, not sure). Second interview was with Vaibhav, CTO of Directi. (Generally last round of interview will be with some senior person) It covered a lot of CS concepts like OS, DBMS, Networks. In every concept he didn't stop asking question until I admitted I don't know some specific details. I came out with zero hope having replied so many IDKs. Maybe he was just testing my level of understanding, I got an offer. :) 