I am confused whether to use angular.js, underscore.js react.js, ember.js or backbone.js for my next project. Can someone help me with material which states which type of web apps each library rocks at?
Ember:  is a framework specifically built for productivity. Ember's Handlebars are integrated templates that automatically update whenever data is changed. Components are a feature of Ember that allows developers to create HTML tags specifically designed for their application.   Angular: is a framework that allows developers to extend the HTML vocabulary for custom applications. Angular offers superior control management features including data binding, controllers and plain JavaScript. Angular also allows developers to create and reuse components, and it is injectable, embeddable and testable.   Backbone:  is a JavaScript framework that provides structure to web apps via models implemented with custom events and key value binding. Backbone currently only has one hard dependency: Underscore.js ( >= 1.5.0). Backbone automatically updates the UI whenever data is changed. Backbone offers an online testing site, and has been used by many well-known companies including USA Today, Hulu, Vox, WordPress, Foursquare, Disqus and more.   Underscore : is more suited to data manipulation and brings many Ruby methods to JavaScript. There is some crossover, but not enough to make them mutually exclusive. underscore.js will give you really useful low-level utility. I would have never needed this library until I really got into js apps (it's also a requirement for backbone.js)   React : Lots of people use React as the V in MVC. Since React makes no assumptions about the rest of your technology stack, it’s easy to try it out on a small feature in an existing project.” So React can be used with other JavaScript MVC Frameworks by plugging it into a given framework’s web Component technology (Directives in AngularJS, Components in Ember, and smaller item views in Backbone). Node: is a JavaScript framework that is unique from other JS frameworks. The goal of the framework is to provide a simple process for developers to create complex, scalable applications and software. Node allows developers to completely write their application code in JavaScript by substituting traditional Ruby, .Net, PHP, Java, ColdFusion, etc. Node is used by many top-ranking enterprises including Walmart, The New York Times, Voxer, Yahoo, Microsoft, LinkedIn and more.   Link for same discussion: JavaScript Frameworks: What are the advantages of using AngularJS compared to BackboneJS and EmberJS? Thanks, devworks@qasource.com www.qasource.com 