Concepts: Which structure or idea could overcome the dot-line structure of the network and offer the next conceptual model to apprehend reality?Since the Cybenetics and the generalization of the idea of system - now network, we have a model that allow us to think elements of any scale (DNA, cities, society, organs, planets, etc.) using a same single structure : the network. Then we can not honestly rely on a basic dot-line idea to represent anything on this planet. So, my question is : what can we envision as a model after the network?
I'm not exactly sure what is being asked for here, but I'll give it a go. Typically, networks are given as a simple graph that is either unidirectional or bidirectional. That's not how they work in reality. Real networks have bandwidth and latency. Those familiar with performing critical path analysis will use time cost or duration instead of latency. All comes to the same thing. A connection should be replaced with a finite number of queues capable of holding a finite amount in one chunk (the bandwidth) and where each queue has finite capacity. The latency is how long it takes for an unimpeded item to traverse the queue and be processed. Where a connection is bidirectional, some capacity is in the reverse direction. On asynchronous connections (aka asymmetric speeds), the replacement queues aren't symmetric. In some systems, you've a fixed total number of lanes/queues and can have them change target and/or direction (PCI Express is such a system), so you don't have a fixed topology, you have a dynamic, routable one. The first part is easy. You can model complex queues with deterministic latency using coloured Petri Nets. The second part is less easy. Dynamic graphs that vary according to a set of rules, the sort of networks you find in real brains, in supercolonies, in some of the more complex colony organisms, those are not well understood in mathematics at this time. Network theory isn't good on dynamic self-defining structures. You can simulate such things by having routers that let you keep the topology relatively simple and have the arcs entirely defined in formal rules. Remember, each degree of freedom is a dimension. A degree of freedom is any variable in the system you can change without changing any other. We call space "three dimensional" because length, width and height can be changed independently of the others. There are three degrees of freedom. A given lane has bandwidth, latency and queue length. A given arc has a set of lanes, a source and a destination. A given graph has a set of arcs. This looks like a seven dimensional system, and not only spans graph theory and queue theory but includes predicate calculus and first order logic (you need to have sufficiently powerful dynamic rules somehow and thus is how formal methods achieve exactly that) and set theory. Oh, and information theory, or you can't encode the properties of signals (such as entropy) correctly. 