What is social network analysis?Intuitive explanation please, also of network theory. It seems simply just connections between people to other people, I don't see how more involved analysis would proceed or it can construed as requiring theory. But I just want to be shown the light.
Yes, you are right, it starts with looking at connections between actors (which can be people, organizations, countries etc.). If you do a traditional (non-network) survey, you look at the attributes of your interview partners (age, gender etc.). In network analysis, you look at the connections of the individual and, as a next step, you look at the structure of the whole network. If you want to know who is most central in a network, that seems like an easy question, just count how many people they are linked to, right? But what if they are only linked to people who are disconnected themselves? Measuring centrality of actors is done in different ways, according to what exactly you want to find out: Degree Centrality counts how many direct connections you have (sometimes, for example in a money network, it makes sense to differentiate between in-degree - how many people give you money, and out-degree - how many do you give to). Betweenness Centrality measures how often you sit on the shortest path between two others. This is seen as a measure of control. Let's think about the money network again. If you have to give money to someone, but it has to go through me and you have no direct connection to the other person, I can basically just run off with the money and tell the other person I never got it... Closeness Centrality: How many steps do you have to take to reach everyone in the network (directly or indirectly). This is a measure of access. Some people say that control (betweenness) and access (closeness) together are a measure of power. Eigenvector Centrality: Are you connected to actors who are well connected. A simple example is someone who is faithful but their partner is not. When it comes to their risk of getting HIV/Aids, the faithful person (just one link into the system) is nearly at the same risk as the unfaithful one (many links into the system), because he or she has a high eigenvector centrality. Ok, this is just the beginning but I will stop here... If you want to have some pictures and more explanations to go with it, you might want to have a look here: http://netmap.files.wordpress.co... 