What do linguists do?Other than invent Dothraki and Valyrian!
Originally Answered: What does a linguist do?first of all credit for this whole answer goes to Marc Ettlinger, PhD, Linguistics, UC Berkeley :- Linguists  are often erroneously* asked, "how many languages do you speak?" when  people find out they're linguists, so thank you for the chance to answer  this question. But also: Daunting! Explain your raison d'etre in one Quora response or less. The answer, put most simply and directly (but perhaps cryptically), is that linguists explore how language works. Just to give you some examples, before breaking things down in more detail: This could involve exploring the neuroscience of how language works in the brain; the typology of how different languages achieve similar functions using different formal devices, the developmental psychology of how children language acquisition works and how it can go awry; how language ability stops working in aphasia, Alzheimer's, or due to some other dysfunction; how language works as a bidirectional human-computer interface; how language works when learned later in life in the classroom; how languages change; how language defines various social identities; how language functions in other professions, including politics, law and law enforcement; and, as alluded to in the question, how does one make new, working constructed languages. These days, as with most professions, doing linguistics actually looks like this: The name of this jpeg, young-business-woman-working-on-computer could also be young-linguist-working-on-computer For a few linguists, it looks a bit more exciting: Field Linguist, K. David Harrison, in the field So,  there are lots of different topics involved in exploring how language  works. And there are lots of different ways to get paid to do this. Let's take a look at both. JobsThe types of jobs that linguists have are pretty diverse. Here are some examples: Research Academia:  Some linguists teach and do research at Universities in Linguistics  departments as well as in Psychology, Speech and Hearing Sciences,  Cognitive Science and Computer Science departments. Most big  Universities have Linguistics departments, but many Universities don't, a  dismaying fact for linguists when compared to a discipline like  Psychology. Research Scientist: In addition to research at a University, there are other organizations supporting linguistics research including the NIH (e.g., National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders), the NSF, DARPA and where I work, the Department of Veterans Affairs. In Europe there are places like the Max Planck Institute for Psycholinguistics, CNRS and BCBL - Basque Center on Cognition, Brain and Language that fund direct linguistics research far more generously than the US. Corporate Research: A  handful of companies (Google, Microsoft, Yahoo! to some degree) invest  in basic linguistics research. Much of it is focused on stuff like  NLP/NLU (see below). Raytheon also has a big Speech Tech research  division (Speech, Language & Multimedia). Lexicography: Linguists are the ones that determine what goes in the dictionary and what does not go in. Pissed about literally being acceptable as simply an intensifier (Marc Ettlinger's answer to How do I stop being annoyed by people using literally as an intensifier?)? Blame a linguist, but know that the decision was made based on tons of research. Entertainment Hollywood! There  are surprisingly many ways linguists can make a buck in Hollywood that  doesn't involve waiting tables. There are the handful of folks (and  their society, Language Creation Society)  that make languages for movies and shows like Avatar and Game of  Thrones, but there are also dialect coaches and linguistic consultants  for shows that attempt to have some sort of historical accuracy in the  language spoken. Linguistics Pundit: Many big papers have some sort of On Language type  column and a few magazines, too. Linguists or pseudo-linguists (e.g.,  William Safire) write these columns, generally to the delight of  prescriptive grammar nerds. Then there are folks like Deborah Tannen who also happens to be an academic, who are in the public eye talking about how we talk to each other. Writing Books: Usually this is done by the academics and researchers above, but not always. An acquaintance wrote this book, for example: High Tech Localization:  As companies become more and more global, more and more expertise is  needed in taking some product suited for some nation and moving it to  another language and culture. Many companies, including Google (e.g., Google Localization Specialist Jobs) hire linguists to help them set up a web presence in some new locale. Natural Language Processing:  We interact with computers a lot these days and it sure would be great  to do so by just talking. Some day soon we might be able to. Supposedly  the xbox one will have a pretty solid natural language  understanding interface and Siri and Google Glass depend on this sort of  technology, too. While generally CS-heavy, it is often developed  through a combination of computer science and linguistics. Things like  automated language translation come in to play here, too. Semantic Analysis/Big Data: What's the word on twitter about PRISM (NSA Surveillance Program)? How do the folks on Quora feel about Justin Bieber (musician)?  Figuring out how to sift through the vast amount of big data that is  natural language data takes computer science, statistics and  linguistics. And presumably PRISM itself involves some decent amount of  linguistic sophistication - I'm sure NSA is hiring (Intern Program at the National Security Agency)! Document Management:  We have a lot of documents these days. Corporations have a lot more.  Linguists can help create automated systems that make sense of your  documents, get the gist of what they're about and organize and retrieve  them when necessary. Language Testing: There are two  routes you can go here. First are companies that do language proficiency  testing, and in particular, there's a move towards doing automated  phone-based testing. An obvious application would be to score the  English ability and accent for applicants to a call center. You can also  work on figuring out how to test native speaker's ability in their  native language. Companies here include Pearson and ETS. Linguistics in Other Fields Forensic Linguistics: Joe Devney is definitely the expert here (e.g., For what legal cases have linguistics played a big role?).   Linguists can be involved in a lot of different dimensions of a law   case, from interpreting the language of contracts to identifying if   someone is drunk based on their voice. Politics: Language and politics is a pretty niche business, but I worked at a think tank (Rockridge Institute) that did that sort of research and gave a talk or two. John McWhorter is another example of someone who does this. Language and Culture Translation:  Translation involves appreciating a lot of the subtleties of two of  more languages and figuring out how to translate from one to the other.  Translation services is a big business and has been for a while. We'll  see how much of it ends up being taken over by high-tech and automated  translation. Language Revitalization and Documentation:  Language are dying, and dying fast. So, there is a market for  linguists  to help groups -- Native American tribes, for example --  revitalize and or document these threatened languages. Language and Health Speech Pathology and Audiology:   Generally, this requires a separate degree in Speech Path or AuD,  but  there isn't too much differentiating this field from linguistics.   Indeed, many of the profs at Speech and Hearing Science departments  have  Linguistics PhDs. Speech pathlogists can work with children (many  work  for school districts, for example), aphasia/stroke patients and  older adults. Hearing Aids: Hearing aids are big business  in the US and building a better hearing aid will often involve  understanding how humans perceive speech since that's the sounds people  generally care about most. Linguists do research for hearing aid  companies as well as fittings and so on; sometimes a SP/Aud degree is  also needed. Language as a tool for diagnosis: An  emerging niche field, but the one I'm going to end with because I think  it's an interesting area ripe for research. The way you talk changes  when you suffer from Alzheimer's, traumatic brain injury and possibly  things like depression and schizophrenia. This may lead to powerful  tools for preliminary diagnostic tools without the need of a doctors  office visit. Just talk into your smart phone and have an algorithm,  written by a linguist, figure out next steps.  There are surely more; reply in comments with any additions and I'll add to this list. How We Explore How Language WorksLinguistics has been called the most scientific of the humanities and the most humanistic of the sciences.**   As a science, linguistics therefore involves a lot of the same  day-to-day stuff that various sciences do, but you're often working with  people. Collect Data I collect data by doing behavioral experiments and neuroscience imaging studies. Audiologists might collect an audiogram from a patient. Others might collect data by sucking in large corpora, like twitter feeds or a cache of legal documents, into databases. Sometimes linguists go into the field (e.g., somewhere where a language or dialect is to be studied) and conduct interviews. These days, you can use things like online surveys and Amazon Mechanical Turk to collect speaker behavior information as well. Some linguists may be  involved in measuring certain properties of speech (e.g. acoustic analysis). Others might spend their time reading up on Grammars of specific languages, investigating how others have documented how languages work. A  Plethysmograph, for collecting physiological information about the  volume of air in the lungs, which can be used to study speech  production. Analyze and Report the Data These two  steps are pretty similar across all fields of work. Everyone that  doesn't work alone has to analyze and communicate what they're  investigating whether it's an expense report or a building plan. So, the  linguist may have to be a statistician, neuroscience data cruncher,   quantitative researcher, data scientist, data analyst and so on.   Ideally a linguist's background in working with languages will help   him/her make sense of the generalizations found by the relevant  analyses. Then, whether  it's a powerpoint deck for your boss or an  article for a journal, a report filed for a patient or an email to a  client, linguists have to communicate their  findings to those that care. Oftentimes, there will be stats or graphs involved. Example charts and graphs from a recent paper. Act on the Data This  is relevant to some linguists (e.g., speech pathologist) more than   others (academic) but based on the findings a linguist might recommend   or enact some change. This might include a treatment or hearing aid. Or  it might mean a change in some wording on a website, adding some key  words, or updating a Social graph based on an analysis of users' dialects. With a company like Lexicon Branding,  it might mean helping a company name a product based on your findings.  Or it might mean adding a new word to the dictionary if you work for  Oxford University Press (Ben Zimmer). A hearing aid fitting may be the result of an analysis of speech perception Research Again,  this is relevant to some (e.g., research scientist) but not as much to  others (e.g., localization). I'll just report my own experience since I  don't know what others do: I spend about 1-2 hours/day, on average, reading and sifting through new journal articles. Each week, I go through about 500 abstracts from journals as diverse as Nature and Science to Journal of the Acoustical Society and of America and Cerebral Cortex,  covering some fraction of the new research going on in linguistics.  I'll save about 20 articles, skim a handful and carefully read a couple.  When I'm actually writing, I'll usually read about a dozen papers that  are new to me and skim a few dozen more. There is a ton of new research on language and it's a very exciting field to be in right now.  Neuroscience methods have advanced to where we can take techniques  honed in researching more basic functions like vision and apply them to understand how the brain processes language. Big data and technology now allows us to look at language from a large-scale quantitative perspective with projects like Google Culturomics.  Interest in social networks is tightly enmeshed with understanding the  spread and use of language. Human-computer interfaces have advanced to  the point where there is only one place left to go - talking to our computers - and we're getting pretty close. And with the globalization of the world economy, understanding how to best communicate with each other is more important than ever. So, there's lots for a linguist to do. And I haven't even begun to explain what linguistics is... * Erroneous because fully learning a second, third or fourth language is not a  prerequisite for exploring how language works. Chomsky, for example,  famously is only fluent in English and has some passing familiarity with  Hebrew. ** The internet tells me that Alfred L. Kroeber, founder  of the UC Berkeley Anthropology department, actually said this about  Anthropology. Since the first linguistics department in the western  hemisphere was founded at Berkeley by an anthropologist before it was  folded back into Anthropology ten years later, we'll just call it a  draw. 