What do linguists do?Other than invent Dothraki and Valyrian!
As with many other fields of study that appear to exist solely in Academia, there is a wide variety of how to employ one's studies in Linguistics: Naturally, there is the Academic path: a linguist who has sought an MA and has or is pursuing a PhD may find a position as a lecturer in an academic facility, enabling him to finance further research in the field. Many companies, especially in the modern world, employ linguists to improve on their technical writing (such as guide books and manuals) but especially marketing content. Some companies employ linguists to oversee the works of translators (Google is a prominent example) Other companies (and/or the government) require linguists in order to develop language recognition software. In regards to the first option, there are various fields of research Phonetics: the study of human vocal production (and covers a part of human recognition of speech), and especially Acoustic Phoneticians study the nature of human speech production and is especially flourishing nowadays, no small part thanks to computers enabling fast and easy research of recordings. Phonology: The study of a language's internal rules of sound production in various context. Also flourishing nowadays and many competing theories are being formulated and tested. Historical linguistics: my personal favourite, it's the reconstruction of supposed shared ancestors of various modern languages, which also gives us handy tools how to observe modern changes in languages. Analytical linguistics: heavily funded, this is the fledgling area of research that is trying to formulate the ways for a machine to interpret spontaneous (i.e. not careful or prepared) human speech or writing. Basically it's "computer linguistics" but it also covers mathematical aspects of languages. Psycholinguistics: covers language acquisition but also adult interpretation, the name says it's all. Sociolinguistics: uses various theories (some employing historical-linguistics and comparative linguistics, some employing generative theories) to view languages as reflective of a certain group of individuals. Various smaller areas of research It's important to point out that many study linguistics for their own pleasure and later do not employ it but rather work in close fields (such as psychology) or somewhat related jobs (such as teaching, especially foreign languages). In regards to Dothraki and Valyrian, it might be worth pointing out that very few conlangers (people who work on constructed-languages) are professional linguists. It's actually a very rare hobby. To ask what do linguists do except for invent conlangs is akin to asking what do psychologists do apart from write horror movie scripts. 