★How does social media analytics work? How is meaningful information extracted from social media (e.g. Twitter)?I have been searching about getting meaningful information from Twitter. I have found so far that some perform sentiment analysis of tweets and some look for occurrences of specific words and made decision on base of that. But I am still confused that how meaningful decision are taken Can you just elaborate it with example of recent gold prices (or any other topic of your choice) and twitter?
Social media analytics has wide range of usecases in a business and can be a powerful tool for making decisions. The two strong use cases of social media analytics lies in social media marketing and social customer service. Sentiment analysis is only one of few metrics which you can gather from Twitter data, there are other range of metrics which you can get from Twitter Data example: Location Data of the person on Twitter Some tool allows you to also extract gender and age of the person on Twitter. Using text analytics, you can also find out most frequently used keywords. Extract list of influencers who are talking about the topic, based on their Klout score or Customer Influence Score. Discover the most used keywords in the conversations around the TOPIC. Carry out topic based segmentation of the conversation for better view of the overall conversations. Find out timeline trends and discover the most active time when the conversations are happening. The above are only few of the metrics which will help you make decision on what kind of content to share, what kind of topic to talk about and also whom to reach out for maximum exposure. But there are also some advanced analysis which you can carry out like: Understanding the bio of the person and segmenting topic being discussed with respect to interest groups. Understanding the impact of keywords on its influence on the audience to retweet or favourite.So in this way, the more metrics you derive out of your Twitter data set and set multiple dimensions, the more you will able to control the output of your insights. This way you will basically to able to query useful questions and get answers. Like What kind of people are ReTweeting my Promotional Tweets? or At what time do I get maximum exposure? etc.    Embed Quote