★What are the best schools for studying Natural Language Processing?
[Notes: (a) This answer is no longer maintained by the original poster. He removed it because people kept harassing him about the rankings, so don't bug him about it! I've reposted it with his permission and will be maintaining it. Feel free to suggest edits if you notice any errors or omissions. If you have an update or a school you feel is missing, please say so in the comments and I can update the answer. (b) The list below is in alphabetical order. If you saw a previous version of this list with impact factors for each  school, the original poster removed them since their presence was  detracting from the point of this list - which is to help prospective  students. If you want the impact factors  back, comment and if enough people want it I'll replace them. (c) Thanks to Jordan Boyd-Graber, Liang Huang, Noah Smith, Chris Brew, Chris Dyer, Matt Post, Sujith Ravi and Lillian Lee  for a lot of very useful corrections and suggestions. (d) At schools like CMU, Berkeley and Stanford, students in the NLP program benefit immensely by interacting with faculty from the machine learning departments, e.g., Tom Mitchell, William Cohen, Michael Jordan, Andrew Ng etc. I currently do not explicitly mention such faculty members. You might want to look at the answer to What are the best graduate schools for studying machine learning? in conjunction with this one. Thanks to Brendan O'Connor for pointing this out. (e) Disclaimer: Between the original poster and me, we have close ties to University of Maryland, Johns Hopkins, and Carnegie Mellon.] US universities: University of California, Berkeley Notable NLP faculty: Dan Klein NLP research: Probably one of the best places for doing work at the intersection of NLP and Machine Learning. Dan has produced prolific students like Aria Haghighi, John DeNero and Percy Liang. URL: Berkeley NLP Group - Members University of California, San Diego Notable NLP faculty: Roger Levy and Lawrence Saul, most prominently. NLP research: Their lab is very machine learning oriented. Not a lot of NLP but some very interesting work on computational psycholinguistics. URL: UCSD Computational Psycholinguistics Lab : Home University of California, Santa Cruz Notable NLP faculty: Pranav Anand, Lyn Walker, and Lise Getoor. NLP research: Lyn Walker focuses on dialog systems. URL: Pranav Anand :: Linguistics Department :: UCSC University of California Santa Cruz Carnegie Mellon University Notable NLP faculty: Noah Smith, Jaime Carbonell, Alon Lavie, Carolyn Rosé, Lori Levin, Roni Rosenfeld, Chris Dyer, Alan Black, Tom Mitchell and Ed Hovy. NLP Research: Another multi-faceted school. Lots of work on different NLP areas: machine translation, summarization, interactive dialog systems, speech, information retrieval and, most importantly, machine learning. Noah's group produces some of the best work at the intersection of NLP and machine learning. Chris works at the intersection of machine learning and machine translation and does fantastic work. Though he is in the Machine Learning Department and not LTI, Tom Mitchell is worth a mention for his work with CMU's Never Ending Language Learner. URL: NLP/CL at Carnegie Mellon, Noah's ARK, CMU - Language Technologies Institute University of Chicago (and the Toyota Technological Institute at Chicago) Notable NLP faculty: John Lafferty, John Goldsmith, Karen Livescu, Michel Galley (part-time) and Kevin Gimpel. NLP research: Together with TTIC, Chicago has a great set of people who work on machine learning, speech and NLP. John Lafferty is an NLP legend who was a contributor to the original IBM MT models and a co-inventor of CRFs. John Goldsmith's group is one of the forerunners on unsupervised morphology induction. Karen works on speech, particularly pronunciation modeling. Michel works on structured prediction problems, particularly statistical machine translation. Kevi... (more)Loading...