★Why didn't the original Macintosh (128K) have Ethernet?Strange, considering that they copied many other elements of the Xerox PARC Alto ...
Because Apple (company) (and Steve Jobs) had a cultural bias against computer networking - it was "of" the world of (IBM) mainframe computers, carefully sealed & refrigerated machine rooms, and supplicating to the white-coated system operators to use a computer. There was also a pervasive suspicion of computer networks as a medium for "the man" to spy on you (which they are, if you don't use encryption, and don't restrict your communications to positively trusted counter-parties). The Macintosh is a "Personal Computer", just as the Apple II before it. Yours. You own it. No one else gets to tell you what you can (or can't) do with it. That's a very different cultural point of view and experience. When the Macintosh was introduced in 1984, The Internet was just a year old, but the predecessor ARPANET was over a decade old, and was connected to the Computer Science departments of every significant U.S. university. Ethernet was about connecting the mainframes and minicomputers to each other. Oh, and "workstations" like the ones from Sun Microsystems. AppleTalk came about, first and foremost, to talk to the Apple LaserWriter, for printing documents created on the Mac, or "desktop publishing" as it became known at the time. Naturally, since that printer was a very expensive device (~$5000), you need to share it, which means you need ... a network. AppleTalk was implemented with multidrop RS-422 serial, based in the Zilog 8530 Serial Communications Controller (SCC) chip (a very common DUART at the time - Sun & Silicon Graphics workstations used them, too). It was very cheap. Ethernet was still quite expensive by comparison, at the time. The need to distinguish between LocalTalk (the serial cabling used by Macs for the cheap, low speed networking) and AppleTalk (the network protocol suite) came about by the appearance & marketing of EtherTalk, Apple's first Ethernet interfaces. AppleTalk "phase II" also came about because of the different requirements for AppleTalk on Ethernet, and the need to scale up AppleTalk to much larger (corporate) computer networks (i.e. they had to create an internetwork routing architecture). Apple deployed AppleTalk Phase II inside the Apple Engineering Network (which was physically separate from the corporate network, such as it was) and ate its own dogfood, which was ... interesting. I joined the Apple Engineering Computer Operations (ECO) group in July 1988 while this transition was in progress, and saw it first-hand.