★What is Ethernet?Update: It would be more appreciable if the answer explains this networking terminology in a simple and easy to understand manner, maybe by giving an analogous example to Ethernet in real time applications.
Ethernet is the most popular standard for connection between computers in a local network. Ethernet was created in the early 1970s at Xerox PARC by Bob MetCalfe. The idea was to be able to exchange information between computers inside the same building - hence the term LAN, which means "Local Area Network". At first, Ethernet used a simple coaxial cable to connect all computers together. Everyone could transmit messages (called "Ethernet frames") over the wire at any time. All the other computers in the wire would listen to the frames and select the ones that were destined to them. This is a very simple system that requires the minimum wiring, but at a cost: two computers can start transmitting at the same time, mixing and garbling the frames. To avoid this situation Ethernet used a special algorithm, called "CSMA/CD" ("Carrier Sense Multiple Access with Collision Detection). This was the prime feature of Ethernet in its early years and gave it a unfair reputation as a unpredictable and unreliable networking technology - which proved to be false, as Ethernet grew to be the de facto standard to connect computers nowadays. The name "Ethernet" derives from the simple system explained above. The wire was the "Ether" - the medium that earlier physics believed to fill the universe and that allowed for the transmission of light. As Ethernet evolved, it lost the need for the shared medium. Since the introduction of Ethernet switches in the mid 1990s Ethernet is characterized by a "star" topology, where each computer has its own dedicated wire, connected to a Ethernet switch, which receives and relays frames destined to the other computers in the network. That development made Ethernet truly "plug and play" and gave it a enormous price/performance advantage over any other  competing networking technology. Today, when people talk about Ethernet, they can be referring to either of two things: (a) the basic Ethernet technology,, in the form of a switch that can be used to connect computers, or (b) the Ethernet frame format, which is used to encode the messages that are transmitted over the network. The Ethernet frame format is used by several different technologies, some entirely unrelated to the original Ethernet standard, or even proprietary. It allows different pieces of equipment to be connected to Ethernet networks. Some examples are the WiFi and WiMAX standards, and also proprietary radios and SDH transmission systems. Ethernet also gained lots of features over the years, including advanced management options (the Ethernet OAM standard) which allow its use for professional telecommunications applications. Ethernet is now used everywhere, but it's still very simple to understand at heart.