★Why did Ethernet beat out token ring networks?
I was there at the time, and saw it happening. Ethernet was initially perceived in the market as a "funny" technology, with a lower price point and a few idiosyncrasies compared to other more "determinisc" approaches. Ethernet got some initial advantage from really small networks, because it was inexpensive and easy to setup as far as you had a single coaxial segment. Token ring was not only more expensive, it was more laborious to set up, but it was expected to scale up much better than Ethernet. At some point, people started to notice that Token Ring wasn't as easy to scale as assumed. One had to be aware of the topology all the time, and changing the way things were wired was a very laborious process. There was nothing like "plug and play". At the same time (early 90's) Ethernet hubs started to appear, and all of a sudden, it became really easy to expand an Ethernet network. Also, non tech people started to realize that the supposed shortcomings of Ethernet - namely, the fear that collisions would make the network crawl to a halt - were greatly overestimated, and that one could keep adding more machines to the same segment for much longer than antecipated. There were still some strange behaviors, things that stopped more "serious" shops from using Ethernet though. Price was the main driver for Ethernet at this time. A few years later, in the mid 90's, two technical advances made Ethernet win the battle. First, switches were introduced in the market, which allowed bigger an more stable Ethernet LANs than before, but without changing the basic architecture. At the same time, 100baseT was introduced. If you had good cabling, migrating to a switched network was very easy. On the contrary, the migration for other technologies - Token Ring, or even FDDI, which had some chances at the time - was more expensive and more complicated to plan properly. In a few years, with 10/100 switch ports, you could even mix and match older parts of the network and the new ones, with 100baseT ports. At this point, practical considerations - how easy it was to setup and run the network - became the main factor for Ethernet adoption. Another related factor was the introduction, at the same time, of three other technologies that drove the adoption of LANs everywhere: TCP/IP, Windows NT and client-server computing. Up to the early 90's it was common for computers to be isolated. Data was passed around in floppies and many companies still didn't realize what could you do with a network connecting all computers. Early networks were in facts "islands of connectivity" inside the company. In a matter of few years, all computers inside any serious company had to be connected to a single network. Systems would now run over client-server architecture, which demanded a reliable company-wide network. Ethernet was there at the right time, with the right price, and won the battle.