★When did Ethernet become a standard option for personal computers (Dell, for example)?In other words, when did one no longer have to add on an Ethernet card?
So the question really is "when did Ethernet appear in a standard way on (intel-based) PC motherboards?" It really depended on the motherboard.  Higher end motherboards in custom form factors did so pretty early on.  The intel LP486, for example, had Ethernet on its (custom) motherboard in 1993, using the intel 82596CA controller. System builders eventually converged on the ATX form factor, which appeared in 1995.  The backplate is not specified by ATX, but early ATX backplates of the time typically had serial connectors, parallel connectors. PS/2-style connectors for keyboard and mouse, as well as on-board audio jacks and a MIDI/Game port.  An add-on ISA or PCI NIC (Network Interface card) would still be needed for networking.  The possibility of ubiquitous motherboard networking destroying the NIC market was becoming apparent in 1996, even though the NIC price point was still too high to include "for free" on the motherboard.  By 1997, intel was running full speed into the market and building reference boards for system builders.  In 1998, intel predicated that 50% of all network ports sold would be found on PCs, either on the motherboard or as an add on NIC.  Cost was still the driving factor.  Home broadband was not yet ubiquitous, most PCs would access the internet through a dial up modem. System builders like Dell could make a profit on an add-in card, so on-board Ethernet would only be useful if expansion card space was scarce, like in early SFF PCs like the Dell Optiplex series released in 2000.  Intel motherboard reference design D815BN in 2000 had an optional intel 82559 10/100 Fast Ethernet LAN controller in 2000, and established the placement of the LAN port in an ATX I/O shield on a standard ATX desktop. That backplate arrangement with USB ports was common at the time, but the addition of the LAN port was new! The first low-cost ATX-standard motherboard I remember having built in LAN was the Elitegroup K7S5A. The K7S5A had the LAN electronics built into the SiS chipset and the system performed abysmally.  However, the network performance was "good enough" for most light duty LAN use.  This was in 2001. So I will submit that 2000 opened the door for the avalanche of motherboard LAN, but 2001 was the tipping point as the competing chipset vendors scrambled for an edge and built up competitive motherboards while the LAN electronics vanished into small chips that were negligibly expensive to add to a motherboard.  All of this built on the standard location for a LAN port on the typical ATX I/O shield.