★What is the best gigabit ethernet switch?
There's no "best gigabit Ethernet switch" in the same way that there aren't clear "best of" stuff in many categories. The choice depends a lot on how much you want to pay. It also depend on your need for some particular features, ranging from the very basic to the esoteric. However, there are a few vendors that have stablished a reputation of building and selling reliable networking equipment. The prime example is Cisco, which is the biggest networking equipment supplier in the world. Cisco has a wide range of models, starting from small businesses routers and switches, and going up to professional switches for global corporations and telecom companies which may cost a few million dollars when fully equiped. Other top manufacturers include HP (which recently acquired 3Com), Juniper, Extreme, Foundry (acquired by Brocade), Alcatel, Force 10 (acquired by Dell), Enterasys, and Huawey. All the vendors mentioned above are relatively well known, and have good reputation in some market niches. In most cases, these companies do a lot of development and may be able to provide better performance and support than other, lesser known manufacturers. That doesn't mean that even a big company will not have a few models which are not up to par (for example, I have really bad memories of the first Cisco 500 series switches - and that's from the leader of the pack). Also, several of these companies have simpler models that are not very different from the "second tier" products which include lots of lesser known manufacturers. Now, if you are talking about simple 24 or 48 port Ethernet switches for small office usage, you may be well served by almost any brand of switch. A huge part of this has to do with the fact that there are some companies (such as Broadcom) that specialize in manufacturing Ethernet switch chipsets that make it relatively easy for anyone to build their own equipment. This is known in the market as "merchant silicon", and is a reason why so many companies are able to build Ethernet switches despite having little or no experience in networking. The advantage of merchant silicon switches is the price. Raw performance isn't usually a problem, as today any reasonable switch (even at gigabit speeds) will be rated to operate at full speed (also known as non blocking). The problem with these "generic" switches is the lack of advanced features, specially for security and network management. If you need any specific feature, then go back to the list of first tier vendors, and choose one which supports the feature you need and fits your pocket. But for simple applications there's little differentiation, and that's why companies such as HP and Dell are making huge forays in this market.