How should a Computer Science student at VIT University prepare for placement Interviews?
The style of questions varies from company to company. Initial companies (usually the highest paying ones) focus a lot towards data structures with heavy coding involved (binary trees are a favorite), but strangely a lot of companies which come a little latter barely ask you about data-structures. Basically, this translates to you doing heavy legwork, as you can't take a chance and have to cover all these fields. (Networking->OS->Data Structures.....) Make sure you write good notes, you will need this for last minute revision. I will be honest, this is a fantastic time to start preparing for placements. Don't start after you come to VIT, finish a huge portion in the summers. We're talking about the next few years of your life, so don't take it lightly. There are some people with a seemingly inborn ability to do well in placements even without opening a book. Most of us though aren't, so you gotta work over the summers. After coming back to VIT, be sure to keep the midnight lamp burning. Don't stop until you get your job, and don't lose hope. Try not to get pissed, when things don't go your way.  And believe me they won't for a lot of you. Interviewers aren't impressed on the number of languages you know. Just be crystal clear with what you know. If you wanna have something up your sleeve, bash programming is what I'd recommend. There are going to be 1-2 questions or more, during most qualification rounds which involve Linux code. During the interview, it's important to show your interest in this field. I really wanna stress on this, do something apart from your course. Websites, app, anything of value that shows you have a passion for this field but it has to be something beyond the course.   Preparing for an interview requires you to brush up on your speaking skills, they go a long way to impress and can get you out of messy situations. Stay cool, and keep a presence of mind. Do not prepare HR questions which VIT will force you to attend, simply ignore these sessions. If you can speak well, you will do well in HR. Don't worry about your fucking dress, most of them really don't give a shit. Only VIT does. Do not  research the company, they are not going to ask you questions about their revenue etc. Aptitude MCQ questions on the other hand are very popular, so start brushing up on your Maths (refer Amazon/Flipkart questions to get an idea). This is usually the 1st part of the qualification round, don't focus too much on it, but be decent enough so that you can qualify to the next round. Just keep writing code on the laptop - linked list, array, hash, binary trees (not just on paper) Also there are many ways to approach a question, and this is what they are looking for. Functions, comments all help. Needless to say, they are looking at the best algorithms. If you still haven't done your internship, I recommend start-ups. They will give you plenty of work enough to spark an interest in programming, which VIT might have killed by now. (VIT Sucks when it's comes to teaching programming!!!) Any good sites you find with tricky questions or with good coverage of a topic, bookmark it. Help your friends by sharing these resources, as in a group of 700 students sitting for interviews, they aren't your rivals. You've already got some great replies on this post how to go about your preparations. Some sites and books that I vividly remember a) Interview Questions - GeeksforGeeks (At least do all the binary tree questions from here) b) Cracking the Coding Interview - Lovely book c) C++ Programming Questions and Answers - IndiaBix (Understand the concept and why you were messing up - Don't learn the rules by rote. If you mug up the concepts, and the interviewer gets that feeling, they are going to fuck you in the interview with all questions related to that.) Placements are gonna be based hugely on a combo of strong coding skills, technical knowledge and luck. You might end up being the unlucky one who could have answered the question that your friend's interviewer asked, but not what was asked to you. Welcome to placements. :-) P.S. - I aimed at a very similar package last year, something over 6 lakhs, and I ended up at Flipkart. A very good coding round, 3 good interviews, 1 not-so-good interview, and a lot of luck.  Best of luck to you :-) EDIT - SOME UPDATE AND AN IMPORTANT TIP (mostly applicable for vitians, but read-on if interested)   Guys, I don't know how much you are in touch with your seniors. I really wasn't when I was in VIT. Now, VIT Placements have the rule where they equate internship with an offer, and if you get an internship you can only sit for a service company. (some of you with interns may not even bother, I know I didn't). Please try and have a 2nd confirmed offer in hand, if your first offer is just an internship as there are plenty of start-ups to try for.   Anyways, the thing is when you are without a back-up job, you are vulnerable in certain ways. The fact is that despite a good performance in an internship, there might be budget-constrains, over-hiring, laying off people (hence not hiring) which could be happening in a company, resulting you not getting in an offer. The results of an internship are told to you only towards the end of the internship in 90% of the companies. So something like a typical Jan - Jun 30 internship, you get to know your status June onward. So they might say a NO for loads of reasons to you (some of which you don't have any control of), leaving you without a job. (Don't worry, they usually say yes if you have done a good job. I was just a tad unlucky with the circumstances surrounding me)   Something along these lines happened to me at Flipkart despite a promising review they weren't extending an offer to any intern, but my manager/team-lead really pushed and the HR are really nice so they explored options like (testing role (similar package), continue internship till confirmation etc) but I didn't want any of that, so I applied elsewhere and got lucky immediately getting into a great start-up in Pune.  Btw I did get the Flipkart SD1 offer a few days back, but it was a few days late, as I had already started the job in Pune. This brings me back to you guys. The review processes are tough, and quite a few don't get positive reviews so no offer is extended. Other events out of your control could occur. So to sum up: Get a 2nd confirmed offer off-campus, if you have just got an internship. Seriously, don't joke around and definitely have a backup 2nd offer!!! I should also add that despite the bitter-sweet ending, I think the 6 months of internship were simply splendid, and I would do it over-and-over again if I could. The people here are great, you will learn and develop a lot, and you will have tonnes of fun if you like technology. Updated 133w ago • View Upvotes