Is "invert a binary tree" a good question for Google to ask in a technical interview?
Oh, brother, don't get me started on this... Let me share a list of yes/no answers to FAQ's on this topic and be done with it, once and for all. About the question, itself: Yes, it is a perfectly fine question for a programming interview. No, you don't have to know precisely what "invert a binary tree" means up front. I can think of a number of ways to build an "inversion", all equally logical. Yes, you can ask questions to clarify. And you should. Ultimately - Yes, any half-decent programmer should be able to solve it, once clarified, in 20 minutes - half the time of one programming interview. It's a little bit more complicated than a FizzBuzz. About how you should react to the question: Yes, you really, really, really do need to solve it. It's a programming interview, so that's kind of part of the package. No, it doesn't matter if you have managed to do  something with your life before. Yes, we have all programmed and are generally okay at it. Bravo! Yes, we still have to go through programming interviews, despite our obvious, moderate success in life. Yes, you should leave your raging ego locked up at home. No, you are not above anything. Yes, you should just solve it - if you can. No, it doesn't matter if hundred thousand of your anonymous e-buddies tell you that you are right to have disdain for the interview process, because reasons along the lines of "you're super cool because you buld XYZ so you should get a free ride at any company". Yes, these guys could also be Google rejects which feel good about themselves when in company of other Google rejects because they can crows-blame it on he system. Here are some more answers that put things into context nicely: No, not all Google rejects are bad programmers. Yes, there are most likely many quite good programmers among Google rejects. Yes, there are most likely many quite average programmers among Google rejects. No, the interview process isn't perfect. Yes, the interview process is biased towards rejecting a good candidate. No, Google doesn't look for average programmers, otherwise every Joe could work over there. Yes, Google struggles to find people how meet their standards as much as people struggle to meet them. Point of all this is - just answer the stupid question. 