How do I prepare for a software engineering job interview?
Practice using the same medium (e.g. paper and pencil) and time limits (e.g. 30 minutes) as the real interview. Google and Microsoft both use whiteboard coding questions, yet often candidates practice by coding alone at home on a computer with a compiler. During the actual interview, they stand at the whiteboard and forget how to initialize an array, without their trusty syntax highlighter. Or they are so nervous having another person watch them that they panic and can't think straight. In real life, if you plan to swim the English Channel, would you limit your practice to laps at the local swimming pool? No, you would go test out the ocean waves, the salt water. Do the same here. Ask your recruiter the format of the interview and any coding questions. If the company gives the candidates an hour alone in a room with an editor and no compiler, practice that at home. If the company does whiteboard questions with an interviewer watching you, ask an engineer friend to be your mock interviewer. It's fine if the friend is a less experienced engineer than you -- they'll still bring out your nervousness about making mistakes in front of others, so you can practice getting used to that. During the interview, don't obsess over little mistakes that happen. On more than one occasion, when I gave a star candidate a coding question, he zeroed in on the most optimally performant solution, identified the boundary cases, and began writing well-designed code. Midway through the problem, he makes a little error -- getting the order of operations wrong on the first try, or having an off-by-1 error, or forgetting to declare a variable. When I point it out, the candidate responds with horror and then becomes so nervous that it impacts his performance during the rest of the interview. The fear is unfounded. An awesome candidate making a little error is like a concert violinist playing a challenging Brahms concerto and hitting two wrong notes. Sure, the audience could tell that he made mistakes, but they don't get confused as to whether he's actually at Twinkle-Twinkle-Little-Star level. Even if you completely bomb one question, many interviewers ask you multiple questions and will forgive a single mishap. Even bombing an entire interview is recoverable if the other interviews go well. One of my former Google colleagues once interviewed a candidate and was very curt because he found the candidate's communication style irritating. The candidate proved himself during the interview, and the tech lead ended up being the strongest proponent for this candidate. He advocated harder for that candidate than he has for anyone else in a year. When things don't go well, just keep at it and don't give up hope. Don't hijack the interview. I've had a couple of candidates who came into the interview with the mindset that they MUST tell me all about their recent project Zoolander. I start the interview and they break in with, "I want to tell you about Zoolander. 10 years ago, this project started as a side feature..." and then go on for 5 minutes without taking a breath. Sometimes they decide that they must tell every interviewer about Zoolander, repeating the same description over and over during the day. Your interviewer has specific questions that they need to get through. If you hijack the interview, they may not have enough data from their own questions to be able to endorse your hiring. They may also think that you would be difficult to work with. If you really want to talk about a project, ask your interviewer, "I think project Zoolander really shows off my abilities. Can you or another interviewer fit in 10 minutes for me to explain it?" The interviewer can then refit their plan for the interview, instead of suddenly having their schedule be shanghaied. When answering questions expecting a specific answer, give a high-level summary first. Sometimes I ask a question expecting a short answer, "How many people worked with you on project Zoolander?" The candidate then gives me an audiobook, "Well, there was Jimmy -- he did the UI and I had to mentor him quite a bit on it. Then there was Mary who ran the backend servers. She worked remotely from Pennsylvania. Two years later, we got another backend person David..." Three minutes later, the candidate is still talking, and I still don't know the answer of how many people worked on the project. Give an answer first, and then expound. "There were 3 when I joined, and 12 when I left. First there was Jimmy ..." Better yet, give the answer and offer to expound. "There were 3 when I joined, and 12 when I left. Would you like me to tell you what each one did?" ... a couple less-important tips and a final humorous story at  Niniane Wang's web page 