What computer science knowledge/concepts do Silicon Valley software engineers (Google, Quora, Facebook, Twitter, etc.) use on a daily basis?
Since the question was specific about computer science knowledge/concepts, i will exclude what are generally/widely regarded as technologies rather than concepts from this answer. That apart it also greatly depends on what kind of product/web site an engineer is working on. For example in my first job for an object oriented database company, we used to deal with all sorts of data structures that were implemented in that product. Also lots of queuing theory, multi-threading & concurrency control algorithms & concepts were implemented natively. Apart from, of course, the actual database, transaction handling and object-oriented concepts that were actually implemented. We even had our own C++ parser builtin, so you have that too! It was a fantastic product and a fabulous experience; the amount of exposure that one got and insight that i gained was incredible especially for a fresher! I am sure the experience would be similar for someone working on an operating system component or a storage manager or a file system. My next job was a product which was higher level application; i didnt need to deal with such a span of computer science concepts since most of what we needed was already being provided by the various libraries and toolkits we were using. But still one needs to be aware of basic data structures, and some algorithms, you didnt need to know how to implement them but you need to know how they would work. My opinion is one, definitely needs to know and know well all the computer science concepts that are generally taught in school. But thats not the end of it, i am sure as you start working you will use different concepts and also need to learn newer ones. The objective of what you may have studied in school is basically to establish a foundation for you to build upon as needed in your career. *let me know if you want to expand or focus some specific stuff, i can update this answer 