What is locality-sensitive hashing?
Imagine a line segment in 3 dimensions. Next, imagine a plane in this space. Now, project the line onto the plane -- By drawing perpendicular to the plane from the end points of the line segment. Lets compare the length of the line segment to length of its projection : You will see that no matter how you orient the plane, the length of the projection is going to be smaller or equal to(though very unlikely) the original length. You could have projected on another line instead of the plane, and got similar observations. In more scientific terms : Under projection, points close to each other in original high dimension can only get closer to each other, and thus remain close. LSH is the celebration of this discovery.   One direct application is that you can reduce the dimension of your data for clustering! You can take 4 random lines to project your 20D data and reduce the dimension to 4. It is easier to imagine this reduction, if you choose the random lines to be passing through the origin : just see how far the projection in the first line is from the origin, and get the first component, and so on. As discussed above, in this reduced dimension space, the distance between any two 20D points can only get reduced. So, the nearest neighbors of a query point in 20D are still likely to be the nearest neighbors in the lower dimension. Why? This is because we use multiple random projections, it is very unlikely(though not an impossibility) that the projection of a far off point in 20D would be very close on all the random lines. With the knowledge of nearest neighbors  it is not hard to implement clustering. Why call it hashing? Doing projection onto a random line can be seen as using a hash function. But what's the deal with "Locality Sensitive Hashing" ? If a hash has the tendency to put nearby data into the same bin, then it is a LS-Hash. In this particular example, it is easy to see that "H(x) = Distance of random projection from origin" satisfies this LSH property. There are many other examples of LSH - MinHash is a LSH for Sets where Jaccard distance is the metric. Updated 100w ago • View Upvotes