What classes should I take if I want to become a data scientist?
Today, we use the term "data science" to mean "doing stuff with data." Some data scientists build products, some optimize businesses, others try to understand businesses. Regardless of what a data scientist does, there are three things that a data scientist needs to understand to be effective: (1) Math (2) Computer Science (3) The problem that he or she is solving Let me explain a little more about each one. (1) Math. Whether you have a lot of data or a little bit, you're going to have to use some math to make sense of it. Math helps you find patterns in data and determine if those patterns are meaningful. In practice, this means a data scientist needs to know some statistics and machine learning. It's helpful to know some algebra, signal processing, and topology as well. (Seriously.) (2) Computer Science. Today, almost all the data that you encounter will be generated by and stored on computers. Often, you'll have to shrink that data, clean it up, or combine it with other data. Sometimes, you'll have so much data that you can't solve your problem quickly. In order to work with data, you'll have to know how to program a computer. But in order to cope with large amounts of data, you'll need to know about computer architecture and algorithms. You may even have to work with data that's stored in a cloud or processed on a distributed system. I'd recommend that any data scientist learn the basics of software engineering, algorithms, and computer architecture. (3) The problem that he or she is solving. If you understand the problem you are trying to solve, and the data that you are trying to use, you will be able to distinguish answers that make sense from answers that do not, think of novel data sources to look for, and think of new ways to solve problems.  Don't underestimate the importance of understanding economics, physics, biology, or human psychology when you're tackling a problem. In practice, I'd recommend that a data scientist should have some training in economics (specifically econometrics and game theory), but any scientific training is helpful. And finally, I wouldn't underestimate the value of experience. There's a lot of stuff that I've learned the hard way about cleaning data, running experiments, and implementing solutions. Academic training is a great start, but the real world is complicated and changes quickly. Any good training program needs to include some big, hands on projects with real world data (not clean toy data sets). 