What classes should I take if I want to become a data scientist?
First, there's a difference between developing data products to be consumed by people versus those consumed by other machines. But I'm assuming you mean the former, so that's what I'll talk about. There are a lot of great answers here, but I just want to highlight a few aspects that don't get nearly as much attention as they should. Causality: Dr. Anonymous below deserves more upvotes. At the end of the day. your audience wants actionable information. If you don't give it to them, you have failed (more on this below). We're in a situation now where data scientists do predictive modeling (based on historical data), decision makers action based on that, and the result is...well, no one knows. That action was never in the model. Conversational skills: Read Guy Cuthbert's answer. He points out a very important, and woefully neglected, set of skills, namely being able to have a conversation with non-specialists. I wrote about the importance of this in detail in my answer to Mark Meloon's answer to What is a data scientist's career path? Most data scientists who claim to be "great communicators" are merely skilled at one-way information transfer, such as writing and presenting. That doesn't cut it in data science for reasons I explain. Guy's suggestion of Rhetoric and Cognitive Psychology is right on the money. I have yet to see a university or MOOC do anything but pay lip service to this critical aspect of data science. Understand Data: Great answers by Alex Leavitt and Adam Marcus. Mathematician John Allen Paulos has a great book entitled "Innumeracy" that details just how poorly most people understand probabilities and other mathematical concepts (see Synopses of Innumeracy, Math and Humor, and His Other Books). You've got to be able to grok all this at a deep level.And now for non-coursework, it is a very good idea to do some projects of your own interest to demonstrate your initiative, passion for the subject, and that you are a self-starter. Note that a class project doesn't count (see Data Science Interview: I Don't Care About Your Class Projects). Personally, I don't particularly care about Kaggle competitions either (see Mark Meloon's answer to How useful are Kaggle competitions for getting interviews for someone already working as a data scientist?). I'm much more interested in projects of your own design and those that demonstrate your ability to work well in a team environment. There's more, of course, but the other commenters on this page have done an excellent job of covering those. My bio is "Data Science: the straight, no-hype truth" and I feel compelled to point out that data science is far more than sitting in front of your computer all day, geeking out on using the most sophisticated algorithm you can think of to spit up results. Finally, go for it! Data science is way cool and there really is nothing quite like it. The criticism that it's merely a sexed-up version of statistics is way off. Yeah, training to become one has unique challenges, but it'll be worth it in the end. And keep asking questions on Quora. There's a slew of extremely knowledgable people here who are very eager to help! -Mark 