What are some applications of algorithms in theoretical computer science to problems in practice?
There's a bit of a paradox in this question since in a sense once an algorithm gets used in practice people won't call it theoretical computer science any more.  You can see some of my own in the video posted by Obinna's answer.  These include: * a variant of the traveling salesman problem to create titles for machine-generated documents * a different variant of TSP to optimize code layout during compilation * random linear network codes to broadcast information through networks * consistent hashing to implement distributed hash tables (for Akamai and other peer to peer systems, as well as the Cassandra database) * maximum flow to determine the structure of genetic networks You can find papers about those and other examples I've worked on my publications page http://people.csail.mit.edu/karg... if you filter on "Applications of Theory" in the "category" filter. There are tons of other applications; I can only list a few: * Perfect hashing lets you build hash tables with no collisions, guaranteeing constant-time lookup * from its origins as a tool to help solve logistics problems for the US Army in World War 2, linear programming has been used for optimization in almost every imaginable industry.  Many years ago I recall Bill Pulleyblank at IBM telling me how his group had saved a steel mill tens of millions of dollars a year by computing a few percent improvement in the way they cut up their steel rolls to fill orders.  * Every airline solves massive combinatorial optimization problems to schedule their flights and crews * The same is true in other transport domains like train scheduling; see e.g. http://ifors.org/web/martin-grot... * Al Roth's work on matching problems revolutionized the kidney donation system in the US (and helped earn him a Nobel prize) * Computational geometry data structures (binary space partitions, voronoi diagrams, orthogonal range search data structures, etc.) underpin much of the computer graphics that drives our movies and video games * Similarly, Delaunay triangulations are important for the finite element methods used in many simulations (wind tunnels, fluid dynamics, etc.) * Max-flow algorithms are used in "graph cut" techniques in computer vision Updated 58w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by William Chen