The Desargues graph has rectilinear crossing number 6, and is the smallest cubic graph with that crossing number (sequence A110507 in OEIS). It is the only known nonplanar cubic partial cube.[6]
The Desargues graph has chromatic number 2, chromatic index 3, radius 5, diameter 5 and girth 6. It is also a 3-vertex-connected and a 3-edge-connected Hamiltonian graph.
All the cubic distance-regular graphs are known.[7] The Desargues graph is one of the 13 such graphs.
The Desargues graph has rectilinear crossing number 6, and is the smallest cubic graph with that crossing number (sequence A110507 in OEIS). It is the only known nonplanar cubic partial cube.[6]
The Desargues graph has chromatic number 2, chromatic index 3, radius 5, diameter 5 and girth 6. It is also a 3-vertex-connected and a 3-edge-connected Hamiltonian graph.
All the cubic distance-regular graphs are known.[7] The Desargues graph is one of the 13 such graphs.
The automorphism group of the Gray graph is a group of order 1296. It acts transitively on the edges the graph but not on its vertices : there are symmetries taking every edge to any other edge, but not taking every vertex to any other vertex. The vertices that correspond to points of the underlying configuration can only be symmetric to other vertices that correspond to points, and the vertices that correspond to lines can only be symmetric to other vertices that correspond to lines. Therefore, the Gray graph is a semi-symmetric graph, the smallest possible cubic semi-symmetric graph.
The characteristic polynomial of the Gray graph is

The Heawood graph is a toroidal graph; that is, it can be embedded without crossings onto a torus. One embedding of this type places its vertices and edges into three-dimensional Euclidean space as the set of vertices and edges of a nonconvex polyhedron with the topology of a torus, the Szilassi polyhedron.
The graph is named after Percy John Heawood, who in 1890 proved that in every subdivision of the torus into polygons, the polygonal regions can be colored by at most seven colors.[5][6] The Heawood graph forms a subdivision of the torus with seven mutually adjacent regions, showing that this bound is tight.
The Heawood graph is also the Levi graph of the Fano plane, the graph representing incidences between points and lines in that geometry. With this interpretation, the 6-cycles in the Heawood graph correspond to triangles in the Fano plane.
The Heawood graph has crossing number 3, and is the smallest cubic graph with that crossing number (sequence A110507 in OEIS). Including the Heawood graph, there are 8 distinct graphs of order 14 with crossing number 3.
The Heawood graph is a unit distance graph: it can be embedded in the plane such that adjacent vertices are exactly at distance one apart, with no two vertices embedded to the same point and no vertex embedded into a point within an edge. However, the known embeddings of this type lack any of the symmetries that are inherent in the graph.[7]
The automorphism group of the Ljubljana graph is a group of order 168. It acts transitively on the edges the graph but not on its vertices : there are symmetries taking every edge to any other edge, but not taking every vertex to any other vertex. Therefore, the Ljubljana graph is a semi-symmetric graph, the third smallest possible cubic semi-symmetric graph after the Gray graph on 54 vertices and the Iofinova-Ivanov graph on 110 vertices.[3]
The characteristic polynomial of the Ljubljana graph is

The automorphism group of the Pappus graph is a group of order 216. It acts transitively on the vertices, on the edges and on the arcs of the graph. Therefore the Pappus graph is a symmetric graph. It has automorphisms that take any vertex to any other vertex and any edge to any other edge. According to the Foster census, the Pappus graph, referenced as F018A, is the only cubic symmetric graph on 18 vertices.[4][5]
The characteristic polynomial of the Pappus graph is . It is the only graph with this characteristic polynomial, making it a graph determined by its spectrum.
