If advanced algorithms and data structures are never used in industry, then why learn them?I and people I know have never used any advanced algorithms or data structures in industry and some of us have 20 years of experience in industry. How do you motivate yourself to learn advanced algorithms and data structures or, for that matter, go for Programming contests etc..
The main reason, which is applicable to anything you want to learn, is not to become an "expert beginner" (How Developers Stop Learning: Rise of the Expert Beginner): Someone who gets stuck in bad habits that work reasonably well in the beginning but can't progress to advanced levels. Everyone chooses to be expert beginners in different ways though. So if your job is just your job, choosing to be an expert beginner in that area is ok. Though you might be derided by "real programmers." Some examples of "chosen" expert beginnerism: Playing ping pong with wrong form. You're not out to win competitions in China, just beat your co-workers, so no point in learning "properly". Cooking. If all you want is a tasty meal, no reason to question seemingly arbitrary tasks and numbers in a recipe. Just follow it. Staying within your preferred programming language and framework (and company specific tool-chain) so you'll always appear to be the expert. Peck typing really really fast at 50 wpm but being unable to go above that. I personally don't see the point in programming contests thought I respect the people who do them. I also think being healthy is important but I don't do triathlons or martial arts contests either. In some areas of life I choose to be a beginner, using a bag of cheap tricks to appear like an expert, to satisfy my ego. In others, I aim for higher and higher levels of the activity itself. To reach a higher level though you need critical feedback, the type that comes from failure and thus harder tasks. As you get more and more skilled, this feedback is more difficult to come by and you get stuck. You have to really seek out the difficult things. Expert beginnerism can be thought of accidentally getting stuck in or creating an environment where negative feedback doesn't reach you. 