If advanced algorithms and data structures are never used in industry, then why learn them?I and people I know have never used any advanced algorithms or data structures in industry and some of us have 20 years of experience in industry. How do you motivate yourself to learn advanced algorithms and data structures or, for that matter, go for Programming contests etc..
In today's API ridden world it's not common for you to implement quicksort or binary search from scratch, since most traditional algorithms are included in any serious API or standard library. But that's not the point. First, you need to know how algorithms and data structures work when choosing which one to use from an API. You want to store key/value pairs in a data structure? You know you can use a Hash Map which gives you O(1) for insertion/seek/delete. Oh, but then you realize you need to iterate the values in certain order. Do you know how a Hash Map works? How does it grow? How does the algorithm decide the order of the elements? Or is it completely random? So you use a Binary Tree, and you may end with an unbalanced implementation that is even slower than using just an array of tuples and iterating it. Maybe a Red Black Tree is a better option, it's balanced so it gives you O(log N) for insertion/seek/delete and you can iterate it by the natural ordering of the key. But how are you going to make an informed choice without knowing how does each algorithm and data structure works? Second, if you are speaking about sorting algorithms and the like, yes, you may never get to implement one in real life as most APIs come with a heavily optimized implementation of basic algorithms. But try to implement text prediction without knowing how a Trie works, or solving any path/distance/proximity/networking problem without even basic Graph and BFS/DFS knowledge. Yes: you can make a living developing CRUD applications without any knowledge of advanced algorithms and data structures, just like I could have a 56k modem at home and say I'm 'connected' to the internet. But that only speaks about the limitations with which I chose to live; it does not mean that anything beyond those limitations is useless. Updated 12 Sep • View Upvotes