How can I get a job at Facebook or Google in 6 months?How should I be going? I need a concise work-plan to build a good enough skill set. Should I join some other start-up? Should I build my own projects or start-up? Should I just focus on practicing up on Data Structures and Algorithms ?
Originally Answered: Which programming languages should I know to get an internship or job at a top-notch company like Google, Facebook, Apple, etc.? Guide for Technical Development                           Having a solid foundation in Computer Science is important to become a successful Software Engineer. This guide is a suggested path for university students to develop their technical skills academically and non-academically through self paced hands-on learning. You may use this guide to determine courses to take, but please make sure you are taking courses required for your major in order to graduate. The online resources    provided in this guide are not meant to replace courses available at your university. However, they may help supplement your learning or provide an introduction to a topic.                  Using this guide:                 Please use this guide at your discretion           There may be other things you want to learn or do outside of this guide - go for it!           Checking off all items in this guide does not guarantee a job at Google           This guide will evolve or change - check back for updates                                        Recommendations for Academic Learning                     Introduction to CS Course                          Take Introduction to Computer Science courses that provide basic instructions on coding.                                       Online resources: Udacity - intro to CS course, Coursera - Computer Science 101                        Code in at least one object oriented programming language: C++, Java, or Python                          Beginner Online Resources: Coursera - Learn to Program: The  Fundamentals, MIT Intro to Programming in Java, Google's Python Class, Coursera - Introduction to Python, Python Open Source               E-Book                                      Intermediate Online Resources: Udacity's Design of Computer Programs, Coursera - Learn to Program: Crafting Quality Code, Coursera - Programming Languages, Brown University - Introduction to Programming Languages                        Learn other Programming Languages                          Notes: Add to your repertoire - JavaScript, CSS & HTML; Ruby; PHP; C; Perl; shell script; Lisp and Scheme.                                       Online Resources: w3school.com - HTML Tutorial, Codecademy, Udacity - Mobile Web Development, Udacity - HTML5 Game Development                      Test Your Code                          Notes: Learn how to catch bugs, create tests, and break your software                                       Online Resources: Udacity - Software Testing Methods, Udacity - Software Debugging                      Develop logical reasoning and knowledge of discrete math                          Online Resources: MIT Mathematics for Computer Science, Coursera - Introduction to Logic, Coursera - Linear and Discrete Optimization, Coursera - Probabilistic Graphical Models,               Coursera - Game Theory                       Develop strong understanding of Algorithms and Data Structures                          Notes: Learn about fundamental data types (stack, queues, and bags), sorting algorithms (quicksort, mergesort, heapsort), data structures (binary search trees, red-black trees, hash tables), and Big O.                                       Online Resources: MIT Introduction to Algorithms, Coursera Introduction to Algorithms Part 1 & Part 2, List of  Algorithms, List of Data Structures, Book:The Algorithm Design Manual                      Develop a strong knowledge of operating systems                          Online Resources: UC Berkeley Computer Science 162                      Learn UX Design                          Online Resources: Udacity - UX Design for Mobile Developers                      Learn Artificial Intelligence                          Online Resources: Stanford University - Introduction               to Robotics, Natural Language Processing, Machine Learning                      Learn how to build compilers                          Online Resources: Coursera - Compilers                      Learn cryptography                          Online Resources: Coursera - Cryptography, Udacity - Applied  Cryptography                      Learn Parallel Programming                          Online Resources: Coursera - Heterogeneous Parallel Programming                      Work on project outside of the classroom.                          Notes: Create and maintain a website, build your own server, or build a robot.                                       Online Resources: Apache List of Projects, Google Summer of Code, Google Developer Group                      Work on a small piece of a large system (codebase), read and understand existing code, track down documentation, and debug things.                          Notes: GitHub is a great way to read other people’s code or contribute to a project.                                       Online Resources: GitHub, Kiln                      Work on project with other programmers.                          Notes: This will help you improve your ability to work well in a team and enable you to learn from others.                       Practice your algorithmic knowledge and coding skills                          Notes: Practice your algorithmic knowledge through coding competitions like CodeJam or ACM’s International Collegiate Programming Contest.                                       Online Resources: CodeJam, ACM ICPC                      Become a Teaching Assistant                          Helping to teach other students will help enhance your knowledge in the subject matter.                       Internship experience in software engineering                          Notes: Make sure you apply for internships well in advance of the period internships take place. In the US, internships take place during the summer, May-September. Applications are usually accepted several months in advance.             PS: Info. from google careers. 