What are the minimum set of required computer science skills for a web developer who does not have a CS degree to be a good programmer?For example, some people say a programmer should know about binary tree structure and algorithms. Could you make a brief list? Details would be appreciated and I would be glad if you mention how to get those skills without attending a college? (Online resources, programs etc.)
I'm a Webdev (10 years now) who does not have a CS degree. There are a bunch of skills that are certainly USEFUL to have if you're a Webdev, and others have listed those. If you're talking about the MINIMUM required, though (like, the absolute minimum necessary for an entry level / junior dev / grunt dev position): General markup (HTML, bonus: Markdown) Applying Stylesheets (CSS, bonus: XSLT) Basic control structures (If/Else, Switch, For, While) Basic encapsulation (Classes, Instance vs. Static, Methods vs. Properties) Basic version control (Git is a good one to learn) A server-side language (many start with PHP because of minimal overhead) A client-side framework (jQuery is a good one that has a nice learning curve and still has professional application) Basic SQL (MySQL is a good one to use, since it's free) -- learn how to do CRUD statements (Create / Select / Update / Delete), bonus: do some basic joins and learn about normalized table relationships. This will give you omnibus coverage which you can then specialize in depending on where your work leads you. As far as where to learn it, this is a little trickier. The best way to learn it is to just *do* it. Find or invent a project, however silly, and just make it work. Having a focal point will keep you pointed towards solution-based application and away from unnecessary abstractions. One of my first projects was building a CMS for my job (incredibly ambitious, in hindsight). Most languages / frameworks have an online documentation resource. For PHP it's Hypertext Preprocessor ;  HTML (and CSS, though their CSS docs can be confusing) is World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) ; jQuery is   jQuery Foundation . These are for reference once you've got a starting point. You can find some basic templates around -- just search on the google for whatever kind of thing you need. "html5 boilerplate" should give you some good resources. For your dev environment, if you are a Windows user, you can use WAMP. If you're  a MacOS user, I believe there are some guides out there for setting up Apache/MySQL/PHP. Linux users can just install the appropriate packages (check your package manager -- search for Apache, MySQL server, and PHP 5). You don't need server space for learning -- just if you want to publish your stuff. 