How can I get a job at Facebook or Google in 6 months?How should I be going? I need a concise work-plan to build a good enough skill set. Should I join some other start-up? Should I build my own projects or start-up? Should I just focus on practicing up on Data Structures and Algorithms ?
You can build up your skill set for a hundred years and it won't matter for getting hired at Facebook or Google if they don't interview you. And it's tough to get an interview. A quick disclaimer - is this really a goal to shoot for? Be passionate about a technology and a mission. Learn about that technology, and explore the mission beyond hearsay. Your choice of company should merely a place to pursue your passion. Having said that, there's two high-success ways to get an interview. Know someone at the company (e.g. a colleague or friend) and have them recommend you and pass on your CV.  If you can't do this, Attend a university the company you like recruits from, and go through campus recruiting there, which typically guarantees you an on-campus interview. If you haven't attended university, get a bachelor's in computer science from such a school. If you HAVE attended university but your school didn't have campus recruiting from the companies you care about, get a masters degree from such a school. For the bachelors, get an internship as early as possible, and interview heavily in your final year. For the masters, go through campus recruiting as early as possible. How do you PASS the interview? Know lots about computer science and programming. There's a great book, Introduction to Algorithms. Understand as much as you can of the chapters on Mathematical Foundations, Sorting, Data Structures, and Graph Algorithms. Become a great programmer in at least one language, such as Java or C++. Python is a good second language. Make your own programs for fun. Google interview programming problems for your company of choice and write solutions for them. Do a bunch of the exercises from the Algorithms book. Make implementations of the core algorithms and data structures, both with and without the supplementary helper classes available in the language. Test everything thoroughly. Learn about the company. Understand what their business is based upon, and know which part of the company you want to work in. Have a good reason to work at the company. "because it's the best company in the world" and "because I want to be rich" are both lousy answers from the interviewer's perspective.  But above all, pursue your passions (within reason) and not merely a company. 