★Could a data compression (even image compression) startup exist?
Anything useful can lead to a successful startup. Many things have to come together though. For example, besides the technology, you need product-market fit and you need to understand your use cases well. More importantly, the customers need to understand the use cases for this technology and need to know clearly why they need this specific technology and why it offers something new that the alternative couldn't have ever accomplished. Keep in mind also that higher compression rates come with overhead - like more computation time for example for both coding and decoding. Also keep in mind that compression rate is strongly mathematically limited by how much information the data or the image actually contain, and many compression algorithms already approach these limits quite closely. So you can't do much better as you won't be able to prove these limits wrong - they're more or less hard mathematical facts. However, you may be able to show that models of the data currently highly overestimate how much information the data actually contains. In other words, you may (or may not) be able to provide better estimates on how much information data contains, and therefore show lower estimates of the compression limits and then try to approach those limits. That is a tall order but you're more likely to be able to achieve this for a narrow set of possible data - ie a very specific type of image, rather than trying to reevaluate how much info images overall contain. I think this is definitely possible. I do think current models of data are somewhat naive and can be improved. I think clever tricks may drive down compression rates - but it definitely requires new models of the data and new information estimates. I do think computational overhead is almost unavoidable though, but it likely won't be so bad to make the improvements prohibitive. I would guess there will be reasonable computational overhead. Edit: My answer still stands given your edit. The technical points of my answer still hold. Compression is compression regardless of what type of data you're compressing. Whether it's sellable or not still depends entirely on whether there's a specific compelling use case for your user. It could be sellable. Propose a specific use (even an imagined use), and people who would use it that way will tell you whether or not they want it. Whether compressing big data in general is sellable or not is too general a question to find a useful answer. Another thing I would add is that it's a bigger problem to manage how to process and analyze big data than it is to store it or transmit it. That's the bottle neck currently. There's more data that can be stored and transmitted than can be analyzed. So that's where people are actively looking for solutions. That may involve extracting the relevant features of a data set (which is a type of compression) and then analyzing it.