★Data Compression: How deflate algorithm works?How does Gzip Algorithm exactly works. Can you give some example?
I support Al Klein's answer. This is something that can be and should be googled. You ask how it works exactly, you ask about Gzip and deflate. Gzip is based on deflate but is not a plain implementation of the deflate algorithm. It has many details. I can give you a very small explanation of deflate here just because it might help others get started. Deflate is a combination of LZ77 and Huffman codes. LZ77 is an algorithm designed to compress repeated sequences of characters, for example you can replace "internet" with a pair pointing to the offset where that sequence appeared before and the length of it. In LZ77 you use a bit to distinguish literal characters from repetitions (pairs). There are a zillion (really) variants of LZ77 but they all revolve around the same idea. Huffman codes are a way to construct a code for a character based on its frequency. Originally any "byte" from your input file uses 8 bits, via Huffman you create a code where the most frequent bytes will be represented in less than 8 bits and the not so frequent bytes can take more than 8 bits. For example you might find that "e" is encoded as "01" in binary taking only 2 bits while "}" is encoded as 001010100010 taking 12 bits. Just examples. Now imagine you represent the lengths of your LZ77 pairs as extra characters, you will have 256+n characters then. You build a Huffman tree from that and you have a way to encode characters and lengths with the same codes. So "01" might be "e", 001010100010 might be "}" and 00010010011101 might be "length 4". Now when you compress your file at each point you might output either a character or a repetition. If a character you just output its Huffman code from your Huffman table. If a repetition you output the length from your Huffman codes table and then you follow with the offset. The decompressor reads that file and when it founds a character it just outputs that and if it finds a length then it reads and offset and outputs whatever is at the indicated offset with the previously decoded length. As you can see a very simplified explanation of DEFLATE can take many words so the exact description of the algorithm would take several pages. I hope with this simple start you can be better prepared to understand the algorithms when you google for them. Good luck!