★What are some Machine Learning algorithms that you should always have a strong understanding of, and why?I want this to be a general question that could cover different disciplines. If you have any algorithm from an application point of view, then please do mention that as well!
Please: Do not overestimate the value of knowing all the methods. I know most of them and some other, even better ones, too. Please: Do not underestimate the value of  knowing how to validate the results. millions of millions of euros (and of course dollars, too) were wasted, because a sophisticated algorithm was applied without validating the results. What we need to know is the following: 1. if you apply a linear regression model to nonlinear data, then there will be a deviation between the data and the linear regression line. If you apply a polynomial regression model with the degree high enough then you can fit any data. We call this the "calibration" of the model. If the sum of squares of the differences between data and model is zero, then we call the calibration "perfect". 2. Then you get additional data. Data that were not at all used in the calibration. Then we test the differences between the data and the calibrated model. we call this the "validation" of the model. If the sum of squares of differences between data and model is small, then we call the model "validated". What do you think which model gives better validation results, the linear regression or the polynomial regression with perfect calibration? The answer is: In 99.99% of the cases the linear regression produces better validation results (i.e. a smaller sum of squares)! although it has the much worse calibration! If you understand this, then you also understand: - many machine learning algorithms nowadays are so good that they can classify even random data, i.e they produce a perfect calibration even if you feed them with random data!! - very few machine learning algorithms are so good that they can be validated with real data, i.e. they produce a small sum of squares between data and model. - even worse: the quality of a machine learning algorithm depends on the data to which it is applied (eg economic applications need different algorithms than medical applications). If you need an extra example of an algorithm which fits random data with perfect calibration, then eg go to Systaim - Interrelation Miner This is one of the most simple approaches (such as linear regression) and provides in many cases the best results (much better than many others, but not worse than the best other algorithms). The Interrelation Miner was validated in many cases but be careful: The authors sometimes even conclude from your data that your data are random and that it is useless to apply any machine learning algorithm. Up to now they always were right if they concluded that.    Embed Quote