★What is k-means clustering (in the context of finding of market segmentation of users) in layman terms?In layman's terms, what does k-means clustering doing when its finding clusters in your database of users. Diagrams & Drawings are Delicious.
You can think of k-means clustering as a leader election process. There are several voting rounds. You start with k randomly selected representatives, and then people vote for the representative that are the closest to them. Now, at the end of this round, each representative (which you picked initially) has been voted by a group of people. These people are the clusters for that leader (who is one of the k-representatives in this round). For the second round, a new representative is picked for each group (cluster), based on the common trait (mean) of that group. Then again, all the people vote for their closest (new) representative. At the end of this voting, clusters are changed because come people may have changed their votes. This process is repeated till no one changes their vote. Why would no one change their votes? Well, it may be the case that the leader doesn't change, so no one would need to change their vote! But, why would the leader not change? This is because the new leader is picked based on the commonality, and after a few rounds the individual in some cluster who is the most common to all the others in that clusters would be the leader himself, so he will be re-elected again. K-Means Algorithm (Optional): Randomly initialize the K cluster centers Assign each point to it's closest cluster center Compute cluster mean to identify new cluster centers. Repeat until convergence. Now, in the context of the question, when k-means is clustering (partitioning) your user database, it's basically identifying k non-overlapping group of users which share a common trait. This common trait is defined by the distance measure you used to find the closest cluster. For example, you may define your distance measure to be based on what kind-of items do the users buy. In this hypothetical example, you may end up with clusters of users with buy similar categories of items. You can use these clusters to synthesize user profiles, and then make targeted offers/advertisement for individuals who fit that profile.    Embed Quote