How does warp drive work on Star Trek?
Skip to the bottom if you want an accurate-ish explanation. Look.  A lot of what goes on in Star Trek is necessarily avoided or couched in "invented" technobabble that doesn't really have any real meaning in our world.  Tetryon Particles, Thalaron Radiation, Chroniton Particles, Metagenic Weapon, Transporter Buffers, Phase Inducers, Subspace Transducers, Warp Coils, Quantum Fluctuations, Hypo-Spanners, Neurolytic Pathogens, Busard Collectors, Morphogenic Matricies. . . it's all rubbish.  The reason why either the sciencey stuff is never explained or is explained using terms that are utterly useless, is that there is no possible explanation.  So, where one is required within the technospeak of the script, carefully placed science-sounding words are either crafted or (having been previously created) pulled from the lexicon of Star Trek to offer an explanation.  Why?  Because everything in Star Trek is essentially magic.  While Science Fiction requires us to explain the effects of science and technology on and within the story, it should not occupy so much of the story as to take us out of the moment and focus on it.  Star Trek walks a VERY delicate balance in doing this -- they are aware of the "nerd" factor and how many fans want them to give us the "technobabble".  They are also aware of how unapproachable this can be and how -- with one wrong move -- a nerd (like me) can forever be stuck on that one moment in time and how -- thereafter -- they are pot committed and have to somehow make it work.  Take for example Captain Picard's committment to the Federation being spread across 8,000 light years.  That's simply not possible. We know from the internal "guides" published for writers and producers that the maximum safe, sustainable ship velocity is Warp Factor 7.  It's roughly about 750c (750 x the speed of light).  Thereafter, the warp factors increase exponentially times the speed of light (see chart below).  Now, NOTHING about warp speed is set in stone; never in Star Trek are we ever told how fast warp factors are:  because it just is unimportant and would violate the rule that "warp speed is as fast as the plot requires". Nevertheless, there must be a guide.  Warp 7 cannot be 10,000c, because then Voyager's supposed pan-galactic journey home from the Delta Quadrant would not be a 75 year journey (75,000ly), but just a really long trip of about a decade, accounting for gas, tune-ups and tolls.  So, if the guide is even remotely right (that the maximum long-term sustainable speed of a starship is <1,000c), then a trip across the UFP -- per Picard -- is about a decade.  Sorry.  I cannot suspend disbelief to conclude that a coherent nation-state takes ten years to cross. Because -- remember -- ships need to go for regular maintenance at a starbase, refuel, get refitted every few years.  So even a decade is being EXCEEDINGLY generous. And if a message across the galaxy from the Delta Quadrant would take a decade, then that means a message -- unassisted -- across the UFP now takes a full year.  How can ANY polity remain coherent in the face of those distances?  What would be the point?  Would be better to have separate regional Federations who can react to local needs.  Does Starfleet -- based out of the Sol System -- have time to respond to pressures on some star system 7,000 light years away?  No.  That's dumb.  And right here -- this giant quibble of mine (which I've repeatedly harped on) is why Star Trek is loathe to commit to specifics.  I -- and those like me -- forever hang it over the scriptwriters' and producers' heads.  So, to your question, no scientifically credible explanation is EVER given and cannot ever be given because it will instantly be shredded and thus take away from the point of the story.  Now to your answer. . . . The UFP's member worlds all individually developed warp technology.  As per the standards of the Federation, no first contact can happen until a civilization makes it to the warp era.  The technology involves combining artificial gravity and subspace technology.  Subspace technology involves finding a way to get standard EM particles outside of what we call "normal space" and into a realm where they can move at something like a billion times their current speeds unaided by some kind of enhancers.  So a radio signal in subspace can get from Earth to Alpha Centauri in under 10 minutes (more like 1 or 2 minutes).  With buffer enhancers it can become instantaneous within reason (like, I'm guessing 100ly). When combining this technology with an AG field, the ship can effectively warp normal space around it.  This is based on the assumption that there is a graviton particle and that such a particle can be generated, sent into subspace to warp subspace around the ship.  This creates a small pocket of "real space" around the ship, buffered by a subspace bubble.  So, time goes on like normal inside that subspace bubble, while everything inside that bubble gains relief from that jerk Einstein who won't let us move any faster than 300,000km per second. The ship's effective mass is lowered to a few micro-grams, the ship is squished inside a subspace bubble, with a small pocket of normal space around it.  At the same time, a portion of space in front of the ship is shrunk (pulling the ship forward) while the portion of the space behind the ship is expanded (pushing it forward).  To generate sufficient energy, deuterium stored in tanks is combined with anti-protons within the warp core.  The warp core is surrounded with some MOTHA FUCKING powerful magnets that force the explosive energies to be "contained" until they're shot out of the warp nacelles while the warp engines in the nacelles harness that "pure energy" to generate these powerful force fields.  Old but interesting and probably inaccurate guide (but useful as a datapoint): 