How can any celestial object leave an imprint on the fabric of space if there is no up or down? Wouldn't gravity be affecting it on all sides therefore not causing it to leave an impression because there is no down?
Your intuition is wonderfully correct. First: There is no such thing as a spacetime "fabric." Just forget that term, no physicist ever says it. I suspect the term "fabric" originates from the idiotic bowling ball on a rubber sheet demonstration - like this one: This is sheer stupidity - forget it faster than the word "fabric." I suspect the bowling ball and rubber sheet analogy originates with the very legit notion of an embedding diagram - like this one: The key here is how to interpret the embedding diagram in the context of general relativity. So here's a quick guide: Notice the regular squares at the outside edge and that they are stretched out and distorted in the middle of the image. This will become important in a moment. Imagine a square glass plate with a grid on it and laying on top of the image, like see-through graph paper, where the grid squares match the squares on the outside edge. The glass plate represents a slice of space, let's say through the equator of the Earth. The grid boxes on it represent distances in a flat spacetime of special relativity. The colorful diagram is the embedding diagram which shows how the mass of the Earth stretches and distorts spacetime distances in the plane that slices the Earth in half at the equator. As an example, let's say our grid lines measure just time, and that the boxes are 3 times longer in the middle than out at the edge. Now let's go for a long walk through, in a straight line through the center of the Earth... As we begin moving along the glass plate we notice that it takes 1 second to cross a box - this never changes as the glass plate boxes are all the same. What do we notice in the middle and look down? We notice that the square we are standing on is mapped onto a square below that is three times longer - this is meant to tell us that our 1-second of time where we are standing is seen to be 3-seconds long by someone out at the edge! [the actual time difference for Earth is about less than a billionth of a second, so boxes are almost equal in size and the glass plate nearly matches the embedding diagram]The embedding diagram is a graphical way to compare spacetime lengths between special and general relativistic geometry. Because the mass energy of objects distorts the lengths in spacetime, there is no way to represent the distorted image on a flat surface. The slice could be taken anywhere, along any plane, and the bowl could be bottom up - it does not matter, only the difference in spacetime intervals is of consequence. Good work noticing that something is clearly wrong with ball and sheet analogy. 