What are the top five facts everyone should know about oil exploration?
The answers already provided are highly educative and informative! Here's my 2 cents highlighting some points not covered yet: 1. @Private companies: ExxonMobil and Shell - World's largest private Oil companies are not even among the top 10 in the world when it comes to proven Oil reserves. All national companies (Iran, Saudi, Venezuela, Russia, Iraq, Qatar etc.) have 95+% oil reserves. E.g. NIOC has reserves in excess of 300 Bboe and ExxonMobil - which comes at 11th has about 25 Bboe. The private companies are also investing heavily (as elaborated in Ryan's post) but the price at which they are able to extract oil is 30-40 times higher than conventional Oil found in Middle east. 2. @Oil Industry Value Chain - Upstream people talk in terms of Billions, Midstream folks talk Millions and Downstream folks talk in cents! 3. @Retail Stations:  The price you pay at the pump - most of it is Tax. Governments make more money from Oil than any of the Oil and Gas companies. Unless your engine is knocking, you should not buy higher octane fuel. Also, the oil in Shell gas station may not have come from Shell, it could have come from Imperial or some other company.  There is not much point in buying the 'super' 'additive' based gasoline either. 4. @Green: Almost all of World's energy comes from Carbon. The Prius that the green people drive is charged on Electricity generated by dirty coal mines ! People who cry for the birds / fishes who died in a small oil spill come home and eat them in much higher quantities! Also, there is heavy opposition to Oil pipelines (as the rare spills are messy), but very, very little opposition to Gas pipelines! 5. @Waste: There is very little 'waste' generated as compared to Oil production. Almost everything coming out is reused, re-utilized. Everything from gas to gasoline to kerosene to paraffin to sulfur is sold / utilized in some way shape or form. The only exception to this is the flares where sometimes gas is burnt instead of trying to capture, store, transport and sell it as it doesn't make economic sense. Also, the industry has high standards for safety. E.g. The water that is pumped back in the river is actually more pure than the pumped out of river. 