What are some brain storming/puzzle questions asked in a data scientist/analyst interview?
During an interview for a "Data Scientist" position at a social advertising startup company I was asked the following questions: A race track has 5 lanes. There are 25 horses and one would like to find out the 3 fastest horses of those 25. What is the minimum number of races one would need to conduct to determine the 3 fastest horses? (The answer is 7 -- split the 25 into 5 groups of 5 and find the winners of each group. Then race those winners; the winner of winners must be the fastest, and racing the second and third place of the winner's group with the first and second place of the second place group with the 3rd place horse  all together determines the overall second and third place.) I later found out this problem is a common interview question amongst quant positions (where presumably the interviewer had derived the question), so it does not seem original nor terribly related to "Data Science". Describe a past project you worked on and write pseudocode for your implementation. (I described a summer internship as an undergrad.) The third question was related to a business problem that the company was facing and it is probably best I do not disclose details in case I infringe on some legality. After joining the company I had to interview candidates every once in a while. The questions I asked were some subset of the following: Describe a past research problem and how you solved it. How would you write a program that takes as input the diameter and weight of a coin and outputs its money value? (This was motivated by a course called CS 156 at Caltech.) I like this question because it involves a discussion of how one would sample a data set, build a model for the purposes of prediction, and fit the model and  in this sense this is a very "real" question. An ant is placed on an (infinitely long) twig and can move one step forward or one step backwards with equal probability during discrete time steps. What is the probability that the ant eventually returns to its starting point? (This was meant to test whether the candidate had familiarity with Markov chains and the associated theory.) Let matrix A be related to A' by transposing a pair of columns. What is det(A)+det(A')? (This was meant to test familiarity with linear algebra and matrices.) Consider an extension of rock, paper, scissors where there are n options instead of 3 options. For what values of n is it possible to construct a fair game, where by fair we mean that for any move that a player plays there are an equal number of moves that beat it or lose to it? I also asked them to prove their answer was correct as opposed to just give an answer. (This is my least favorite question because it's just a brain teaser but probably does not involve "Data Science".) Updated 61w ago • View Upvotes