How do mathematicians discover new 'things'?
Many generic answers have been given already. But I would like to give some personal anecdote as I haven't seen any of those yet. Also, I like talking about my work. Hopefully this would give you a rough idea of how the discovery and verification process goes sometimes. The new thing I discovered is a near octagon related to a well known finite simple group, [math]G_2(4)[/math]. In simpler terms, it's a particular kind of graph which has a lot of symmetries and many interesting properties. How was  it discovered? For almost an year I was working on understanding and using certain techniques that my supervisor had developed to solve certain types of problems related to near polygons. It seemed quite interesting to me and after some work I was actually able to prove a nice result [1], a result that my supervisor conjectured to be true. But that's a different story. As an offshoot to that work I started doing some computations with something called the Hall-Janko near octagon (HJ). I wanted to compute all integer valued functions on its points satisfying certain conditions which may help me talk about other near polygons that contain HJ as a subgeometry. There was no known geometry that contains HJ (in a certain sense) so it seemed like what I was doing would just help me say something like "There exists no near polygon that contains HJ (*conditions applied)". But, I was in for a surprise. When I actually computed these functions both my supervisor and I saw that there might actually be a near polygon containing HJ. And to our surprise, there was one! I constructed it using these functions I had computed and checked that it is a near octagon, in my computer. The construction didn't look symmetrical at all as it had three different kinds of points but as I learned, looks can be deceiving. My idea was to construct the collinearity graph of this octagon and see how regular it is. Some obvious questions being, is it vertex transitive? distance regular? highly symmetrical? (these are the things I knew from my prior knowledge in the field of graph theory). Sage came to the rescue in answering these questions. It turned out that the graph had 503,193,600 symmetries and it satisfies many nice properties. After some google search I found out that there is in fact a well know group of that size, [math]G_2(4):2[/math]. That looked quite suspicious. How do you verify it? So far all we had was just a computer model of this new near octagon along with some computations which showed that it has an automorphism group which is probably the same as [math]G_2(4):2[/math]. In the mean time, I also learned about something called the Suzuki Tower. That looked highly interesting and I made several conjectures regarding how all those graphs in the Suzuki Tower could be constructed using the new octagon we had discovered. But all these are not really mathematical theorems. Just conjectures, which may or may not be true. So what we planned to do next was to somehow prove all these things that we thought should be true, preferably without using a computer. Getting motivated by some things that other people had done with such interactions of groups, geometries and graphs we came up with some ideas that might work. We would start with the group [math]G_2(4):2[/math], construct the the geometry using some of its involutions, prove that it is a near octagon and then prove all the conjectures we had formulated. Our efforts paid off and the plan worked. I wrote a draft with all the proofs and gave it to my supervisor. He checked everything, found some errors, suggested some edits and gave it back to me. I corrected everything, added some more things, changed the arrangement of certain theorems so that it flows better, and gave it back to him. This process went on for quite some time and when we both were happy with the final structure of how we would present our results, we have submitted the paper [2] to a mathematics journal. Is it falsifiable? Certainly it is possible that there are some big errors in our work which we somehow missed. Though we feel that it is highly unlikely. We have computer computations showing that everything we claim is true and all the proofs we have look mathematically correct to us. Also, another mathematician has verified some of our results. There can still be some gaps or mistakes in the proofs which the referees (other mathematicians that the journal editors would pick to check our work) would then probably point out, but if there are some I think those would be easily fixable. It could still be that the published paper, after going through the peer review, contains some errors which all of us missed. I have personally found some small mistakes in other published research papers. After all, mathematics is a human endeavour.  [1] Page on cage.ugent.be [2] [1501.04119] A new near octagon and the Suzuki tower Updated 53w ago • View Upvotes