What are the top running technique suggestions?
A lot of people are advocating minimalist shoes as a "magic bullet" for improving your running technique. As a former NCAA runner and current club-level road racer, I have seen no evidence that barefoot running is anything more than a fad. Sure, I've had teammates succeed in transitioning to wearing minimalist shoes, but on the flip side, after two months of wearing racing flats for my easy runs, I managed to get Achilles tendonitis and sideline myself for a year. The advocates of minimalism usually start from outside hypotheses and extrapolate them to the sport of running, relying on simplified biomechanical models, sketchy evolutionary reasoning, and alarming and misleading diagrams like the one Thomas Valadez has posted. I think it's better to start from running itself, and use empiricism rather than modeling. It's an easy question to ask: what works for runners in the real world? What do my most successful teammates and competitors do in their everyday routines? Ultimately, you have to confront your hypothesis with real data, and I just haven't seen minimalism produce anything besides freakish foot muscles and an increase in visits to the podiatrist. The common themes of success, in my experience, are the basics: form drills, strengthening exercises, and discipline when injured. I run on the same track as Olympian Bolota Asmerom, and before most workouts, he spends 5-10 minutes doing a mix of form drills and short sprints. The most successful and injury-free runners on my college team were the ones that regularly hit the weight room after practice to work on stabilizer muscles and core strength, and stopped running immediately when injuries cropped up. A moderate amount of barefoot running does come into play here: all three of my coaches over the last ten years have recommended a few minutes of barefoot running on grass at the end of a workout. As a strengthening exercise for your feet and ankles, this is all it takes; no need to crank out ten miles in a pair of sandals and risk a stress fracture from the increased and prolonged forces on your bones. So, instead of switching shoes, I suggest that you start incorporating form drills and strengthening exercises into your exercise routine. It's not as flashy as a new pair of Vibrams, but in my experience, it's a safer and more proven method. See, for example, this video: 