How hard is calculus without pre calc knowledge?
You probably don't need to take an actual precalculus course.  Here's what I tell my students in our regular calculus course that they need as background: You need to know a fair amount of mathematics before embarking on a study of calculus. Listed below are topics in mathematics that are used in calculus. Some are essential for the development of the subject. They're marked with the symbol ◊. Others are used incidently in applications of calculus or introduced in the course. We assume that you know most of these topics and we won't review them at all, but we'll remind you a bit about a few of them as we use them. Most of the topics are used in the first semester of calculus, but a few aren't used until later. Topics from arithmetic. We assume you know these: Kinds of numbers. Fractions and decimals. We'll refer to integers (whole numbers, either positive, negative, or zero), rational and irrational numbers. The number line ◊ Conventions for arithmetic notation including order of operations (precedence), proper use of parentheses ◊ Expression manipulation. Distibutive laws, law of signs ◊ Exponents and laws for exponents ◊ Roots, laws for roots, rational exponents, rationalizing denominators ◊ Absolute value, order (less than, etc.), and their properties Factorials (e.g., 5! is the product of the integers from 1 through 5) Topics from geometry ◊ Pythagorean theorem ◊ Similar triangles ◊ Areas of triangles, circles, and other simple plane figures ◊ Perimeters of simple plane figures, circumference of circles Volumes of spheres, cones, cylinders, pyramids Surface areas of spheres and other simple solid figures Topics from algebra. We use algebra constantly. You've got to know algebra well. Topics: ◊ Translating word problems into algebra ◊ Expression manipulation. Addition, subtraction, and multiplication of polynomials Rational functions and their domains, least common denominators ◊ Techniques for simplifying algebraic expressions ◊ Factoring quadratic polynomials and other simple polynomials ◊ Techniques for solving linear equations in one unknown ◊ Solving quadratic equations in one unknown, completing the square, quadratic formula ◊ Solving linear equations in two or more unknowns ◊ Techniques for solving inequalities and both equations and inequalities involving absolute value ◊ The concept of function, functional notation and substitution, domain and range of a function ◊ Composition of functions ◊ Uniform motion in a straight line. When objects move with constant velocity, the relation among distance, time, and velocity Notation and concepts from set theory. We only use a bit of the notation from set theory and only the most basic concepts Sets, membership in sets, subsets, unions, intersections, empty set Open and closed intervals and their notations Topics from analytic geometry. Mainly the basics, straight lines, circles, a little on quadratic functions ◊ Coordinates of points in the plane ◊ Linear equations. Slope-intercept form especially, but also other forms ◊ Distance between two points ◊ Equations of circles, especially the unit circle ◊ Slopes of straight lines, parallel lines ◊ Graphs of functions. Vertical line test Symmetries of functions, even and odd functions. Transformation of functions Graph of a quadratic function is a parabola Graph of y = 1/x is a rectangular hyperbola Topics from trigonometry. For a review of trigonometry, see "Dave's Short Course in Trig" at Dave's Short Trig Course ◊ Angle measurement, both degrees and radians, but radians are more important in calculus. Negative angles. Length of an arc of a circle ◊ Understanding of trig functions of angles, especially sine, cosine, tangent, and secant. Trig functions and the unit circle ◊ Right triangles, trig functions sine, cosine, and tangent of acute angles. Values of these trig functions for standard angles of 0, π/6, π/4, π/3, π/2 ◊ Solving right triangles Obtuse triangles. Law of sines, law of cosines. Solving obtuse triangles ◊ Basic trig identities. Pythagorean identities, trig functions in terms of sines and cosines Other trig identities. Double angle formulas for sine and cosine, addition formulas for sine and cosine Exponential functions and logarithms. Although these are topics in algebra, they deserve to be separated for emphasis ◊ Exponential functions. Growth of exponential function ◊ Laws for exponents. Manipulation of algebraic expressions involing exponents, solving equations involving exponents ◊ Logarithms and their relation to exponential functions ◊ Laws for logs. Manipulation of algebraic expressions involing logs, solving equations involving logs ◊ An understanding of mathematical proof. We'll develop more in calculus. You should be able to follow proofs like the ones you've already seen in geometry, algebra, and your other mathematics courses 