Why is a degree from the IGNOU discriminated?
Your degree was not rejected because it was from IGNOU. It was rejected because it was from 'Correspondence' or 'Distance Learning' Mode. As far as Correspondence or Distance Learning universities in India as concerned then IGNOU is one on the top of the charts because of its good standards of evaluation as compared to other universities. However when you do a course from any open distance university then along with the course you are also expected to do additional certifications or small time courses. At the same time it is also necessary to do a personality development course as due to correspondence mode companies assume by default that you are not trained in social skills. So the nutshell of above discussion that will be relevant to you is Try joining some personality development or grooming skill to get skills to convince the interviewer. This skill will help you to debate if interviewer asked that why should he/she choose you over a person with regular degree. You can debate that by doing course from distance learning you had additional time to explore more options as compared to regular college student. You need to work more such cases that will be relevant to your case. Search for some additional certifications etc for the job profile that you are targeting as now days there are many companies in market that give preference to skill more as compared to degrees. You can join new initiative by Honb'le PM known as Skill India. See this news PM Modi Launches Skill India Initiative That Aims to Train 40 Crore People Click on this website to enrolled for the same - National Skill Development Corporation (NSDC). As this initiative is still in its initial stages therefore you need to additional efforts and pursuit to the core committee to get your case implemented. So let your Skill and Personality supplement for your distance learning degree to get your recruited. Best of Luck Vaibhav Agarwal MCA (IGNOU) ! Software Engineer, MHRD 