What are some startups with really unique business models?
Super interesting question! I hope some people will point me to new & interesting startups with unique business models. That said, I think in general you can categorize most business models. For example, in their famous Business Model Generation book, Osterwalder & Pigneur outline a few patterns including the very common two-sided marketpace model. More granular in developing business model patterns is this working paper from St. Gallen University: The Business Model Navigator. Here the authors define 55 business model patterns with plenty of examples (starting from page 8). So pointing to startups with unique business models can be a hard task, and the examples I am giving below can often be ascribed to a certain pattern. However, at my previous work, we were always on the lookout for innovative business models among startups that we could use for workshops. Update: I'm developing a book about innovative business models. If you want to get early (free) access you can sign up to my weekly newsletter: Naive Weekly. Startups with unique business models The examples below originate from my previous workplace Board of Innovation. You are able to download most of the examples & with extended information for free here: Tutorial: Business Model Brainstorm Tool & Template. Friendsurance - The future of insurance I find the Friendsurance business model innovative because it brings communities & social trust into the insurance industry. By sharing an insurance pool with friends, people are less likely to cheat with insurance money, thus they can pay less insurance premium. Friendsurance facilitates this by acting as a broker between insurance companies & their users. Winner Takes it All - Winner Takes All  Winner Takes All is tackling a huge industry, the online betting industry, with an "old approach": people. By cutting out the middleman & administration cost its possible for Winner Takes All to give higher pay back rate than any other betting service. However, some mass will be needed before the service kicks off. 23andMe - 23andMe Currently 23andMe might have some problems due to the FDA ruling back in November last year (2013) which forced the company to stop providing reports on inherited traits. However, in these days where enabling the customers & data is everything, I think 23andMe is still one of the most interesting business models out there. I might add some more examples in the days to come. Business model trends of 2014 Just some trends I have noticed lately. Uber-fication There is an Uber for everything: Bannerman (Uber for private security) LawTrades (Uber for lawyers) Canary (Uber for cannabis) Massage (Uber for massage) Minibar (Uber for alcohol) Washio (Uber for laundry) Worthee (Uber for dog walking) Update: The Product Hunt guys have curated an extensive collection of Uber like services Product Hunt. Airbnb-fication There is an Airbnb for everything: Boatbound (Airbnb for boats) Holidog (Airbnb for dogs) Outdoor (Airbnb for outdoor gear) Hipcamp (Airbnb for campsites) Airpnp (Airbnb for toilets) 3D Hubs (Airbnb for 3d printers) SupperShare (Airbnb for kitchens) SPOT (Airbnb for parking spots) Update: The Product Hunt guys have curated an extensive collection of Airbnb like services Product Hunt. Birchbox-fication There is a Birchbox for everything: Loot Crate (Birchbox for gamers) Ship and dip (Birchbox for condiments) The Happy Crate (Birchbox for cannabis) UpOut (Birchbox for events) NatureBox (Birchbox for healthy snacks) Stick in a Box (Birchbox for beef jerky) Citrus Lane (Birchbox for kids) Mypullist (Birchbox for comics) Kaffee Bitte (Birchbox for coffee) BarkBox (Birchbox for dogs) Stitch Fix (Birchbox for women clothes) Update: The Product Hunt guys have curated an extensive collection of Birchbox like services Product Hunt.   Tinder-fication There will soon be Tinder-like offerings for everything Stylect (Tinder for shoes) BarkBuddy (Tinder for dogs) Daily by Buffer (Tinder for news) CoffeeMe (Tinder for professional networking) Jobr (Tinder for job hunting) Seamso (Tinder for dresses) Update: The Product Hunt guys have curated an extensive collection of Tinder like services Product Hunt.   Make it private / anonymous This is more like a feature, but somehow the Snowden controversy seems to have caused a stir in the business world: Secret, Whisper, Snapchat, Cyber Dust... Update: The Product Hunt guys have curated an extensive collection of private services Product Hunt. Update: I'm developing a book about innovative business models. If you want to get early (free) access you can sign up to my weekly newsletter: Naive Weekly. Read more For web and mobile revenue models this crowdsourced list is a good starting point. Updated 26w ago • View Upvotes