How can any celestial object leave an imprint on the fabric of space if there is no up or down? Wouldn't gravity be affecting it on all sides therefore not causing it to leave an impression because there is no down?
*The bowl could be bottom up.* as Mr. McLaughlin says. Everybody read that three times, as it's KEY. Or the whole model could be out in space at zero-g and no gravity, and  it would be just as good. They only make it dip toward the ground  because then gravity gives an extra effect that causes rolling balls to be pulled downward and follow a geodesic. So what is really a graph looks like it is somehow real, since it makes rolling balls do the same thing as if they fly through space near a mass. This dang demo has convinced generations of students that gravity causes  a "dip" in 4-space, instead of a bulge. Neither is true, but a bulge is  just as correct. Both are merely 3-D graphs of 2-D space contracting  close to a mass (from the viewpoint of the far away observer). Either way of showing space distortion is correct, as  you are seeing a 2-D slice of space with its "extra/stretched"  components projected into 3-D. But in real life, there is no 4th SPACIAL  dimension to stick this extra space into (time isn't this 4th dimension you're seeing modeled), so everything you see distorted has to go "flat" again in 3-D and you're stuck with a 3-D compression of that bulge  into smashed 3-D, with space going in the direction of the mass  simply foreshortened as seen from far away (or lengthened for the falling  observer). Meter sticks held still in a gravity field are not a meter long, but shorter. The stretched membrane model pretends they are still a meter long, but rotated into a 4th dimension which contains the extra length. A 3-D model is harder to visualize (but see Mr. Xavier's great second illustration below). You just have to compress all  those bulges flat, and rotate them. Then you get a plain sphere, but the  inside of the sphere somehow has more space inside it than it should,  as seen by the far away observer. A hole straight through the Earth is  1.8 cm longer than a the diameter of a perfect circle going around the  equator and large enough to extend out to where gravity is "small". On  the 2-D diagram that would be a cute little bulge a few mm "high" (or  low) all the way across a >100,000 km pizza circular slice through  the equator (or poles or anywhere through the center). And the extra  space on the path would add to 1.8 cm (it isn't this much from the  equator, as there's still gravity there, so some compression has already  happened). But in real life there's no 4th dimension to stick that  compressed space, so you just have to imagine it compressed on a radial  line, like the foreshortened rockets in special relativity. For black  holes the extra space compresses and grows until it is infinite in the  view of the observer far away. He sees objects falling in get smaller  and smaller and smaller as though they were traveling to a distant  galaxy. You might wonder where I came up with 1.8 cm. A neat thing about general  relativity is the total extra radius of a circle around a gravitational  space distortion remains the same, no matter its size, and the radius  excess due to the mass as compared with flat space, is also only a  function of the mass enclosed by the circle. The (far away measured)  radius of a black hole the mass of the Earth is 0.9 cm, so that's the  pure excess due to the mass. Double that to 1.8 to get an excess  diameter, and that's true for anything the mass of the Earth, small or  large. You can't fly though a black hole, but anything larger you can go  through (in theory), and that's the extra space you must cross.If you  think of that 1.8 cm as a bulge into a 4th dimension (a dimension that  doesn't really exist), you're not helped much. 