How should I invest Rs 1 crore in New Delhi to earn at least Rs.40-50K per month passively?
Dear Suhail, Many ways to do this, based on your overall financial picture... Here's one example: Simple Strategy to achieve the Income 40k p.m. AND also grow your corpus substantially: 1.Park Rs.13 lakhs in a Liquid Funds with monthly SWP(automatic withdrawal of Rs.40000). This will take care of your desired income of 40K per month for the next 3 years. 2.Invest Rs. 47Lakhs in Debt Funds - it should grow to about Rs.60lakhs in in this 3 year period(assuming 8%return p.a.). You can then withdraw your 13L profit and repeat Step no. 1. This system will easily take care of your income needs for 15-20 years. 3.Invest the remaining 40L in equity funds which (assuming just 13% return) will grow to about 1cr in 8 years, 2cr in 13 years, 5cr in 20 years, 15cr in 30 years and so on. The best part: This corpus will be tax free!  This is just an example, based on the limited information posted in your question. If this is idle speculation or an academic exercise, the answer ends here. However, if this is a real life situation and 1cr is an important amount for you, then my real advice to you is this: Hire a good financial planner/advisor. A good financial planner will: Have the right Personal Finance qualification - CFP / CWM Will have relevant experience of at least 5 -10 years Invest time and effort to ask you questions, discuss in detail and understand your overall financial situation and requirements Suggest an overall strategy to manage your finances and grow your wealth while also minimising taxes - legally. Will work for a Professional Fee but won't insist that you buy any financial products from him or his associates to generate commission/brokerage income. Will have tie-ups with / formal access to other specialists eg. Legal firms, CA firms, etc. to provide advanced services if and when required. Will have handled other clients of a similar size portfolio / net worth. Hope this helps. All the best! For professional advice(fees payable) , you can contact me: Email:Plan@FinCare.co.in Website: FinCare Financial Planning and Wealth Management Linkedin Profile: https://www.linkedin.com/in/anan... Blog: http://moneykadoctor.com/ Twitter handle: @MoneyKaDoctor EDIT: A lot of people are recommending FDs and Real Estate. There are a lot of knowledge gaps/myths surrounding these. So I thought it important to address these 2 here. Important considerations: Bank FD: Returns: Uncertain over the long term - interest rates are subject to change and on the downward trend currently. Income Tax: If you're in the 20% or 30% tax bracket, there will be a large tax outgo on the interest income. For example, 8% return becomes 5.6% after taxes. Even if you have other tax deductions against this, TDS will be cut by the bank and you'll have to ask for a refund from the tax authorities when you file your return.Real Estate: Yield: Residential real estate typically has rental yield of 1.5%-3% per annum. This is less than what you get in bank savings a/c. And this is even before property taxes, water taxes, brokerage, maintenance, vacancy(usually 2-4 months in a year), etc. So why do people buy it? Capital gains: Largely to gain from the increase in property prices. The popular perception is that property prices move in only one direction i.e. Up! In fact, 10%-15% return is a given! However this far from the reality. Real estate market like any other market is prone to cyclical movements. So prices can fall as they did in 90s and also happening right now since last 2 years, in several parts of the country.  Hands-on management: There's a huge involvement required from the owner in terms of time and effort to manage a property compared to a financial instrument. Safety/legal issues: There are safety/possession issues in our country due law and order issues and a judicial system that moves at a snail's pace. If you need money, you can't sell off one room or the balcony. And you can't borrow against one room either. So the entire investment is at stake every time. Not so with financial instruments. This is not to say that one should never invest in a bank FD or real estate. But it's extremely important to make a very well informed and well considered decision rather than going by popular myths! Updated 9w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Suhail Ganesh