What's the difference between baseball and cricket?
Excellent answer by Thomas Foster. Here is a conversation I had with a lady in a train from San Francisco to Cupertino while I was in California for a couple of months. ----- Right near the railway station in SF, there is a big baseball stadium which was hosting a match between the San Fr Giants and some other team. This match got over about 20 minutes before my train was to depart and a sea of people entered the station. Thankfully the authorities had anticipated this and had a special train running for them separately. Most of the viewers of the match took that train. Then I boarded my train and chose a window seat. Little by little all the seats were filled - evidently all the fans had not fit in the special train. In my own bogey the seat next to me seemed the only one vacant. Then a middle aged lady wearing a straw hat and a San Francisco giants tshirt came and asked me whether that seat was empty. I replied it was. Then she sat down (indicating this was not a philosophical dialogue)   A couple of minutes later the train began moving and a desire to discuss the game which she had been witnessing took hold of the lady.   Lady: Boy, what a game, wasn't it. Me: (taken by surprise) Err, I didn't see it. Lady: (Giving me an incredulous stare) You mean to tell me you were in SF today and didn't watch the match?? Me: (wanted to say Exactly) Yes Lady: How come?? Me: (getting further surprised as I had expected the conversation to have ended) I am not a baseball fan. Lady: (almost angrily but more exasperated) WHY?? Me: (can't seem to understand why she wouldn't shut up) Because where I come from nobody plays it. Lady: (now in need of a geography lesson) Really? Where is that? Me: India Lady: (for a moment doesn't know what to say) I didn't know that.   I am not quite sure what it is that she didn't know - a) I was from India or b) Baseball is not played in India Anyhow, I decide its best not to ask. After a few minutes of peace, the desire to increase her knowledge about the exotic sports of the orient seizes her -:   Lady:What sport do you watch in India then? Me (Caught by surprise again): Err, many, but mainly cricket. Lady: Haah, very funny. Thats an insect. Me(I can't help but laugh): Yes, well, thats also a sport. Lady: Howcome I have never heard of it? Me: Because they don't play it here in US. Lady: Must be a really stupid game if we don't play it, cos I have seen some really stupid games being played here. (Now I am quite confused what reply to give to such an insinuation, but then I have gotten really tired of talking to this dumb chatty woman so I just decide to suffer the insult) Me: Hehe, ya maybe.   Some more minutes pass and I have begun to finally relax. I decide to close my eyes and sleep for a bit as my destination is still over an hour away. I have barely closed my eyes when,   Lady: So what kind of a sport is this?? Me:(Oh no here she goes again) I am not sure what you mean. Lady: Is it some form of football or hockey maybe?? Me: No. (and I say nothing more hoping she will get the clue and stop pestering me) Lady: Is it a team sport? Me: Yes. Lady: How many per team? Me: 11 Lady: Football has 11 too. Me: Yes. Lady: But you said its not like football. Me (Is she mad??): Err, yes - chess and tennis both have 2 players. Lady:Tennis can have 4. Me: (Yes she is mad) ya.   Peace for a few more minutes. But this time I am sure it is fleeting. And as expected -: Lady: See I am a big sports enthusiast. My folks, they are so lazy, I had to come up all the way from Gilroy alone to watch this match. Me:(I have given up by now) Oh. That is a very good thing. Lady: Ya. I used to play basketball at school. Me: (fake smile) Very good Lady: So thats why I am askin you about this insect game of yours. Me: Oh, cricket. Lady: ya, cricket. Whats it like? Me (What the hell): Well, its a bit like baseball. Lady: I knew it. Knew that it isn't possible they don't play baseball in India. Me: Err, no its very different. Its only just similar. Lady: Hows that? Me: the bowler throws the ball at the batsman and usually it bounces off the pitch. And bastman, even if he hits the ball, is not obliged to run. And there is no strike out. And the pitch is straight with just two ends. And bowlers ball overarm, unlike in baseball. And length of match is fixed either by time or number of balls to be balled. Lady: No strike outs?? Me: No. Lady: So a batter can swing his bat all he likes? Me: Yeah. Lady: And he needn't run even if he hits? Me: Exactly. Lady: Thats crazy. The game will never end. Me: It doesn't many a times. Thats why duration is limited. Lady; How long? Me: Well, shortest official form is about 4 hours, and longest is 5 days. Lady: (laughing) Told ya it was a stupid game. Me: (decide not to counter) Ya.   Finally the lady falls quiet. Infact the stupidity of cricket convinces her that all who watch the game are also stupid and so she doesn't waste any more of her time on me. Thanks be to cricket. Updated 93w ago • View Upvotes