How do I get my girlfriend to lose weight?
I'm a fat girlfriend (wife now), and I'm in the process of being less fat. First, I should mention that nobody would choose to be overweight or unhealthy, given a simple choice. The lifestyle choices that result in someone remaining overweight are almost always a consequence of something else, which needs to be addressed, and are bound up in shame and pain and beliefs about who you are and what you deserve. So while it's absolutely true that your actions are under your control, and equally true that anyone can do the simple things necessary to lose weight, it is neither simple nor easy to do them; it is a matter of making the decision to stop habits you've built over a lifetime. It takes a very serious commitment, planning, a lot of emotional energy, faith that your fears about yourself might not be entirely true, and the fortitude to say no to one of the most basic and powerful survival instincts you have. It's not for the faint of heart. Here's what helped me: My husband frequently told me he loved me, and would make regular reference to things about me he thought were sexy. He did this before I decided I wanted to try to lose weight, so it didn't seem contrived. I was never sure if he really meant them or was just trying to be encouraging, but the unsolicited kind words help. If you think you're repulsive (which, being fat, I was certain I was) it can feel like a lost cause to spend the tremendous amount of energy and endure the discomfort it takes to really lose weight. My best friend, one of the fittest and most physically capable people I know, generously met me at the gym every day and showed me how to use the equipment, and just had me do everything he normally did at a weight/resistance/pace I could manage. He paid attention to what I could do, kept pushing me to try things I was sure were impossible for me, and never made me feel embarrassed when I didn't get things right. He just said, "okay, again." When he thought I was ready, he had me take classes, then join the boxing gym where he teaches. He noticed when I got stronger and said so (followed by, "do four more"). He never rolled his eyes when I complained about how hard I was working. He just said, "keep going". He never treated me like a fat girl. My husband never brings up the fact that I am working on my weight (doesn't say, "are you sure you want to eat that?"), but always makes sure that there are good options for me when we're out. He eats what I eat (just more of it) and never makes it a big deal. Tells me he's proud of me when I hit a milestone, but also when I miss. You can't get your girlfriend to lose weight, but you can help her create an environment that supports her until she's feeling brave enough to try, and keeps her going when she wants to quit. Just love her, help get the obstacles out of her way, and be a part of her transformation. 