How do I get my girlfriend to lose weight?
Step 1: Pass the "Are you a controlling douchebag" test. Part 1: Are you the only one who thinks she is chunky? I once had a friend who was on the verge of being underweight who had a boyfriend who called her chunky, wouldn't let her eat ice cream and made fun of her if she sat with her head tipped down creating a "double chin" effect.  [It ended badly, one year later, with bulimia and a restraining order.] Questions: Does any of this sound like it could be you? Have any of her friends told her that she should stay away from you? Would an objective medical height/weight or BMI test consider her to be average or underweight?Key: 1 or more "Yes" answers = 100% Douchebag. Dump your girlfriend immediately. You have lost your right to be in a relationship. It'll be better for everyone if you stick with (fully consensual) one-night stands. Part 2: Does your girlfriend want to lose weight? If your girlfriend is, in fact, overweight, she is painfully aware of this fact. Trust me. Most likely, she is reminded of this fact every time she leaves the house, watches TV or looks in a magazine. Questions: Does she ever make comments about wanting to be skinnier? Has a medical professional ordered her to lose weight for health reasons? Is she considering (or involved in) a diet or exercise program? Key: 3 "No" Answers = 50% Douchebag. If you can't find her attractive in her current body, either get over yourself or dump her. You certainly don't have to encourage her unhealthy habits. But you don't get to change her body to suit your preferences. Step 2: So, you aren't a douchebag, and your girlfriend wants to drop a couple pounds... Support her and be her cheerleader. If she's trying to get motivated to exercise: offer to be her workout buddy, "reward" her for time at the gym, suggest dates that involve physical activity. If she's trying to eat healthier: help her stock her fridge with healthy foods, suggest alternatives to takeout and dessert, offer to cook. Instead of "you look chunky" try "you look fantastically sexy after a workout." Don't be sneaky and try to corner/brainwash her into healthy choices. This is manipulative and insulting to her intelligence. I'm assuming that if she's too chunky to be your type physically -- you must be attracted to her mind. In which case you should show her some respect and knock off the transparent "Hey! Let's eat healthier For No Particular Reason And Certainly Not Because I'm Trying to Manipulate You Into Losing Weight" ploys. 