How are statistics and big data related?
Statistics and Big Data are two different fields. Statistics is a traditional and systematic subject of collecting, analyzing and presenting the data. Big Data is the recent phenomenon of wanting to process huge amount of data using powerful infrastructure and distributed frameworks. Now let's compare how statistics fits in Big Data Analytics. How do you apply statistics in regular data analytics?  Statistics IS analytics. Let's think of the easiest things. Let's start by saying that you can find average sales by finding the sum of all numbers in a column that tells you individual sales, and divide the resulting sum by number of rows. But what if you have trillions of rows and you still want to find the average? Here's the Big Data, or Map-Reduce way of thinking:- Divide the values in smaller chunks that can be processed by individual computers. Processes them in individual machines, then in next phase, collect them and combine the values. But life isn't so simple afterall! Nor is the data. Slightly advance statistics teaches you how to fit distributions or find a regression line. Let's say, linear regression can help you predict how much a rent you've to pay for a flat based on it's floor area in square feet. Quite straightforward when you have just one variable. But what if you also have to consider number of bedrooms, distance from closest train station, distance from closest market, availability of constant electricity (bit issue in India). Maths become more complex. Averaging example was quite straightforward - but now you've to start thinking about regression in map-reduce paradigm from scratch. But good for you, there're numerous free and open source tools already there. You can use Hadoop to store and fetch your data. Mahout provides ready-to-use implementation for Machine Learning. Giraph provides graph processing tools. Or you can set them aside to go with Spark if you want to process data on the fly. Updated 9w ago • View Upvotes