How much more powerful could the Roman Empire have become with a thorough understanding of modern economics and finance?
I think a big problem with this question is the premise: "...becomes his advisor (sic) throughout his reign and is able to carry out any reform."  Well, yeah, if you could actually do that, that would make it simple to greatly improve the economy and maybe bring on an early industrial revolution.  But the problem is that you likely can't do that.  What do I mean? (First, I must say, my answer is greatly indebted to Acemoglu and Robinson's book, Why Nations Fail: The Origins of Power, Prosperity, and Poverty: Daron Acemoglu, James Robinson: 9780307719225: Amazon.com: Books.) The idea that, if a Roman Emperor- or some other dictator, past or present- simply knew economics better, he might implement a totally different set of policies, is flawed.  Leaders tend to respond to the incentives that they have, which include staying in power, rewarding themselves and supporters, etc.  When their incentives include increasing GDP, they tend to implement policies that increase GDP.  When their incentives don't align with increasing GDP, then they generally won't implement economically efficient policies.  Assuming stupidity or ignorance- whether in the case of modern political leaders, or ancient leaders like Octavian or Diocletian- is generally a mistake.  These were typically very smart men, and they usually had smart people around them.  (Of course, there are counter-examples, ancient and modern.) Look at modern examples.  Pretty much every country you look at has certain economic policies that would be hard to justify to the economics profession.  But they have these policies anyway, because of various political concerns.  Certain groups are powerful or have influence, the political system is structured in certain ways, and so that leads to inefficient policies.   This includes the most wealthy democracies.  But if you want an extreme example, look at North Korea.  The North Korean top leadership is aware that their nation is poor and an economic basket case.  Supposedly, Kim Jong Un even went to boarding school in Switzerland.  And the Chinese government is always trying to persuade them to adopt Chinese-style economic policies.  So the North Korean leadership presumably mostly knows that their economic policies are "wrong".  But they continue to implement these policies anyway.  Why?  Because they fear that if they implemented more efficient policies, that might also lead to their overthrow, or chaos, or some other outcome that would be harmful for them.  The status quo is that they're in power, relatively safe, and have a relatively high degree of comfort, influence, and even worship by the impoverished masses.  Opening up to the world and modernizing the economy would risk revolution, even imprisonment or death, for the top leadership.  So why do it?  Simply air-dropping South Korean economics textbooks onto Pyongyang, or sending in some Chinese economic experts, isn't going to do anything, because the leadership's incentives won't change. So imagine you could send expert economist Economicus, PhD, back to the Roman Empire, and he convinced Augustus, or any other emperor, that he knew good policy.  What would that change?  Say he proposed freeing the slaves- slavery is obviously a highly destructive institution, from an economic perspective.  How would the emperor be likely to respond?  First, implementing this policy would probably destroy a good portion of any emperor's wealth.  It would also destroy the wealth of his friends and allies.  Very rich people might turn against him.  They might fund rebellions or armies.  Suddenly, his control over the Empire would be in danger.  And if he loses control, he'll probably be killed.  So why do this? It's likely that nearly every single "bad" economic decision any (reasonably sane) Roman emperor made can be traced to similar reasoning.  Do the efficient thing- the right thing- and you anger powerful people, or anger large numbers of people, and risk your control.  Even someone who saw himself as a philosopher king- like, say Marcus Aurelius- couldn't just do whatever he wanted.  He needed to do what was necessary to maintain power and his own safety.  These emperors lived within a world of economic and political institutions, and their power depended on those institutions, so those institutions couldn't just be wished or ordered away. So, let's change the premise of the question.  Let's say that Economicus isn't going back in time to become Augustus's adviser.  Instead, he's going back to take over the empire and rule it himself.  So let's say he goes back in time with thousands, or tens of thousands, of loyal-to-him 21st century US Marines, along with tanks, helicopters, transports, and all the other weapons, supplies, and ammunition they'd need to fight for over a hundred years.  With this army, he can take over.  Sound good? Except that these Marines would be going back to a primitive, pre-industrial society.  They could fight for a few weeks, or months, to take over the empire.  But then what do they do?  How do they live?  And why stay loyal to their leader, Economicus?  Economicus will need to reward them.  How to do that, in such a primitive place?  Give them the main thing that has any value, land.  So all the Marines will become large land owners.  And they're not going to want to farm themselves- that's miserable, back-breaking work.  So they'll want some way to get other people to do the work for them, and for a good price.  That probably means some form of coerced labor: slavery, serfdom, etc.  The Marines will also probably want to be above the law, or have their own, more favorable law that applies only to them.  And how could Economicus say no?  He depends on these guys for his power. So now, how is his position that much different from the old, deposed Roman emperor?  Well, he has better weapons to fight off the Parthians and other assorted foreign threats.  But domestically, his power depends on the implementation of inefficient and destructive economic policies.  He has no choice.  And that's despite the fact that he's an economics PhD who lived in the 21st century. So let's change the premise a little more.  Economicus doesn't travel back in time with human Marines.  Instead, he goes back in time with an army of terminator T-800's, heavily armed with plenty of ammunition and, uh, fresh batteries, or whatever.  Their programming says that their only objectives are to protect Economicus and follow his commands.  They don't want or expect any reward.  And they absolutely will not stop, ever, until their objectives- the rule of Economicus and his safety- are complete. (Image Caption: How to impose efficient economic policies.  Human skin optional.) So, okay, now that all political barriers are gone, Emperor Economicus can impose more efficient economic policies.  Here's a short list: Abolish slavery, serfdom, and other forms of coerced labor. Establish the rule of law, treating all non-Economicus, non-robotic humans equally.  The law should include contract enforcement, business dispute resolution, limited liability corporations, banking and usury regulation, etc. Land reform.  The East Asian economic success stories all featured land reform.  This should, of course, be done in a lawful and non-chaotic way.  Say, by imposing a moderate tax on large estates, and using the revenue to purchase land on the open market for former peasants and slaves.  It will be easy to tax large landowners now that the emperor has an army of robots. Create patent protection.  I'm assuming that neither Economicus nor his T-800s travel through time with knowledge of how to engineer specific technologies.  But if he has ideas of what's possible, Economicus might also establish prizes for successfully engineering specific new inventions, like movable type printing or steam engines.  And if his memory of all specific inventions has disappeared, then just implement and publicize the new patent law. A stable monetary system.  Which is easier, now that the emperor doesn't have to pay soldiers.  This might start with a metal-based system like gold or silver.  Eventually, once the empire has industrialized a bit, and there is a more efficient and more pervasive tax and banking system, it may be possible to implement a modern fiat money system. An efficient tax and administrative system.  No more tax farmers.  This is also easier, because the new emperor doesn't have to worry about rewarding supporters with governorships and other offices.  Economicus can simply threaten people with terminators.  With an efficient and fair tax system, there will be more egalitarian outcomes (especially compared to the old, exploitative Roman Empire), more investment in useful public infrastructure, and higher economic growth.There are probably many useful economic reforms that could be added to my short list.  But the key to getting any of this done isn't getting to Augustus' ear, it's removing human political considerations, especially including the exploitative economic institutions of the Roman Empire, entirely.  Augustus's wishes are besides the point. 