How can I clear Gate cse exam, how to study, what to stdy, and from where to study and how much to stdy?
How to go for GATE. 1: First of all check your GATE syllabus and make a rough idea about the course and how much time it takes to cover all these things first time. See although there are many subjects but you have done with all of them in your engineering 2: Practice more questions, reading theory again and again will not help you. 3: Don't leave any topic thinking that it is not important because if question comes from that topic and if you don't know anything you are not able to solve very simple questions. 4:Don't read only those subjects which you find interesting,you need to work hard in all areas 5: If you like learning from videos try NP TEL,Courser a etc. They all are good and teaches you in a different way. 6: Always start preparation by collecting books and other material which you need.Don't run for collecting everything. List of Books & Important Topics Programming , Data Structures and Algorithms This is the most important subject according to GATE point of you. Approximately 25% Questions in Gate come from above topics and all are related with each other. Problems on Stack, Queue, Link List.Properties of Heap,deletion and insertion of items in the heap. Tree problems like no of leaf nodes, non leaf nodes, total nodes, height of the tree, no of full nodes, mirror image, etc. AVL tree and balancing them on insertion and Deletion. Binary tree, Binary Search Tree, Inorder, Preorder, Post order traversal. Spanning Trees, Minimum Spanning Tree problems. Finding Complexity : Very Important Topic.You need to practice more and with every problem you solved.  Searching and Sorting Problems. Difference between Different Techniques and how to apply them on different real life problems. Questions on approach of dynamic programming, Divide and Conquer, Greedy and Brute Force. Practice basic problems like quick sort, merge sort, knapsack problem, matrix chain multiplication, Job sequencing, Compressing Mechanism. It will help you to solve other tricky problems,Basic Theory of P-NP class Books and Study Material : 1: Programming With C by Byron Gottfried ( Schaum's Series ) : Best book for C language. 2: Data Structures by Seymour Lipschutz ( Schaum's Series ) : Very Good book for beginners. Does not contains large number of questions but still very good for understanding the concept. It covers all the basics of data structures. Introduction to Algorithm by Cormen : Contains all the topics with deep theory. each chapter contains tricky problems and helps in solving gate problems. 3: Data Structure and algorithms made easy by Narasimha Karumanchi : Very Impressive book. This book is specially designed for gate. It also helps you in interview. It contains problems, there solution and equivalent C program with complexity. So you can practice this subject completely from this book. 4: NP TEL Videos Data Structures And Algorithms : very good videos. Teaches us how to solve tricky problems and there complexity. NP TEL Videos C Programming NP TEL Videos Design and Analysis of Algorithms   Operating Systems Important Points : Scheduling : Numerical Questions have more chances. Practice more in finding turn around time and waiting time of different scheduling policies. Deadlock : Bankers Algorithm, Given Sequence is safe or not. Chances of common data or linked questions. Synchronization : High Probability Of Questions in exam. Practice some question related to semaphores and classical problems of synchronization (this will help you to solve other questions) Memory Management : Questions generally comes from page table size, number of pages, logical address, physical address, page size, inverted page table, virtual memory, TLB etc. Books and study material : 1: Operating system concepts by Abraham Silberschatz and Peter Galvin 2 :Operating System (Pearson Publication ) by Harvey M. Deitel , Paul J. Dietel and David R. Choffnes : 3: Pdf available on NP TEL :Operating System Video Lectures available on NP TEL : High Performance Computing Theory Of Computation Important Points : Finite Automata: covers approximately 50% questions from TOC. So give it more time then others. Do questions related to finding minimum number of states, NFA to DFA conversion, Closure Properties of finite automata, Finding Regular Expressions,mealy moore machine etc. Context free grammar: practice more on simplification of CFG, push down automata, closure properties etc, problems on finding category of any language or grammar.Concepts related to expressive power of different languages. Basic problems related to NP-Completeness. Properties of Recursive and Recursive Enumerable Languages. Turing Machine making and expressive power of different type of Turing machine. Books and Study Material : 1:Introduction to Automata theory. Languages and Computation by Ullman 2:Introduction to Formal Languages, Automata theory and Computation by Kamala Krithivasan and Rama R : 