What are some startups with really unique business models?
http://Beeminder.com uses a rather novel business model to solve the problem of self-control. Here's the problem:Your present self has lots of things it wants to achieve. Go to bed sooner? Get better grades in school? Spend more time with your kids? Get into the gym more often? And a million other things. But easier said than done! It's all too easy to procrastinate, make excuses, and fall behind. What if you could just get a little nudge in the right direction? Something you wouldn't want to ignore...? So here's the Beeminder answer:(1) You set specific goals for things you want to achieve. Some popular uses: losing weight running a certain distance regularly raising your score on Duolingo (language learning) publishing a certain number of words to your blog anything you can measure, really! (2) Then you get to set a weekly rate for yourself to achieve those goals. Break BIG goals down into manageable chunks. Become more badass with just a little step each day. The software automatically gives you pretty graphs to track your progress to your goals: (tracking my daily Spanish practice in Duolingo) (3) If your recorded rate drops below the one you set yourself, you get a "sting" to motivate you back into your habits. From their pricing page <https://www.beeminder.com/money>: What costs money If you veer off the road, that's when it gets interesting. If you're still a newbee and haven't entered payment info then you can walk away and abandon that goal — no further obligation. Maybe you decided that that goal sucked and you don't need Beeminder because you don't want to reach that stupid goal anyway. No problem! Beeminder was free for you too. (You can create 7 freebee goals like that, with nothing at stake initially.) However, if you really meant to stay on the road, and you want to try again, you do so by committing to pay something — initially $5 — if you go off the road again. So the business is funded when you get that sting. In other words, they only make money when you need them most. Thanks to thousands of happy users each paying appropriately small amounts, this business model has successfully proved itself. And by the way, the whole team is remarkably helpful with support. They're very quick to fix anything if any issues arise, so I feel safe putting my skin in the game. If you're into this, you may also like reading about how they used this same sort of technique to develop their startup. 1000 Days of User-Visible Improvements. Taking dog-fooding to an extreme, they'll give $1000 to the first person that points out when they don't improve the product, each day. 