How should I invest Rs 1 crore in New Delhi to earn at least Rs.40-50K per month passively?
My suggestion is to invest half money in land as done by Sushil Kumar of Bihar ,who won  5 Crore prize  in KBC . ​ He got 3.5 crores after tax deduction . Then he purchased agricultural land for about 1.5 crore , built new house for another 50 lakh and kept 1.5 crore in FD in his parents , self , wife's name to avoid income tax on interest . If you purchase agricultural land on any national highway near big city outskirts , it will double in 2-3 years and that will become your main appreciating asset . You may get returns similar to house rent on that land if you do not  go for farming yourself , by subletting the land to other farmers for rent and it will be tax free as well as appreciating every year by minimum 20% . So, invest at least 50 lakh to purchase agricultural  land on a good Highway at distance of 30 to 50 kms from city centre  .  That should give you at least 1 to 2 lakh if you go for farming . You may  go for any  urban plot also , which can be rented for parking , solar power generation or any community activity , which may  yield 1-2 lakh a year as rent In short , invest 50% in land in  appreciating location . Next 50 lakhs should be invested in 9 FDs of 5 lakh each . 4 of them should be for 3 to 5 years duration at maximum interest of 8% ,  rest 5 can be for one year duration at lower interest .  Keep 5 lakh for your first year expenses .     Now the real game starts ... Watch stock market's NIFTY 50 shares daily or weekly charts regularly . If you see any such chart , you will see that most of such shares got beating in market at some time every  year , creating yearly lows  due to sudden reaction or news while the company may have been performing good otherwise . You may take help of some technical analyst , though I use astrology ( you can see my website ycshukla.com ) as well as technical analysis before purchasing any share at a very low price ( about 20% or lower from peak high price ) . Companies like M&M , L&T , Pharma companies , IT companies like Infosys do touch yearly lows and  yearly Low to high ratio can be about 2 times or more  and minimum 25-30%   . Purchase such company's equity by breaking one FD at a time and your 5 lakh are invested in one company . Repeat the same for other companies during  such windfall . I assume that you may get total 5 such opportunities in a year . So, your 25 lakh are invested by year end in good equity shares at low prices  . You will earn at least Rs. 25000 tax free dividend from such companies . Another 20 lakh in 3-5 year FDs  at 8% interest will get you 1.50 lakh as interest , which should be tax free as below IT exemption limit and  TDS can be refunded . So, at year end , you will have about 1.5 lakh from agriculture / urban land +25000 dividend +1.5 lakh from FDs = 3.25 lakh tax free income means 25 K per month . Find out the market price of your  land in a year,  it must have increased by 20% so you got another 10 lakh from that . Within a year  , you will find that most of the equity you invested ( 25 lakh ) will have recovered the losses or made new highs and gained say 20 to 30%  . Set a modest target of 25% and sell them as and when you reach 25% profit and booking it means you may gain another 5 lakh tax free ( if held more than a year ) or with 15% short term capital gain you may pay in some cases . You gained another 5 lakh or more from equity capital gain which should be used now on for yearly expenses . You may keep on repeating this every year . Your total gains from such investment will be 3.25 lakh +5 Lakh ( CG) +10 Lakh( land appreciation) = 18 lakh or more, so you earn 18% per annum and beat the inflation with certainty and literally pay no taxes nor you are always worried about investments. I have done this for lesser amount and mind it  politicians / businessmen   have  been doing it since long .    Update1 :     Most of the answers have recommended FDs and purchasing in residential or commercial property . FDs suffer on two counts : Tax on interest and depreciation due to inflation . So if you fully depend on passive safe income , go for FDs but within a decade you will become Lakhpati from Crorepati . Property market has already peaked and prices would not appreciate now as people are going for family planning , there is already plenty of inventory of good new unsold as well as old resale property in market . Also govt. is coming up with a regulator for reality market , so it will go down finally . Residential or commercial property is a fixed, rigid kind of investment , with depreciation in building value , maintenance and insurance cost and use of obsolete design / technology so you may find it difficult to sell when you want . Moreover , getting low interest on FDs and paying higher interest on home loan does not make any sense . UD 2:  A comment has been raised that Sushil Kumar of KBC has become broke as per news media report published on 5 & 6 Feb 2015 . But another report next day on 7th Feb disputes that . KBC winner Sushil Kumar not broke, friends started the rumour How he can be a broke ? He purchased agricultural land which must be giving tax free returns from crops . He purchased land for house and built house for 1 crore , which is an asset itself . He invested in FDs in his parents names . He still lives a simple life without a big city expenditure or paying any taxes . ​ Yes , he does face small town fear of being called a Crorepati and face criminals , greedy relatives and friends who may try to extort  money from him  . He has wisely invested the money which can only grow with time and he can live without pressure of earning . He may be missing big advertising endorsements and limelight but he cannot be termed Broke by any means . See it here :  Life after winning 5 crores . Update 3 :  Many people have objected that 50 lakh can not buy 10 acres land . Well , that is true in many cases so I have made it 1 acre . But quantity is not important , point is that it should be made in land , with some productive use like crop , renting , solar power generation etc . The suggestion includes investment in  long term ( land ) , medium term ( shares) and short term / emergency needs (FDs). Also, it seems that some people have wrongly considered me as OP as millionaire and offered me investment opportunity . How astrological knowledge can be used for investing , see in this answer : Yash Shukla's answer to What are the best ways to invest money? Updated 2w ago • View Upvotes