What is time? How is time affected by gravity?
This is how... SUMMARY Time is geometry. Exactly, spacetime is a 4-dimensional manifold (3 space dimension and 1 time). The length of time is ct, where "c" is numerically equal to the speed of light. The geometry of spacetime is distorted by the energy and momentum. So technically, gravity doesn't affect time, rather, affected time is what call "gravity." GRAVITY and TIME... Explained In Pictures I suspect the bogus bowling ball and rubber sheet analogy originates with the very legit notion of an embedding diagram - like this one: The key here is how to interpret the embedding diagram in the context of general relativity. So here's a quick guide: Notice the regular squares at the outside edge and that they are stretched out and distorted in the middle of the image. This will become important in a moment. Imagine a square glass plate with a grid on it and laying on top of the image, like see-through graph paper, where the size of the grid squares match the squares on the outside edge. The glass plate represents a slice through space, let's say through the equator of the Earth. The grid boxes on it represent distances in a flat spacetime of special relativity. The colorful diagram is the embedding diagram which shows how the mass of the Earth stretches and distorts spacetime distances in the plane that slices the Earth in half at the equator. As an example, let's say our grid lines measure just time, and that the boxes are 3 times longer in the middle than out at the edge. Now let's go for a long walk through, in a straight line through the center of the Earth... As we begin moving along the glass plate we notice that it takes 1 second to cross a box - this never changes as the glass plate boxes are all the same. What do we notice in the middle and look down? We notice that the square we are standing on is mapped onto a square below that is three times longer - this is meant to tell us that our 1-second of time where we are standing is seen to be 3-seconds long by someone out at the edge! [the actual time difference for Earth is about less than a billionth of a second, so boxes are almost equal in size and the glass plate nearly matches the embedding diagram] The embedding diagram is a graphical way to compare spacetime lengths between special and general relativistic geometry. Because the mass energy of objects distorts the lengths in spacetime, there is no way to represent the distorted image on a flat surface. BLACK HOLES and TIME Let's examine an embedding diagram for a black hole We set up our glass plate, start from the edge, and walk towards the center. Let's say 1 box at the edge = every box on the glass plate = 1 minute As we walk we notice very little difference between our plate distance (our wristwatch time, and the embedding diagram below (how others far away see our time). However, as we get close, the embedding diagram drops off steeply and 1 minute of our wristwatch time is a very, very, long time according to someone at the edge. At some point, the diagram falls straight down and it will take an infinitely long box below to match our 1-minute boxes - time has come to a standstill for us according to the edge observer. Of course, nothing happens to how we experience time, until we're spaghettified! GRAVITY and TIME... In high school algebra So where did the pictures above come from? Einstein's field equations of course! For a weak gravitational field we have the follow solution: This question is about TIME, so let's not move relative to the black hole so that we are left with the time dimension alone: After a little algebra and substituting the constants 2, G, M, c for a single constant [math]r_s[/math] we have This constant that appears in the numerator is the Schwarzschild radius of a non-rotating, uncharged black hole. This equation applies to the Earth where the Schwarzschild radius of the Earth is about 1 centimeter - a black hole Earth is the size of a typical marble. Anyway... Let's follow an astronaut into a black hole and make some time comparison measurements. NOTE: this is the opposite perspective of the embedding diagram when we waltzed into the black hole. First we'll take a measurement when the astronaut is 10 times the Schwarzschild radius, then only twice as far and finally at the event horizon. We have the following equations: Let 1 minute elapse on the in-falling astronaut's wristwatch [math]d\tau[/math] and let's calculate how much time elapses according to our clocks: According to us, the time difference of the astronaut's clock is just 3 seconds slower than our clock at 10x the distance. At twice the distance, the difference is 15 seconds, 5 years to our 4 years. However, between 1 and 2 radial distances, the time differential goes from 15 seconds to infinity - according to us, time comes to a stop at the event horizon! NOTE: as in the case of the embedding diagram, time for the astronaut is the same as ever. A note on spacetime distances In the previous example we said only "3 seconds difference" but in spacetime, 3 seconds is over a half-million miles and 15 seconds is nearly 3 billion miles! Updated 2w ago • View Upvotes