What are some issues that you should know about owning a Tesla before buying one?
You should have a qualified electrician install a NEMA 14-50 outlet in your garage before the car arrives. Charging at 110v is maddeningly slow.  Very few people need the high speed wall charger, the one that comes with the car is just fine. Charging is more convenient than you think it is.  It's like switching from Windows to a Mac - there are some things that take a few days to get used to.  My wife still asks me when we start driving somewhere "do we have enough gas?"  As if we don't wake up every morning with a full "tank". The algorithms for supercharger routing on long distance trips are too conservative, so it takes a while to figure out what it's doing.  For example, even with a full range charge going from Kansas City to St. Louis, the map kept telling me to return to KC. You should take that as a warning to slow down to the speed limit or slightly above. You will make it just fine.  Also, the optimum supercharger route may have you skip chargers, but I prefer to stop at most chargers anyway, even if it's just 10 minutes to pee and grab a drink. Those algorithms could use some refinements, but they are still pretty sophisticated. Don't forget to bring your mobile connector with you on long trips.  Plugshare saved my ass twice.  In general, you don't need to buy an extra one for the car, but some people do. Learn how to read the power estimate graphs.  The "estimated range" is quite optimistic for spirited driving, so you should know that if you go 80 MPH that you will use a lot of energy. The estimates are pretty darn accurate for people without lead feet.  Most of the time, it will not matter - you can go as fast as you feel is necessary. But on the longer stretches between some superchargers, cruise control is your friend, at least early on. Once you are at least half way there, you will probably notice that you can push it a bit and still have comfortable range. The charge indicator on a Tesla is way more accurate than a fuel gauge. Tesla roadside assistance does not cover running out of charge. AAA gold plus is a good investment.   I've had to use it once - but it was my own fault and will never happen again. Some superchargers have better appointments than others. The one in Baton Rouge is near a Trader Joes, for example.  That's a great place to get provisions.  Some are near only fast food and some are in the middle of nowhere. So far, Defuniak Springs, FL gets my vote for the creepiest supercharger.  I'm glad it's there - but the ghosts at the haunted hotel across the street don't like all the EMR put out by induction motors. It is amazing how dumb and quaint stopping at a gas station will feel the first time you rent an ICE and have to inhale all those hydrocarbons. Regenerative braking in a Tesla is very aggressive.  It takes all of 10 minutes to get used to it and appreciate it.  Sign up for Plugshare if you plan on doing any serious distance driving.  Even though the supercharger network is growing, there are quite a few public chargers you can use in a pinch.  I signed up for Chargepoint when I got my car two years ago and still have not used up the $25 that I put on my account to get started.  Campgrounds with RV hookups are NEMA 14-50, just like home, and if you  ask nicely many parks will let you charge for free in an empty pad. On the rare occasions that I do use a public charger, I have a little hanger that tells other EV owners that it is okay to unplug my car, since I likely don't need the charge like a Leaf might need it, for example. 0-60 launches are hard on tires.  Even though the stock tires on the 19" wheels are ordinary all season tires, I only got 40,000 miles out of them.  You should rotate them regularly. Often times the service center will do it for free when when you bring the car in for a warranty item or something. The battery likes to stay between 20% and 80% charge.  It's okay to do a range charge (100%) every once in a while, but for daily driving only charge to 80%.  The UI makes that easy. Once nice thing that I noticed is that the car treats you like a grown up who is responsible for the operation of the vehicle.  Many cars regale you with foreboding disclaimers and disable key controls while the vehicle is in motion. Model S lets you use the system fully, including the browser, navigation searches and other keyboard input while the vehicle is moving.  I've had a Prius and a Honda where the nanny state was much more distracting than just using the controls.  Of course the UI in those cars was not a 17" touch screen. Updated 14w ago • View Upvotes