What are some ways to "work smart" rather than just working hard?
(This is a copy-paste of the TimeDoctor.com blog article 8 Ways You Can Improve the Productivity of your Team) Eliminate back and forth discussion over emai If you find that you’re discussing important points back and forth  via email that’s a warning sign that you need to change your  communication process. Email is not effective for back and forth  communication because: Email formatting results in messy discussions that are hard to follow. Email discussions can’t be organized effectively.  Categorizing,  sharing, and searching through past email discussions is difficult. Email can slow down communication (a back & forth conversation  that might take days by email due to the delay between responses might  take just minutes on the phone or in person).One alternative to email is to schedule a meeting once per week to  cover all of these complex issues. Another solution is to get everyone  to use software such as Asana.com as an alternative to email. Develop a culture of prioritization Productivity is not about completing all of your tasks. It’s about  completing the most important tasks. A critical skill to develop for  everyone in your company is prioritization. Making sure that everyone on  the team is focused on their important tasks first and actively  “procrastinate” any tasks that are less important.   Develop standard procedures for anything that takes a lot of time Find yourself explaining something twice? Develop simple training videos on YouTube to provide this information. Processes are not just for training – they can be for any type of  activity in your business that you do over and over. Many businesses  rely on informal or ad-hoc processes which are stored only in the brains  of staff members not written down. However you will not get the  benefits of systems and procedures until you write them down. A key reason it’s so important to develop written systems and  processes is because it will help you to identify where there are  weaknesses in your business activities. You can’t see the problems  unless you first standardize how you do everything. Then you can  identify problem areas and gradually improve each process over time.   Examine your procedures to see which steps you can eliminate After you’ve created systems and procedures, the next step is to  simplify them and make them easier to follow. Is there any procedure  you’re following that is unnecessary? For example are you spending time  emailing documents from one person to another? Or is someone in your  team copying information from one spreadsheet into another spreadsheet?  These are simple examples of inefficient activities that can be  eliminated with an improved process. Look to see which steps you can  replace with technology and automation. There might be a process that  you are currently handling manually, but with the right technology could  be automated and save your team members a lot of time. Track the exact time for every activity in the business This is a controversial one for some, but if you think about it, it  makes intuitive sense. If you want to improve something, you need to  measure it.  How do you measure productivity? One way is that you can  record the exact time spent on each activity in your organization and  find out exactly how long it takes to complete individual tasks. Almost every company records their financial flows – where their  money is earned and spent. Most factories measure the output of assembly  line workers. However it’s not general practice to measure where  knowledge workers spend their time. Some companies do have this as a  standard practice – for example at IBM they measure with accuracy where  each person spends each minute of the day. 