How can we prepare for CAT?
I don't really have the 'perfect' credentials since I was in a similar position a few months ago and I am still preparing. I have given a few mock tests and have been getting decent scores. So let me tell you what has worked for me. Takshzila I came across this channel called Takshzila Shikshak while browsing Youtube for videos. And what I stumbled across was nothing short of treasure. For all those who are clueless about how to go about preparing for CAT, this is definitely the first step. The channel has videos on almost all the topics of Quantitative Aptitude, Verbal Ability and Data Interpretation. Those who are quite adept at math may find some of these videos too simple for their liking. But trust me, this has everything covered from Number Systems to Geometry. The videos aren't too long and they cover each topic from the very basics. After a short introduction of the topic followed by a few key points and formulae, they solve a few questions, some of which are previous CAT questions. All in all, this is an excellent resource for those looking to begin their preparation from the very basics. What's more, it is totally FREE!!! :P Preparation Material The most widely used books preferred by many CAT aspirants are those by Arun Sharma. He has written books for all four subjects- Quant, Verbal, LR and DI. The books are written in a very lucid language, not at all difficult to comprehend. The questions are divided into three levels of difficulty. Solutions to almost all the problems are provided after every chapter. Another good book for Quant would be Quantum CAT by Sarvesh Verma. This has a comparatively larger number of questions. Equally good. You could choose any one among them. Some people also advise using material given by TIME or CL or IMS. I have their material for a few topics. I had IMS material for Verbal. It was excellent. It not only concentrates on the fundamentals (grammar, usage etc.) but also covers all the different kinds of questions which have been asked in CAT and which could be asked in the future. As far as TIME is concerned, the material was good. The questions were decent but there weren't any solutions (the solutions may have been given in the classroom but I had not enrolled for any such program). You could either decide to buy these materials second-hand or actually enroll yourself in one of their classroom programs. As far as Verbal ability is concerned, I would not want to prescribe any specific books since what matters is reading. You must make it a habit to read newspapers everyday, preferably The Hindu or The Indian Express. Most importantly, read their editorial section since that's where the most of the important information and analyses about current issues lie. Also try reading novels and non-fiction books. Ultimately CAT is an entrance test for admission into colleges of management and that means you are expected to know a few things about business. Try reading The Economic Times to get used to economic terms and language. For Logical Reasoning, you could try George Summers. His puzzle books have a lot of questions similar to the ones asked in CAT. Hit Bullseye Having viewed most of the Takshzila videos, I reached a point where I knew I had covered a good amount of the concerned syllabus. I was looking for a way to test myself in actual CAT questions and also against the large pool of test-takers preparing for CAT. The Big Three (TIME, IMS and CL) may be the most sought after test-series programs. But Bullseye has an equally dedicated service for CAT preparation. The site allows you to create a free account initially and appear for their Bull Mocks, which are given by a large proportion of serious test-takers. The level of their tests has been at par with CAT, maybe even tougher. A good option to start giving tests and get a feel of the pattern, time limitations, the experience of giving an online test, the interface etc. They also have sectional tests, subject/topic-wise tests to allow you to fine-tune yourself. TIME/IMS/CL Let this be the final step of your preparation. Enroll in a test-series program by any one of these Big Three. Their tests are given by thousands of CAT aspirants (the last TIME mock that I had given was written by 17k+ candidates). They provide a broad, well-rounded analysis of your performance in different sections along with your percentile score, section-wise as well as overall scores. This gives you the best possible simulation of your overall nation-wise standing.                                                                                                                                           I hope this answer was helpful. 