How can we prepare for CAT?
I'd written an answer as a self-study prep method for both GMAT and CAT, here's the link: Omkar Parab's answer to I wish to be preparing for the CAT and GMAT by self study. How should I start? Copy-pasting the answer here for convenience: Before you go on to read this long post let me list my credentials: 1. GRE 2011: 1450 - 800 + 650 + 5.0 (QA-VA-AWA) 2. CAT 2012: 98.84%ile - 96.x + 98.x (QA-VA) 3. NMAT 2012: 99.95%ile 4. CMAT 2013: 99.99%ile Although not all are great scores, all of these have/could have led to respectable admits. Now that we have my credentials out of the way; to the answer. While I've only taken a few mock GMATs, I had prepared for CAT over a couple of years, and taken the GRE as well, and have come to realize one thing: All these entrances are about Mock, Analyze, Practice, Repeat. What do I mean? In my opinion, the following steps could be a basic framework to approach any entrance exam, 1. Take a Diagnostic Test (Mock): Usually one starts preparing, knowing very little about the test other than a target score, often from hearsay. Thus, it would help if you take a diagnostic test(A test that replicates the actual exam in format and syllabus) and evaluate your performance. This test would give you insight into what the syllabus is, how comfortable you are with the time control and the format, and what you need to work on to improve your score. It is important to take the mock in conditions that mimic the actual exam, seriously, and without any disturbance. Otherwise, it defeats the purpose of the whole exercise. In case there are any disturbances beyond your control, then it is safe to assume that such disturbances are just as likely during the actual exam. 2. Analyze: Once you've taken the diagnostic and have your score, you know how far you are from your desired score. But it is important to know in that test, what your strengths, weaknesses, opportunities and threats are. How do you do that? a. Divide the test into Verbal Ability(VA), Quantitative Aptitude(QA), Data Interpretation(DI), and Logical Reasoning(LR). b. Track your scores in these individual sections, and see where you are scoring well, and where you're not. Let's say your highest score is in VA and your lowest is in QA. This means VA is your strength and QA is your weakness. It is possible that you are actually strong at DI, but have made a few silly errors which could be ironed out automatically by practice, so it would become an opportunity to score marks, and finally maybe you are having some fundamental issues with solving LR puzzles, and may need both a lot of effort with a persisting chance of a mistake in the exam, then it would be a threat, since it threatens to consume time, thereby increases your risk, and doesn't give acceptable return. c. Also, within your strength, VA, you may have weaknesses, like you may not be scoring as much as you would like in Reading comprehensions, or Sentence corrections, and vice versa for a strength like Permutations & Combinations in your weakness QA. This is to explain to you that a section of strength/weakness may have weaknesses/strengths within it's individual syllabus and so it is important to locate these anomalies to maximize your strengths and opportunities and optimize your threats and weaknesses. d. You can do this by dividing the marks within the section itself, to see which topics within that section you are good or bad at. Basically, the idea is to drill down to the individual components of the exam to find out what you are good at so you can attempt these questions first in the exam, and what you are bad at, so you can practice and work on them. Analysis, by definition, is studying something by breaking it down to its individual components. This is the most critical phase in your preparation. 3. Practice: Once you've analyzed and understood what components require what kind of work, you will know that some sections either need conceptual clarity, or practice (Avoiding silly mistakes would come under practice). This is when you need to find adequate and relevant material to practice and learn from and fix the issues you spotted during the Analysis phase. This phase is that simple, just learn & practice. 4. Repeat: Improving your score from whatever level is simply an iterative process. You keep doing the 3 steps above, repeatedly, and you will find measurable progress in every subsequent test. If you think you've hit a plateau, and whatever you do, your score doesn't increase, this only means that you are not analyzing your mock results properly. E.g. I started out with a 65.x percentile in my first ever mock. Dejected, I started slogging, and started scoring respectable early 90s, which seemed like decent progress, but is actually a useless score. After plateauing out for about a couple months, I finally analyzed the past few mocks and spotted a trend of mistakes, fixed them, and then consistently scored over 99%ile, till the exams. Coming from an average guy, trust me, it is a simple iterative process, which takes thorough analysis, conceptual clarity, and a reasonable amount of practice. Do feel free to comment or message me for any clarifications about the post. All the best! 