What are the top running technique suggestions?
I am going to disagree with the answers here stressing foot landing position.  I claim that it is much more important where the foot lands relative to the hips, and that midfoot striking is merely a natural consequence, for many people, of doing everything else correctly. Most runners and coaches agree that the best way to land is with your feet directly under your hips.  This usually involves having your pelvis straight (no sticking your butt out or pushing it in, just sort of stabilizing it lightly with your abs).  Then, leaning forwards slightly from the ankles, keeping your hips and torso aligned, will help your body naturally land with your foot underneath the hips.  Arms should be kept at about a 90 degree angle, swinging back until the hand reaches your side and swinging forward no farther than the middle of your chest. This is a great video demonstrating the above: If you do all this correctly, whether you then land on your midfoot depends a lot on your dorsiflexion (how much you can flex your foot up at the ankle).  Indeed, you can be a terrible overstrider, landing with your foot way in front of your hips, and simply point your toes enough before landing to change the way your foot lands.  This is a bad way to run, even though you are not heel striking.  It has all the problems that heel striking does - extra pounding on the knees and ankles, for instance. If on the other hand you try to land with your feet directly under you, then keeping your dorsiflexion the same will naturally cause you to land more towards the front of your foot than before.  But if you have a high dorsiflexion, then landing lightly on your heel and quickly rolling to put most of the weight on your midfoot is no problem whatsoever for distance running; in fact, a high dorsiflexion will also allow for a stronger push-off. I, personally, have unusual ankle flexibility that allows my dorsiflexion to be higher than most, so I do heel strike when running slowly.  When I run fast or race, I find myself leaning forward slightly more and I naturally land on my midfoot or toes.  It's all about where the feet land relative to the hips, not which part of the foot strikes the ground. Updated 133w ago • View Upvotes