How should I prepare for the SSC-CGL?
First of all you need to know, where do you stand in the terms of preparation. You should know whether you have basic clearity of concepts or not, this will really help you in targeting right amount of energy in right direction with best possible results. So to check this you should download last year exam and just go through it, you will realise the level of exam and then only you can estimate how much work you have to put in the prepration. Now you want to prepare for 2016 attempt , so it's almost a year from now, which is a long period of time. Just a advice, find the right reason, right people and right environment otherwise you may loose interest and may not even know how fast time flies and you would have wasted a year already. Now coming to the preparation part: The exam is divided into two parts i.e prelims and mains. Prelims is comprised of 4 parts , namely Reasoning, Mathematics, General Knowledge and English. Reasoning: this is the easiest part of exam and also most scoring, students score as high as 45-48 marks in this section. So try to practice reasoning questions as much as you can they will help not only in clearing prelims but also help you in getting the job. Grab Reasoning book of RS aggarwal try to solve it. This will suffice this portion. Mathematics: If you are weak in maths or always tried to run away from maths, seriously, stop doing that and face the reality, if you want the job, you can't achieve it without doing maths. You may even clear the prelims without having a good score in maths bur there's noy way you are going to get the job without a good score in mains. If your basics are not clear then start with ncerts, try solving 8-10 standard ncerts, after you do that you will gain some confidence. Now next level grab some material, try to borrow from friends those who have been preparing or have done preparing ,any good book will work. RS agarwal , Quantum cat by sarvesh kumar verma or for that matter any good book in market, just take it and practice as much as you can in initial stage and then practice topic wise question, any topic you feel needs more attention, give more time to the respective topic. After all this do a lot of repititive revisons because competition is ever increasing and you may need to score around 180 in mains. Grab practice sets of kiran prakashan as most od the questions are directly from them and also try to solve last 10 years paperspapers because ssc is also famous for repeating questions. General knowledge : To prepare this part you can read all the ncerts from class 6-12 but you have to do very selective reading. Unfortunately this section of exam doesn't fetch that many marks so don't get too much into preparation of general studies where as don't leave it either because you will have too face a interview also and you must possess above average level of awareness. Follow this link to know what to study in Ncerts http://mrunal.org/2013/01/studyp... Get hold of Lucents general knowledge book, after you have done reading ncerts, read lucent which is very good summary and mentions everything you need to know for exam,it is more of a revision book. Newspapers, yes, you should read it daily, it will also help in building vocabulary. English: This section is not too hard, not too easy either. If your english is weak , then work hard and improve, all the rules of maths applies to english too, in terms of preparation. If your English basics are weak then i would suggest to read wren and martin high school grammar. Develop habit of reading ,read books ,novels and whatever you feel like. Here questions are like, sentence arrangement , finding error , idioms and proverbs ,synonyms and antonyms, comprehension etc. Now try to read questions from pervious exam if you can solve it correct then you don't need much work here. Learn idioms and proverbs, comprehensions are most of the times easy answers are generally straight out of paragraphs. For vocabulary read Word power made easy by Norman lewis and use vocabulary.com it will help in improving vocabulary. Try to write a journal or dairy daily. After this practice sample papers and give mock test you will know your status. There's an app of paramount coaching they provide free mock every sunday give it on regular basis it helps you in tracking your progress. Prepare a schedule and follow it, love what you do and do what you love. Only hard and smart work will lead you success! Welcome aboard. Best of luck. 