How do mathematicians discover new 'things'?
Generally verification of ideas in mathematics involve proofs. You make a certain set of assumptions and then derive a sequence of logical deductions that imply your particular idea must be true if the assumptions are. Sometimes the proofs of the ideas are the discoveries themselves, as the ideas may be guessed at via intuition but the arguments to show the ideas are conclusively true are hard to find. Other times, the discoveries in mathematics are the ideas - surprising consequences resulting from previously derived consequences of assumptions. Sometimes people think certain things are true given a set of assumptions, but their intuition is wrong. In this case, the idea can sometimes be falsified by making a logical argument that shows given the set of assumptions of interest, the idea is false. Sometimes the idea can't be proven or disproven from a given set of assumptions. Sometimes you can prove this - i.e., you can sometimes show that an idea is neither provable or unprovable given a certain set of assumptions. Sometimes you can't even do that. If that sounds confusing, you can generally just think that mathematics tends to differ from broader science in the sense that the standards of verification are self-consistency rather than agreement with reality. Since mathematics is widely applicable to real-life phenomena, however, the mathematical ideas people care about are often driven by real-world concerns. As a speculative example of how a mathematical interest of this sort might have arisen, consider that differential equations are useful for modeling physical phenomena. People model some physical process with differential equations, so they want to better understand differential equations to better understand the physics being modeled. Along the way, people discover a lot of intrinsically interesting things about differential equations that are independent of the physics. As a result, some people study related topics that are interesting to them from a purely mathematical point-of-view, without ever thinking about the physical consequences and the field takes on its own identity. You might be able to make an argument, for example, that Lie Theory became an important research topic through something vaguely resembling this outline. That's not to meant to imply every topic of interest in mathematics originally derived from some application. For instance, I think it would be very difficult to argue many topics in number theory originated from any applied topic (although sometimes applications were eventually discovered, anyway). People just found patterns in arithmetic that they found interesting and worked to understand them better, discovering a bunch of new math stuff as they did. I'd say for the most part ideas from mathematics arise like ideas in any other field of research. People join a research community which concerns itself with a particular topic. During the course of studying that topic, certain ideas gain traction and generate interest within that community (e.g., influential people point out logical consequences that others in the community think are neat). That tends to steer the sorts of ideas the researchers looks for. 