What are the top five facts everyone should know about oil exploration?
1. Control Many oil companies control most of the value chain (referred to as “operating companies”), from when the oil it is exploited to when it is sold. Royal Dutch/Shell and BP are typical examples. Statoil for instance is a distributor of oil. It does not drill for oil, but handles the transport from different oilrigs in the world and sells to the end customer (a leading energy company in oil and gas production). 2. Value Chain The easiest way to describe the value chain is by showing this model: Source:http://petrostrategies.org The value chain is divided into three fragments: upstream (exploration and production), midstream and downstream (refining and marketing). Exploration is the first step to obtaining the oil. It involves using technologies and intelligence to find new sources of oil. Oil companies either have scientists and geologists that are employed in the company or they hire consulting agencies that account as suppliers for the oil company (American Association of Petroleum Geologists and the Society of Petroleum Engineers for instance). The production step brings oil to the surface using natural and artificial methods; this step includes the rig crew that often comprises temporary employees of the company. When the oil company has obtained the crude oil, it is transported to refineries where the crude oil is converted into finished products (petrol, heating gas or plastic). There are different ways to transport the crude oil, either by barges or tankers; either across the water, or through pipelines. Pipelines are the cheapest way to transport. Another important fact is that it is often speculated that there is an oil shortage, but that is not always true. For now, there is plenty of oil, but the problem is that there is not enough capacity at the refineries to convert crude oil into the finished product. The final step of the value chain is to market the finished product and sell it. 3. $$$ The most difficult and expansive part of the value chain is the upstream part, exploiting and obtaining the oil. Oil companies face problems today when they try to exploit new areas, involving complex machineries, human intelligence and complicated regulations (World News, Politics, Economics, Business & Finance). We have to understand that oil is a limited energy resource. Most of the big oil fields today have reached “peak oil” – meaning that the maximum rate of global oil extraction is reached, and that production has entered terminal decline, and companies struggle to exploit new areas. 4. OPEC To give a better understanding on how the oil is being traded and the origin of the oil, one needs to get familiar with the “Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries” (OPEC). OPEC is an organization that was created in 1960 to unify and protect the interest of oil producing countries, but especially from Western oil companies driving Source: http://opec.org oil prices down. OPECallows oil producing countries to guarantee their income by coordinating policies and prices among them. Saudi Arabia has a significant role in the oil industry; it plays the role of smoothing production by cutting or increasing its own production. Those who are not members of OPEC are for instance, the United States, Europe and countries from the former Soviet Union. Source: BP Global | BP According to BP Statistical Review of World Energy June 2010, this picture shows the major trade movements of oil. China and the US are for example very dependent on the Middle East, especially Saudi Arabia, for oil supply. Both countries are obviously aware of this unhealthy symbiosis, and in 2006 China started to invest heavily in Africa to bind up new oil contracts to become less independent on Saudi Arabia. In the same year, the US and China established a “Strategic Economic Dialogue”, a group where China and the US discuss economic and financial issues. The Chinese were not too fond to speak about their energy consumptions at that point. Though, in 2007 they agreed that China would let the US assist them on energy saving. 5.How oil is being traded + how it affects the oil price Oil is not only the most important source of energy for any industrial and emerging market; it is also the most traded commodity in the world. The process of trading oil is far more complex than one can imagine. Oil price is not just based on a worldwide supply-and-demand idea but means that there are many factors involved in the price-fixing of oil price, political influence, different countries regulations are factors that should be considered. Oil is not only traded between companies, but it is also involved in the commodity exchange where various commodities and derivates are being traded. The reason why these commodity exchanges exists is to reduce the price risk for oil companies, meaning that investors buy a certain amount of oil that will be produced in a near future. The oil companies can therefore predict the demand for the oil. This kind of trading has created speculations on the oil price, various banks and funds has been encouraging investors to invest in future commodities like oil, resulting the skyrocketing oil price in 2004-2008 (Breaking News, Business News, Financial and Investing News & More). Source: http://mongobay.com China entering the World Trade Organization in 2001 has been seen as one of the reasons the oil price went up, by lowering tariffs and opening up the economy for foreign countries has made Foreign Direct Investment invest heavily in China, resulting a mass demand for oil. Some also means that the Iraq War and the weakening dollar has affected the rise the oil price, because crude oil is quoted in U.S. dollars and cents and reacts positively to a cheaper dollar. 