How much more powerful could the Roman Empire have become with a thorough understanding of modern economics and finance?
I have one quick story to add to the already great answers by  Mitch Fagen and Steve Theodore and generally agree that the Roman Empire at its peak was an economic superpower that linked cities together in a way that had never happened in the Mediterranean. Even at it's height, the tax-and-spend policies of Rome's first two emperors show a diversity of thinking: Augustus would be classified as a "tax-and-spend" guy*.  After cutting his military expenses after Actium, he spent everything he could on new buildings and upgrading cities in, for example, Gaul and Belgica.  At one point, he spent so much money that he almost ran out of cash to pay the military (4 CE).  He left 100 million sesterces in the Imperial treasury. Tiberius would be classified as a "saver."  He left 2.7 billion sesterces in the Imperial treasury.  That's 27 times what Augustus left. As a result of Tiberius's hoarding, there was probably slight deflationary pressure. There were big lending houses, or banks, in the Mediterranean at this time. Modern economic theory has made one thing clear - when a bank issues a loan, that bank is - in practice - creating new money because,banks often loan more money than they actually have in their reserves, which means the bank is, in a way, making a bet that it will be loaned back to them. And that’s the problem - when there is a bit of deflation, as there was in the reign of Tiberius, it’s more likely that businesses will not pay back their loans.  Since there was no economic theory, Tiberius and the bankers did not understand this phenomenon - so everyone just kept acting as they always had, which created all sorts of problems. The real drama started with an Alexandrian shipping firm called Seuthes and Sons lost a few ships carrying expensive eastern goods from Egypt to Italy.  Seuthes and Sons had taken out a loan from Maximus and Vibo, a lending house in Rome, and a rumor started that the bank had a bunch of other bad loans as well. It wasn't long before wealthy Romans became convinced that Maximus and Vibo was going to go upside-down, so rich merchants and Senators rushed to the bank and tried to withdraw all of their money, and the Big bank had to shut its doors. Suddenly, everyone was doubting that other Roman banks could make good on their deposits.  Balbus and Ollius, another Roman bank, had a line out the door for deposits – though it’s unclear if it went under or not.  The problem spread to the provinces, and we hear of bank closures in Lugdunum in Gaul, Carthage in North Africa, and Corinth in Greece. So the banks closed their doors because of a debt crisis.  I feel like I've seen this movie before... When Tiberius wrapped his mind around was happening, he propped up the banks with and infusion of 100 million sesterces directly from the Imperial treasury.  This restored Roman confidence in the banks and ended the debt crisis.  It also made it clear that if the financial system was going to collapse, then the Imperial regime would prop it up.  Hmmm. If you’re following, Tiberius took a look at these troubled banks and decided that they were too big to fail – if they weren’t saved the entire financial and business system would continue spiraling out of control.  This sounds a lot like what we just went through, in 2008. The only way Economic theory could have helped in this situation was if it helped Tiberius understand inflation/deflation and stop the debt crisis before it started.  We obviously understand inflation/deflation today, and do everything we can to prevent it from creating debt crises like the one just described. That said - by and large, we are still unable to predict other types of debt crises, which consistently cause the worst depressions/recessions.  Tiberius's response to a debt crisis in the year 29 was the same as US policymakers response in 2008.  My only point - you solve one problem with "economic theory," then you uncover other ones.  The incentives of the banking system will almost never match up well with the incentives of policymakers who are looking for stability, and that will be a problem regardless of how much you know about economics. 