How do mathematicians discover new 'things'?
This is a very interesting and important question. There are two levels at which the question can be asked. First, how do mathematicians discover new facts about objects which are already well-known. For example, recently it was discovered that the gap between successive primes is infinitely often less than some fixed number less than a 1000. This is a property of the positive integers, the most fundamental building blocks of mathematics, and known since the dawn of civilization (indeed, Kronecker declared that they were created by God!). Over the years, a huge amount of study has gone into understanding the properties of positive integers, and mathematicians working in the area have developed a lot of intuition about how the integers work, just as a skilled mechanic has a very good idea how a vehicle works. Powerful tools linking the  integers with analysis and algebra have been developed. Most new discoveries of facts start as conjectures based on intimate knowledge of an area, and then people try to prove it. When the attempt succeeds, we have a new rigorously established mathematical fact. Another level at which the question may be put is to ask -- how are new mathematical objects discovered. Starting with the  positive integers of allegedly divine creation, mathematicians have successively defined new types of numbers -- integers, rationals, reals, complex numbers, quaternions etc.  Starting with the Euclidian plane and space, geometers have generalized it to various geometries. Here, the act of discovery is of a different order. Somehow mathematicians look into a world beyond the familiar mathematics, and find that the familiar objects are but special cases of more general constructions, and the introduction of  the more general construction results in simplification of the theory. The greatest creative mathematicians are known for introducing new mathematical objects which have tremendously simplified and aided our understanding of existing concepts. Two famous examples are the introduction of Riemann Surfaces by Riemann and Schemes by Grothendieck. Both these were visionaries who were able to develop a point of view from which a plethora of existing results could be unified and simplified. One may ask, how do we know that such newly minted objects (complex numbers, the hyperbolic plane,  Riemann surfaces, Schemes) etc exist. This was  a serious problem till the end of the nineteenth century. At that time, it was realized that set theory can be used to provide constructions of these objects. Therefore, the problem of existence of mathematical objects is reduced to the problem of consistency of set theory. This is still not understood, but most mathematicians accept some version (usually ZFC) of set theory as a foundation of day-to-day mathematics. 