What are the top running technique suggestions?
The main thing to be concerned about is how your foot lands against the ground.  Everything else will come naturally. When sprinting or performing any sort of technical run (like the run before a pole vault or a long jump) you will want a front foot strike. This keeps your body balanced better, and propels you forward faster. When running long distance it is up to you. As of now there is no conclusive evidence supporting any one form as better than another.  Some people like to use a heel foot strike as they run because it allows them to run with a longer stride. Personally I advocate a front foot strike, landing between your frontfoot (the toes and ball of your foot) and midfoot (the arch). Most of us have shoes with thick pads on the heel. This encourages a heel foot strike. Imagine you were running without shoes, you wouldn't land on your heel that would hurt very badly.  It is much more ergonomically correct to land forefoot rather than heel foot. Running with a heel foot strike may cause pain to manifest in the knees or hips.   When you run with the fore foot strike you absorb the impact of each step with the muscles throughout your foot and leg, rather than taking it on your bones and joints. So yes it may be a little more tiring, but it does lower the risk of knee pain or injury. I have been running for a couple years now.  I have noticed since I started my form has changed a lot.  The interesting thing though is that it sort of happened naturally.  If you start running your body will naturally want to do what is best for it. I don't mean to say that practicing good running habits won't help, because it most certainly will. Ps. I want to apologize for the crumbly pictures.  Just so you know, I am not trying to advocate vibrom footwear.  You can run with a forefoot strike in any shoe.  I personally prefer less pad on the heel, so that I am not tempted to land on my heels while I run.  I began running with a heel foot strike, but I started to notice my knees would get sore after longer runs.  I transitioned to a forefoot strike to avoid having my knees ache afterward. It worked. Though it took about a month of uncomfortable running before I was totally used to it. One last time I should mention that no method is entirely proven.  Though it is a fact that while barefoot it is more ergonomically correct to run with a forefoot strike, many do not accept it as the best way to run while wearing shoes. The main thing is to do what feels most natural for you. Anyway, I hope this helped. Updated 181w ago • View Upvotes