How can we prepare for CAT?
Disclaimer: Use your best judgement: These things worked for me. This doesn't mean it will work for everybody. Each individual is different. Here are a few things that might help. 1. Study for 7-8 hours a week but regularly. This effectively means spend an hour or a little more than that everyday. Don't spend 4 hours each on a weekend. It might appear to you as if there is no difference, but regular study is important if you want to move from 97%ile to 99%ile. 2. Find ways to stay motivated Preparing for CAT is long and grueling. And when you add on the additional pressure of work, you need to find motivation from external factors. I found coaching classes useful for only this reason. They are a sort of reminder that you are preparing for CAT. Other than that, they are actually not extremely helpful. There is nothing they can teach which you cannot learn on your own, unless you don't have the desire to do it. One way which I would suggest is to write something like "CAT 2015" in a few pieces of paper and paste them in places where you might see them often. Ex: Cupboard, Mirror etc.  [Don't feel this method is too cheesy. It is. But it works. I did it (with a different quote) and I am not ashamed of it.] 3. Enroll for mocks and take accountability Most people do not appear for mocks stating, "I am not fully prepared. I will write mocks when I am satisfied with my preparation". The fact is, you will never be fully prepared. There will always be things which you could improve upon. Hence, do enroll for mocks and attempt them. Don't give yourself stupid excuses. "Oh, I had a date with my boy/girl friend." "I wasn't feeling well." "My mother had given me an important work to do." "I had a meeting at work which I had to prepare for." Take accountability for the fact that the decision to appear for CAT is yours alone. 4. Don't fly or get bogged down with mock results My best mock score was 97.xx percentile. My worst was 41 percentile. These scores happened in two back to back mocks. I was flying high after the first one thinking I could do no wrong and I have cracked the formulae of getting a great score. And then I fell flat on my face with my worst performance. It taught me an important lesson. And thankfully, I learnt it well. 5. Be a part of an online/offline study group Make some friends who are as motivated as you are to do well. If you're not going to coaching classes find them through the online sites that are there. Participate in forum discussions and never hesitate to share information. A lot of people I know, would try to learn as much as possible, but never help others by telling them what they know or what worked for them. 6. Stay away or avoid people who emit negativity You need to figure out people who can motivate you. Typically avoid people: - who brag a lot about 'stuff' they know. - whom you might see doing last minute preparation before a mock cat -  who do not believe in you and encourage you to do something else. "Let's go for a movie tonight, you can always study later." - No. Thank you. 7. Prepare in a way that you want to Don't let me or anyone else tell you that this is what you should be doing. I found two things extremely difficult: - Improving my vocabulary - Being told to read editorials in newspapers I tried. I gave my best. I felt I just wasn't up to it. Word cards, carrying a dictionary in my phone, using words in sentences in daily life - nothing worked for me. Eventually, I felt it is just too much of an effort. Same thing with editorials. I got bored. And thankfully, very quickly. So, if you are not comfortable putting yourself through this pain. Don't do it. But you have to compensate for it. How? Instead of reading newspapers or mugging down words, I used to solve RC passages, do actual sentence correction questions, did paragraph jumbles. In short, I spent more time in trying to solve questions. At the end of the day, you need to get right answers. It doesn't matter if you understood the passage or not. No one cares. And there are ways to get good at answering verbal questions by not being excessively focused on words, or reading speed etc. 8. Have a flexible time table while preparing When you are preparing, study something that your heart wants you to study and don't be rigid. If you had fixed a slot to do quants, but you don't feel like doing it, then don't force yourself into it. Give equal importance to all sections and study what you feel like studying. 9. Take breaks Watch a movie or television series frequently. Everyday, if you can spare time. It is important to stay fresh. After preparing for about 4 weeks, give yourself a week off. Just forget that you are preparing for CAT. This will help your brains to get recharged and your focus would improve the next week onwards. This is important because, when the D-Day comes, you need to be at your peak. The overall preparation that you had put through earlier should not wear you down mentally on what could be one of the most important days in your life. PS: I watched this film, the day before I appeared for CAT. The title is quite apt. The Best Years of Our Lives I wish you good luck. Do comment here or feel free to message me if you don't want to comment for any reason. Further Reading: How should I prepare for the CAT ? How do I prepare for GDPI for MBA admission? Will a year drop after engineering affect my chances to IIM's? Thanks for the A2A Ankit Updated 54w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Ankit Rathore