What is "must have" knowledge or skill set about Java for a recent CS graduate applying for an entry-level Java Position?
Thanks for the A2A Since its an entry level position, my answer will differ a little bit from what was said by Patrick Tan and Jason Feingold. Their answers are heavily respectable and definitely required in the field. I don't use Java as much for development and I use it more on my own time for simple programs/ android studio. But I'll give it a shot: Primitive Data Types Abstract data types and their implementations. Searching/Sorting algorithms and their implementations in Java. Knowledge of NOSQL if you're going to be making calls to a database using Java methods. Multithreading or working with different threads. Object Oriented design, and the knowledge of how to use classes. Java logging framework SLF4J or Log4J Regex expressions in Java. Learn the basic principles of Unit testing and how to test your methods. If you're developing web stack, then Spring or as mentioned already, Beans, etc. Referencing JAR files is a necessity. Classes vs Interfaces. Knowing basic syntax, how to declare constants, how to create a class, how to create a Java path, how to organize code into packages, knowledge of API's and where to find them. If you want to learn front end, HTML5 and CSS3 is great, if you're looking for interactive, JS - Angular or React would work as well. This is not by any means an exhaustive list, in fact it could go on forever because you can never fully learn a language due the rate of development of new API's or new libraries. This should be enough to excel at an entry level job. If you're looking for more clarity ask a question addressed to me and I'll go through everything that I had learned and whether that would be necessary for an entry level job. I also found this link which provide a lot of information about what to know in Java, maybe that might help you a little bit! How much Java do you need to know to get a job? Good luck! Hope this helped! 