How do I keep on moving forward in my coding education after I've completed a few Codecademy languages?
Here are several suggestions (from tons of personal experience) divided into some categories of learning: Web development Courses - Learn to Code by Doing - Code School provides - great interactive courses that cover several web languages and features more deeply. The most unique ones I would suggest starting with are the Chrome Devtools course (Code School - Discover DevTools) and the basic GitHub course (Try Git - Code School) - both of which are free. The payed courses are amazing as well, but you can find alternatives if you wish (though I find their education style is cool and helpful). - The suggested sites in Brock McKean's answer all provide awesome insight, so I won't repeat them here - though I can personally vouch for their usefullness. - Udacity provides several web development courses - while I do know the platform itself has some amazing courses (more on the subject below) I haven't tried their web courses myself. Guided Web Projects - Coursera.com has offered an amazing course named Startup engineering which provides a lot of theoretical info on how to develop a startup idea, as well as tons of practical info on how to bring up a simple site on the web (see mine for example: Fund Plan A) based on Amazon Web services, Heroku, Node.js and Angular JS. It is not running currently but all course material should still be up and available. - FreeCodeCamp has a great guided project based learning path (which is partially based on codeschool's classes - which means you should feel right at home and be able to quickly pick up some suggested projects there. Quincy Larson, the site's founder, is very active on Quora and provides a lot of insight about the site in several questions here if you want to find our more. - Pluralsight - Developer, IT & Creative Training by Pros (codeschool's parent company) provides tons of videos on various subjects. The ones that are uniquely useful, in my humble opinion, are the Play by Play videos  - where expert developers guide you through two hour coding projects. A course I personally found to be amazing was Play by Play: HTML, CSS, and JavaScript with Lea Verou. Note that this site is not free but does provide a free trial and has occasional promotions (i.e. during the past summer). General Programming Courses Since you mentioned computer programming in general, I'm guessing you may want to learn more general stuff. Here are some great starting point, in my opinion: Programming Language Concepts: - Coursera's Programming languages course - provides an amazing introduction to many programming language concepts. The most influential programming course I've taken (including in formal education). - RegexOne - a short course about regular expressions (a very useful concept for text processing, which is shortly covered in codecademy - but provided here just in case. - Programming Languages: Building A Web Browser - a course in Udacity covering general programming concepts by building a web browser. Software Development Concepts - Systematic Program Design - Part 1: The Core Method - a great course (originally in Coursera but now hosted in EdX) covering how to write programs in an ordered and systematic way. - Engineering Software as a Service (SaaS), Part 1 - a course covering Software as a Service Concepts and Test Driven Development. - Algorithms: Design and Analysis, Part 1 - Stanford's Algorithm's course on Coursera. Quite at par with what you would learn at a university, and teaches you some very important algorithms right off the bat (merge-sort, quick-sort..., shortest-path and minimum cuts) as well as important data structures (Heaps, Dictionaries, Graphs). Interactive Programming in Python - Learn how to develop interactive programs (mouse / keyboard + graphics) using game development projects on Python. Databases: - Coursera's Introduction to Databases course - Teaches about SQL, XML -very common Databases languages in various projects. It also provides some theoretical information about NoSQL technologies, though none are actually taught in the lectures. - MongoDB University (which Brock Mckean already suggested) teaches about MongoDB, a leading NoSQL database Even this is merely a small selection of what you can find by yourself, but hopefully this will give you an initial "map" of the subjects that you can dive into. I've made sure to mention as many sources as possible - since each site provide's dozens of more courses than those I've mentioned here. Finally - note that Codecademy often updates their course offerings - be sure to continue following them as well, and make sure you have indeed covered all they have to offer (i.e. try some of their guided projects or specific API lessons). 