What is string theory?
I'll try to answer this in different phases. Phase 1: How did the theory come into existence? As you might know, physics of the real world splits itself into 2 parts: 1. Classical mechanics: Consists of the laws that govern the macro world. 2. Quantum mechanics: Consists of the laws that govern the micro world (i.e. the world of atoms and electrons). General relativity (developed by Einstein) is an amazing scientific theory. It explains how gravity in the world of the large works. It tells how and why planets orbit stars, and how those stars orbit the Milky Way. Relativity makes predictions which can be seen and verified when you look through a telescope. Quantum mechanics is equally amazing. It explains the world of the tiny. It gives us a mathematical description of atoms, electrons, and quarks and how they interact with each other. While classical mechanics is serene, smooth, and deterministic, as we enter the quantum world, everything starts turning chaotic and even the positions or speed of particles are expressed in terms of probability. Enter Stephen Hawking and the Black Hole: Einstein spent the last years of his life trying to unify those 2 theories because as great as they are, problems and inconsistencies occur in some situations which show that neither theory has all the answers. They're essentially incomplete. One such situation is a black hole. Black holes are massive in density. They are so dense and heavy, that not even light can escape its gravitational pull. But they are also incredibly small. Gravity has compressed all that mass into an tiny point called a singularity. Do we use relativity to explain a black hole because it contains so much mass or quantum mechanics because it is so tiny? And there exists the problem. Because the center of a black hole is both incredibly tiny, yet incredibly massive, you cannot avoid using both general relativity and quantum mechanics at the same time. When you attempt to do just that, 1+1 equals 8. They break down and give nonsensical predictions and answers that don’t make sense. It’s kind of like living in a city with 2 different sets of traffic laws that often conflict with each other. The universe is not nonsensical, 1+1=2 not 8, so something is terribly wrong. Enter String Theory: The theory of everything: String theory attempts to unite quantum mechanics and general relativity so we can make sense of the universe on all scales, at any place or time, large or small without breaking down. In short, string theory refers to the mathematical models which seek to find a common explanation for the four main forces seen in nature. These forces are the electromagnetic force, the strong and weak nuclear force, and gravity. Phase 2: What is exactly the gist of string theory? String theory was one of the most revolutionary theories proposed at that time. It throws away the idea of point-like sub-atomic particles and instead replaces the notion by vibrating strings of energy. They’re so tiny that if you enlarged a single atom to the size of our solar system, a string would only be the size of a tree on earth. These strings are said to ‘vibrate’ at different rates. These ‘notes’ or vibrational frequencies are what give rise to the different properties of quarks and atoms. Vibrations which are similar to the notes on a guitar. One particular type of vibration (note) may give rise to a muon, while another represents an electron. By changing the vibration of the strings, you can create different particles. By replacing those point-like subatomic particles with little vibrating strings of energy, we open up a window to the universe that relativity and quantum mechanics can not; a window which may offer us insight into gravity at the quantum scale, black holes, or even the birth of our universe itself. But as for now, string theory is a theory that is actually used to fit various mathematical models that explain the interaction of the fundamental forces (something that is used to replace a broken link between two ends) and no proof of the theory exists as such. Phase 3: What is the concept of the multiverse? As I already suggested, string theory is used to link various forces of nature in a mathematical model (which are way too complex and even I don't understand them fully). The mathematics of string theory say that we live on a brane (membrane) and suggest that our entire universe is on a brane floating around in a higher dimension like a soap bubble and that there are other bubbles.  These other bubbles could contain other universes. In fact, many theorists propose that our brane (or universe) was completely void of matter and energy and that it happened to collide with another brane in this higher dimension which caused, you guessed it, the Big Bang, resulting in the birth of our universe as we know it However, that doesn't necessarily mean there are alternate earths with other yous in these ‘other universes’. The laws of physics in these other dimensions or branes could be incredibly different. For instance, gravity may not exist, or the electromagnetic force may be weaker than ours which would result in stars being unable to form. That universe would be just a sea of protons and neutrons floating around, forever. Phase 4: What are the problems or controversies surrounding String Theory? As of now, there are a lot of controversies related to string theory. For starters, string theory requires our universe to have a minimum of 10 dimensions (and time as the 11th dimension). These extra dimensions are so small, they cannot be seen. They’re even smaller than quarks. Dimensions which we cannot see or feel don't sit well with many people. This was partially responsible for keeping string theory on the back burner for more than 15 years because many thought the idea was ludicrous and didn't take it seriously. Moreover, the concept of dimensions is not well-defined in world of quantum mechanics as everything is replaced by "quantum space-time". Another problem is testing string theory. While string theory does in fact make predictions that are testable (an absolute requirement for any serious scientific theory is being able to falsify it), many of the tests require technology that we do not yet possess and may not possess for hundreds, if not thousands, of years from now. There are plenty of things that can be done that will be very suggestive if discovered though, (we may be able to see evidence of extra dimensions at the LHC, or evidence of cosmic strings with NASA’s LISA mission) but they wouldn't be 100% conclusive. Phase 5: What is the present state of the theory? Unfortunately, directly observing strings is far beyond our current technology. Additionally, string theory’s rich diversity makes it difficult (though not impossible) to derive unique predictions that are specific to just string theory. Still, particle physicists at CERN’s LHC particle accelerator can connect string theory to reality. In particular, two discoveries, supersymmetry and extra-spacial dimensions would suggest that string theory is on the right track. Updated 44w ago • View Upvotes