What would happen if my freezer temperature were absolute zero?
Here is a picture of the closest thing to your zero kelvin refrigerator that exists today in reality [ aka the Matrix ] :: A procedure to get as close to your goal as possible is outlined below using quantum information theory [note that the connection between information (algorithms) and energy (temperature) is entropy] :: Algorithmic cooling and scalable NMR quantum computers The algorithm, which removes entropy [hidden information] from the system, was recently implemented by Marcus Greiner's group at Harvard in his group's quantum gas holographic microscope [see the picture above]  :: Orbital excitation blockade and algorithmic cooling in quantum gases The inside chamber of his group's experiments, just below the lens in the holographically projected photon lattice, rubidium atoms exist at (sub) nanokelvin temperatures [the rubidium atoms are in the squares in the picture and are undergoing Rabi oscillations]. That is the coldest place in the known universe, much colder than outer space, which at 2.725K is relatively hot due to cosmic microwave background radiation. Cosmic microwave background radiation Here are two reasons to try to accomplish what you're suggesting, in real physics experiments, to the furthest extent possible. [1] To suppress thermal fluctuations in order to focus on studying the behavior of quantum fluctuations and interactions between particles of various quantum mechanical systems in a general way [not only bosonic systems that undergo Bose Einstein condensation but also fermionic systems similar to those found in special superconductors and quantum magnets and perhaps anyonic systems, as well, if anyons are real particles]. For example, we still do not have a microscopic quantum theory of ferromagnetism; that is, we do not know how iron works at the quantum level, which is the source of the earth's magnetic field. [2] To build stable, controllable quantum states of matter that are minimally interacting with their environment such that decoherence, or information loss from the system being studied into the environment, is limited. The higher the temperature, the more random thermal fluctuations arise to carry away the information from carefully prepared, precisely defined quantum states into [the vast Hilbert space of] the environment, where recovering that information from the environment would take an unreasonably large number of quantum operations [aka quantum error correction]. Limiting decoherence allows us to better understand the nature of it, which is fundamental to understanding quantum physics more deeply, the emergence of classical physics at longer length scales and to build a quantum computer that uses two level sub systems of the quantum states of matter as physical qubits, with minimal error correction [the errors being primarily due to decoherence.] Decoherence is, in fact, the primary reason why quantum computers are difficult to build, because you can prove mathematically that you need to surpass a certain error correction threshold in order to execute effective and useful quantum logic operations. Since people want to build quantum computers, physicists will build your refrigerator, in some limit. 