Is Heisenberg's uncertainty principle about existence or observation?
The problem with explaining Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle at a level which would be considered "Correct" by physicists is that it uses concepts that most laypeople do not have. Therefore, to answer, I will have to introduce a few rather advanced concepts that I will try to simplify as much as possible while keeping the answer at a level which is more "Correct" than "Wrong." Required Background Information Configuration Spaces: Representing Properties of Particles Quantum Physics does not take place in the world we are used to. Quantum Physics is defined over something called a "Configuration Space" which is a higher-dimensional mathematical space. In school, most people graphed points in a Coordinate Plane based on an x-axis and a y-axis. If you say that a point lies at x=3 and y=2, then you can draw that point 3 spaces to the right and two spaces up from the origin point (where the x-axis and y-axis meet). Now imagine a third axis, the z-axis, which is perpendicular to both the x and y axes, which comes out of and goes into and through the simple x-y graph, making a 3-dimensional space. We typically associate those 3 axes with the 3 spatial dimensions/directions (up-down, left-right, forward-backward). Now, though you can't draw them on a whiteboard (or really visualize them, which makes it difficult), you can have spaces with more than 3 dimensions. The obvious example is Time. A point could be at the point (x,y,z) = (2,4,1) at time t=1, then at point (3,4,2) at time t=2, and so on. In this way, if we had a 4-Dimensional Graph (where Time is the fourth axis/direction/dimension on the graph: the t-axis) we could draw a single arc (without taking our pencil off of the graph) that plotted the 3-dimensional position of the point through time. Each point on this graph is made up of 4 numbers and can decompose into a position on each of the 4 axes, making our first point (x,y,z,t) = (3,4,2,2). Now that we've broken the bonds of 3-dimensional thinking, lets go higher. Imagine that each point on our graph is actually carrying a 6-sided die. At each time-step (for example, when the graph goes from t=2 to t=3) the point rolls the die and calls the result its "d-number". Now, if we had a 5-Dimensional Graph then we could plot a single point at (x,y,z,t,d) = (3,4,2,2,5) which would tell us that at time t=2, there is a point at position x=3, y=4, z=2 with a "d-number" of 5. This point on the graph represents a State. Now we're ready to define a configuration space. A Configuration Space is a higher-dimensional space/graph with the properties of the things being graphed represented as dimensions, like we did with the "d-number" above. In quantum mechanics, these additional dimensions are for properties of particles like "Spin". You can even have what's called a "Multi-Particle Configuration Space" that has even more dimensions and collapses multiple particles with all of their constituent properties into a single point, so that that single point gives you information on all of the individual particles. In this case, a single point on the graph is called a "Configuration" instead of a "State". You can use Configuration Spaces in Classical Physics (aka. Big-Stuff Physics) if you want to, but for Quantum Mechanics, Configuration Spaces are Necessary. Unfortunately, they get a lot more complicated than I've explained here, because they are "complex" spaces with "real" and "imaginary" parts, each taking up their own dimensions, so that a single point on a quantum configuration space does not correspond neatly to a single State or Configuration. Evolution of States and Amplitude It turns out that over time, the state of a particle evolves. The most famous example of an equation that defines how a particle evolves over time is the Schrödinger equation. And it does not give an exact answer. The state of a particle evolves over time according to some equation, but when we try to snapshot it at any specific point in time, we end up with a nasty, complex number. This number does not give us an exact state of the particle, but rather something called an Amplitude, which gives us the Probability of the particle being found in any one of a number of different states. Early QM Scientists found in their experiments that the frequency of particles ending up in different states matched up with the number derived from the amplitudes in the solution of the time-evolution equations. So, if that got a bit confusing, here's the takeaway: The math governing how a point moves in a Quantum Configuration Space does not give us exact end-states like in classical physics. Each point in Quantum Configuration Space instead yields an amplitude distribution or probability distribution over many states, giving the likelihood that we will find the particle in each of those states when we measure it. Position and Momentum: Heisenberg's Principle Now, to the meat of Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle. In quantum mechanics, Position and Momentum are reliant upon one-another. Intuitively, momentum (which way a particle is going and how fast) describes how the position of a particle is changing over time. Therefore, a probability distribution over different possible momenta (momentums) is a probability distribution over "positions over time". Since the time-evolution equations specify the probabilities of a particle being found in various positions over time, they necessarily also contain information about the positions over time (momentum). Think about that for a second. If the time-evolution equation says that at time t=1, the majority of the probability has the particle being on the left side of the room, then at t=2, the majority of the probability has the particle being in the center of the room, then at time t=3, the majority of the probability has the particle being on the right side of the room, then (and this is grossly simplified) that tells us that the majority of the Momentum probability must have the particle moving from left to right across the room. This is at the heart of the difference between Quantum Mechanics and "Big Stuff Physics". The fundamental thing really is the mathematical object (the amplitude distribution) not the particle itself. Position and Momentum are inexorably tied together because we're talking about evolutions of states over time, whereas in big stuff physics, if you see a ball at a certain position, you learn nothing about its momentum. So if you perfectly know the position distribution in Quantum Mechanics, you necessarily know the distribution of the position over time. Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle tells us that we can't have this kind of information. He derived it from the mathematics as a fundamental inequality and even he didn't understand why it was the case (from an ontological perspective. He knew why it was the case in the math). The first explanation he gave was wrong, as he conflated it with the "Observer Effect" (That we cannot observe a system without acting upon it, thereby changing the system) which unfortunately is what most people think the Uncertainty Principle is. (It's NOT!!) So... WHY!?!? (Answer: "Math") I've been told that Richard Feynman had an elegant interpretation of Why this is the case that doesn't just read it off from the mathematics, but I haven't read it myself. The super-basics of a mathematical interpretation is on how amplitude clouds (remember, these mean probabilities) evolve over time. If you have a lot of amplitude/probability concentrated in one area, then as the system evolves, that amplitude spreads out the same way that if you drop food coloring into a glass of water, it will tend to spread out. We already talked about how position and position over time are related in quantum mechanics. So it turns out that when your position distribution is concentrated in a single area, when you transform it to get the momentum, that momentum distribution is more spread out. Similarly, if the momentum distribution is concentrated, then the position distribution is more spread out. The reason for this, mathematically, is that the momentum distribution and the position distribution of particles in Quantum Configuration Space are the Fourier Transforms of one-another. That's it. Conclusion Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle has nothing to do with observers and certainly has nothing to do with conscious minds. It stems from the fact that in the Quantum Realm, we're working in a mathematical domain that is different from classical physics (quantum configuration spaces). Position and Momentum are related mathematically, unlike in big-stuff physics. Heisenberg's Principle comes from the fact that Position and Momentum distributions are Fourier Transforms of one-another, which leads to a fundamental inequality in the mathematics of Quantum Mechanics that is not attributable to any kind of Observation Effect. Disclaimer: This explanation has been greatly simplified and is not 100% accurate. However, I believe I have achieved my goal of a relatively simple, informative answer that is "more right than wrong" by a significant margin. 