What is the most controversial topic in physics?
Physics has different types of controversies.  In every category, the most controversial topic is also a matter of debate, so I am just giving my opinion. Different types of controversies: Is this really physics?  Because physics is an empirical science, theoretical predictions must be theoretically testable by experiments.  That doesn't mean the experiments need to be possible today or in the foreseeable future.  It just means that that the laws of physics do not prohibit experimental verification of a theory.  Theories about multiple universes fall into this class.  The extent of our universe is defined by the distance light has traveled since the big bang, and since nothing moves faster than the speed of light, the existence of other universes is not verifiable.  Some would also put string theory in this category. Should this receive funding? (or the corollary: should our department hire a new faculty in this area?)  I don't want to give specific examples, but many physicists feel that their area doesn't receive enough funding/attention and another area receives too much. Heated scientific debate.  Every field of physics has at least one topic where theories/findings/interpretations are very controversial.  Since there is not a lot of cross-talk between different fields, these debated topics cannot rightfully be considered the biggest controversy in physics.  In my own field (condensed matter), the mechanism of high-temperature superconductivity has been hotly debated since the late 80s.  Because physicists thought another Nobel prize was on the line, they behaved like crazy buffoons in the early days of the field.  Epic screaming matches at conferences, rejecting new experimental techniques, zealously perpetuating wrong conclusions. 200,000 papers later, and researchers in this field are behaving more like grownups, but there is still no theory of high temperature superconductivity which is supported by the majority of experiments and accepted by the majority of the community. Updated 89w ago • View Upvotes • Not for Reproduction