Is Heisenberg's uncertainty principle about existence or observation?
The simplest way to demonstrate Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle is to ask yourself: Where is a wave? If you can't answer, then you've demonstrated Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle. For a more complete answer, here are three points: Where is a wave? Why ask "where is a wave"? What are these waves, anyway? 1. Where is a wave? Imagine a completely uniform wave: If it really is completely uniform, then it must stretch to infinity on both left and right, and must look exactly the same wherever you are. But then where is it? There is no good way to say "where" a perfectly, completely uniform wave is, since it has to look the same everywhere from infinity to infinity. Of course, in real life it is possible to say where waves are. Take the extremely unfortunate and tragic example of a tsunami. Somewhere under the sea, the Earth's crust shifts in a very definite spot, to create a ripple with a well-known location, which then moves outwards at a well-defined speed, to hit a well-defined spot on an unfortunate beach somewhere. "Isn't that a wave for which you can state a where?", you ask. Yes, indeed, but here's the catch: it's not a pure wave. It doesn't look exactly uniform, and doesn't have one single wavelength (or else it would look uniform). Instead, it is an addition of many, many waves, each with a different wavelength: Indeed, if it is allowed to spread far enough, these different wavelengths will betray themselves as they pass through the dispersive medium with different speeds, as portrayed in my answer What would sound's equivalent be for what a prism does to light? And here's the catch: because you know where the wave is, you can't possibly answer the question: How fast is the wave moving? That's uncertainty, and it can be mathematically stated in terms of Fourier transforms. But every bit of math you need can also be stated in the following statement: For any wave, the better you can answer the "Where is it" question, the worse you can answer the "How fast is it moving" question. The perfectly uniform wave, identical from infinity to infinity, can have a completely single, well-defined wavelength - but it can't possibly have a location. The perfectly localized wave, a beautiful spike rooted in one single location, must be made of the addition of an infinite number of waves with wavelengths from extremely small to infinitely large - it can't possibly have a speed. 2. Why ask "where is a wave"? On the surface all this discussion of waves couldn't be further from the Heisenberg uncertainty principle. But they are completely analogous, with the following observations: A wave is an example of a configuration. "Where" and "how fast" are examples of observables.It turns out that in quantum physics, there are many pairs of observables called "canonical conjugates" that can never be simultaneously measured, due to the fact that they do not commute. Now this doesn't mean that they will only stay within walking distance of their workplaces (or it's work from home all the way baby!), it means (even more disturbingly) that making successive measurements in one order gives you a different result from making them in another order. In real life we are familiar with operations that commute and operations that don't. Suppose I tell you to choose a number, then add two, then add four. The order in which you add doesn't make a difference (you could as easily add four, then add two). But what if I told you to choose a number, then add two, then multiply by four? You get a very different answer if you multiply by four before adding two. Now you'd expect this to be true of some physical operations as well: it makes a difference whether you wrap an egg up in foam before or after you drop it! What you wouldn't expect is for this to occur with mere observation. In classical physics, you can observe something without changing it, and so it really shouldn't matter whether you measure the egg's momentum first, or its physical location. But in quantum physics (because of how operators work - that's the technical stuff I'm hiding) you can't. Observing a system changes it (into the eigenstate of the observation operator); these changes are often incompatible, in such a way that doing one before the other is completely different from its reverse. It turns out that this incompatibility is precisely the same kind of incompatibility between asking "Where is a wave" and "How fast is the wave moving", giving rise to the Heisenberg uncertainty principle. (Footnote 1: In the early days of quantum physics, of course, that raised all kinds of philosophical consternation about what an "observation" was, and what sort of unicorn dust had to be sprinkled on humans so that they could make these magical state-changing observations, but the dust has mostly settled on that. Nowadays the consensus is that any physical phenomenon that distinguishes between one state and another constitutes an observation: if atom A does thing 1 for atom B in a particular location, and thing 2 for atom B in another location, then atom A doing either thing 1 or thing 2 constitutes a measurement for the location of atom B, with or without pesky humans watching.) (Footnote 2: It is becoming all the rage for people to conjure up "weak measurements" that don't change the system. The catch is that they don't return as much information as the usual measurements - hence they're weak, and the Heisenberg uncertainty principle "doesn't apply". Except it does - it limits the amount of information you can get from a weak measurement, thus setting the "weak"ness.) 3. What are these "waves", anyway? Faced with the prospect of nature acting like some kind of immature teenager, spasming whenever a physicist so much as peeks at it, there were a few different responses: a. "The math is what it is": the instrumentalist The Copenhagen school studiously avoided any question of interpretation. Instead, it simply set out as axioms, or unprovable assumptions, the statements about states and observations above. If you asked "But what are these states, and observations, and why does an observation change these states just so mysteriously?", then you just weren't part of the Copenhagen school. This dogmatism makes sense when you consider its background in the scientific meta-theories of the time, namely instrumentalism and positivism. Positivism is the idea that what is real is simply what we can observe, test and measure with our human senses and reason; instrumentalism extends that to its logical conclusion, which is that "reality" is really just whatever we can replicate as a numerical result of controlled scientific experiments (with instruments - hence instrumentalism). Love it or loathe it, instrumentalism is an entirely sensible way to answer the question of "what is it scientists do?" Scientists measure things, measurement is reality, reality is what scientists measure - it may be circular, but it's entirely coherent. Against that background, a Copenhagen school physicist would answer the Quora question by saying that there is no difference between existence and observation. If something "exists unobserved" - say, some magical position of the particle that is definite and local and yet is still well-defined for any momentum measurement, you just can't measure it - then it does not exist. b. "The math is not complete": the realist Enter Einstein, the arch-realist, who insisted that you can't just bloody pretend "particles don't have a where", and therefore has to be something in the quantum junk that actually has a position, even when a momentum observation smears it out to kingdom come. There had to be a reality to the phenomena that "things have location", even if some arcane mathematics precluded its observation, giving rise to the label "realism". As such, his philosophical work started off the tradition of hidden variable theory: Maybe position really exists as an actual variable, but it's hidden in such a way that no amount of measurement can recover it after a momentum variable measurement. The realist would thus answer the Quora question by saying it's only observation. However, hidden variable theory seems less and less a likely contender the more quantum physics advances. In particular, John Bell published an inequality which drags hidden variables out into the open: "if they exist," Bell's inequality says, "then they must affect our measurements in such and such a way even though we can't actually measure them directly". Bell's inequality has made a bit of a sport (in a good way) of poking all the crannies in which hidden variables might be hiding, and every few years some experimental quantum physics team will say "But have you tested the inequalities with only two photons? Well, have you?" or "But you didn't make an equation which is robust even with noise, did you? Well, we have!". Our current best contenders for hidden variable theory are nonlocal: the hidden variables, if they exist, must exist in such a way that they are simultaneously influenced by phenomena everywhere else in the universe. This raises the specter of special relativity and the speed limit of the speed of light (which, to be fair, also plagues non-hidden-variable quantum theory), and moreover just violates plain common sense in a different way. If I have to believe that two photons bouncing off Betelguese, billions of light years away, will affect the hidden variables of my particles here on Earth - well, why bother with those hidden variables anyway? c. "Had we but worlds enough, and time ... ": the many-worlds / many-minds dabbler The third position really isn't very much better philosophically, but it bears mention. Many-worlds / many-minds (MWMM) ontology tries to have its cake and eat it by saying that measurements split worlds, so that in each world there is a definite position and momentum, but across the ensemble of worlds the requisite uncertainty principles are upheld. As such, the MWMM theorist would answer the Quora question by saying it is an observation problem - in the sense that the observations simply cannot span the multimultiverse needed to eliminate both uncertainties simultaneously. (I say multimultiverse because the MWMM ensemble of many worlds seems, to me, to be quite different from the multi-dimensional extension of the current world which string theorists are currently flirting with.) The main trouble with this theory is that the multimultiverse is, at the end, just a playful construct, for the simple reason that I will never occupy more than one universe at a time. So what's the point? Either tell me what I can observe in any one universe, at which point you will either say "Well, in any one universe, you will collapse the wavefunction, and that's that" - in which case you're a Copenhagenista - or you will say "In any one universe, the particle has definite though very well hidden position and momentum" - in which case you're a hidden variables-ist. At the end of the day, this position collapses into one of the prior two. In summary Where does the Heisenberg uncertainty principle come from? It comes from the basic mathematics governing quantum theory, which one can understand intuitively by asking "Where is a wave?" The question of how the math relates to the real world is a major difference between rival schools of quantum physics: either you believe that the math is all there is, in which case the difference between observation and existence is not sensible, or you don't, in which case the Heisenberg uncertainty principle's deeply counterintuitive nature must be a relic of observation, with all the basic tenets of common-sense reality still existing at a deeper level than quantum physics allows us to probe. 