What are some mind-blowing facts that sound like 'BS', but are actually true?
14 Squirrels Detained on Suspicion of Espionage A team of squirrels was found in a nuclear power plant near the Iranian border. They were captured and charged with espionage as they were allegedly carrying devices used for gathering information. [1] "The squirrels were carrying spy gear of foreign agencies, and were stopped before they could act, thanks to the alertness of our intelligence services." Apprehending animals on suspicion of spying or aiding and abetting various criminal activities is not as uncommon as you might think:  In 2011, a vulture, thought to be a Mossad agent,was seen flying over Saudi Arabia and accused of spying for the Israelis.  The vulture was carrying a GPS tracker and tags from the Tel Aviv University and Israel Nature Service.  The researchers claimed that they were only using the vulture to study the bird's migratory patterns. The vulture was captured in western Sudan. [2] In 2010, Indian police held a pigeon under armed guard after it was caught on an alleged spy mission for neighboring Pakistan.[3] This feline was pressed into service by inmates at Alagoas prison in Northeast Brazil to smuggle in supplies. The cat had been seen several times on the prison grounds, but not much was thought of it until one day, an officer noticed that it had a bag strapped to it. The bag contained a cell phone and charger, tiny saw blades, and other tools for tunnel digging. It turns out the prisoners had raised the cat, and would send it out of jail grounds, where it would be picked up by family members who would strap tools to the animal. The cat would then instinctively return home to the prisoners. [3] And finally, meet Lorenzo - a Colombian drug cartel member [...] He was charged with being a "look out".  The parrot is one of nearly 1,700 parrots trained to call out "Run, run, you're getting caught" or "Look out the cat is coming" (in Spanish), whenever they see police approaching.  When Lorenzo was arrested, the police officers were also able to capture his owners together with more than 200 weapons and an enormous amount of drugs and another two trained parrots.[3] [1]Iranians arrest 14 squirrels for spying [2] Saudi Arabia Busts 'Israeli Spy' Vulture [3]Animals Under Arrest | Toptenz.net Updated 5d ago • View Upvotes