What are some good math jokes?
Q: What's purple and commutes? An Abelian grape. Q: What is purple and all of its offspring have been committed to institutions? A simple grape, it has no normal subgrapes. Q: What is lavender and commutes? An Abelian semigrape. Q: What's purple, commutes, and is worshipped by a limited number of people? A finitely-venerated Abelian grape. Q: What's purple, round, and doesn't get much for Christmas? A finitely presented grape. Enough with the grapes! We get it!! Q: What's nutritious and commutes? An Abelian soup. Q: What's hot, chunky and acts on a polygon? Dihedral soup. Q: What's sour, yellow, and equivalent to the axiom of choice? Zorn's lemon. Q: What is brown, furry, runs to the sea, and is equivalent to the axiom of choice? Zorn's lemming. -----------Here are some more jokes in no particular order. Q: What is green and homeomorphic to the open unit interval? The real lime. Q: What is yellow, linear, normed and complete? A Bananach space. Q: What do you call a young eigensheep? A lamb, duh! Q: What's the contour integral around Western Europe? Zero, because all the Poles are in Eastern Europe! Actually, there ARE some Poles in Western Europe, but they are removable! Q:What is a dilemma? A lemma that proves two results. //i should have ommited this one, couldn't help// Q: What's a polar bear? A rectangular bear after a coordinate transform. Q: What's nonorientable and lives in the sea? Moebius Dick. Q: What does the little mermaid wear? An Algebra. Q: Why didn't Newton discover group theory? Because he wasn't Abel. Q: What do you get if you divide the cirucmference of a jack-o-lantern by its diameter? Pumpkin Pi! Kael: What's your favorite thing about mathematics? Mike: Knot theory. Kael: Yeah, me neither. Q: Why did the mathematician name his dog Cauchy? Because he left a residue at every pole. Q: What do you get if you cross oatmeal with a duck? |oatmeal|*|duck|*sin(theta) Don't worry, I got this one wrong too. I thought the answer was Quacker Oatmeal! Those silly mathematicians. Q: What is a topologist? Someone who cannot distinguish between a donut and a coffee cup. Q: What is a compact city? It's a city that can be guarded by finitely many nearsighted policemen. Q: Why can't you grow wheat in Z/6Z? It's not a field. Q: What's grey, huge and has integer coefficients? An elephantine equation. Q: What is used by Canadians (and people from Wisconsin) to help solve certain differential equations? The Lacross transform. Q: What is clear and used by trendy sophisticated engineers to solve other differential equations? The Perrier transform. Q: What is very old, used by farmers, and obeys the fundamental theorem of arthimetic? An antique tractorization domain. Q: Why couldn't the moebius strip enroll at the school? They required an orientation. Q: Why did the chicken cross the Moebius strip? To get to the other... Q: Why do mathematicians, after a dinner at the Mandarin, insist on taking the leftovers home? Because they know the Chinese remainder theorem! Math Jokes 