How can quantum computing be used in space exploration?
A few scientists from NASA JPL and Ames have been working with some of the D-Wave guys to solve some artificial intelligence and machine learning problems that can help with certain problems in space exploration. Here is the link to the paper: [1204.2821] A Near-Term Quantum Computing Approach for Hard Computational Problems in Space Exploration The paper doesn't really solve any problems. It's more like a road map or manual for solving your own problems if you were interested in doing so. My guess is that they'll be working on a few big ones to show people that it can be done. If you don't feel like reading, here are the main areas they talk about: Classification for planetary feature detection (quantum boosting for binary classification) Anomaly detection for space systems (monitoring systems) Data fusion and image matching (for remote sensing) Mission planning Diagnostics (fault tree analysis) Unmanned autonomous exploration (multi-UAV task assignment) Multi-label classification General clustering schemes for pattern recognition There have been rudimentary efforts by some German scientists working with Siemens to build a quantum neural network. The classical model of recurrent networks (specifically the Hopfield model) is limited in that the number of memories you can store is about 14% of the number of neurons you can have. The German guys came up with a way to store many more memories using quantum superposition.. in fact they even patented the method (which is kind of bizarre and annoying). They tested on a 2-qubit nuclear magnetic resonance (NMR) system. Here's the paper: Quantum pattern recognition with liquid-state nuclear magnetic resonance D-Wave has claimed to be the world's best superconducting fabrication facility. If they figure out a way to cheaply scale the number of qubits in their processors, this would be a good day for quantum computing, but it's not clear whether it will be great for certain problems. Currently they're working on a 512-qubit system which ought to be released sometime this year (2013). So far, we've only been able to do relatively small experiments with the quantum processors. It's not obvious what will happen once the number of variables in a problem increases, but preliminary experiments show some good potential for accelerating solutions to some NP-hard problems to make them somewhat tractable. It is known that most optimization problems can be mapped to the quantum annealing processor, it's just a matter of efficiently doing that (the typical graph embedding problem) and the scaling of the number of qubits and how that affects the entire system. Lots of issues to overcome, but things are getting done and the recent stuff looks very promising. 