What does the word "topological" mean in your field of research?
a2a. I'm involved in two areas of research, machine learning and quantum computation. In ML there are some very interesting ideas that I am just starting to uncover, but unfortunately I can't speak much about it. At a surface level though, it seems like there is some insight to be gained by trying to understand high-dimensional data topologically, as well as some interesting ways to construct learning algorithms by expressing the data on a certain type of manifold. See: Nonlinear dimensionality reduction and Dictionary Learning and Sparse Coding on Grassman Manifolds: An Extrinsic Solution. I know a couple of things about what topological might mean in quantum computing. The obvious one would be the topological model of quantum computation, which is an attempt to reduce decoherence (the destroying of a quantum state because of a coupling to environmental noise) using non-abelian anyons to do computation. The idea requires some understanding of formal models of computation, like Turing machines, and understanding of condensed matter physics, in particular the fractional quantum Hall effect. See my answer about topological QC. A much lesser known use of topology is in the adiabatic model of quantum computing. There are two uses, actually. The first is the topology of the hardware graph, i.e. the allowed couplings between qubits. In theory, a complete machine will have complete connectivity, but in practice this is obviously impossible, so a sparser connectivity is attempted that is amenable to large scaling. Actually, this is really just a term used in any fields that use graph theory, like networking, power engineering, supercomputing, or anything else that can be represented as a graph, and then the connectivity of the vertices (or nodes, if you prefer) is what you'd call the topology of the graph or system. The second usage involes a problem in finding an optimal "path" (annealing schedule) between an easily preparable quantum system and a difficult one. The actual computation happens when you slowly (adiabatically) change from the easy to hard state, but the problem is that no one knows exactly what slowly means, and it is not necessarily a linear change. Thinking about the change of system state as a path on some abstract surface can help find an optimal annealing schedule. See: Page on Isi and [0905.2376] Quantum Adiabatic Brachistochrone Updated 104w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Sulimon Sattari