What is Lattice cryptography?
Just a couple of things to add to Mike Hamburg’s response. (Full disclosure: I work for Security Innovation, the owner of the patents on NTRU, one of the lattice-based cryptosystems I’ll discuss below).   First, the public keys don’t need to be enormous. A full specification of an n-dimensional lattice contains n^2 entries, which is huge. However, a very popular approach these days is to use “ideal lattices”, which are lattices with additional symmetry. For these lattices you can specify a public key using only n entries. Some cryptosystems that use ideal lattices are NTRUEncrypt, NTRUSign, Oded Regev’s Learning With Errors encryption scheme, and Craig Gentry’s homomorphic encryption scheme. For example, the NTRU parameter sets that are claimed to give 128-bit security have a key size of about 4800 bits, comparable to RSA-4096. It’s reasonable to be concerned that the additional symmetries introduce new avenues of attack, but ideal lattices have been around since 1996 and no-one so far has found a way to exploit that structure.   Second, there’s much better understanding than there used to be of what level of security you get from a given size of lattice. The pioneers here have been Phong Nguyen and his students at ENS in Pari. The current state of the art is given in their BKZ 2.0 paper, Better Lattice Security Estimates. This confirms that dimensions in the mid-to-high hundreds give a very high level of security, consistent with key sizes in the thousands to tens of thousands of bits.   Although lattice-based primitives aren't as generic as discrete log based primitives, there's a lot of creativity being brought to bear on the topic at the moment, and a lot of cool crypto primitives from other settings are being ported over to a lattice setting. For example, there are recent proposals of blind signatures, proxy signatures, and identity-based encryption schemes. For a long time lattice problems were seen as inflexible and infertile compared to, for example, pairing-based crypto, but that's changing now. I very much enjoy working in this field – it’s nice to have an area of cryptography where a geometric intuition is useful. Quora is text-based, but one nice thing about lattice-based crypto is that it’s easy to explain with pictures; in fact, it’s easier to explain lattice-based crypto than RSA (if you want to actually explain it, rather than just say that it involves factoring). 