What are some topics/fields in physics that aren't traditionally taught in the undergraduate physics curriculum but are worth learning/really cool?
I've enjoyed studying Order of Magnitude Physics see an example at Physics 101 At Caltech, this course covered estimation methods, materials, fluids, quantum mechanics, and thermodynamics, but really it was just a playground for the professors teaching it to attack all manner of interesting problems to first order. I took it with Sterl Phinney, who did things like drop tennis balls and baseballs off Millikan library to see how high they bounce or drop a magnet through a copper tube and work out an estimate of how long it should take to fall through. The most fun formal course I took. Note: this course can be tricky to implement. The only text is Sanjoy Mahajan's, and it's just an incomplete draft. I TA'd a pilot OOM course at Johns Hopkins. It was not as successful as its progenitor and hasn't been repeated yet; I think we had difficulty matching the load to the students, many of whom weren't physics majors. Quantum Computation see PHYS771 Quantum Computing Since Democritus If you've taken a first pass at quantum mechanics that mostly involved solving the Schrodinger equation for a bunch of different potentials and then a bit of angular momentum at the end, a class on quantum computation can help you develop some appreciation for why superposition and interference are so interesting. I haven't taken Aaronson's course, but his book is fantastic (and covers lots of interesting stuff beyond quantum mechanics). There is a MOOC from Umesh Vazirani online as well. Biological Physics see APh 161 - Winter 2013 I took this course from Rob Phillips and was fascinated. It was two concurrent courses - one lecture course and one lab course. Seeing physics applied to a different context lets you practice your physics skills while learning a new domain. This course emphasized the idea of modeling a very complex system with a simple toy model and seeing how far it takes you. I also TA'd a course on biophysics at Hopkins based on Philip Nelson's textbook that went very well. Nelson's text is well-written and less advanced than Phillips'. Applications of Classical Physics see Ph 136 Applications of Classical Physics This is partially redundant with some of the other answers. I took this from Kip Thorne, and it was difficult material, but a good challenge that complements order-of-magnitude physics. There's an awful lot of stuff out there where someone could describe the problem to you, and you think, "okay, well I know Newton's laws and basic statmech, so I should be able to solve this; it's just some details..." But it's a lot of details. This course covers many of them. Solitons, turbulence, optics, fluctuation-dissipation relations, shocks, plasmas, lots of good stuff to hold your interest while building the geometric tools Jay alluded to. Some others I'd consider: Econophysics My goal studying this would mostly be to see how a physicist approaches problems in a completely new domain Philosophy of Physics This a broad field; it could be a survey course or a deeper study of a particular topic, like quantum mechanics or time. Networks I'm not sure the best name for this course. You'd study some graph theory, random processes, scale invariance, just interesting stuff that isn't exactly physics, but a lively research area that appeals to physicists. Physics Club This isn't a class, but the best time I had doing physics as an undergrad was at Gil Rafael's physics club, where we brought in fun problems and group-solved them under his guidance. They have a website at Caltech Physics League 