If complex numbers are just imaginary and an assumption, why are they necessary to solve other problems?
This question should bother every person who is studying physics once in his lifetime. The exponential of Imaginary numbers produces sines and cosines and knows everything about the rotation and angles (multiplication by a complex constant is a rotation together with magnification). The behavior of many functions in the complex plane - e.g. the Riemann zeta function - has been linked to number theory (distribution of primes). We don't use Imaginary numbers in our solutions of  equations , they are inherent in it since you get it by solving differential equation.  The waves in quantum mechanics had to be complex, "exp(ikx)", for the waves to remember the momentum as well as the direction of motion. If you multiply it with another exponential factor exp(i theta) where theta is the angle , then this factor tells you about the PHASE of the wave .And when you multiply operators or state vectors, you actually have to multiply complex numbers (the matrix elements) according to the rules of complex multiplication. The commutator of "x" and "p" equals "xp-px" which is, for two Hermitean (real-eigenvalue-boasting) operators, an anti-Hermitean operator i.e. "i" times a Hermitean operator (because its Hermitean conjugate is "px-xp", the opposite thing). You can't do anything about it: if it is a c-number, it has to be a pure imaginary c-number that we call "i.hbar". The uncertainty principle forces the complex numbers upon us. So the imaginary unit is not a "trick" that randomly appeared in one application of some bizarre quantum mechanics problem - and something that you may humiliate. The imaginary unit is guaranteed to occur in any system that reduces to classical physics in a limit but is not a case of classical physics exactly. Completely universally, the commutator of Hermitean operators - that are "deduced" from real classical observables - have commutators that involve an "i". That means that their definitions in any representation that you may find have to include some "i" factors as well. Once "i" enters some fundamental formulae of physics, including Schrödinger's (or Heisenberg's) equation, it's clear that it penetrates to pretty much all of physics. Now coming to the presence of i in Schrodinger's equation, this happens because when you write the Time Translation Operator (with the help of which the Schrodinger's equation is derived) we want it to be Unitary so when we write the infinitesimal time translation we add an i to it which then appears in the Schrodinger's equation and as as mentioned above Once "i" enters some fundamental formulae of physics, including Schrödinger's (or Heisenberg's) equation, it is clear that it penetrates to pretty much all of physics. http://motls.blogspot.in/2010/08... Some answers here might also be helpful How do complex numbers appear in physics? What is their physical interpretation? How do they appear in equations of waves? Thanks for A2A 