Is Heisenberg's uncertainty principle about existence or observation?
Until recently, there were actually two different versions of the uncertainty principle. Heisenberg's original formulation could be more much more closely characterized as being about observation than about existence than the more generalized formulation. In fact, a relatively recent paper has shown that the original version, which took uncertainty to be the manifestation of a disturbance caused by measurement, is violated. The relevant paper is here: Violation of Heisenberg's Measurement-Disturbance Relationship by Weak Measurements So now we have just the generalized version which can be mathematically derived from the canonical commutation relation.  I believe the fact that the uncertainty principle is equivalent to the non-commutativity of canonical conjugate observables strongly suggests that it is about existence, and not about observation. Here is why: There is a purely quantum phenomenon called quantum contextuality,  according to which one can set up situations in which the outcome of a measurement depends on its arrangement with respect to other measurements. A critical aspect of such set-ups is that the observables within distinct arrangements must commute with each other, so it means that the uncertainty principle does not apply within particular arrangements. If uncertainty were merely due to observation, then, it seems to me, setting up situations  in which it is eliminated  from the measurement arrangements should also eliminate the uncertainty quantum state, but it doesn't. To see this, consider the Mermin-Peres magic square, the simplest arrangement that illustrates contextuality:  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Qua... Here, measurements of states in horizontal arrangements commute with each other, and so do measurements of states in vertical arrangements.  Imagine we only measure the two states above the ninth field, its state is then determined with certainty. Now imagine the same situation, except this time we measure the two states to the left of the ninth field. Now the state in the ninth field is also determined with certainty, it is in fact the other one of the two possible states that it could be observed to have upon a measurement. Notice the critical difference to the usual way in which the uncertainty principle is understood. There it is, say, position and momentum  measurements on the *same state* which don't commute. Here, however, the non-commuting observables apply to different states, and in particular, they do not involve the state in which are interested in (the one in the ninth field) at all.  The uncertainty of the quantum state here manifests itself in the fact that the outcome of the measurement of the state in the ninth field can still be one of two possible ones, depending on which other two states we measure. Under an account of the uncertainty principle as a manifestation of an inherent limit on  observation, as opposed to ontology, this would seem inexplicable. 