What is string theory?
To give a comprehensive and technical answer to this question is not possible at the moment since the researchers are asking themselves the same question. The full answer is not known. The situation can be compared with the state of affairs in the days of old quantum theory when physicists found themselves attacking theoretical problems with a mixture of old classical ideas and various new ad hoc hypotheses. They sensed correctly that a full new synthesis is awaiting and we know ultimately it was found in the form of quantum mechanics. String theorists are sensing something similar. String theory starts with a very  modest looking proposal (in addition to all the existing principles of physics) the point like particles are really 1 dimensional string like object (which follow Chew's principle in the S-matrix to consistently interact with each other and respect world sheet duality). This is not a paradigm changing, ground shaking modification of the existing physics. And yet, when you make this assumption, with the incorporation of supersymmetry, you soon encounter all known beautiful ideas of physics in a consistent framework, be it gauge theories or gravity and it does more. It removes the arbitrariness of the number of dimensions of spacetime. It constrains spacetime to have exactly 10 dimensions. It removes the troublesome infinities of the quantum field theories in the most graceful manner. You can see in the ordinary quantum field theory, representing some interaction with Feynman diagram consist of singular points at the vertex. In string theory, the same process is represented by so-called "pant's diagram". You see there is no singular point in the pair of "pants". String theory is obviously finite. Strings come in two varieties. Open string and closed string. Two or more open strings can join to form one open string or closed string. Two or more closed strings can join to form only closed string. Therefore all types of string theory necessarily contains closed strings. Just like ordinary strings, these string have waves. In case of closed string, strangely this can go clockwise or anticloskwise!! They are referred to as "left movers" and "right movers". The different vibrational modes of the string correspond to different particles. The more frantically a string vibrates the more energy it posses and that means more massive it is. A point particle traces out a line in spacetime called World line. A string sweeps out an area in spacetime called Worldsheet. However in quantum mechanics, string theory would contain Anomaly (physics) and it becomes inconsistent in any other dimensions than 10. This is necessary if you want to keep the scale invariance feature on the worldsheet. So, string theory is necessarily 10 dimensional. The other extra dimensions are thought to be very small and curled up. The geometry of these compact extra dimensions affect the 04 dimensional physics. Also remember, not just any generic space will preserve the supersymmetry. Only a highly specialized space, called Calabi-Yau will preserve it. Superstring theory immediately solves the mystery of the straightness of Regge trajectories (Regge theory). More over, the history of a string in spacetime, the so-called "world sheet", is a Riemann surface. Now the extra dimensions can be compactified in a variety of ways. Each will give you a different type of low energy physics. It is estimated to have at least 10^500 different possible solutions. And this is one of the main criticisms against string theory for if you have 10^500 nos. of different solutions then anything might be consistent with string theory. Far from being a "theory of everything" it will simply be a "theory of anything". But is the situation that bad? First of all think about the Standard Model of particle physics. It has many adjustable free parameters. For each set of values of those parameters it predicts a different universe. How many? Infinitely many! All will be consistent with the "standard model". String theory has absolutely no adjustable parameters as inputs of the theory and it is consistent with 10^500 different possible universe. Now 10^500 is a chicken feed compared to infinity. Isn't it? So string theory is a definite progress. You may object that "standard model" is never thought to be the ultimate theory of everything unlike string theory. You are right. At the present status, string theory should not be thought as a complete theory of nature but things are not static in string theory. At present, string theory should be thought as a consistent framework where you can meaningfully ask specific questions about quantum gravity to to get the general answers. To get our specific "standard model" from string theory perhaps we need more than just hard work of navigating the landscape of solutions. That's why theorists sense a missing link somewhere hidden in this structure. Some profound basic principle, like equivalence principle of GR, is seemed to be still missing. There are many miraculous things go on in string theory and everybody senses something deep underneath but nobody has as yet figured it out. Hopefully these fogs will clear soon and we shall be able to see string theory in its full glory. [various figures are from various online sources] Updated 139w ago • View Upvotes