Does the fact that a reference frame has an exact position and velocity a cause a contradiction in quantum mechanics?
----{Original answer}---- Quantum Mechanics via the uncertainty principle says: This means that if the precision with which we can determine the position with is as tiny as possible (making position measurement accurate) then the precision with which we determine the momentum to must increase (making momentum measurements inaccurate) so that the above equation remains true - such that the product of the two must be no less than half of Plank's constant. So it is possible to find the position of a particle, and furthermore, a particles momentum, but both cannot be known accurately at once. ----{Edition/Addition}---- Think of it in terms of a philosophical generalization: I know my own state because I am constantly making measurements with my body (muscles, nerves, senses); my mind asks my senses every possible question about my state at once and instantly receives a response. We are constantly measuring ourselves and collapsing into a state. Imagine this example as "nature" examining a part of itself, constantly giving itself the true answer as to the state of that part. Now... Think about my friend Alice, an "observer". What would she tell somebody about my state if asked? Initially she would have no idea, there could be infinitely many possibilities of what state I'm in, but she could calculate probabilities of what it might be if she knew me well enough. So, to answer the inquiry she will take a measurement and ask me via distanced communication. She will ask me if I am in a specific state and I will tell her if that is the state I am in, because I like to be reserved with my answers; sticking to a simple "Yes" or "No" is something I enjoy. I would be collapsing into those positions as seen by her (going from infinite possibilities to a single possibility) as she receives a confirmation from me. Now imagine if Alice were then asked what states Bob (my clone whom also shares the same responsive reservation as I) and myself were in. Here's the problem: Bob and I are never in the same place at once (we are independent of each other), so Alice will have to ask us separately and at different times. If it wasn't already clearly stated, Alice represents anyone that is not the "all knowing universal consciousness" nor the particle in question, while Bob and I are the different observables of the particle being studied and collectively the particle itself. The reference frame that obeys the uncertainty principle, where only one state can be known at once, is Alice's. The reference frame in which all observables are precisely known simultaneously is the reference frame that describes Bob and I collectively. I personally consider his a reference frame of some "universal consciousness". So from Alice's reference frame one cannot ever know Bob's state simultaneously to mine. The only way to know our states simultaneously is to be in each of our reference frames collectively. Which in reality is impossible for any individual to do. The core definition of quantum physics, given to me in my quantum physics classes, was: "A collection of postulates based on a huge number of experimental observations, and the derived tools from those observations" Postulate is defined as: "Suggest or assume the existence, fact, or truth of (something) as a basis for reasoning, discussion, or belief" Hence, to answer your question: Quantum Physics, and the tools within the field, are based on assumptions and beliefs that have not fully been proven and most likely will be indefinitely impossible to prove. It seems contradictory. It seems illogical. Science is a belief system that uses reasoning. It is a religion of the mind. If you don't like the fact that it sometimes seems to float upon unproven foundations then you have three options as a scientist: Prove it, disprove it or just accept it. Choose one. 