If complex numbers are just imaginary and an assumption, why are they necessary to solve other problems?
The name, as others have said, is misleading. They're not "imaginary" in any sense. They're just an extension of regular numbers. The name "complex number" is much better. You don't need to go to something as exotic as quantum mechanical wave functions to find a use for complex numbers. Complex numbers do two very useful things: They let you put two regular numbers together in one form. They allow you to do rotations by multiplication.The latter point is the really crucial one. Imaginary numbers serve the same kind of role that logarithms do: they allow you to turn a difficult mathematical operation into one that's easier to handle. Fewer different things to work with means that doing the actual work of grinding through formulas is easier to do and easier to check. The secret to that is the sequence[math]i, i^2, i^3, i^4 = i, -1, -i, 1[/math]. Multiply it by i again and you get back to the beginning; it's an infinite cycle of those 4 numbers. Now, think of a complex number as two numbers, so that (a+bi) is treated on a graph like the coordinates (a,b): (0,1), (-1,0), (0, -1), (1,0). Here's that graph: Credit: A Visual, Intuitive Guide to Imaginary Numbers They form the four points of a compass. Starting with 1, each time you multiply by i, you rotate 90 degrees. And that's the ball game: multiplying by i is rotation. Instead of doing trigonometry, we're doing multiplication. Easy. And the idea doesn't just work for those 90 degree transformations. Think of those four points as all laying on a circle. The rest of the circle can be given by all of the points [math]a^2+b^2=1[/math]. So for any two complex numbers of the form a+bi, where a and b have that property, you can  multiply the two together to get another number on the circle. And that corresponds exactly to doing a rotation. Rotation by i happens to be 90 degrees. Multiplication by [math]\frac 1 \sqrt 2 + \frac 1 \sqrt 2 i[/math] will rotate by 45 degrees; I'll let you figure out why that is. That may not seem simple, but it now means that anything we want to talk about that comes in cycles can now be handled by multiplication instead of trigonometry. And an awful lot of things in the universe come in cycles. Sound waves, for instance, which are pretty important. All audio processing is done with Fourier transforms, which break sound down into complex numbers, and are far easier to work with than dealing with the amplitudes directly. The point is that i is just as "real" as any other number. It just happens to represent rotation rather than translation. And rotation, both in real space and an various mathematical notations, is incredibly important to representing the universe. Including, yeah, quantum mechanics. That's how powerful the mathematical tool is. Don't confuse the oddness of quantum mechanics (which makes the whole notion of "reality" wildly different from our everyday notions) with the very real reality of rotations, which are represented very effectively by complex numbers. 