★What is the best way to secure Wireless (Wi-Fi) Home Network?
One of the biggest concerns for wireless users is making sure their router and wireless network are secure but when it comes to technology, there is no such thing as being 100 percent secure. however the following tips will help you to use your Wi-Fi more securely and to protect your personal information as much as possible: 1)Change the wireless network’s default name You should change the network name from the router’s default. This can make it harder for anyone to identify the manufacturer of your router and guess its default settings. 2)Turn on (Compatible)  Encryption All Wi-Fi equipment supports some form of encryption. Several encryption technologies exist for Wi-Fi today. Naturally you will want to pick the strongest form of encryption that works with your wireless network. However, the way these technologies work, all Wi-Fi devices on your network must share the identical encryption settings. Therefore you may need to find a "lowest common denominator" setting. 3)Choose a strong password Change your password from a default supplied with the router. Make sure you use a password which is easy for you to remember but would be difficult for a stranger to guess, and preferably something with a combination of letters and numbers. 4)Enable MAC Address Filtering Each piece of Wi-Fi gear possesses a unique identifier called the physical address or MAC address. Access points and routers keep track of the MAC addresses of all devices that connect to them. Many such products offer the owner an option to key in the MAC addresses of their home equipment, that restricts the network to only allow connections from those devices. Do this, but also know that the feature is not so powerful as it may seem. Hackers and their software programs can fake MAC addresses easily. 5)Hide your network ID A router broadcasts its SSID to anyone within range. You can alter the router settings to not broadcast the SSID and therefore avoid alerting hackers to the network’s existence. 6) Check that your device does not auto-connect to Wi-Fi signals If your device is set to automatically connect to available open Wi-Fi networks, then you run the risk of automatically connecting to unknown and potentially dangerous networks. You should switch off auto-connect on your device settings page – refer to the manufacturer’s instructions for more details.