★Can one track my real IP address when I use VPNs?
TL;DR: If you don't know what you're doing, VPNs provide only basic protection against being traced, if that. Don't expect a VPN to be enough to save you from the NSA/FBI if you're the next Edward Snowdon posting to wikileaks. If you do know what you're doing, you would have to use a VPN you trust and that doesn't store logs of your individual activity. This is hard to find, if not impossible. And it still won't protect you against security flaws / government agencies. It probably provides some protection against mass surveillance and mass lawsuits against file sharers, but I haven't seen any real evidence (either way) of this in practice (successful lawsuits or write-ups against VPNs from frustrated RIAA executives). First, a few good articles on the topic: How can you be caught using Private VPN when there's no logs about who you are? Which VPN Services Take Your Anonymity Seriously? | TorrentFreak (shared external IP address providers are likely most effective; saying "we keep no logs of traffic" doesn't help much as described in the other two articles) https://www.goldenfrog.com/take-... (commercial service, but makes some good points) I think the answers to this question so far are mostly good but quite confusing as each of them only tackles a small part of the problem and there are still some pieces missing in my eyes, so here's my attempt at a more complete summary: It depends who's trying to track your real IP address, what VPN provider you use and what technology they use. It also depends on how well set up and secure your computer is. See here for my answer to a similar question which expands on the importance of your computer set-up: If I create a Twitter account while using a VPN and a hidden email (Hushmail, etc.) would it be traceable? If you access the internet without using a VPN, the IP address in use is the external IP address provided to your connection by your ISP. That can be tied back to your identity by your ISP or anyone who subpoenas them for that information.  You can see what this "traceable" IP address is by checking on sites like: What Is My IP Address Most logging software built into web servers and other internet servers will log this IP address. You will probably find that as soon as you connect to a VPN this will be changed to the external IP address of the VPN rather than the external IP address of your ISP (as intended). In that sense VPNs make it more difficult for someone to track your real IP address because the traffic between you and the VPN provider is encrypted so your ISP doesn't know what it contains, and the traffic between the VPN provider and the website or other service appears to originate from the VPN provider rather than you / your ISP. However, even if you have tried to hide your ISP-assigned IP address using a VPN, then there are a few ways this can still be revealed to someone trying to trace you: - Subpoena the VPN provider for their logs to reveal the ISP-assigned IP from their logs, then just proceed to subpoena the ISP as if there was no VPN (may not be possible if the VPN provider assigned one external IP to multiple users or if any logging data is quickly and regularly purged). - Take advantage of security flaws to reveal the ISP-assigned IP address (check here to see whether you are safe from the web rtc flaw mentioned in other answers: Test for webrtc flaw - even if you are, note that there may be others, and I would point you to SSL VPNs and OpenVPN: A lot of lies and a shred of truth to expand on Saurabh Malpani's answer. You probably want to use a VPN provider that supports OpenVPN. - Accidental VPN disconnection and/or cookies or other information that persists when you access a site again after disconnecting from the VPN deliberately: either of these could allow someone to see your real IP address, even for a moment, and connect it back to the activity you were performing while connected to the VPN. - You accessing services identifiable to you while connecting to the VPN: if you access your paypal account from the same browser or while still connected to the VPN then it is very likely that anyone who could access the paypal logs could tie your paypal account (and therefore you) to any other activity performed. - DNS leaks: even if you're careful with all of the above, when connected to a VPN the internet service that resolves domain names (e.g. google.ca => 31.55.162.183) often circumvents the VPN so that your ISPs DNS logs will show which servers you have been resolving - a sure indication to your ISP that you have been accessing pages on said servers. If you want to test whether you are vulnerable to this, see: DNS leak test Disclosure: I have no relationship with any of the VPN providers or websites named in this answer. I just find the cat and mouse game interesting.