★What can hackers do with an IP address and Wi-Fi password?
There are two very different things here. External IP address and Internal Wifi password. The two are very different points of attack. With an external IP, getting your wifi password would be counter-profuctive. Instead, a hacker will port scan your IP for any holes and start trying to punch through them. Your wifi password won't be important because he will get access inside and will try to exploit something else in your network to gain control. (Remote command prompt, remote desktop...) That is if his goal is to get information. If he wants to annoy you he can simply DDoS you and knock you off the web until you change IP, and even then, the good ones can still find you. For the Wifi password, it's actually a lot simpler but requires proximity to your wifi network, which means he knows where you live. Probably by tracing your IP, or tracing you online to figure out where you are. He could then start brute forcing your wifi password (which is simpler than you think). Once he gets the password he could setup a rogue access point near your home with a massive antenna so that all your wifi traffic goes there. A rogue access point will capture everything sent to it and relay your signal to wherever you want to go. He will then be able to see everything you do by wifi. Regardless of all of the above, I would recommend to invest in a nice firewall with an Intrusion Prevention System. Setup logs and learn to read them. Do not answer obvious phishing emails and change your wifi password or use it exclusively with mobile devices with no important information whatsoever. And get yoursel a tin foil hat, because when you see the amount of port scans you get daily by automated sources that you never even provoked you will probably just want to roll into a ball and cry. I didn't even touch phishing scams or social engineering but those could also be used especially since the people know a bit about you on the older forums...