★What can hackers do with an IP address and Wi-Fi password?
First i'll tell you how he might have done it. (I'll write it as i'm a hacker) Step-1: Getting your IP address If i know your computer name, i'll just ping to find out. in windows, in cmd, i just type "ping -4 [computer-name]" and it'll return me the ip address of your pc. Step-2: Once i know your ip, i'll look for open or vulnerable ports using softwares like Advanced port scanner or nmap. Some people also use their own scanners as they doubt the credibility of such tools.Now, It'll list out the ports and its properties. Step-3: Once i find an open port, i can exploit you as i like. some tools like user2sid, netbios auditing tool etc, come in handy. By default windows sharing port will be open and i can use it to get access to your computer files. or if port 23 is open, it is telnet, i can just open my cmd and type "telnet [your ip address]", then enter username and password, you pc is open to me. mostly usernames will be your name or admin or administrator, easy to guess, using some brute force, if pass is also revealed, you are unlucky!        I can also give remote commands and run remote scripts in your pc. or Most of the time port 80 is open and handles http requests, i can use SQL injection, exploit the buffer, use netcat to get additional information etc. How you can protect yourself: 1. As your connection is DHCP, you can reset your modem time to time to avoid fixing to a single ip. Some routers have inbuilt security and resets your ip automatically. 2. Open only the ports which you are using, close of all unnecessary ports. 3. You can also change your ip address manually in network settings if you feel you are targeted. if it is available, it is given to you, if not, you can try another. NOTE: These are just a few well known ways of attacking and protecting. However, there are myriad ways of hacking using your ip. One should be careful in the internet when your security and privacy is on the line.