★IP Addresses: What are C-Blocks?I was reading up on the SEO Moz Search Engine Ranking Factors report for 2011 (http://www.seomoz.org/article/se...) and keep running across the term C-Block. I've done a bit of searching on Google, but can't really find any description in layman's terms.
TL;DR IP addresses that are close to each other are therefore probably from the same ISP/region/company. A C-block is a crude but convenient way to represent the number of administratively unique entities accessing your site. Detail: It is important to note that a C block is NOT the same thing as a Class C IP address block, though the etymology of the term arose from the now obsolete concept of classful network addressing. In the bad old days, addresses were handed out to service providers in blocks using classful network addressing.   The smallest (and most common) block available was a "Class C" block, which had 256 possible addresses in the block.  As a general rule, any IPv4 address found in a contiguous 256-address class C block would be under the administrative control of a single network provider. The classful networking system was deprecated in favor of Classless Inter-Domain Routing in 1993, which allowed much more granularity and flexibility in assigning IPv4 address blocks.  Addresses still needed to be handed out in contiguous powers-of-2 blocks (256, 512, 1024, 2048, etc), but could be "rolled up" (aggregated) into a smaller number of routing table entries.  Unfortunately, the concept of IP address "classes" remains in networking textbooks to this very day, much to the consternation of networking professionals. Given that neighboring IP addresses tend to be under the control of a common administrative entity, a C-block seeks to express some "relatedness" of a set of IP addresses.  It is a quick and dirty hack:  The prevailing presumption is that if the first three octets of the IP address are the same, one can assume they are from a same-ish place. Suppose I record connections on my web site from seven IPv4 addresses: 50.74.32.10 50.74.32.48 50.74.55.10 50.74.55.55 192.193.4.5 192.199.5.8 200.53.10.3 There are 7 unique visitors, but 5 C-blocks represented. Look at the the first two sets of two.  Each pair is so close together, so I can guess that 50.74.32.x is from one company and 50.74.55.x is from another company.  That's 4 addresses, but 2 C-blocks. But the last three addresses are so different that they are probably totally different places.  So each of those addresses represent three more C-blocks, or five total unique "places" (C-blocks) in total that are represented. However, it may be that all 4 of the first IP addresses are part of a large regional provider.  Though there are two C-blocks, maybe those two blocks represent a single provider?  In that case, there would be only four unique places represented, even though there are 5 C-blocks . Alternately, maybe the last address is a proxy for a large multinational corporation, representing dozens of regional places, despite being only one C-block. So you see, C-block is a dirty approximation for the number of unique regions, providers, or companies that access your site.  It is imprecise, but readily measurable.  In IPv6, the C-block is trickier.  In general, the lower six "hextets" are considered part of a "C block." (that would be a /32 for people familiar with IPv6).  Addresses coming from the same /32 are assumed to be part of a single "C-block" even though members of the same /32 might represent a broad diversity of dozens of unique classes of users. IPv6, C-Blocks, and How They Affect SEO may shed more light on the topic.