★Is there something wrong with using public Wi-Fi?
Define "public WiFi".  No... don't your knickers in a twist.  Some people consider any unlocked router to be public... else they would have locked it right?  And there's public... and there's public. Can you trust the local sys admin at your library?  Is there one?  How about the Wifi at McDonalds?  Who manages the connection at the Motel 6?  That Coffee Shop on the corner... he's got Wifi, right? It wouldn't take much research for someone to dig up where I work... so if you want the name of the company, then you'll have to look it up.  That said... I know that the "public" WiFi at my job does funnel all the traffic for our store through a specific pipeline of locations... and everything that is done on the connection is logged and kept track of.  Meaning... you don't want to do anything that requires a password that you don't want my company to know... on the internet connection that is publicly available at my place of employment. But.... wait.... that's a public WiFi... right?  Yep.  There is even a TOS page users are forced to "agree" to before they can use a web browser.  Java chatrooms won't work though, as well as almost everything else that would want to use a port above 1000 or so... and even then, it's restricted.  And logged.  Proxy servers don't work on the connection either. Now... that's the one I know about because I work there.  No one in the store is the wiser, and I only stumbled on the depth of it by accident.  It is all handled offsite. I'd be suspicious of any corporately provided public internet.  Something more... innocent like the public library?  They probably leave their WiFi running all night, or until midnight or so and then they could even have the router set to discontinue service until they would open in the AM.  A simple proxy server might be all that was necessary to have an open internet connection on a library WiFi.  So, you could probably trust your banking... as far as you could trust the proxy server you used. Stealing from a neighbor and calling it public?  No.  That's just wrong. Little Coffee Shop?  On the fence here, really.  I spent a year at a coffee shop (Stuck in Florida, long story) and I got to watch people come in and try to scam customers by setting up Peer to Peers with public sounding names to attract the connections.  Some would use the same SSID as the coffee shop with an (aux) on the end, or a number... others tried "Free WiFi!" as the SSID.  One guy walked in with a router in a bag, and plugged it in and kept it at his feet.  The connection itself... simple Linksys WR54g.  I knew the guy though, and he was looking into setting up a linux box with a couple of ethernet cards, and piping his connection through that for QoS.  He wanted to throttle connection speeds... so he said.  He never went that far when I was there though. So what is wrong with them?  You don't really know who is running them, so use them with caution and care.    Embed Quote