★Can Wi-Fi signals cause health risks?
Phillip and Craig offer good responses and I only have a bit more to add here.  The danger from EM radiation is always significantly greater within the near field than the far field.  Without going into a detailed definition of each (especially since it varies depending on the antenna type), a conservative rule is to say that the near field does not exist beyond 1 wavelength distance from the antenna.  For WiFi, that is greatest for 2.4 GHz at about 5 inches.  In the 5 GHz band, it is about half that distance.  Of course, amount of energy plays a very big role as well.  In the US, the EIRP limitation for an AP operating in 2.4 GHz is 36 dBm, or 4 Watts.  That is less than a typical microwave oven leaks.  By itself, that doesn't mean that WiFi is safe, but it does put this into perspective.  And, the farther away you get from the antenna, the less the received energy is from the antenna.  At just 5 feet from an AP with an EIRP of 4 Watts, the amount of energy received by your body will be (my quick estimate) somewhere on the order of -30 dBm, or 0.000001 Watts.  Move farther away and it drops precipitously.  I know someone will work out the exact value and it won't be -30 dBm, but the results will be essentially the same. Like Craig, I am not a physician (although I don't know many physicians that understand EM either), and I don't claim to be able to say without a doubt that you are perfectly safe from WiFi.  But I can say that your risk is less from an AP than from a microwave oven with the door closed on it (and you on the outside). I do have a followup concern, however.  I won't use Bluetooth for a headphone, at least not the type that places the radio in my ear.  When you do,  your brain will be well within the near field of it's transmissions. Bluetooth does use the same frequency as a microwave oven, but it is significantly lower power.  The Bluetooth pop corn popping hoax is not real.  Still, I am concerned enough to stay away from putting a 2.4 GHz transmitter in my ear. If you really want to mess with someone, point out that the near field of 60 Hz (you know, the frequency of high power transmission lines in the US) is about 3000 miles -- roughly 3/4 the radius of the earth.  For 50 Hz, (used for transmission lines in most of the rest of the world), the near field is about 3,700 miles.  Try getting away from that near field.  I'm not really worried about that one, but it is a spooky thought after a few glasses of scotch.    Embed Quote