★How easy is it to hack a password-protected Wi-Fi network?
Thanks for A2A. The difficulty actually depends on type of encryption and scenario. Type of encryption (AFAIK): 1. WEP 2. WPA 3. WPA-2 Both WPA and WPA2 allow for either EAP-based authentication, using Radius servers (Enterprise) or a Pre-Shared Key (PSK) (Personal)-based authentication. Scenario (AFAIK): Only one client, no client, strength of access point etc. If the encryption is WEP and there are several clients ( at least one) then this type of Wi-Fi network is easy to hack (or crack). The difficulty and time taken to hack (or crack) the password will decrease as number of clients will increase. In case of WEP you have to wait for enough IVs to be captured and dumped. If the encryption is WPA or Wpa-2 and there are several clients ( at least one) then this type of Wi-Fi network is hard to hack (or crack). In case of WPA and WPA-2 you have to wait for a three way handshake. If number of clients are higher then it may take less time to capture the handshake. In case of WPA and WPA-2 you have to use bruteforce or a dictionary attack. And if victim have used a strong password then it would be extremely time consuming process. To hack (or crack) a Wi-Fi network for different kind of situations (like no client scenario) with the help of Aircrack-ng (and it's family of different tools) I would like to suggest: 1. tutorial [Aircrack-ng] 2. Main documentation You may also like to use some other tools which may increase password hacking (or cracking) process. Then I would like to suggest: BackTrack 5 Wireless Penetration Testing Beginner's Guide by Vivek Ramachandran and his "SecurityTube Wi-Fi Security Expert (SWSE)" course. Social Engineering can also be used in any kind of encryption and situation :P. Disclaimer: The information provided in the answer is for educational purpose only. I will not be responsible if the information provided would be used for any kind of unethical activities. The information should be used to secure other's or your own Wi-Fi network.    Embed Quote