★Can Wi-Fi signals cause health risks?
This would have been of greater concern with very early Bluetooth equipment and Wifi equipment. Power levels are generally lower now, many of the greatest improvements are in antenna technology (which means lower minimum power levels for the same range) Most research seems to point to the answer being no. The power levels of access points installed in homes are usually pretty negligible, but if you're concerned, try to keep your Access Point 2 feet from where people tend to be in your home. At this range, there is already a good amount of FSPL (Free-Space Path Loss) decreasing the strength of the signal to safer levels. I wouldn't be too concerned about equipment operating within regulatory  limits (such as maximum of 200mW transmit power on a lot of WiFi  equipment as far as I'm aware in North America). Also worth noting - 2.4GHz radiation - Wireless 802.11b/g and legacy 2.4GHz N penetrate the body further than 5GHz signals.... however 5Ghz are of a higher frequency and so of higher energy..... ....But this is probably still of little concern. Ionizing radiation is radiation of an energy level (frequency) starting in the ultraviolet band and higher. Ionizing radiation is radiation that is capable of exciting an electron to the point of removing it from an atom. This can cause damage to DNA. Take a look at info on the Electromagnetic Spectrum  and This helpful diagram comparing the ranges logarithmically (exponentially) . Wifi Signals are in the Microwave band, at around 10^-2. Ultraviolet radiation (which is weakly ionizing is already Six orders of magnitude (100,000 times higher!) in frequency. (!!!!!) UV radiation is part of everyday life, and with the exception of some of more equatorial areas, is generally not of big concern. X-Rays are 8 orders of magnitude higher, and is when electromagnetic waves actually start to become dangerous. Gamma rays and beyond are the most dangerous, a whole ten orders of magnitude away in terms of frequency. The frequency within which Wi-Fi operates does not even span one order of magnitude, and the devices radios are not even capable of emitting (detectable) radiation of higher (or lower) frequencies. In short, Wi-Fi radiation is far, far removed from being ionizing radiation, and can't do much more than vibrate or spin your molecules, if that. Wi-Fi operates at much lower levels than your microwave oven, and your microwave oven does little more than vibrate polar molecules like water to heat them up. Microwaving food may not be the best way of cooking things, but it definitely does not make food radioactive or dangerous. Microwave radiation will generally not be able to do any more than make you hot, but this is at power levels very far indeed beyond the levels Wifi operate at. Think, a microwave oven operates from 500-1500 Watts. My Wireless has a maximum allowable transmit power of 200 milli-Watts. That's dramatically less. As a closing statement - I'd worry more about wearing sunscreen and damage to the ozone layer allowing small amounts of gamma radiation through than Wi-Fi. In fact, being a frequent flyer would be far more of a health hazard than living bathed in the signals of dozens of Wi-Fi access points for your entire life. Remember, many of our parents were born and died in a world of radio and TV, which are far closer in RF nature to Wi-Fi than ionizing radiation is. Finally: I'm not an expert in Medicine, Radiation, or Physics. Don't quote me!    Embed Quote