★Where can I meet and date professors who work at the intersection of approximation algorithms and algebraic number theory?
First of all, how on earth did you choose "Approximation algorithms Algebraic number theory" as a requirement for someone you might want to date ? Being a graduate student in Approximation algorithms who has met at least 35-40 professors from top universities in the field, I think I'm well suited to answer this question (although I'm not very sure where Algebraic number theory enters the picture). Conferences in Theoretical Computer Science is most likely the only place outside of the professors' respective universities, where you would meet researchers in Approximation Algorithms in large numbers. Some of the most prominent conferences are STOC, FOCS, SODA, APPROX, ISAAC, STACS and ICALP. Let's assume for a second that you somehow got a free pass into one of these conferences. From what I've observed, most of the professors in Approx are married, but I'd like to think that all the profs I know are outliers and that a major chunk of the professors at these conferences are still single. Before you approach these professors, one thing to know is that you can't imagine having a conversation that lasts for more than 15 minutes with these folks  unless you know algorithms (and I don't mean taking an undergrad level algorithms course). When these professors meet each other at conferences, they are almost always discussing solutions to their research problems or laying the groundwork for a possible collaborative research. If you don't find them discussing the above topics, I can promise you that they will be sharing with each other, the key to effectively teaching the PCP theorem and the effect of UG-Conjecture to a graduate class in Approximation Algorithms. It therefore becomes a necessity for you to learn Approximation Algorithms to date someone in the field (unless the prof is your neighbour or you've mutual friends to set the two of you up). Unfortunately, no university covers this area in its undergraduate curriculum; so take a graduate course. And while you are at it, I'm sure you'll meet several researchers in the field (even without being at one of the conferences). That's the best way to meet professors in the area, let alone date them.    Embed Quote