★Have there been any new brilliant computer science algorithms in last 10 years?Especially those that may REPLACE some algorithms in current textbook. Since most of the algorithms in textbook are designed in 20th century.
Fully Homomorphic Encryption (FHE) Imagine if you were a hospital that needed to process/analyze data on EC2, but were worried about privacy. In an ideal world, one would like: To encrypt his or her data Send the encrypted data to the cloud and have the cloud servers operate on the encypted data (yes, I mean that) Sending you back the encrypted results, that you can easily decryptThis probably seems like magic — after all, how can someone operate on garbled data, creating more garbled data and then send me back some junk that is guaranteed to decrypt to the correct answer? It turns out that since most cryptosystems inherit symmetries/operations from the mathematical objects that they are based on (groups, rings, lattices, algebraic number fields), we can sometimes use these operations without breaking our encryption. Before giving some details about FHE, let's look at an example. Suppose that I give you an RSA public key and suppose that the secret key is . Then two plaintexts would become ciphertexts , where Note that, so that the decryption of the product of two ciphertexts is equivalent (mod N) to the product of the two plaintexts. Our goal is to make a system that is both multiplicatively homomorphic (like RSA) as well as additively homomorphic (which RSA is not, as you can see from the binomial formula). Note that in this about process, the cloud servers never see your raw data. Fully homomorphic encrypytion makes this happen. The landmark paper/thesis [0] of Gentry (2009) led to some astonishing revelations about simple encryption schemes: As long as a scheme can evaluate its own decryption circuit as well as a single NAND gate, one can bootstrap this scheme to a fully homomorphic scheme Techniques used to prove guarantees of post-quantum security turn out to be useful for proving that a bootstrappable homomorphic encryption scheme exists Even very simple integer schemes can work In particular, van Dijk, Gentry, Halevi and Vaikunthan (DGHV) proved in [1] that a cryptography scheme that is simpler than RSA (!!!) is Homomorphic for virtually unlimited number of additive gates, homomorphic for small numbers of multiplicative gates Bootstrappable So simple and clean (relative to other cryptosystems, e.g. NTRU) that it was casually proposed on a message board in 2000 by Bram CohenLater, Vaikunthan and Brakerski proved that one can construct non-bootstrappable homomorphic encryption schemes [2] that base their security on stronger, post-quantum problems (e.g. Learning with Errors). This scheme appears to be more practical than the original bootstrapping schemes (although it still uses bootstrapping as 'an optimization'). A nice non-technical summary can be found on the MIT tech review [3] [0] Craig Gentry's PhD Thesis [1] Page on microsoft.com [2] Page on iacr.org [3] Homomorphic Encryption - MIT Technology Review    Embed Quote