★Internet Piracy: Can we stop American ISPs from spying on us?
There are a few answers, depending on how you look at the question. They've been covered elsewhere, but I thought I'd try to offer more detail: Not really. Short of creating laws that prevent it, ISPs that you use to access the internet or that provide internet to the services that you use will always be able to see your network traffic, because it is passing through their hardware. If you don't want them to see you at all, your best bets are legislation (to prevent spying) and spending your money elsewhere (with ISPs and services that do not spy).  Encryption can easily hide the specific content, but is less effective at hiding the type of traffic (e.g. peer-to-peer file sharing). Sure. Avoid snooping the same way that people in (other?) nanny-state regimes do it. Your traffic may still pass through the ISP, but it's possible to hide, obscure, and encrypt it in ways that reduce the practical effects of spying. These all assume that your personal computer is secure, and that it's only the traffic to other computers that you care about. Tor is the perhaps best-known anonymizing service. Your data is encrypted (and optionally obfuscated to look like legitimate traffic) and then bounced through various Tor nodes and out onto the internet. It's vulnerable only to very-large-scale attacks (like continuously monitoring all of the internet traffic in the country). VPNs encrypt your data from your computer to an endpoint somewhere, where the traffic can either be to the remote endpoint (and the full conversation is encrypted), or to other machines via the remote endpoint (which lets you avoid snooping by your local ISP assuming you trust the computer at the remote endpoint to not spy). Other encryption/obfuscation methods exist; many tools commonly associated with copyright infringement make some effort to hide your activities through encryption, camouflage, etc. Why bother? Most people on the internet already share quite a bit of information with services they use. Facebook tracks your interactions with other users (and to some extent, your movement around the web.) Google by default tracks you search history, the sites you visit that present Google ads, and so forth. Many of these companies may not be well-suited or interested in watching for copyright infringement, but that doesn't mean it's not possible. If you have options, and an ISP threatens to cut you off for copyright infringement, switch ISPs (which will hopefully have an effect similar to clearing your cookies to avoid advertisement tracking.)    Embed Quote