★ISP: how can i start my own ISP?
You really probably don't want to do this.  Having said that, becoming an ISP is pretty straightforward. Choose your access technology.  This is how the people in your neighborhood are going to get connected to your network.  For example, Time Warner is using their cable network and deploying DOCSIS.  AT&T is using VDSL2 for the home connections with fiber backhaul from the local cabinets.  You're probably thinking about using WiFi for this, which is possible but it's much more complicated to deliver WiFi to ~200 homes across a neighborhood than it is to deliver it inside and around your home. Choose your WAN connectivity to get out of the neighborhood.  You and your neighbors don't want to connect to each other as much as they want to reach Facebook, Google, and other sites.  This means that you have to find out who will sell you bandwidth and you have to make sure the service you're going to buy is for an ISP.  You also need to calculate how much bandwidth you're going to need, which means you need to know how many customers you'll get in your neighborhood and how much bandwidth they'll need at peak times.  Also decisions about whether you're going to be single or Multihoming have to be made and that has a big impact on service reliability and cost. You'll to get the right of way to install your access technology.  This could be done by asking your customers to host antennas and access points, but most customers don't want to do that since you as the ISP need to be able to access that gear regularly.  Otherwise you need to get pole attachment rights or an agreement with your HoA to use the common areas to place your gear. Money. Customer support, unless you live in an area where most of your neighbors are techies someone is going to have help them with their connections.  You don't want to be on call 24/7/365 so who else is going to provide support?  If you have to pay for that then that adds to #4. IP space, as an ISP you need to go through ARIN to get IP addresses for your customers to use.  Page on arin.net Configuration and install of gear.  Someone has to be able to install and configure your access gear (WiFi?), your back haul network, and your core where all of the access traffic gets aggregated together and handed off to your gateway router to go out through the WAN connection.  This means expertise in Cisco (switch and router, most likely), your access point vendor, and whatever gear you're using to reach from your access network to your core.  You're also going to need to run a DHCP server and administer that. Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act and other law enforcement requirements.  This means logging who has what IP address and being able to help law enforcement identify users as required. Abuse, spam and other kinds of network abuse cannot be ignored since if you do your WAN provider can and will simply cut your network off from the Internet.  This means that someone has to be responsive to spam and abuse complaints and that your network design should make sure that common kinds of abuse are mitigated.  For example, you don't want neighbor A's PC to be able to see the network drive in neighbor B's house. There are probably another dozen high level items that have to thought about that I could include but I have to do some actual work this morning :)    Embed Quote