★Internet Piracy: Can we stop American ISPs from spying on us?
Generally when a business does something that you are not fond of, they are not meeting your service needs. The correct action for you is to switch to another service provider that does meet with your approval. If they all do this, then they view this as integral to their business model. Likely because Congress (and other governmental bodies, for those outside the US) are threatening to punish the ISPs for the actions of the users. If that is the case the ISP must protect itself or there will be no service for anyone, legitimate users and internet pirates. Instead of stopping the traffic-sniffing by the ISP, you would need to eliminate their need to act in this manner. That means preventing laws that would put ISPs at risk. Sadly, the general public does not really have a "lobbist", they just vote for their representation in the government. That means you have to make this a voting issue, like pro life/choice is a voting issue, and this is very hard for the public to manage. Forming a grass roots campaign would collectively allow a voice on public policy. As for the technical question of accomplishing this: How can you prevent your ISP from seeing your internet activity (to any extent possible)? ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ The original author (Anon User) repeatedly makes reference to SOPA. There is no mention in the linked article regarding SOPA. Futher, SOPA only targets websites, while the article on The Raw Story only lists the plan of the ISPs are targeting individual who are downloading infringing content. Yes, these are both internet freedom issues, but clearly not the same thing as each other. Also, I don't know of any laws requiring a continued business relationship between a company (in this case, an ISP) and a customer. Both are able to sever that at any time (assuming a life isn't on the line). A petition would not be able to force legislation requiring that an ISP continue to carry a customer. I wish I could comment on the petition's page. Assertions that ISPs are going to start "treating customers like criminals" are strange when the article explains that ISPs are only taking action against people that their automated systems indicate are infringing copyrights. And with the first four actions being a warning e-mail, that's hardly "treating someone like a criminal" (especially since they have some sort of proof that the person is acting like a criminal. And even then, the ISPs are agreeing to reconnect if the user makes a written promise not to copyright infringe anymore! Yes, the EFF has pointed out some flaws with the implementation. But even they are not telling the ISPs to abandon this plan. And that was a year ago. https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/20.... Hey, a grassroots campaign is something I would totally get behind. But not when the promoters are using Mike Daisey's tactics: http://www.slate.com/blogs/browb...    Embed Quote