★How safe & trustworthy are ISPs?Do you trust the connection your ISP supplies?  How can you check that your information is safe?
An internet service provider Internet Service Provider (links to: /Internet-Service-Providers-1) (ISP) doesn't really supply information, what they do is to provide transit of packets of information from other sources. They can only really do a few things with those packets: Deliver them Throw them away (network congestion, traffic management, filtering) Try to forge them (man in the middle Man in the Middle (communications attack) (links to: /Man-in-the-Middle-communications-attack) attacks) Save a copy for later It's not the ISP you need to really worry about in most cases, they have local concerns and really just want to deliver packets in a timely manner, whilst making some profit along the way. The rest of the chain isn't so benign. When you connect to a web site, you do so based on a name, which has to be translated to an Internet Protocol (IP) Address. The system which does this translation isn't perfect, and there is a new protocol coming online to help with this called DNSSECDNSSEC (links to: /DNSSEC). Assuming you connect to a trustworthy website, if they offer an HTTPS HTTPS (links to: /HTTPS) (also called SSLSSL (Secure Sockets Layer) (links to: /SSL-Secure-Sockets-Layer)) connection you should us it. SSL connections encrypt and sign the data flowing in the connection to prevent eavesdropping and the insertion of false information (spoofing, which is one type of Man in the Middle (communications attack) (links to: /Man-in-the-Middle-communications-attack) attack). Also keep in mind that sometimes Nation states Countries (links to: /Countries) often have a hidden layer of hardware in place to monitor and control the flow of information on the internetThe Internet (links to: /The-Internet-2), and all of your traffic flows through it as well. This is known to be true in the United StatesThe United States of America (links to: /The-United-States-of-America), and is likely true for all of our allies.