★What is the best ISP (Internet Service Provider) in Spain?Professional purpose, not for downloading/uploading big files.
Most of the time, none. Movistar (Telefónica) used to be the state-owned monopoly, and as such it owns the vast majority of the copper infrastructure in Spain. Nowadays most (if not all) companies have their own backbones, but the local loop to the user is owned by Movistar, so even if you hire a non-Movistar ADSL ISP, Movistar is still involved somehow (maintenance, etc). Nowadays Movistar is pushing FTTH, but it's the only company doing it nationwide and unlike copper, they're not forced to share their infrastructure with other companies. This means that they're setting up a PON network that is going to make it very hard to unbundle the local loop, if possible. The CMT, the national organization in charge of regulating the telco market, only has the power to regulate the market once things have happened; which means that the CMT couldn't force Movistar to set up a network designed to be shared with their competitors. In a way this is understandable, but it's yet to be seen what will happen when others join the FTTH race (will you end up with a bunch of different cables at home, one per company?). Because of the previous Telefónica monopoly, the CMT imposes limitations on the offers that Movistar provides on copper in order to help the competition. In most urban areas, most ADSL ISP's will offer up to 20Mb downstream using ADSL2+, but the final speed you get varies wildly depending on how far you are from the DSLAM. Movistar is forced to offer less speed, but chances are with Movistar you'll get closer to your contract speed than with other ISP's because of the DSLAM issue. If you live in a rural area, it's highly possible that your only option will be Movistar's rural ADSL. It costs as much as regular ADSL but only offers a fraction of the speed. If you depend on the internet for your work, avoid living in such areas. The other companies are not interested in offering service in these areas, so chances are these areas will be screwed for the time being. There's only one ISP offersing VDSL (Jazztel), but their coverage is very limited and they offer a 30Mb downstream max. Movistar offered VDSL for a little while but quickly abandoned it in favor of FTTH. If you don't want copper nor Movistar, the only other nationwide option is ONO. ONO is a cable company offering DOCSIS internet access. Again, coverage is limited, so in places where no cable is available they resell ADSL. Right now ONO is showing a somewhat misleading TV ad in which they claim to have "optical fiber". ONO's backbone is optical fiber indeed, but the end loop is still set up with regular coaxial cable. Still, with the latest DOCSIS they're able to compete with FTTH easily for the time being. However, ONO is infamous for bandwidth throttling, so it may not be the best option for some uses. Last but not least, there are the regional companies. Depending on your area, you may have access to companies that either offer cable (R in Galicia, Euskaltel in the Basque Country) or FTTH (Asturcón network in Asturias or other local networks like the 22@ in Barcelona or the Viladecans network; Adamo operates on all of these and I think Orange does too). However, these are very specific and are only an option if you live in a serviced area. Regarding customer support: they all suck. Movistar keeps winning the award for Worst Company Of The Year in Spain ( https://www.facua.org/lapeorempr... ), but in my experience Movistar has had the best customer support of all the telcos I've experienced (which is not saying much). If you are in Catalonia, a common trick is to ask for customer support in Catalan if it's offered, because the call center will be in Catalonia instead of somewhere in Latin America and communication will be much easier, so chances are that your problems will be solved quicker. Everyone's heard of technical support nightmares: people whose ADSL connection doesn't work for days or having much less speed than contracted even if they're close to the DSLAM, but I think that these stories are somewhat rare and the technical side of things is much better than a few years ago. However, the real nightmare is billing. Billing errors are common, especially in cell telephony, and the telcos abuse of this and get away with it because most of the time is more expensive to fight this in court than paying what they're asking for. Whatever you end up buying, make sure you read the small letter of the contract and meticulously read every bill you get, and if you don't agree with something call customer support right away and ask for an explanation. Get in touch with FACUA or other customer organizations if you need additional help. If you need help deciding wich ISP is better for you, browse around. There are websites entirely dedicated to ISP's, such as http://www.bandaancha.eu/ or http://www.adslzone.net/ , with ISP charts and DSLAM maps, as well as other tools. Take the user opinions with a grain of salt, though: it's not uncommon for users to exaggerate their claims to get more attention and make things seem worse than what it actually is (or even the other way around; as hard to believe as it is there are ISP fanboys out there). No matter what, expect to pay more and get less than the rest of Europe. For what it's worth, I currently live in Barcelona (Les Corts, near L'Hospitalet de Llobregat) and are using Jazztel's 20Mb ADSL. Jazztel won't offer me VDSL so I don't have it. When I got Jazztel it was the cheapest ISP offering that speed but that is no longer the case (ISP's usually have offers in which ADSL is 50% cheaper for a year or so). I could get Movistar's FTTH but I'm not interested (I don't want to be tied to Movistar; also, they'd need to lay cable throughout the flat and that's not an option for the time being).    Embed Quote