★Why can't the current ISP monopoly be broken?
I've been in the process of writing a big-ass answer for Tony Li on  What are the broad steps in establishing a new, competitive ISP? While I finish that, I'll throw down on this. I've built three national ISPs as technical lead, VP Eng, CTO. If you do in fact have "a couple billion" it's very doable. If you've got "a good idea you think could be fundable" it's not. The problem is manifold - and this is just the broad, broad strokes, more details in the other answer once I get it posted. 1) getting customers This is Problem One in any new business. You have a huge disadvantage here in that the incumbents are already deeply entrenched, have other relationships with the customer base (they sell phone service, mobile service, cable TV, etc), and they have time on their side. They are selling today. If you START today, you won't be able to actually deliver service for at least a year. 2) getting TO your customers Using ADSL? Awesome. You're going to need collocation space in COs and wire centers, you're going to need interconnect agreements, you're going to need fiber to the COs and wire centers, you're going to need DSLAMs, aggregation routers and a ton of other crap. The agreements alone will take an unimaginably long amount of time. And expect the local phone company to screw you up in improbable ways. If you are a phoneco tech, and you're looking for a spare pair to go from one place to another in the CO, and you test by attaching butt set to live DSL line, it doesn't have dial tone, so it's OK to grab. Except it's not. And while they're trying to figure out what happened, your customer is down. I've got a million similar examples in ways where "The Phone Company Is Not Your Friend" plays out where they do perfectly legal things that undermine your business. Maybe because you're a competitor. Maybe just because they're inept. Same net result. Oh, and now you need fiber, too. That's harder. Much harder than it used to be. You have limited choices, and in many cases, you only have the option to lease, or to build. Neither are exactly ideal.  And of course, you'll need metro optical gear, distribution routers, core routers and a ton of other crap. 3) getting to the rest of "the Internet" Back in the day, there was this thing called "free peering". If you had a big enough network, you could manage to get peering with enough other networks that you didn't have to point "Default" at anyone, and you didn't have to pay anyone to carry your traffic. That died, hard, in 1998. To get your customer traffic to "the Internet", you're going to have to pay for Internet transit. It adds up - minimum I've seen in the last couple of years has been about $0.015/Gbyte, and that was for a $100k/month take-or-pay deal. Starting small, you're gonna be paying for a long, long time. You CAN use network engineering skills, and figure out where you're customer traffic is going, and pull private lines to interconnect points and privately peer with those destination networks (maybe - some will, some won't) and over time, whittle down the amount of traffic that you're having to pay to send, but that's a much longer haul and it gets to 4) finding staff that can do all this In the go-go 90s, it was hard to find network engineers because everyone was hiring them, trying to build competing top-tier ISPs, hosting companies, etc. In 2014, its hard to find network engineers because after the dot-com bubble burst, and we went through the telecommunications' nuclear winter, most of those guys are retired, doing something else, or no longer have relevant skills. After a recent acquisition made by one of CVC's portfolio companies, I needed to quickly add some skilled network engineers. Crickets. Chirping. Plenty of guys with "network engineer" on their resume. Zero that passed my technical interview. With sufficient motivation (not as in "for me" but as in "for them") I could probably put together a decent core team and hire a bunch of promising guys and teach them all the stuff they needed to know. And it probably wouldn't take longer than all the permitting and licensing needed to build out a DSL network. 5) money No shit, this is expensive stuff. It's completely capital intensive, it DOES NOT work unless you're at sufficient scale,  and all your gear is obsolete in a couple of years if you're lucky, sooner if not. And you need to pay for transit, connection to places you hadn't planned (like, as Matt Wasserman suggests, Netflix, etc), and other things. Doable. Yes. Doable profitably? Jury is out. I know how to do the build / operate side, as inexpensively as possible. Not sure how to create a value prop for customers that would motivate them to move over to a new service at the right price point (and frankly, I'm not even sure what that would be without spending a pile of time modeling). If you, or anyone else, is serious about this, call me. Seriously.    Embed Quote