★Why can't the current ISP monopoly be broken?
The ISP situation is a lot more complicated than that, actually. It's not like Verizon and Comcast and others are taking completely unjustified positions on everything. Netflix is a big problem. Amazon is going to become one, and Hulu hopes to become one. A lot of the net neutrality battle is actually about Netflix using its market power ("Will I be able to stream Netflix?" is one of the most common questions asked by new customers) to force ISPs to absorb most of their costs of operations. Larger ISPs already install servers just to cache Netflix content, and they want to be able to charge Netflix for that service. Smaller ISPs can't afford to do this, and they need Netflix to pay for it if they want to compete. Netflix considers themselves a cost of doing business for ISPs, so they don't think they should have to pay anything. And with only $120 million in profits last year, they really can't afford to pay (they'd probably make a lot more if they weren't spending so much on lawyers, but still not enough). The problem is more than likely that the Netflix business model simply isn't viable - either they cover their own costs and lose money or they require hidden subsidies in the form of higher ISP prices to stay profitable. If they raise prices, they lose business to Amazon and Hulu and still can't make money. But back to your original question. Google is already working on this with their Google Fiber project. They are running all their own cable. Which they can afford to do, but most companies couldn't. People do it, but usually just for a neighborhood or a condo building. A whole city would be expensive, and ISPs do lock up whole municipalities which would prevent you from gaining access to easements. Whoever owns and maintains the cable has a right to charge for its use. Combine the nature of provisioned (as opposed to dedicated) bandwidth with super high per household utilization and there just isn't much last mile bandwidth available to sell at discounted rates.    Embed Quote