★Would an ISP know if someone spoofed their IP address?I just got a notice of copyright infringement from Verizon, but I never downloaded the movie they accused me of. I have WPA2. Is it possible that someone spoofed my ip address?
It's not really possible to spoof one's IP address for downloading movies. The Internet Protocol (IP) is packet-oriented. While you can spoof the IP address when sending a packet (compare this to sending a letter through the mail: you can write a 'spoofed' return address on the envelope), you cannot receive anything with a spoofed IP address (you can't receive mail if you don't give the sender your address). For most application protocols, which are based on the TCP, this means that you can't even establish a successful connection. This includes most file sharing protocols. However, this is not true for search results (or information obtained from BitTorrent trackers). Anyone could claim that your IP address has a certain file. So there may be spoofed or - more likely - stale search results listing your IP address. That does not mean that the IP address was spoofed, however. If the software used to hunt down copyright infringements has been designed correctly, it checks whether the file is actually available from that IP address. However, there are some alternative scenarios: A family member or friend downloaded the move and did not tell you about this. The software used by the copyright holder for determining the IP address does not check whether the file is actually available from an IP address. Someone broke into your router via the Internet because it has a security problem. Seriously, when did you last update your router? Does the vendor even provide security updates? Someone broke into your network via WiFi because your WiFi password was too weak (WPA2 does not help if your password is '12345'). Your ISP made an error when looking up the owner of the IP address. For example, they might just have made a typo when searching for the IP address. They might also just have gotten the date, time of day or timezone wrong. The copyright holder may have made a typo or similar mistake when making the complaint to your ISP.Please note that all of these scenarios are not just theoretical. They have actually happened.    Embed Quote