Mentors: If you could meet with anyone in the world, real or fictional, past or present, who would you choose? What would you want to do during your time together? And, how would you like the meeting to impact your life?
My list for this question would be never ending...So I'll restrict myself to people who are Real and kickin'..also I really can't restrict it to one person...atleast 6 , all for different reasons though... Mahesh Karthik has already mentioned Elon Musk ! #1. Neil deGrasse Tyson One of the same reasons why i'd wanna meet Elon Musk, basically to discuss a timeline for outer-space travel. I've recently watched 'The Cosmos' hosted by Neil and would love to get his take on a number of issues. Neil often mentions, how meeting Carl Sagan changed his perspective and motivated him to be a scientist. I imagine asking him a bunch of question based on physics.  If i ever do run into him, I would want to know what he thinks of NASA or ISRO or Mars One, of what the future holds for our species, and what he's currently working on ! #2. H.H. Dalai Lama I've had the pleasure of hearing him speak at a public function, but would love to have a one-on-one conversation with him. He publicly stated that "If Buddhism does not agree with science, Buddhism must change." I imagine myself asking questions on spirituality, consciousness, Tibet and would relish to hear his answers. Perhaps I hope to be as enlightened after the meeting as he is PS : He's really funny and likes to start everything off with a joke.     #3. Pico Iyer One of my favorite travel writers.He's seen it all and written about it. From Tibet to North Korea, from Iceland to Cuba to Argentina to Bolivia to Australia and countless others. He has a knack for visiting Lonely places and writing about them. Who wouldn't wanna have a sit down and hear his experiences. I think after the meeting I'd just renounce the world and take a flight to one of these lonely places that he's described so exquisitely. Maybe even find a few lonely places of my own. #4. Sergey Brin He oversees the work at Google X, with the aim to to develop "science fiction-sounding solutions" . I can bet he has some amazing ideas to share, from energy solutions, to the google glass, to what he sees Google becoming. With all its knowledge and technical expertise would love to pick his brain on how Google can  help the world further !?  I see this as one of those meetings, where one can reminisce about the FUTURE ! #5.Daniel Kahneman A rather recent addition to 'My mentors'. He has a Nobel prize in Economics to his name but it's for his recent publication in psychology 'Thinking Fast and Slow' that I would want to meet him. One of the most influential books I've come across and while I'm not done reading it, it's a masterpiece in understanding why we think the way we think.  6. Richard Dawkins One of the best authors when it comes to non-fiction. The Selfish Gene is simply a masterpiece and almost 40 years after its publication remains easily as one of the most influential non-fiction books of this century. If there is one person with whom I would want to  discuss Evolution, Atheism or Artificial Intelligence-It would be Richard Dawkins.                        Updated 31w ago • View Upvotes