What are a few important points to consider while writing the storyline to an RPG?
The most important question to ask is this: Who is your audience? If you can't answer that question, you can go ahead and write whatever story you like, which is fine if you're doing this for your own satisfaction. Or you can sit down and figure out who you hope will care about your game, then move to step two. Once you DO know who your audience is, you need to know what kinds of stories they enjoy. Don't just look at other RPGs they may have played, and certainly don't just look around on the Internet. Go find people in your target audience and talk to them, in person if you can manage it. Look at the books they read, the movies they like, the television they watch. Don't be fooled by stereotypes about the group or by the low-hanging fruit of what they talk about most. Careful observation and pushing beyond the obvious answers will be very rewarding for you - and will help you make a game that isn't just a cookie-cutter clone of every other CRPG out there. After that, I'd suggest framing the big-picture story in terms of conflicts and characters. Cognitively speaking, people are best at remembering and caring about events when they're put in terms of what characters want or need, and what is preventing them from getting what they want or need. This will help make your story memorable, but it's also very important for a CRPG because people will not be playing it in a single session. I'd also think about factions rather than just individual characters, because people will use chunking strategies (using similarities and patterns to organize their experiences) to be able to comprehend more of your world. Once you've got those things nailed down, you can start on the details of world-building and narrative creation, but to even start talking about those things, you'd have to nail down more of your gameplay. Even for a CRPG, which tend to have relatively loose narrative-mechanical ties, you can't design the narrative and the mechanics in isolation. Finally, please note that if this were a question about GM-led RPGs instead of CRPGs I would give a somewhat different answer! 