We know that the Harry Potter movies are a lot different from the books. Was there any change that made the movie better?
I personally liked the added last words of Sirius Black to Harry when he said, "nice one, James!" To me, that was a seriously powerful moment and a perfectly emotion-provoking thing for the viewers to experience alongside Harry. I honestly thought the tongue-slip of Barty Crouch Jr. was genius. It's the small acting dedications (though never mentioned in the book) that really portrayed his character. When Barty-as-Moody let his tongue slip while looking at Harry, then took a swig of Polyjuice Potion, I thought that was really well done. It really made him seem mad and also connected the dots when re-watching. I also REALLY loved the scene in OotP when Voldemort tries to take over Harry's body. In the book, we definitely understand what is happening, but it's over too soon and no real dialog is exchanged. In the movie, we are taken back into Harry's memories of his friends and their laughter, his happy feelings of friendship and love, and truly how he differs from Voldemort. Harry speaks directly to Voldemort who has attached himself to Harry's body by saying, "You'll never know love, or friendship, and I feel sorry for you." He was only 15 at this point and already showed a superiority over the Dark Lord. Of course, that was portrayed in the books. However, the additional speech on Harry's end in the movies put the icing on the cake, I think. I like the fact that there was one Hippogriff in the movies rather than multiple in Hagrid's lesson in PoA. Lupin's transformation was one of my favorite werewolf transformations in any movie. He looked so alienlike and weak. He looked scared and powerless momentarily, then stretched up into his full potential. I believe that because he was suppressing his wolf form by taking the potion so regularly that he did not always look like that when he transformed. I really loved the scene in DHp1 where Hermione obliviates her parents. Just seeing her reaction and her disappearing from their family pictures was a pretty powerful moment. I would have liked to learn more about Hermione's parents for a few reasons. Firstly, they must have held some traits that allowed them to produce a magical child. There must have been something about them individually or even in the way they raised her that had an impact. Secondly, they seemed very open to the idea of wizards and witches, completely on the opposite spectrum of Vernon and Petunia. They were welcomed with open arms and didn't shy away from the idea of magic or that their daughter was not "normal". My guess why they were not such a large part of the story is simply because WE as the readers are muggles and getting into detail about how muggles live wouldn't be all that exciting. Learning about how wizards live on the other hand, proved to produce a very intriguing story. However, I would at least like to know their names or a little information about them. Hermione's act of removing their memory of her had a huge impact on me and wasn't emphasized enough (in my opinion) in the books or movies. In the movie, for example, Hermione and Harry were in a woodsy location (the Forest of Dean) which Harry deemed Hermione to have "outdone herself" in choosing, and she merely replied with "I came here once with mum and dad. Years ago... It's just how I remember it; the trees, the river, everything... like nothing's changed. Not true, of course. Everything's changed. If I brought my parents back here now, they probably wouldn't recognize any of it. Not the trees, not the river, not even me." It was told in passing and Harry never reopened the discussion again. Hermione, without doubt, is a very strong, level-headed character, but performing an act that will erase yourself from your parents memories at the age of 17 is a huge undertaking. She loved her parents and had a great relationship with them. It was much too mature of a decision for a child to be making to save her parents from the troubles of the wizarding war. Child protecting parent, when parent should be protecting child. I would have liked a little more emphasis on the fact that she was having a hard time coping with that. It would make her more adolescent human girl vs. hero. 