How do you judge what I did? Read the details.
Now, such questions usually don't crop up on my feed (for good reason), but this one did. Probably because Virali was mentioned in the question and she answered it as well. Incidentally, this is also one of those rare occasions where I don't agree with her answer. Which is why I am going to add my own advice. And also because I was bullied too. In my school. Not in college. All right, enough with the diplomacy and sweet talk. Yes, you are behaving like a coward and a pussy. Whether you actually are one will be determined how you deal with this situation. But let's first make something clear from the outset. That girl is not in the equation. Spineless bitches like her are a dime a dozen and should not be given a single fuck about. These are the girls who are basking under this new faux-women-empowerment fad that's been going around. Forget her. Ignore her. She is dead to you. Say this out loud. "She is dead to me."  Good. Now this Adam, bully extraordinaire by his own admission... This fucker needs some hard-hitting, pipe-yielding, motherfucking nigga treatment. (Metaphorically, of course. You don't need to go looking for actual goons for this shit). And this is not because he deserves it or not. Who are we to decide that? This is because you need it. Yeah, you can go curl up on your bed, convincing yourself you are taking the high road. Fact is, you are bending backwards for a college bully. What are you going to do when you face the real bullies out there? The corporate and the political thugs? The ones who can actually do you some real harm? Keep that 'walk away silently' attitude for them. (Not even then, if possible.) So, what can be done to teach a lesson to this piece of junk who needs a group of ass-kissers to feel like a man? Well, that depends on how well you can stand your ground in a verbal/physical fight. Yes. Physical. Because it can, and probably will, turn nasty. If you are armed with sufficient wit and acidic sarcasm, you can probably eat him up alive without lifting a finger. Dimwits like him are usually trolls when it comes to facing intelligently used verbal arrows interspersed with the occasional cuss word. Sometimes, they may retaliate with physical power. Well, stay your ground. Since you are outnumbered, you will get hurt (and I say this in Liam Neeson's Taken voice). But stay your ground and loudly promise those motherfuckers that if its going to be a fight, atleast one of them is going to get seriously hurt in the worst possible place(s). Let them decide who that unlucky bastard will be. And once the fist fight starts, go medieval on their ass. Punch, bite, grasp the balls and twist, gouge the eyes out. You just have to seriously injure one of them. The rest will scatter. Yes. You will come out bruised and battered out of this. You will also come out fearless. Bruises will heal. But that fear once gone, will never return. And fearlessness is worth a hundred more of those bruises. As the Northerners say, Bhid ja un se.. Jo hoga dekh lenge BC.. And maybe seeing you go fist and chin up alone, maybe the pussies you call your friends will also grow some spine. The more the merrier. And messier. But merrier. Now, maybe you come out on the losing end with the verbal and the physical. Well, let him walk away laughing. Because you are not yet done. There are always evil pranks you can conjure up. And don't hold back on them. Go that extra mile to fuck Adam's life up. Make him wish God never sent him to Earth. You get what I am saying. Keep that chin up. Take some bruises on that jaw. Its college, for fuck's sake. Keep that moral high street for your mid-life tussles. 