What are the most treasured aspects of '90s adventure game design and how might these be modernized and used in modern games?
I think after Anne's answer, it can be a bit daunting to even try to add anything else to this question, but I think a few points deserve to be further developed. I think that one important factor here is that the death of the Adventure genre circa 2000 was also the same time in which other genres had inherited most of the best traits of the genre - namely: freer exploration, inventory management and richer/more interactive dialog. Once these aspects infiltrated games such as Resident Evil (with an intermediate step in its inspiration, Alone in the Dark, arguably an early Action-Adventure title) and Tomb Raider. Notably, several Adventure games already dabbled in trying to crossbred other genres. In that way, it's easy to argue that Adventure games didn't die, but rather influenced most games with its DNA, making their less forgiving mechanics of trial and error and long periods of just being stuck outdated in this new age of spoon-feeding and hand-holding. The narrative of most modern games, even ones that don't have the classic dialog trees or inventory-based puzzles still adhere to the same principles of storytelling of classic adventures. It's just natural, but when you think about it, action games from the late 80's and early 90's were basically tackled either as an afterthought or tangentially (think NES Ninja Gaiden). So, for the most part, we have already mostly tapped out the mechanics and narrative elements from Adventure games. But I think there are two lost elements that still can prove useful. They are as follows: 1. Pacing With the increasing growth of the non-core market, removing most twitch-based gameplay and letting players concentrate on exploration and experience of environments could prove useful. A few classic Adventure games did attempt to create more breathing, living worlds (such as some of the abandoned designs proposed for The Dig), which could potentially work well today - especially if one were to make creative use of the cloud to make the storytelling more collaborative, as Myst-sequel Uru unsuccessfuly attempted. I understand this goes against what I mentioned above about modern hand-holding, but this type of game probably shouldn't be marketed to core gamers, like what we saw in Capcom's interesting but ultimately flawed Zak & Wiki for Wii. I see this as something that should be done in some transmedia project, having books or TV shows running parallel to such games (think Defiance minus the traditional repetitive MMO elements). 2. Environment Design As mentioned in other answers, one of the most gorgeous aspects of classic Adventure games was their world design. While most games had their backgrounds as flickering images that wouldn't grace the screen for long, Adventure games had you in a room for a long time. It made more sense to make less, smaller but more detailed environments. World design tends to favor sprawling environments, usually built with repeating blocks/assets. This affects not only art, but interactivity as well. By changing the relationship between player and environment (and yes, I don't want to generalize, there ARE some games nowadays that bet on this), I believe there is immense potential to create new and captivating experiences - and possibly bring more consumers into gaming. I constantly go back and replay classic Adventure games, and I still marvel at how much love went into making these games. Even with their flaws, it's hard to ignore how much the creators wanted to improve, innovate and just plain care about each aspect. Even on lower resolutions and color palettes of games like King's Quest V, one can still see that creators pushed the envelope - something that is harder and harder to happen in our current Triple-A Huge Budget games that can't really afford to escape from the norm. 