How can I improve my writing skills?
Start by making lists. Observe the object and write down everything you see, hear, smell, taste and feel. You can write down other stuff, too: what you think about the object, how it makes you feel, what it remind you of, etc., but make sure you focus on the sensual. Your reader understands the world via his five senses, so you need to ultimately write prose that stimulates those senses, or he won't see (smell, etc.) what you see (smell, etc.) But this list isn't for the reader, it's for you. It's brainstorming. It's "Natural Science." Be like Darwin or some other naturalist and jot down everything about the object in the most objective way you can. Be scientific; be clinical. No need for complete sentences: rocking chair. dusty. smooth to the touch. creaks when sat in. slight chip in left arm. feels a bit fragile. musty smell. light brown. can see wood grain. looks sort of faux "pioneer" style. faded pattern painted on back. abstract. red curlicues. etc. As you convert this to prose for the reader, here are some things to keep in mind: - Less is more. My list gives me great stuff to choose from, but I should definitely make choices. If you numb the reader with excessive details, he'll start finding it paradoxically hard to envision what you're talking about. This is because he'll be trying to hold too many things in his brain at once: In the corner of the attic, she saw a rocking chair covered in dust. When she sat in it, it creaked. Rubbing her hands along its sides, she was surprised at how smooth it felt, given that it was crafted in a rustic, faux-pioneer style. While she was staring at the light-brown wood (she could see the grain), she noticed a musty smell. Then she saw a small chip in the arm. Had she broken it? It did feel fragile. Nervous, she stood up and walked around the chair. On the back, in faded red paint, there was a curlicue pattern... And remember that I wrote "etc" at the end of the list. So in real life, if I tried to include all the details from the list, I'd bore the reader with ten pages of chair. Even if you weren't bored when you read that paragraph, my guess is that you reacted (maybe positively) to each detail but didn't get a sense of a chair. How many details should you include? As few as possible (is just "rocking chair" enough?), and the few you include should be the most evocative. I don't know what you're writing about, so maybe your subject matter will dictate which details you should use. For instance, if you're writing about an old, dilapidated house, maybe the dust and fragility is more important than the pattern on the back. But if your goal is to just stick something memorable in the reader's head, pick the most sensual, unusual details, and avoid anything the reader already knows (or assumes by default). Don't tell him the chair had arms. He knows that rocking chairs have arms. (Unless it doesn't have arms, in which case that's an quirky, interesting, memorable detail.) (Warning: by "unusual," I mean the most striking sensual detail on the list, not oddness for oddness's sake. Some beginning writers think they must infuse every sentence with eccentricity. I call it the David Lynch School of Writing. It's not necessarily wrong to say "the chair had rusty spikes sticking up from its seat, as if a sadist had used it to torture his victims," but don't expect your reader to pay attention to anything else after that. And if every sentence is quirky, quirk will cancel out quirk, until nothing seems quirky.) In general, I would avoid giving more than three details of any one object. That way, you won't tax the reader's temporary memory. And make them your three (two or one) best details: The rocking chair had a chip on its right arm. When she sat in in, it creaked. She stood up, dusting off her coat. - Some descriptive details are true but weak. Let's say, for whatever reason, conveying the smoothness of the chair is important to you. The problem is "was smooth to the touch" isn't very evocative. This is often the case when the detail is true about many objects we encounter every day. We rarely go into a bathroom and smell olives, but we are bombarded with smoothness: spoons are smooth, bottles are smooth, soup dishes are smooth, pencils are smooth, iPhones are smooth, etc. We're so numbed to smoothness that "the chair felt smooth" almost doesn't register. This is where metaphor can help. Smooth as... ? What smooth things are evocative? What will get the reader's attention? What will help him experience smoothness. Here's where lists are useful. Get out another sheet of paper—or open a another text file—and riff on smoothness. The list is for you, so dump everything on it, including cliches, just to get them out of your system: smooth as a baby's bottom as the cover of a new paperback as snow as an iceberg as shaved legs etc. Especially when your goal is descriptive, you want metaphors to be sensually evocative, not showy. The reader should almost not know he's reading a metaphor: he should just feel smoothness. So don't try to be poetic. You're just gunning for something more sensual than "it was smooth." I like "as the cover of a new paperback" (which occurred to me as I stared at my bookshelves while brainstorming), because it's just a tad surprising. It's not so quirky that it calls attention to itself (like "as smooth as as CGI robot") but it's not my first association with "book." ("Oh yeah... paperback covers are smooth!") So it has just a tiny pinch of quirkiness that might wake a reader up and force him to imagine running his fingers down a smooth book cover. Or you might disagree. This is one of the many places where artfulness and aesthetics come into play, and it's why we have so many different writers writing so many different ways. I find it kind of thrilling to come up with a metaphor that some readers will sigh at joyfully and other will shrug at. The metaphor doesn't need to be presented as such, though it can be: "She touched the arm. It was a smooth as the cover of a new paperback." You could sneak the image into your prose in other ways: "She touched the arm. Smooth. It made her think of the shaved legs and the covers of new paperbacks..." Oops. I snuck in two items from my list. Too much? I don't know. Play with it. All writing should involve playing, testing, trying, sleeping on it, coming back to it later, rethinking it, playing again... - There's no law that says you have to have a paragraph of description and then a paragraph of dialog (or philosophy or whatever). Description can be interspersed with other sorts of writing: She sat in the rocking chair and thought about what she was going to tell her husband. The chair creaked as she let it support her whole weight. "Robert," she rehearsed, "We need to discuss me going back to work." No. Too abrupt. He would flinch. He would shake his head and wander into the den. She rubbed her hands up and down the chair's dusty arms. They were smooth like the covers of new paperbacks... - Don't forget active verbs! It's all too easy to omit all verbs from description except for forms of To Be, Had, and Looked: It was green, it had gold edges, it looked ancient... It can be challenging, but the more you can evoke a person interacting with the object (moving through the landscape, etc.), the better. Your reader will identify with that person. Readers will feel as if they're tasting, touching, feeling, seeing and less like someone is showing them a picture. The slip of paper was so light; if you put it in your hand and closed your eyes, you wouldn't feel a thing. - Ease back on modifiers. Almost every book on writing tells you to lean on nouns and verbs and avoid overuse of adjectives and adverbs. We find it much easier to picture someone doing something than a huge, green, stinky, elongated, slowly drifting barge. Remember, the reader has to rely on his temporary memory. While he's trying to hold the character and plot (or the ideas you're writing about) in his head, he is also now forced to remember hugeness, greenness, stinkiness, etc. In fact, he won't remember all those details; he'll remember a vague mush. Because you're trying to describe something, you may be tempted to dump your sock drawer of modifiers on your prose. Don't. If the thing you're describing is old, broken, and red, either omit some of those details (are they all important?), break them up into separate sentences or—best of all—evoke them: The red toy—a fire engine?—shattered in his hand, crumbling into bits and pieces. He turned one over and saw 1867 etched in its base. - Advanced tip: framing. This is one of my favorite passages from "The Great Gatsby," which is a masterclass in writing: Almost the last thing I remember was standing with Daisy and watching the moving picture director and his Star. They were still under the white plum tree and their faces were touching except for a pale thin ray of moonlight between. It occurred to me that he had been very slowly bending toward her all evening to attain this proximity, and even while I watched I saw him stoop one ultimate degree and kiss at her cheek. "I like her," said Daisy, "I think she's lovely." But the rest offended her... I remember the first time I read this: it blew my mind. Fitzgerald wanted to convey how much Daisy hated the party. So he framed "the rest offended her" with something poetic and romantic, and even had the character say something pleasant. It makes the next line pop! Think of ways to make your descriptions—or the most important parts of them—pop. Contrast is your friend. Besides stacks of empty boxes, an old filing cabinet, and a broken door was a rocking chair with a pattern of red curlicues painted on its back. Imagine a camera panning across a lot of boring details in the attic, coming to rest on the one bit of interest, the chair. But the chair is made more interesting by the crap that comes before it. Updated 91w ago • View Upvotes