Is the call center model broken?
I think that human dialog is uniquely powerful in a way that will continue to require the use of call centers in business. New channels may create a means for customers to find what they need without having to interact directly with a company representative, but that is not necessarily advantageous to the customer or the company. Building rapport, debugging complex issues and selling are things that aren't easily done without voice interaction. That said, the way call centers are structured in antiquated at best. The inbound call center model came to be sometime in the mid 60's with the development of the Private Automated Business Exchange.  Signal quality necessitated the co-location of representatives around the PABX leading to large open rooms of representatives. Of course, anytime a large workforce is gathered in one place you want to maximize their productive time, and since calls arrive when customers call, and not when representatives are available, the call queue was developed to hold customers until someone could answer. Now, having everybody call into a central queue means that there is going to be some variance in the reasons and complexity of these queued calls, but since calls were dequeued by reps at random (as they became available), all calls into a queue needed to be similar. So Automated Call Distribution capability was added to separate calls of similar type. Of course, since reps don't all know the same things, interactions needed to be scripted to ensure some kind of uniformity in service delivery.  All of these "innovations" were developed before the mid-70's. I guess I'm saying that you can't call something broken if it never really worked in the first place. Human communication is filled with subtlety and uniqueness that flies in the face of a one-size fits all call queue. Representatives are not all the same and can't be made that way by scripting, or some fancy CRM technology. However, that human dialog needs to be preserved when it's the most appropriate mode for the customer or company (or preferably both) to meet their needs. If I were to suggest a "better way", I'd say that consumers and companies need to divorce themselves from the idea that a company should have someone available to answer the phone, and adopt the idea that a company should connect a customer with someone able to support an appropriate interaction even if that person has to make a call-back. I'd guess that your satisfaction with the new channels has a lot to do with the fact that the company has an opportunity to assign your  request to an appropriate resource before responding rather than just connecting you with the next available rep. When consumer behavior changes to allow phone conversations to be asynchronous, the call center industry will be able to start to develop a working operational model. So would you accept a call-back to save the pain of long hold times, a complex call tree and a conversation with an unprepared rep? 