Mentors: If you could meet with anyone in the world, real or fictional, past or present, who would you choose? What would you want to do during your time together? And, how would you like the meeting to impact your life?
Master Oogway His words are too wise and pleasing for anybody's ears. He nails it in his very first dialog. Shifu: “ [bowing] Master Oogway. You summoned me? Is something wrong?” Oogway: “Why must something be wrong for me to want to see my old friend?” And he calls his own disciple a friend. Did you see that? Anyway, let us see what else he's got to say. Shifu: “ So nothing is wrong?” Oogway: “Well I didn't say that.” See... He's witty as well. Alright... He sees a vision that Tai Lung will return, Shifu sends a message to double the guards, double the weapons, double everything. And then he nails it again. Oogway: “One often meets his destiny on the road he takes to avoid it.” See... Wisdom flows through his veins. And he was right about it, Tai Lung escapes using the feather of the bird Shifu sent (road he took to avoid it). Anyway, and then Shifu becomes impatient and stressed, he says Oogway: “  Your  mind is like this water, my friend. When it is agitated, it becomes  difficult to see. But if you allow it to settle, the answer becomes  clear. ” Man, how does he manage to have so much wisdom. And then his statement also shows Shifu the answer. The Dragon Scroll.... shown in the water. Perfect timing!   He is funny as well. When Shifu asks him who is worthy to be trusted with the secret to the secret power, he replies, “ I don't know". Ummm..... I found it funny the way he spoke it. And no doubt he sees right through the Panda, his abilities to become a Dragon Warrior. Oogway: “The universe has brought us the dragon warrior. ” (Followed by a drumroll, of course.) And he's so good at understanding others. And he knows how to comfort them. Well, we don't scold when somebody is upset, even if he is eating peach from the sacred peach tree of heavenly wisdom, right? Oogway: I see you have found the Sacred Peach Tree of Heavenly Wisdom!” Po: “[With his mouth full] Oh! Is that what this is? I am so sorry. I thought it was just a regular peach tree.” Oogway: “ I understand. You eat when you get upset.” And he's got sense of humor as well. Po : I probably sucked more  today than anyone in the history of Kung Fu, in the history of China, in the  history of sucking! Master Oogway : Probably. Po : And the five! Man, you should've seen them. They totally hate me. Master Oogway : Totally. You see his well chosen words! And his advice. Usually, I hate advices, but his advice! So pleasing... PO: How's Shifu ever going to turn me into the Dragon Warrior? I mean, I'm not like The Five. I've got no claws, no wings, no venom. Even Mantis has those...thingies. Maybe I should just quit and go back to making noodles. OOGWAY: Quit, don't quit. Noodles, don't noodles.You are too concerned with what was and what will be. There is a saying: Yesterday is history, tomorrow is a mystery, but today is a gift. That is why it is called the present. I totally get that boss! We should enjoy our present time, and not worry about our future. Well, I don't know if you found it as good as I did from the text, so I am attaching a video here. Only for you! Sorry guys, but he's got on last act of awesomeness in his package! THE FINAL DESTINATION? THE FINAL CONVERSATION? Ah.... His final conversation with Shifu, after which he goes for final destination! Shifu: Master! I have... it's very bad news! Oogway:Ah, Shifu. There is just news. There is no good or bad. Well, see this sentence is deep and wise. Good and bad depends on our perspective, a news is just.... news! Okay, next.   Shifu:Master, your vision. Your vision was right! Tai-Lung has broken out of prison! He's on his way! [pause] Oogway: That IS bad news... if you do not believe that the Dragon Warrior can stop him. See... the perspective. Well, then there is a honorable mention to his quote (I couldn't find an interesting conversation to this quote). "There are no accidents." Too sad, he dies (gone? ascended? I don't know the right word). I would give anything to be with a guy like this! Edit: A bonus! You can watch more wisdom from Oogway, in this video. And uh... I am feeling too lazy too extract his wisdom out of this video, so enjoy. :P Edit #2: Andrew Tertes requested me to tell how would I like my life to be impacted after having met with Oogway. So here I go. Well, question asks how would I like to spend my time with Oogway. I don't know... Probably I would talk about Kung Fu and Peace and Justice. I would like to talk to him about issues I am facing in my life (I need a mentor :/). I would love to know how he would have handled them.  I would definitely learn Kung Fu from him. Also  I will keep a note with me, noting every quote he speaks out (his quotes are really precious). Aslo I would like to know how to attain inner peace. I become hyper at even small issues. And he's calm even after having a vision about the return of Tai Lung. Oops I forgot one more thing. How does he have vision about such things? I would do anything to have visions about such things. How would I like my life to be impacted after having met with Oogway? Wisdom. I want the wisdom he's got. And I want the inner peace. Calmness. I want everything he's got. If I could have such a turtle, I would keep it. 