What's it like to meet Bill Gates?
My friend, the late, great, and much-missed Blair Newman, went to Harvard with Bill Gates back in the day. When Blair made it possible for me to leave Boston and The Yankee Group for northern California in 1979, Bill used to come down from Washington state to visit Blair from time to time. I first met Bill at one of these meetings, during which the three of us stayed up late drinking beer and talking about the future of computing and networking technologies. My favorite memory: Blair and I giving Bill unbridled grief for the arrogance of locating Microsoft in the wilds of Washington, expecting top-notch programmers to move to the hinterlands just to work at the company. If you're gonna be wrong about something, be wrong about something GOOD! ;-) My favorite Bill Gates meeting story isn't mine, though. It's my wife's. She accompanied me to a UNIX Expo show in New York City, where I was hosting the first "Hot Iron" Awards to be given to vendors of both UNIX and Windows NT solutions. (You young whipper-snappers can Google and/or Bing all of the terms I've just used with which you aren't familiar.) AIM Technology, organizers and presenters of the Hot Iron Awards, had tried repeatedly to get Bill to agree to present the inaugural Windows NT awards, and been repeatedly rebuffed. So I took a deep breath, called Bill's PR folks, and recounted the story of how Blair and Bill had been sailing on one of Bill's few vacations, when Blair and others browbeat Bill into offering Steve Ballmer a job at Microsoft, via ship-to-shore telephone, for the princely sum of $50,000 a year, more than Bill wanted to pay. (I remember the word "cheapskate" being tossed around, according to Blair, but I wasn't there, so...) That story got me through to Bill's office. A while later, he called me back and agreed to do the Awards. So we're at the Awards rehearsal, and my wife's sitting near the stage I'm on, when Bill walks in. No entourage, no bodyguards, just Bill with two or three other folks. We see each other, exchange pleasantries, and I get Bill backstage to get prepped. Later, my wife's eyes were almost the size of 5.25-inch floppy disk drives. "I told you I knew him," I reminded her. "Yes," she replied -- "but HE knew YOU!!" :-D 