Mentors: If you could meet with anyone in the world, real or fictional, past or present, who would you choose? What would you want to do during your time together? And, how would you like the meeting to impact your life?
A mentor is an experienced and trusted advisor. One that comes to my mind has had a profound influence on me, through his thoughts and actions.   I choose someone from our times, because the present seems most relevant to me. What is today was not yesterday and will never be the same tomorrow.   Today, in the world, we have one mentor who preaches compassion, love, humility and equality like no other - His Holiness, the 14th Dalai Lama, Tenzin Gyatso, the exiled leader of Tibet, who is considered a “living Buddha.” ("Be kind whenever possible. It is always possible."- The Dalai Lama) Dalai Lama's preaching’s have had a great impact on how I perceive the world. Each and every word of guidance is inspiring, thought provoking and strikes a chord with my heart. He represents peace and compassion and has reiterated that happiness is a human birth right for everyone. I couldn't agree less.   This is one of his quotes I try and put into practice each and every day - I live by this. ("Give the ones you love wings to fly, roots to come back and reasons to stay." - The Dalai Lama) I would consider my meeting him a chance of a lifetime. I will gain guidance on issues of mindfulness - gaining control over my mind. He says - "It is impossible to know the mind, however, without observing it. This practice is known as mindfulness meditation. Through practicing mindfulness – or being able to stay in the moment without judgment – the mind develops strength of attention and the power of focus. " This seems like an unconquerable feat to me. This will be the first of many things on my list.   I am captivated and awestruck by his views on religion – (" There is no need for temples, no need for complicated philosophies. My brain and my heart are my temples; my philosophy is kindness." -The Dalai Lama)  At 25, I am at a stage in my life, where I am thinking about the big existential questions on the purpose of life, on gaining inner strength, on religion, on love, on trust, on the ability to live today and not vacillate between the past and the present and who better to discuss some of them with than the Dalai Lama. 