What is your favorite 'easter egg' found in Tolkien's literary works?
I like it when Sam says, in a conversation with Ted the miller's son, in the Green Dragon in Hobbiton in book 1: "All right," said Sam, laughing with the rest. "But what about these Tree-men, these giants, as you might call them? They do say that one bigger than a tree was seen up away beyond the North Moors not long back ... But this one was as big as an elm tree, and walking – walking seven yards to a stride, if it was an inch." "Who's they?" "My cousin Hal for one. He works for Mr Boffin at Overhill and goes up to the Northfarthing for the hunting. He saw one." "Says he did, perhaps. Your Hal's always saying he's seen things' and maybe he sees things that aren't there." "But this one was as big as an elm tree, and walking - walking seven yards to a stride, if it was an inch." "Then I bet it wasn't an inch. What he saw was an elm tree, as like as not." "But this one was walking, I tell you' and there ain't no elm tree on the North Moors." "Then Hal can't have seen one," said Ted. There was some laughing and clapping; the audience seemed to think that Ted had scored a point. ... (Included more of the conversation as I think Tolkein's dialog in these scenes is great :) ). And then much later on Treebeard says to Merry and Pippin that the entwives would like their part of the world. He was immensely interested in everything: in the Black Riders, in Elrond, and Rivendell, in the Old Forst, and Tom Bombadill, in the Mines of Moria, and in Lothlorien and Gladriel. He made them describe the Shire  and its country over and over again. He said an odd thing at this point. 'You never see any, hm, any Ents round there, do you?'' he asked. 'Well, not Ents, Entwives I should really say.' Entwives?' said Pippin. 'Are they like you at all?' 'Yes, hm, well no: I do not really know now', said Treebeard thoughtfully. 'But they would like your country, so I just wondered.' Here is a bit of fanfic where "SlightlyTookish" has rewritten a passage from the LOR to make the link explicit: Lord of the Rings Fan-Fiction Archive So, did Sam's cousin Hal spot an entwife away beyond the North Moors in the shire? We never find out. We have a bit of doubt about whether he is an especially reliable witness from the conversation - does he see things that others miss - or does he see things that aren't there? Because of our sympathies for Sam we tend to side a bit with him, but even so... It's great the way Tolkein leaves these open ends :). See also John Savidge's answer to What are the theories about where the Entwives may be if they still exist in Middle Earth? 