What makes acting believable?
A major facet (though not the only facet) of believability is comfort with the script's language. When I cast Shakespeare plays, this is the major (but not the only) trait I look for. Four sorts of actors try out, and I only cast the fourth: 1. Actors who are totally uncomfortable with Elizabethan English. They can barely recite it. They stumble over words and phrases, and they sound, in general, like they're speaking a language they don't understand. I probably sound similar when I speak Spanish. I know how to pronounce Spanish words, but I don't understand the vocabulary. I have no idea what I'm saying. 2. Actors who have some experience with blank verse, but who switch into POE-TREE mode when they speak it. They seem extremely self-conscious about the difference between normal speech and Elizabethan, and they really "hit" the differences, as if trying to let me know they "get it." Or they have some kind of "mid atlantic" Shakespeare voice. 3. Actors who are totally comfortable with Elizabethan speech, but who don't revel in its special quirks and features. The speak it as if it's contemporary prose. They don't do anything with rhythms, line endings, etc. Imagine me reading Spanish and making it sound totally natural, but pronouncing "pollo" (chicken) with English Ls instead of with a Y sound. 4. Actors who sound as iElizabethan English is their native language. They are not only comfortable with it: they OWN it. By which I mean they know how to use its special features as rhetorical weapons. They wield blank verse like a sword. (Listen to Kenneth Branagh in any of his Shakespeare films.) In general, one-through-four, above, are the phases actors go through as they become brilliant handlers of Shakespearean language. I have been focusing on Shakespeare, but the same thing applies (often in subtle forms) with speaking any writer's lines. David Mamet and Harold Pinter are modern playwrights who write in a heightened (poetic) style. It's always interesting to hear the difference between actors who are comfortable with those styles and actors who aren't. The difference is profound. With Mamet, you can hear the difference by watching his early movies -- the ones he directed himself. Compare the acting in "House of Games" with, say, "The Edge" or "Glengarry Glenn Ross." "House of Games" starred mostly unknown (at the time) actors, and, though they were members of Mamet's theatre ensemble, they spoke his lines in a stilted way. But in "The Edge" and "Glengarry" -- also in "The Verdict" -- you hear old pros like Paul Newman, Al Pacino and Anthony Hopkins speaking the same sort of language. They own the language rather than letting the language own them, and the result is a quantum leap in believability. (I also think it's interesting comparing the actors on the original version of "Star Trek" to the "Next Generation" actors. I'm not sure I understand why this happened, but in my opinion, though both series involved a lot of clunky, badly-written dialog, the original actors owned it and the "Next Generation" actors were a bit cowed by it. They always sound a bit wooden to me. Shatner, famously, is histrionic, but he can sound real at times. And most of his costars sound very natural to me, especially Deforest Kelley. This may be because they were all working actors for whom "Star Trek" was just another job. The more recent actors knew they are part of a Big Thing from the get-go. But, in general, contemporary actors seem to struggle with genre films and shows. Older actors found a way to play those parts with much more ease and naturalism.) I'll end by focusing on some other aspects, besides facility with language, that lead to naturalism. - Playing an action. This is the brilliant idea Stanislavsky came up with, and it changed acting in a profound way. Rather than try to emote, the actor must find something to do -- an achievable action -- and try to do it. He finds a new action for each moment of the play and generally expresses it as an infinitive verb, e.g. "My action here is To Steal" or "My action here is To Convince." In a sense, this sort of acting seems real because it IS real. You don't prentend to try to convince someone; you really try to convince him. - Vulnerability. When we watch actors, we are, in a sense, looking through a keyhole, trying to catch people with their (metaphorical -- usually) clothes off. Actors must be willing to get (emotionally) naked in front of an audience. If they're not, we can tell. This has nothing to do with "being emotional," "crying on cue" or acting in some histrionic way. Rather, it's about not protecting oneself. It's about listening to what other actors are saying -- really listening -- and having whatever reaction you have, without editing it or trying to save face if your reaction is embarrassing. Our culture brings people up to be so guarded, it's rare for a person to be able to drop those guards. I think this is, to a certain extent, the X-factor people talk about when they say, "There are some things you just can't learn. You just have to 'have it.'" It's impossible, during a standard rehearsal period (if it's possible at all) to teach someone to be vulnerable. - Humility. What do actors do if they're in a bad play. For instance, what does an an actor do if he has to deliver a joke that's not funny. It's not funny, he knows it's not funny, and he knows the audience won't find it funny? But he also knows that his character thinks it's hilarious joke. Bad actors will somehow signal to the audience that they know the joke is bad, because they're worried the audience will think they're chumps if they don't. Great (believable) actors will play the moment as if they're telling the funniest joke in the history of the world. - Confidence. Which should never be confused with arrogance. Some actors, mostly through experience, just seem totally comfortable living on stage or on film. They are good at what they do and they know it. They aren't arrogant about it. They simply don't worry that they'll be able to get the job done. Acting is very hard, and there's tons of stuff to worry about even if "all" you're worrying about is remembering your lines, walking to the right place at the right time, and playing your action. If, at the same time, you're worried about a lot of stuff that has nothing to do with your character (e.g. will the critics like me? Do I look fat in this costume?) then you're not completely focussed on the character's actions. The audience can usually tell. Finally, a surprising number of actors -- even professional ones, in films or on Broadway -- do not learn their lines sufficiently. They have to grope a bit, to remember what to say next. The smart ones come up with ways to make it look as if they're characters are groping, trying to come up with just the right words to say in the moment. But it's never totally believable. If even a tiny fraction of an actor's brain is used up thinking "What's my next line?" he can't be totally in-the-moment. Great actors learn their lines so well that the correct words just pop into their heads when needed. 