Why did the Star Trek writers and producers change the nature of the Borg from being a linked collective to a queen-driven hive?
The real story? Rick Berman and Brannon Bragga are so uncreative that they couldn't come up with a compelling story involving the Borg without finding a way to personalize the collective. And while that personalization did not turn out half bad (which is more of a credit to Alice Krige's good acting than anything else), the fact still remains that the Queen never was presented or hinted at NOT EVEN ONCE before the movies.  Furthermore, such an entity would be completely useless, given the technological evolution of the hive mind. In fact, I think the Collective lost something alien and frightening with the creation of the Queen.  It's like, they had to come up with some way to give the Collective the ability to interact with Data, Picard (and later Seven and Janeway), but couldn't muscle up the ability to do so without destroying its single most frightening feature:  the lack of individuality. It was so frighteningly inhuman, but to make it an effective, personal enemy of Picard and Data, B&B thought that they needed to make it more human. But they failed because the essential evil-ness, the very bone-chilling nature of the Borg is that it's utterly inhuman. If you become a Borg, you lose everything and become a mote in the infinite collective of drones. And, while they both started off as powerful creative forces within the Star Trek franchise, B&B ended up destroying the very thing they helped create. The movie, while financially successful for Paramount, was nonetheless horrifically riddled with plot holes and blatantly contrived plot devices that even a four year old could notice and resolve. The fictional story? We only get hints. Obviously, the Borg were a humanoid society who allowed technology to run amok. It probably happened in stages and--frankly--it's one of those Startrekkian predictions that I think is pretty damned close to the mark for where we could potentially head, as a next step in our bio-technological evolution. The temptation is just too great to incorporate technology into our biology. And, I believe with absolute certainty that--eventually--human beings will be networked. This may result in a passive connection of our minds (with individual control over the ability to download information and interpersonal communication, a la "3001") or up to and including a Borg-like hive connection. It is easily imaginable as to how such a society could develop and all with good intentions. Society advances to the point where each individual is connected using nano-technology during conception. This conception & development can take place within the female body or within an artificial gestation chamber (a la, "Brave New World"). Given the constraints of life and the pressures that pregnancy puts on a female's body, it's understandable why many females would choose the artificial gestation of a baby. During either development time, the technology would grow with the brain, and be fully incorporated. As time and life passed on within that society, the minds may become more and more connected. Without forcing a single person to join the collective, that society may evolve steadily towards fully networked minds. Why network?  Consider that with each generation, the resistence and fear of such a network would erode.  Starting out as a handy way to communicate, call for help in an emergency and learn (consider the power of "downloading" a lesson directly rather than the slow, repetitious way), it slowly evolved into a way to "never be alone".  Just take a look at OUR society!  Even now, I'm never alone.  In my case, I am on Quora, Facebook and various news sites all day long.  When I'm away from my technology, I'm utterly lost.  Consider how weird this would have seemed to my Father or Great Grand Father's generation.  A similar evolution could and would take place with networked minds.  Eventually the desire to share consciousness would be come natural and desirable. In the case of the Borg, the technology also evolved to allow the collective to share energy and life-force through their subspace network. At some point, once they lost their individuality, a hive mind took over. Hive minds have no personal concern for individuals. As individuals, we develop our ethics because of a need to interact with each other. Love, compassion, respect for property and identity all exist because we live in a society of individuals having to get along and function together. Once the proto-Borg society evolved to the point where all minds became one, that social impetus would be removed from that society, all that they would be (and obviously were) left with was the intellectual craving for more evolution and more knowledge. The need would never be satiated. Always a quest for more. Because most technological advancement comes about through individual innovation and creativity, the Borg technological evolution more than likely began to slow. This does not mean that it could not perform research and development using its hive mind or the computer technology available to it. A sufficiently advanced technology would be able to self-advance pretty quickly, especially using virtual research. But, that was, undoubtedly not enough. At some point, they probably stumbled upon a creature or ship that was weaker or injured but which possessed some kind of desirable technology. In order to help that creature(s) out and/or in order to gain that technology, they assimilated it. They may have probed the minds of the creatures or simply pulled the creatures into the collective. After noting the success of this action, the Borg more than likely came upon the novel idea that incorporating more life forms, their knowledge and technology would add to the collective evolution far more quickly than the collective's research alone. And from there, it obviously gained its reputation for a merciless hunter of all that is unique and advanced. A Borg Queen? The only way that I can imagine a need for a queen (and this is REALLY a stretch, given my understanding of dispersed computing, a collective intelligence and instantaneous communication) is (again, very contrived) a need to gain an understanding of "individuals". A hive mind can--presumably--lose touch with individualism and in order to come up with creative concepts and manage those concepts more effectively while bringing a unique "voice" to the collective, the Borg may have stumbled upon the notion of creating a unique individual to unify each Unamatrix. As I hate the notion of a Borg Queen and the whole idea, I really cannot come up with an effective plot device requiring one. Even the lame reasons I gave don't satisfy any of those needs other than to--as I pointed out--give lazy writes a new spin on an old bad guy, thus making them a bit more movie-worthy. Updated 151w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Kavinay Kishor