How do I believe that the humans around me actually possess consciousness (and it's not just me who is conscious)?
I've been asking myself that question from when i was a kid - I can see how i have always WANTED to BELIEVE that other people think and feel and experience stuff inside their head/themselves, just like me --- yet, i could never get over the FACT that when i am looking at them with my eyes, i see none of that going on - i am just seeing a picture. Yet the picture looked so much like my picture that I didn't want to accept that maybe what i think about what other people think and feel and experience 'within themselves' isn't actually real and really only exist in my own head/'consciousness' and i truly am 'alone' in my 'consciousness'/'inner experiences' as 'thoughts, feelings and emotions'. Because, that would then imply that i am ALONE here, ALONE in existence, AS existence - and even though common sense deduction of the FACTS would indicate that to be reality, i see how i started to, throughout my life, deliberately convince myself that what exist inside of myself as my 'mind', exist within others as well through 'interpretative perception', even though i could not and cannot possibly see this for real - as i cannot actually open up the head of another human and see the thoughts and feelings - just so that i would not feel so alone or have to realize that i am alone. Because, what would it imply to be/exist ALONE here? It would imply that i am responsible for all that exist here as this world/reality that i am seeing with my eyes, as it all IS me, just me, alone, here. It would imply that i am 'God' and all that exist here is my creation --- it would also imply that i would have to face the fact that i have never been aware of being 'God' and of when, how or why I created this existence in the first place --- which scared the living shit out of me. So, i took the road of self-deception and pretended that i am 'not alone' because 'other people feel what i feel, they think what i think - and i am my thoughts and feelings, so that means that i am not alone responsible for what is here'. Though what i have had to come to terms with is the deliberate self-deception in convincing myself that i am this 'system' of 'thought, feeling and emotion', while deeeep down within myself I kind of know that that is not really who i am - i simply brainwashed myself deliberately into losing myself within that system to just not have to face the FACT that i am ALONE here. This is the sad reality of it because it is the FACTS - as i can see that 'consciousness' as what i believe about what 'other people' think, believe, feel and experience, still only exist within MY MIND --- so, it's a matter of making that decision: will i stop fooling myself and face the FACTS that 'consciousness' is my own self-made illusion or will i continue hiding within myself to not face the 'God' that is me and the enormous responsibility that comes with it? 