What were your misconceptions as a kid?
I thought Moses and Buddha were the same person. In fact, I thought Christianity and Buddhism was the same religion! After more confusion, I thought my parents were demon worshipers!! I was very confused as a child. I am an American born Chinese. My parents came to America (legally) to ensure their children would be citizens and well educated. But when it came to them, my parents are very stubborn. Even today after 30+ years, they still haven't learned English! They understand how to listen in English, but they do not speak it or read it. They do however, read and speak fluent Spanish. Southern California never forced them to need English. Most government forms had a Spanish backside. When signing legal agreements they would pull out massive English-Chinese dictionaries and do a visual symbols-to-symbols comparison. They "get-the-gist-of-it" and then ink their signatures. I still marvel at the fact that they ran multiple successful businesses here. Anyhow, back to demon worshiping... So my parents don't speak English. When I was about to start Elementary school (1st grade), they figured a private education (paid) was probably better than public education (free). My parents weren't wealthy, but they were on a strict mission to make sure I was well educated. My father worked multiple jobs so I could attend private school. When picking the right private school, they "got-the-gist-of-it"... They enrolled me in an Evangelical Christian Private Elementary School. As a child, I had no idea what religion was. Life just blends together. Adults do strange things and that's just how the world works. To make matters worse, my mother is Buddhist. My father is Agnostic. My grandmother is Muslim. No one in my family was Christian, until me. My parents spoke to me in Chinese. My American education was in English. At this point in my life I had grown accustomed to things having both a Chinese and English name. When my mother began teaching me about Buddha and how he went up the mountain and came down enlightened, she narrated the story in Chinese. I was told a similar story in English where Moses went up a mountain and came down with the Ten Commandments. I kind of "got-the-gist-of-it"... To some degree, the messages were the same. Have compassion. Reduce suffering. Do unto others as you would like others to do unto you. Thou shall not kill. Don't lie. For the ones that were different, I figured I would eventually learn their Chinese/English equivalent names over time. At home, I saw my mother pray to a shrine. At school, we would pray before recess, lunch, and break. Seemed pretty normal to me. Children at recess, "are you Christian?" I was visibly different from my peers, I was Chinese. Of course I'm Christian! Why would I be any different from my friends at school? Why would I not be "good"? "Are your parents Christian?" What a silly question! -- To be Christian was to be good, and good people were Christians, that taught me this. My mom prays to a Christian shrine everyday! She puts up fruits and incenses! It's just, kind of, more Chinese looking... Eventually things didn't line up. School talked about original sin, how the devil will get you. Hell was always associated with red, whereas Chinese associated red with good fortune. Children at recess can be plenty mean. Eventually I was convinced my parents were "different". Christian beliefs were always very polar. Good or evil. Heaven or hell. Forgiven or sinner. My parents were "not Christian!!" Gasp! 100% of the people at the school didn't have a red shrine at home. Some didn't burn incenses. Where was my family's holy cross? Oh my! My parents are evil! Doesn't that make me evil too? I love my parents, but... I don't want to goto hell... Lots of confusion. Luckily I wasn't stupid enough to try anything against my "evil" parents. Eventually my parents realized I was Christian... Surprisingly they kept me there until 5th grade and didn't really clarify the differences. In the 6th grade, they moved me to public school. They had a Christian son. Thanks mom! Thanks dad! I was so confused! I lost my religion in the 7th grade and became an agnostic like my dad. I dabbled a bit in my mother's Buddhism as well. Oh, I have a little brother too. They didn't send him to a private school!!! He grew up atheist. We're seven years apart, had drastically different upbringings. In college, I became an atheist. Now, due to my history with religion, I have a profound curiosity for human behavior. I  enjoy Christian/Catholic/etc... art history even though I do not believe in God. Human neurological behavior is interesting to me and I have a degree in computer science with a deep passion for artificial intelligence and natural language processing. "Life is an interesting and amazing journey. Sometimes living in someone else's shoes is a bit more literal." - Me Updated 96w ago • View Upvotes