Android (operating system): What are some tips for amateur app developers?
This is my story. T★p Five : Android Apps on Google Play For the past couple of months, I had really been intrigued by the prospect of building android applications. The whole idea of coding, testing and designing layouts right from scratch just thrilled me. It’s overwhelming alright, but where’s the fun if life was just black and white. So, I decided to pursue it in my free time. After googling a lot about android development for a couple of days and how should I set the ball rolling, finally installed all the required software and sdks. I had a good programming background, so it took me another couple of days to grasp the ins and outs of android. The whole life cycle, execution cycles and activity, layout in xml etc. Now, that I was all set to code and convert innovative ideas into tangible apps, that could change the world. But I needed an idea at the first place. After brainstorming a lot and filtering google playstore like Indiana Jones does in the tombs, for two day straight, I got some hint as to what is really hot and trending in the market. And also, I had a rough idea of what was going to be my first android app as a developer. A little bit of refining and bending the idea of an app that I had thought of, I came up with an idea of a game that was supposed to be fun, puzzling and something that can tickle your brain and test your presence of mind at the same time. This is how that idea looks like, after almost 20 days of effort: Top Five :  Android Apps on Google Play It was an interesting journey of almost a fortnight, where I did nothing but code code code. Glued to my laptop and my android phone which happened to be the test device. This is how you do it - The Logic : Do it till it’s done : { “Write code – compile it – run it –  doesn't work for the first time or like you thought it would - write some more statements with semi colon – run it again “ } The above process has to be repeated almost infinite number of times before you come up with a product that is closest to the idea that you had in the inception. So, to sum up the experience as a beginner android developer, it’s not at all rocket science. You just need to have these recipes in you : - A logical head, an aptitude for writing code and myriads of lines of codes, a sound know-how of designing and color schemes ( the world is not black and white) and the most important of all, who all are going to benefit from it i.e. the users.   P.S. Please visit the link of Top Five which is now live on playstore, your reviews would just help beginners like me as a valuable incentive to pursue something that one wants to be. 