What made Glitch ambitious?
I'm not sure what Tiny Speck meant by "ambitious," but I can tell you what I found impressive about Glitch that few other games have accomplished: It created an emotional connection. After a very small investment of time, Glitch felt like a friend. The product's "voice" used for dialogs and tutorials was very engaging: it reacted as though it had feelings, pride, sarcasm, ambition, goals, and also healthy perspective about how it was really just a silly video game. A cute dialog. If I achieved something great, I felt like it was really happy for me and thought I was awesome. Sometimes I'd achieve something that was good but silly, like winning an award for accomplishing something that I was forced to do. When that happened, I felt like we were both sharing an eye-roll about how the award was preposterous but we were both pretending it was a real achievement. If I did something stupid, it would say something sympathetic that was also kind of passive-aggressive about how I shouldn't have done the dumb thing in the first place. Like "Oh no, you died! That sucks! Maybe don't phone it in so much next time, huh?" An in-game item. I've never experienced a connection like this in any other game. It could be like a witty, poignant, funny friend, and I'm not ashamed to say that I actually cried a tiny bit at the end of the countdown to shutdown. Playing the game was an incredibly rich experience. Nearly every event in the game was celebrated visually and audibly. When you attained a new level, there was so much fanfare that it was like a tiny little party in your computer. The sound effects were vivid and imaginative -- definitely the most musically interesting sound effects I've encountered in a game. Every completed quest, new type of item, new skill, or silly stat ("You petted 25 piggies!") was charmingly celebrated, though not overly so. As I mentioned above, the game didn't take itself too seriously, so the excitement seemed appropriate and cute instead of cheap and manipulative. An achievement. Yay! Unfortunately, it's surprisingly difficult to find videos of these events (and it's too sad to sit through a bunch of someone else's boring gameplay videos), so you'll just have to take my word for it. You can get some idea of the sounds from their downloads page, though it has mostly music instead of the cute sounds. (If you use Tiny Speck's new product, Slack, many of its alerts are sound effects from Glitch.) In addition to all the achievement-related celebrations, Glitch was also rich due to the sheer density of amusing discoverable curiosities. I think that in virtually every session I'd find something unusual and special that I had seemingly just stumbled upon by chance. Maybe it would be an interesting tree that gave you a quirky item if you looked at it twice, or maybe it would be a weird item that teleported you into an unexpected and hilarious ten-minute quest. Sometimes an in-game character would appear, apparently at random, and you'd suddenly be thrown into some fun little challenge with an unusual item as your reward. One of the best examples of this was The Rube. The Rube was this awesome little guy who would appear once in a while to trade with you, and he was terrible at making deals. He'd invariably offer you something super great for a preposterously bad item in return, and whenever he appeared it was just like a fun, free gift just for you. The Rube. One of the most fun things about him, though, was that he would only trade with one particular player. So you'd be hanging out in some forest clearing with, say, twelve other players that you didn't know. And suddenly the distinctive Rube music would start playing! So you'd frantically scroll around until you found him walking in, but usually he'd be there to trade with someone else. Every once in a while, though, he was there for you, and it always made for an exciting and unexpected surprise. Here's someone's extremely slow video on an extremely slow computer that shows an interaction with the Rube. For some crazy reason, this girl turned down all his awesome offers, and you can see that the Rube leaves very sadly at the end of the interaction. Overall, though, Glitch's richness mostly came from how it made you feel. I once heard someone describe it as "you always felt like you were winning," and I think that's pretty accurate. It had an incredible amount of playable content. I have no idea how many quests and locations and items and NPCs it had, but there were a lot. And tons and tons of levels. I can't even imagine how many man-hours went into the visual design alone, let alone all the interactivity that was produced. Areas were designed by many different artists, so their aesthetics spanned just about every visual style imaginable.  This video shows a whole bunch of them: Glitch also let players take in-game screenshots, which could then be posted on Glitch's site: Snaps. These pages also do a good job at demonstrating the incredible visual breadth of this game. It had excellent UX design. I already covered how Glitch made me feel, and that's a lot of why their UX was great. But the "administrative" parts of the UX were great as well: the UI always behaved as I expected, there was no ambiguity about my state, and I always knew how to accomplish my goals (or at least had a good idea of how to start). As a UX designer, I would like to be clear here in saying that Glitch didn't have the best UX ever, but it was really good. It also didn't have the best UI ever, but it was incredibly usable and well done for how much complexity and power it had. I've heard that the back end had some impressive technical accomplishments. I haven't heard much about this in detail, but page 2 of this Ars Technica article goes into it in more depth. The game was done in Flash, and I understand that there were some technical challenges to overcome in creating a smooth, real-time experience for so many players. All in all, Glitch was a great game. It wasn't my favorite game ever, but I liked it a lot and I wish I had gotten to explore more of it. 