How is it that humans have evolved beautiful females, whereas in animals, the male is beautiful, and woos the females?
I know this question has been answered by a lot of people explaining the phenomenon in different ways but I just thought I'll clarify a few points about how humans are different from animals and also, try to answer the original intent of the question which is to account for human mating patterns which seem so different from other birds and mammals. Almost all mammals and birds are sexually dimorphic in the same way. If you notice closely, the males of the species usually have showy features while the females have plainer, softer features. In human males, the showy features include facial hair, body hair, stronger upper body and wide shoulders, external genitalia etc. Human females, on the other hand, have less hair, less distinctive muscular features and genitalia. Then why do we consider human females more beautiful ? WE DON'T. For almost all of recorded history, it's men who have written it. And since most of it was very far from objective, it's obvious that men have written from their viewpoint. In societies like the ancient Greeks where homosexuality was accepted and even exalted, men were often considered aesthetically more pleasing. But in most others, women were considered more beautiful because men found them more attractive. In case of animals, we can be more objective and say that male animals are more aesthetically pleasing. Aesthetic beauty is important in mating due to being the potential indicator for healthy offspring. However, in human society, it has been the case for a long time that physical indicators are not indicators of survival or health. Humans can have better survival characteristics due to their intellect, skills or acquired strength (as opposed to natural health indicators). This is one of the reasons why power often acts as an aphrodisiac for women because that is one thing that guarantees better species propagation. However, all this diversity of indicators apply mostly to men because they were the ones who were allowed these opportunities. Women's importance in species propagation has mostly been confined to giving birth or caregiving, both of which were the original indicators of desirability of women and continue to be so. Hence, while men's desirability has shifted away from natural indicators like physical features and includes a host of other factors, which are often more important now, women's desirability indicators have stayed the same. I suspect that in a hundred years or so, when women have full access to all the opportunities that men have, it'll shift for women too.I guess I can summarize my points by saying that objectively, human males are as beautiful as their animal counterparts. However, since a major chunk of human experience is observed through the lens of a male viewpoint, we often mistake that subjective behaviour to be objectively true for all humanity. 