What are some things I can learn in minutes?
Ins and outs of using gadgetry How is the average person supposed to know the essentials of their phones, cameras and computers? There is no leaflet, no mandatory middle school class, no state agency that teaches you core curriculum… so here’s a prerequisite for using electronics. Some may seem basic, but you’ll probably find atleast a couple of “I didn’t know that!” among them. Cellphones Searching for a signal uses up battery juice appallingly quickly. turn your phone off, or put it into airplane mode, before you travel out of cellphone range.Mac specials When you are buying something online,don’t waste paper by printing the confirmation page. Instead, choose print, and from the PDF pop-up menu, choose “save PDF to Web Receipts Folder”. You get a beautiful PDF copy stashed in documents, in a folder called Web Receipts. You can view most documents without opening a program to do it. At the desktop, highlight the icon and then tap the space bar- A fantastic way to preview photos, PDF files, movies and so on. Press command- Shift-3. You hear a snapshot sound, and you get a graphic file on your desktop-a picture of the entire screen image.iphone, Android and BB phones On the iphone the camera doesn’t snap the photo until you release the on screen shutter button. so frame the shot with your finger on the button, then snap the photo by lifting off the screen instead of tapping it. On iphone , Android and BB, tap the space bar twice at the end of the sentence. You get a period, a space and a capitalised next letter, without hunting for punctuation keys. On these phones, you can type “dont, wont, youre, didnt”and so on. The phone adds the apostrophe to those automatically. You can magnify iphone’s screen by double tapping with three fingers. Of course,you first have to turn this feature on. Do that by Tapping settings, then general, then accessibility.Web browser You can press Alt+D to highlight the address bar at the top of the browser and just type the site name you want. You don’t have to type ” Page on Www ” into your browser. Just type “YouTube” for example. In Safari or Firefox, you can even omit the “.com”. In Internet Explorer, you can press Ctrl+Enter to add “.com” You can tap the space bar to scroll down by one screenful. Add the shift key to scroll back up again.Cameras The half press trick eliminates the frustrating delay when you press a pocket camera’s shutter button. Frame your shot, then half press the shutter button. The camera beeps when it has locked focus- and that’s the time consuming part. When pushed the rest of the way down, you snap the picture instantly. no lag. Your flash is useless if the subject is more than about eight feet away. Turn it off. (This means you, concertgoers and football fans Tips n Tricks! 