Which is the best video player for Windows, other than VLC?
VLC is so good that I don't even bother to install any other Media player but I watch movies on my desktop PC where I don't bother with damaging the speakers. On a laptop though high sound may damage speakers. Reason for that is simple. VLC allows sound to amplify to 200% level which sensitive speakers of laptop can't always handle. Hence prolonged exposure to such level can surely destroy the speakers. So if you want to use VLC on a laptop there is a very simple step sprinkled with some advanced settings to make sure you won't damage your speakers. First Simple Step: Default maximum level of volume on the User Interface of VLC is 125%. But you can amplify the volume to 200% using either a mouse wheel or using Ctrl + Up Arrow shortcut. Hence, just make sure you use UI to increase the volume. Advanced Settings: Here are some starter settings that I found from a Reddit thread, which you can set to normalize volume while watching movies in VLC where dialogues are quiet but actions are loud. This ensures you don't accidentally bump the sound when it can be avoided. In VLC: Go to the preferences dialog (Tools | Preferences) Under Show Settings, click the 'All' radio button Click Filters in the tree view on the left (Audio | Filters). Select the Dynamic Range Compressor Now Select the Compressor settings in the tree view (Audio | Filters |  Compressor) Set the values you want. I have mine set to: RMS/Peak : 0.0 RMS/Peak : 0.0 Attack time : 50.0 Release time : 300.0 Threshold level : 0.0 Ratio : 20.0 Knee Radius : 1.0 Makeup Gain : 12.0 Click the Save button Apart from playing movies VLC also doubles as media streaming tool, and encoder tool and have portability. Hence it seems best for my needs. But if you want to try different players than VLC then following are my suggestions: 1. XBMC (http://kodi.tv/download/): This player is tailor made for movie enthusiasts. It provides a full screen interface where you can also listen music, watch pics along with movies and is best if you if you want a good media browsing experience. Note: XBMC is now named Kodi. (WHY!? XBMC was cooler!) 2. MPC-HC (Home · MPC-HC): Its the Classic media player that provides a no-frills and no-hassles UI, a lightweight and open source program to play any media files you have on your PC. 3. PotPlayer (http://tvpot.daum.net/applicatio...): I don't use this personally but heard a lot of praise about it. It may need to require a few codecs (files to help play media files), but that happens automatically first time you launch it. Of course there are other good players like KMPlayer, SMPlayer and GOM player that you can also try if you are feeling 'experimental'. Credit(s): 1. Personal experience and readings 2. Reddit thread: https://www.reddit.com/r/LifePro... Updated 58w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Nivi R.V