Mentors: If you could meet with anyone in the world, real or fictional, past or present, who would you choose? What would you want to do during your time together? And, how would you like the meeting to impact your life?
I've always dreamed of meeting the legendary NASA Flight Director Gene Kranz who happens to be my role model for effective leadership and as person known to keep his cool during impossibly tough situations. About Gene Kranz : Gene Kranz is perhaps best known for his role as Lead Flight Director during NASA's Apollo 13 manned Moon landing mission. Kranz's team was on duty when part of the Apollo 13 service module exploded and they dealt with the initial hours of the unfolding accident. His "White Team", dubbed the "Tiger Team" by the press, set the constraints for the consumption of spacecraft consumables (oxygen, electricity, and water) and controlled the three course-correction burns during the trans-Earth trajectory, as well as the power-up procedures that allowed the astronauts to land safely back on Earth in the command module. Under his leadership, NASA managed to pull of the seemingly impossible task of getting the astronauts Jim Lovell, Fred Haise and Jack Swigert safely back on earth after their oxygen tank exploded during a manned space mission to moon. Why do I want to meet him? What do you do when you are faced with insurmountable problems at hand? Situations which you have never been prepared to face; tragedies for which you have to stretch the level of your technical and mental prowess beyond the known limits; How do you effectively lead a team comprising the best experts of their respective fields? How do instill that faith in your team members which pushes them to go beyond the conventional and make impossible possible? Gene Kranz holds the answers to all these questions. I want to learn the art  of effective project management and team leadership from him. I want to learn from him how I should not be overpowered by the seemingly impossible nature of a problem. Have you ever said such a thing to yourself when your team is in tight situations- " Lets solve the problem guys and not make things worse by guessing?" I want to learn how he managed to keep his calm under such tense situations. He gave something called the Kranz Dictum after the Apollo 1 launchpad fire which laid down the foundations of the work culture that NASA would follow in each and every mission it attempted. It is the most inspiring speech I have ever heard and I read it every time I feel low. Here is the Kranz Dictum for you. I request you to read it at least once and share how it ignites the motivation inside you to excel and give your best in any endeavor. The Kranz Dictum- "Spaceflight will never tolerate carelessness, incapacity, and neglect. Somewhere, somehow, we screwed up. It could have been in design, build, or test. Whatever it was, we should have caught it. We were too gung ho about the schedule and we locked out all of the problems we saw each day in our work. Every element of the program was in trouble and so were we. The simulators were not working, Mission Control was behind in virtually every area, and the flight and test procedures changed daily. Nothing we did had any shelf life. Not one of us stood up and said, 'Dammit, stop!' I don't know what Thompson's committee will find as the cause, but I know what I find. We are the cause! We were not ready! We did not do our job. We were rolling the dice, hoping that things would come together by launch day, when in our hearts we knew it would take a miracle. We were pushing the schedule and betting that the Cape would slip before we did. From this day forward, Flight Control will be known by two words- 'Tough' and 'Competent.' Tough means we are forever accountable for what we do or what we fail to do. We will never again compromise our responsibilities. Every time we walk into Mission Control we will know what we stand for. Competent means we will never take anything for granted. We will never be found short in our knowledge and in our skills. Mission Control will be perfect. When you leave this meeting today you will go to your office and the first thing you will do there is to write 'Tough and Competent' on your blackboards. It will never be erased. Each day when you enter the room these words will remind you of the price paid by Grissom, White, and Chaffee. These words are the price of admission to the ranks of Mission Control." I want to learn more about these ideals of Tough and Competent and how they can transform a person and motivate him to do the impossible. How would the meeting go? I wish I can meet him in the same Mission Control Center (MCC) from where he and his team laid down the foundations of manned space exploration. We could walk up and down the aisles of the MCC and discuss the roles and responsibilities of each Mission Specialist in the MCC. It would be a walk down the history of human space flight which will greatly impact my motivation and help me lay down my principle for team leadership and project management. How will it impact me? Ever since I read about Gene Kranz and Apollo 13, my approach towards problem solving and achieving my targets took a drastic change. Every time I am stuck with a problem whose solutions seems beyond my conventional knowledge, or when I face a situation that seems impossible to solve, I think of Gene Kranz and his team and the Apollo 13 space mission. He really changed my attitude towards problem solving and trusting my team members when the situation arises. Meeting him will boost my motivation several levels up. It's one of those moments that I will never ever forget during my lifetime. Meeting him will do to me what Neil Armstrong's landing on the moon did to several spaceflight enthusiasts around the world. Failure is not an option! Meeting Gene F Kranz! I just got goosebumps ! Thanks for the push Andrew Tertes ! 