How is it that humans have evolved beautiful females, whereas in animals, the male is beautiful, and woos the females?
For Quorans open to reading diverse perspectives on this one, I would recommend reading Desmond Morris' works The Naked Ape and The Naked Woman. Both these books, written almost in a Woody Allenesque arrogance, suggest countless hypothesis on evolutionary steps that shaped the male and the female body as they are today. The second book even points out minor, but interesting, differences between males and females such as the index finger being the second longest finger in 45% of females.   Edit -   Morris's book The Naked Woman has 22 chapters, each devoted to a single female body part. As a human behaviorist, his take on evolution often appears contrived, nonetheless it makes an interesting read. I have summed up a few quotes from the book below:   "...to sum up - as the human sexes advanced down their evolutionary pathway, towards greater and greater neoteny, the males behaved in a more and more childlike way, while showing fewer physical changes, while the females developed more and more childlike physical qualities, while showing fewer childlike mental qualities." One of the other distinct female feature is the lips. Here is how Morris explains it:   "...What makes the lips visually so sexual? The answer is that in their shape, their texture and their colour, they are mimics of the female's other lips, the ones so intensely sexual that, even today, they are spoken of in a classical language - labia being Latin for lips." Perhaps the most well-known of his behaviorist interpretations are related to the evolution of the female breasts. Here is what he says:   "...The origin of paired hemispheres as a human female sexual signal is not hard to find. The females of all other primates display their sexual signals backwards from the rump region as they walk about on all fours. Their sexual swellings are key stimuli that excite their males. The rump signals of a human female consist of unique paired hemispheres, the buttocks. These can act as powerful erotic signals when she is seen from behind, but she does not go around on all fours like other species, with her frontal region hidden from view. She stands upright and is encountered frontally in most social contexts. When she stands face-to-face with a male her rump-signals are concealed from view, but the evolution of a pair of mimicbuttocks on her chest enables her to continue to transmit the primeval sexual signal without turning her back on her companion. So important was this sexual element in breast development that it actually began to interfere with the primary parental function..." While most of his interpretations suggest that female body evolution was part of the larger design to attract the male, there were other factors as well. For example, he explains the larger nose among men using this hypothesis:   "...primeval hunting males would need more protection that primeval food-gathering females. In primitive tribes the adult females were too valuable to send off on the hunt. Adult males were more expendable, but even so, if they were to face the physical dangers of the hunt, they needed all the protection they could get. One way they acquired it was by developing heavier skulls, with thicker rows, stronger cheekbones and larger nose-bridges. Together, these gave better protection to their eyes. And the larger nose-bridges meant that, on average, male noses were going to be bigger than female noses. In addition, the increased athleticism of the males as they pursued their fleet-footed prey meant that the nose became more important as an air-conditioning unit. Again, there was an evolutionary pressure for the male's nose to be bigger than the female's." 