How is it that humans have evolved beautiful females, whereas in animals, the male is beautiful, and woos the females?
This is a tricky question. I am going to express my viewpoints in the form of three different perspectives. #1 It is incorrect to believe that females of the human species are more beautiful relative to males. Men are beautiful. Here's why. Our standards of measurement of physical attractiveness are secondary sexual characters. It is generally presumed that lions are more beautiful than lionesses. By listing out the distinguishing characters of male lions, you will see how they are not too different from the prevailing secondary sexual characters in male humans ( men) larger body size- check  mane- check ( corresponds to facial hair in men) Louder roar - check (corresponds to deeper voice of men) Let's see some other secondary sexual characters of men : broad shoulders presence of the Adam's apple heavier bones in general So, it would be fallacious to conclude that women are more beautiful than men. Possible reason for this prevailing misconception :  Until around the middle of the 20th century, women were primarily recognized for their beauty while men for their brawn. Expectations from women were low. So, the physical appearance of a woman became the primary criteria for mate selection by men. Men, on the other hand, were expected to work, earn a living, feed the family, protect the family, have a reasonable intellect to manage monetary decisions, character to ensure fidelity to his partner. So, his physical appearance carried lesser significance in mate-selection. { Read #3 for better understanding} TL; DR [ #1] - Men and women are beautiful. They are sexually dimorphic. It's just that physical appearance of women carriers more significance in mate selection. Interesting trivia- Lionesses mate for life i.e they have only one sexual partner throughout their lifetime. Lions on the other hand, have multiple sexual partners. I'm wondering if this could have any possible connection with this question but I'm not putting this viewpoint out forth because I'm not certain about it. It's just an inconclusive thought. #2 Addressing the question about peacocks, male birds ( not all species)  in general are more vibrant than female birds- yes. Why, do you ask? Well, it's because that's what the female bird seeks for mate-selection. Here's why : Brighter color would ensure prominence in a pack. So, a more colorful male bird is likely to be spotted prior to a dull bird by the female Color in birds is also a defense mechanism. Some predators can be intimidated by bright color. So, a female bird would see a brighter male as a potentially better mate because he would be able to protect her nest better. The famous peacock dance is a means by which the peacock displays and proves his  vitality to the peahen and tries to attract her. In all this, remember, the female bird also has her own set of distinguishing sexual characters [ which happen to be relatively subtle] , color is not the sole criterion for measurement of physical attractiveness.  Male birds look prettier in the eyes of humans. A male bird probably might think females are prettier than him. # 3 In the wild, females do most of the work. For instance, Lionesses do all the hunting [ even for the lions] , They're the ones who nurture and raise the cubs. Generally, female birds are responsible for building the nests. This is followed by gestation, hatching the eggs, raising the hatch-lings, feeding etc. As a result, they are preoccupied. So, the males have to vie for attention. Hence, better color, more prominent physical features etc. Compare this to humans. [point #1 again] Traditionally, men were expected to do most of the work. So, in our case, it is the females who had to vie for attention. Could this be a factor worth considering? Perhaps. Updated 158w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Triya Bhattacharya