Which is the best video player for Windows, other than VLC?
There is never any simple answer to a "what's the best..." question! :) This one depends primarily on two factors: the quality of video you ideally/usually watch, and how much tweaking you're willing to undertake for the best results. VLC VLC has been a long standing winner, both for audio and video playback, and is not only good out of the box, but can be tweaked for even better performance. Best of all, it's open source, meaning there will always be free versions maintained by the community. The only practical drawbacks with VLC are lack of support for external filters, and for MIDI playback. Older versions of VLC used to play MIDI (provided an external SoundFont), but apparently there was some security loophole so they terminated support. Media Player Classic - Home Cinema (MPC-HC) The lesser-known but definitely biggest competitor to VLC, and open source as well (hooray!). It offers almost as much configuration as VLC, but in a more user-friendly manner. It also supports external filters and shaders. Here's an amazing piece of software that uses algorithms to auto-generate intermediate frames and obtain 60 fps playback: SmoothVideo Project (SVP). The site offers a bundle with pre-configured MPC-HC if you want to avoid the hassle of doing it yourself. IMPORTANT: Do not expect low quality videos to appear smooth and pretty. You need at least 3000 kbps of encoded video @ 720p or larger (1.5-2 GB per 60 minutes of footage, assuming quality compression). GOM and PotPlayer The hipster players, generally used by people who either dislike VLC or do not want the bother of setting it up (there are people who have switched players in order to seek by pressing only the cursor keys... it's a 10 second job to change it under Preferences). I've tried both of these and personally they didn't really stick out, either for features/customisability or output quality; but since I tweak my players, the output from these might be better than out-of-the-box VLC/MPC. GOM is minimalist with lots of themes, while PotPlayer has a more packed UI.Any serious media enthusiast will have installed and be conversant with at least two video players (like any internet citizen would be with multiple browsers), and also familiar with nomenclature and objective knowledge of various media protocols, encoding techniques, external filters, etc. Beyond a point the player alone doesn't matter as much as the entire set-up: it's just one of the cogs in the entire machinery (of a video experience). 