Why did the Star Trek writers and producers change the nature of the Borg from being a linked collective to a queen-driven hive?
Whenever I hear complaints about Star Trek VIII, it's always about how radically the Borg were altered.  Yet strange as it sounds, it's one of the most beloved films in the entire franchise.  I've always been fascinated by the schizophrenic, knee-jerk reaction;  it's part approval, part dismay.  And while the phenomenon isn't limited to Star Trek alone, First Contact gives us unusual insight into one of the more unusual aspects of human behavior.  Why does the rewrite of the shows greatest villains work so well within the context of the film, and why are people so distressed about it?  If you’re curious, stick around. It could have been worse. Here's a bit of trivia that most people don't know.  First Contact acts as a sort of proving ground for the Battlestar Galactica reboot.  Many of the ideas that were abandoned in the original drafts of the screenplay (Then titled Star Trek: Resurrection) would eventually find themselves into later projects helmed by the same writer, Ronald D. Moore. They include but are not limited to: Venting atmosphere of the ship to kill off the crew. Heavily militarized capital ship (Gun Turrets, Manual Targeting). Quantum Torpedoes which could singlehandedly destroy a cube. (Nuclear Missiles) 3d displays on consoles (Dradis). Bio-mechanical pulsating walls that looked more organic than not. Heavy use of jump cuts between scenes in a montage like fashion. A considerably greater amount of screen-time that had crewmembers (Worf / Apollo) running / fighting through corridors against cyborgs (Borg / Cylons). Let me say I like Mr. Moore's series, but many of the ideas that he wanted to explore are decidedly NOT Star Trek.  Chief among them, an emphasis on militarization, not exploration.  Instead of Act 1, Moore wanted to start in the middle of a battle.  Instead of one cube, he wanted a fleet of Borg vessels.  Instead of a skirmish, he wanted a war.  One can tell he's beginning to piece together ideas in his head for a different vision of science fiction, but it'd be another 8 years before he'd be given the opportunity to fully flesh it out.  It's a good trick:  if you don't play by the rules of the sandbox you're in, build a new universe.  For anyone familiar with BSG, I encourage you to re-watch Valley of Darkness (Episode 2, Season 2) with First Contact in the front of your mind.  You might find the similarities illuminating. As many of the other screenwriters on Quroa can attest, film-making is an inherently collaborative process.  And for good reason, as interesting a direction as Star Trek-Resurrection had, there are major flaws that needed to be addressed.  Entire story arcs were omitted, dialog was choppy, and characterizations were off-kilter.  Just one example:  Picard would never say "No, you're full of shit!" while holding a pistol at a mans head.  We'll get to the Borg Queen in a bit, but one of the main problems the first draft had was a lack of a strong identifiable villain.  The exact studio executive who suggested that the Borg needed a figurehead is probably lost to the ether, but they were absolutely right. Incidentally, if you ever wondered why the deflector dish sequence seems so out of place with the pacing in the rest of the movie, it's because that was the original climax of the film. For seven years (and some breathing room) we were told the Borg were the ultimate confluence of distribution and network.  That they held no weak links, no central authority.  They were not unlike a force of nature.   As amoral as a thunderhead, as old as antiquity.  Not a race, nor a civilization.  They simply, monolithically, were. First Contact turns this canon on its head.  While it doesn't necessarily challenge the established lore, we do see a subversion of a cherished staple.  Instead of a faceless adversary we get a singular personification of will.  If First Contact feels fresh and original it is due--in no small part--to the writers willingness to explore new territory, even at the expense of abandoning the old. But to understand why this change was so effective in the face of so many other failed ideas, we need to look at its execution.  Unfortunately this can't be done in isolation.  We have to look at the film as a whole. First Contact is only interested in one question:  What makes a man, great?  What starts off as a very traditional film--with the Enterprise and her crew in lockstep--quickly trisects into three independent and largely divorced story lines.  Each of these subplots gravitate around this central theme, answering them in their own unique ways.   In practice, this means that casual viewers watch not one story, but three.  And it's only as the film draws to a close that they begin to interweave and commingle.   ST: VIII works as both a self-contained story and a sequel to The Best of Both Worlds.  The dialog provides enough exposition for virgin audiences to keep up.  But while it doesn't need extensive knowledge of the series background, it works on a far more profound level given its origins. In order to fully appreciate Jean-Luc's personal journey inside the film, we need to have a firm understanding of what he represents.  People often cite First Contact as just a sequel to The Best of Both Worlds, but in fact there is at minimum four sequential episodes that build up to this moment.  Encounter at Farpoint: Gene Roddenberry's magnum opus sets the stage for the Next Generation as a whole.  Picard defends humanity against a judgmental god.  And he does so by extolling the virtues of how far humanity has come; that is, superior morality and sensibility about his place in the universe.  But unwilling to be swayed by words alone, Q amuses himself by testing humanity, and specifically Picard. Q Who: This episode showcases the introduction of The Borg.  After having an offer of guidance rejected on the basis that Picard believes humanity is ready for any challenge, Q thrusts the Enterprise deep into uncharted territory.  It's here we get our first look at the Borg, and they get their first look at him.  It's only by admitting humility that Q saves the ship. The Best of Both Worlds: Picard is taken prisoner by the Borg while they begin their first invasion of the Alpha Quadrant.  They alter him, turn him into a slave, and use his knowledge and experience to commit mass genocide.  It's only through the actions of the Enterprise crew that he's rescued.  And only through Data's discovery of a way to access the Borg consciousness that a weakness is derived. All Good Things: Humanity is once again put on trial.  This time Picard jumps throughout several periods in his personal history.  It's only through the captains (mans) ability to conceptualize new possibilities--that he proves himself to be greater than his savage past.  It's also a roundabout way of saving life in the galaxy. You'll notice that three out of the four episodes promote a humanity that supposedly transcended its desire to do harm.  (The fourth being entirely expositional.)  Roddenberry wasn't interested in only creating a utopian vision of the world, he wanted to show us a better kind of person.  To give us an example of the type of people we could be, and he uses Picard as a proxy for the human potential.  We begin seeing through the eyes of Picard, a significance that should be lost on no one.  Traditionally a continuous shot is used to give the audience a sense of stability.  This can be taken a number of ways:  Domination (A New Hope), Immensity (Contact), or Security (Serenity).  Here, we see a ruthlessly organized, unified, and terrifying vision of an indomitable force.  This is the hell that Picard has suffered, and it haunts him.  So when he hears word that the Borg have begun a second wave, it's hardly a surprise.  It's the moment he's been quietly obsessing over with equal parts apprehension and dread. However, he's immediately ordered away by his superiors.  They don't trust him, nor does he trust himself, and their criticisms are not entirely without merit.  We see throughout the film a latent connection he carries, and there probably is more than a small part of Picard who believes it might hold some kind of power over him.  One should not forget it was Starfleet officers who died at Wolf 359.  Captains he knew first hand, who were likely attending the Academy while he was a cadet.  He wasn't just killing strangers, he was murdering lifelong friends and forced to watch.  That kind of damage to a person's soul just doesn't get swept under the rug.  Given his history, removing him from action is a prudent decision, and he goes along with it.  However, he is compelled to disobey when hearing the ongoing battle.  The exact kind of radio-chatter he would have heard from years before.  And it's this that pushes him into action.  He needs to atone for his sins. With the authority that comes from commanding the flagship he takes control of the fleet, and within minutes the cube is a debris field.  Once again this is the action of a great man.  Someone who can go toe-to-toe with an omniscient god or the hivemind of a shared consciousness, and win.  The battle of Sector 001 underscores Picards remarkable greatness, even in his own time.  This partly explains why it was so brief when likened to the rest of the film (the other reason being a limited budget, I suspect).  If the battle lasted as long as the one we saw in Nemesis, people would decry it for a slow start.  Although the quick destruction remains a fair criticism, I still find it enjoyable, if brief. * Of course you know the rest of the setup, but to review:  As the Borg flee within a sphere, the Enterprise pursues.   The escape craft opens a portal through time and Picard comes face-to-face with his greatest fear, an assimilated Earth.  He must travel back in time to prevent this future.  Meanwhile before the Enterprise blows up the sphere, the Borg attempt to destroy Dr. Cochrane's warpship, thereby stopping First Contact.  The crew beam down, rescue survivors, and split forces.  Exposition complete. Lily acts as our window to Picard.  A wounded survivor of the Borg attack, she's been violently removed from her everyday world.  Much of the dialog between her and Picard is expositional; it's a vehicle that moviegoers unfamiliar with the mythos can latch onto.  Once again we hear how humanity has reached a new civilized golden age, thanks to Dr. Cochrane and his contemporaries.  Yet she remains wary and pragmatic. Every effort has been made to claw her way out of a post-apocalyptic world.  Society has had to rebuild itself in the aftermath of World War III, and Lily stands as a transitional figure between the nightmares of man's folly, and its potential greatness.  How apropos that the ship be called the Phoenix then. But her experience means she judges people on their actions, not their language.  An outside character was required to challenge Picard, removed from the blind loyalty and cult of personality he creates.  She remains as pragmatic as one would expect a survivor to be, through the whole adventure.  And even though we see the wonder of the Enterprise, it's amazing dimensions, it's surreal illusions via the holodeck, Lily sees the other, darker, more 'human' side of Picard.  Where he has no hesitation to murder a drone, bludgeon the corpse, rip open his chest, and disembowel the man. † This isn't the first time we see Picard act without hesitation or remorse.  Early on he fires at an ensign who's slowly becoming assimilated, even though he's begging for help.  And earlier still we hear him order all under his command to do the same, explaining that they're doing them a virtue.  It's not just survivor guilt, but pure unadulterated rage.  And the stark honest truth of it all is that Picard is a hypocrite.  For all the talk of a developed ethical core and evolved morality, he's still at the end of the day, a man on a quest of revenge.  We as fans might have grown a little to close to Jean-Luc in the intervening years to see it for what it really was. Even when Worf stands against him, one of his most trusted advisors, the loyalty and duty-bound nature of the crew he's shepherded cause them to back off.  But not Lily.  With Riker down on the surface it's up to a small woman from our century to make Picard face the rage that lives inside himself.  Picard keeps such a tight lid on things, always in command, always in control, that when we finally do see him snap it's power is unforgettable. Somewhere out there in the continuum, Q is having a good laugh.  Don't forget it was Q who introduced Picard to the Borg.  It was ultimately Q's prodding that made Picard seek contact with them, and it was for that reason that they chose him as Locutus.  How far the mighty have fallen. So the Climax of Picard's arc isn't when he faces the Queen, but rather when he faces his own true ugly nature.  Perhaps for the very first time he sees just how damaged and corrupted the Borg have made him.  Not just of the implants within his body, but of his spirit.  Hatred and bitterness are compelling him to action.  Only by recognizing this disturbing part of himself does he gain a bit of closure and some small measure of solace.  In order to move on, Picard needs to let go.  And his willingness to sacrifice the ship is symbolic of such. Ultimately, it's not by his dogged determination to fight to the very last man that makes Picard great, it's his willingness to step away. He's reminded there's a debt that needs to be paid.  His friend is in danger, and without a way out or hope for victory he none-the-less marches straight into the proverbial lions den.  Years before Data and crew risked life and limb to rescue a hopelessly lost Picard with little chance of their own survival.  He can offer nothing else than the same. In order to understand Data's journey, we need to do a quick primer of the character.  Data isn't just an android, he's a machine who wants to be human.  Originally created by Gene Roddenberry as a counterpoint to Mr. Spock from The Original Series, Data questioned and examined facets of the human condition. Despite his superior abilities to humans, our emotions and sensation fascinate the android, precisely because they are beyond him.  He wants to better himself, aspires to become more than he is.  To Data, this is the defining characteristic of humanity, and says as much to Q when defending our race  (Deja Q) A trait that outside of positronic life, computers show little appreciation   for. This is in stark contrast against his "brother", Lore.  A being of similar construction who believes himself to be a superior form of life.  A moral distinction that--combined with his super-human abilities--created within Lore a devalued perspective on humanity.  Thus many of the qualities we ascribe to Data:  the humility, politeness, and pure open-mindedness; are a direct reaction to this terrible failure.  What we see in him is a naive, almost child-like character.  He's guided by Picard, and was originally envisioned to be insecure, always seeking validation from his peers. (Peak Performance) Since it was Starfleet officers who rescued, taught, and raised him; he naturally felt compelled to emulate them, just as any child would. Data is defined by his desires.  The only emotion we see him regularly display in the series is an insatiable curiosity.  Put another way, he's driven by his need to understand.  It's probable Dr. Soong had a hand in programming Data's wish to become more human, as it was later shown that he frequently asks himself why he feels this compulsion.  Eventually though, he came to the conclusion that it's not the goal of becoming human, but the struggle that provides its own reward. (The Offspring) Why does the Queen look as she does?  They could have made her a two story crab-spider, a brain in a jar, or any number of overused scifi tropes.  But she's eerily beautiful, in a giger-esque sort of way that makes your skin crawl.  She could have been anything.  Again, why this? To Data, the Queen is temptation incarnate.  She serves as the ultimate crucible because she's the fulfillment to all his life-long desires.  Her appearance as a beautiful woman represents the seductive nature of evil.  And her serpentine like spine as she descends from the ceiling, backdrop against the warp-core, is similar to the snake's decent from the tree of knowledge.  Normally I'd chalk this up to coincidence, but if you'll remember the Garden of Eden myth was featured in The Undiscovered Country, and so I'm quite certain the parallel was an intentional one.  The iconography was prevalent in the Battlestar Galactica reboot as well.‡  This was a shot that took 8 months of painstaking work to complete, which means someone fought for it, and it was important enough to include despite the pain in the ass frame-by-frame work required.  The Queen isn't just acting as voice for the Borg, she's the embodiment of the alluring corruption of innocence. There's an almost motherly quality to the character.  She soothes and comforts, telling him not to fear.  Nevermind that she's the source of his terror.  This is a gentle indoctrination into hell--not the violent rape of assimilation--and the dichotomy of the two often play against themselves.  This is why she gives data flesh.  To her, assimilation is a benevolent gift.  It elevates small lives to greatness, albeit against their will, through a symbiosis of man and machine.  Her 'gift' of flesh to an android is no different than forcing humans to become part mechanical. But it's not without strings.  By giving Data what he's always craved, the unspoken threat is in her power to take it all away.  He's slowly being manipulated into surrendering, or risk losing what he's always yearned for.  She gives him flesh, so she can further tempt him with it.  And nearing the end of their scenes, her seduction becomes quite literal. You shouldn't overlook the importance of touch within this film.  When Picard and Data are at the rocket, the captain comments on how sensation heightens awareness to life, but to Data the meaning is lost.  And this is what makes First Contact so awesome.  Data becomes human.  He has the emotional range of a human, he has the touch and feeling of a human.  He sees through human eyes.  And for the very first time he understands what it is to be a man.  No longer is he acting out of innocent curiosity.  His betrayal to save the lives of his family will be a wound that he'll never recover from.  Data knows exactly what he's giving up, and that's what makes his sacrifice so meaningful and his action so great.  For the humanity she offered was merely skin deep. You ever wonder what the pitch was like? "Let's make the inventor of warp drive a womanizing, party-going, boozehound." "That might not wash with fans.  Let's give him a hat." "Genius!" Cochrane's a fun character.  I think that's why no one seems to mind his complete retcon.  He's flawed, debaucherous, and generally happy with keeping things that way.  Zefram's just a regular guy trying to make his way in the world, like the rest of us.  It's probably why he's so identifiable, because we're not part of the 24th century professional wrinkle-free do-gooder space-navy.  More than a few of us have made an ass of ourselves at a dive-bar.  First contact tells us greatness can come from anywhere. What's required is an ability to ask "why not?", even in the face of the impossible.  We see flashes of greatness within Cochrane like at the telescope when told of his future.  But it's something that he generally shies away from. Cochrane doesn't want to be great, because he recognizes himself as ordinary.  If he were to become the legend that Riker, Geordi, and Barclay all see it would mean a fundamental rethinking of his entire core.  Who wouldn't be terrified of losing themselves?  Who wouldn't run. Zefram's arc is the more comedic of the three, and there was probably enough pathos to go around.  Still, it's interesting to explore a character on the cusp of a life altering event, and Cochrane has two.  First when he flies the Phoenix and sees how small Earth is.  It changes his perspective on his place in the universe.  And secondly the landing of the Vulcan ship solidifies his newfound belief. Don’t try to be a great man.  Just be a man, and let history make its own judgments. His transformation stems from not only what he achieved, but also an emergence from his own ignorance.  Cochrane's arc says it's more important to do good within the world, than to strive to achieve great things at the expense of losing yourself.  And this is echoed by Data and Picard in their respective storylines. Films are an interesting creature.  Whenever I watch one, a clash begins within my head.  There’s the narrative I expect, and the one that I see.  Sometimes they’re spot on, other times it’s an all-out war.  I think it's true for most people, and to the crafty screenwriter it can be both blessing and curse.  Our presumptions as audience dictate how we want to see the world.  It gives a roadmap to those who understand the needs of its following.  Predictable means comfortable.  It means stable.  And it's our unconscious desire to see these unrealized wishes fulfilled. Hence we come to our dilemma.  You can't have drama without conflict, and you can't have conflict without upsetting convention.  Too much predictability leads to a tired, formulaic, and boring script.  People need to feel like they're challenged.  They like being surprised with a clever plot twist.  Most mediocre films get to that point not because of the risk that they take, but because of the ones they don't. The dangerous part about being too original is it risks full-blown alienation, and this gets compounded as the fanbase becomes more invested in the lore.  Years build upon themselves, and our tendency to hold onto the cherished aspects of a franchise grows.  Often past the point of stagnation.  It's ironic we can be so intransigent about a series which prides itself in exploring bold new ideas.  But it is very, very human. ** * I'd pay good money to see an extended cut, even today.  I'm sure with some clever editing a middle ground could be found. † Here's a fun little double entendre.  The song that Julie Morgan sings inside the nightclub is called Moonlight Becomes You.  Apt for a holodeck, no? ‡ She's probably more than a little curious about him, considering he linked up with the borg consciousness in The Best of Both Worlds, part 2. ** One of the more recent examples of this is in Iron Man 3 [Spoiler] where the Mandarin is actually just a front for the true villain of the story.[/Spoiler]  Fan reaction has been... diverse. One more thing:  The writers had a tumultuous relationship with Roddenberry.  Much of the hero-worship he received isn't entirely legitimate.  He had some pretty stupid ideas from time to time, just like the rest of us.  It's likely the writers were having a bit of fun at his expense by poking holes in the legend of Cochrane when they wrote his part. If you enjoyed this review, you can find more answers like this on Quora Starboard. 