How do I break into the admin account from a guest account?
Windows Bugs :D Method 1: (This one's the same as Palash Jain, so go through the next ones.. if you've read that answer) 1) Go to C:/windows/system32. 2) Copy cmd.exe and paste it on desktop. 3) Rename cmd.exe to sethc.exe. 4) Copy the new sethc.exe to system 32,when windowsasks for overwriting the file,then click yes. 5) Now Log out from your guest account and at the user select window,press shift key 5 times. 6) Instead of Sticky Key confirmation dialog,command prompt with full administrator privileges will open. 7) Now type “ NET USER ADMINISTRATOR "zzz" where “zzz" can be any password you like and press enter. 8) You will see “ The Command completed successfully" and then exit the command prompt and login into administrator with your new password. You've hacked the administrator account through guest account !! Reason: When SHIFT key is pressed >=5 times, windows executes a file named “sethc.exe” located in system32 folder. It doesn’t even check if its the same file. Also it runs with the privilege of the current user which is executing the file i.e if u have logged on as a guest then in the TASK manager under processes, it shows your user name as guest. The file executes even if u log off, and have the windows login screen is showed up, BUT THIS TIME SINCE NO USER HAS LOGGED IN IT RUNS WITH SYSTEM PRIVILEGE. You can create your another admin privileged account and even hide that !!Method 2: This is another method you can use to hack admin password without knowing it. 1. Right-click on the “My Computer” icon on the desktop OR in the Start Menu. 2. Select the option “Manage”. 3. On the left pane expand the “Computer Management (Local) tree (if it is not already expanded) 4. Double click “Local Users and Groups” option From “System Tools” tree. 5. Click the “Users” option. 6. Now you will see the list of users on the right side pane, such as Administrator, Guest etc. 7. Right click the “Administrator” and select the option “Set Password” option. 8. Now you will see a warning message, Click on proceed. 9. Now the system asks you for “New Password” and “Confirm Password” . 10. After entering the password click on “OK”. The password is changed. That’s It!.. you have now successfully changed admin password without knowing it. Method 3: This method works.. if you have somehow the administrative access to the machine once i.e. you are logged in as administrator. 1 . Run cmd as administrator 2. Type net user.. it will show you all the users on the system. 3. Suppose administrator is ABCD 4. Type net user ABCD * 5. It will prompt for new password and confirmation.. without even asking for the old password !! Method 4: 1. Go to Start –> Run –> Type in CMD 2. Enter command: cd\ windows\system32 3. mkdir newpass 4. copy logon.scr newpass\logon.scr 5. copy cmd.exe newpass\cmd.exe 6. del logon.scr 7. rename cmd.exe logon.scr Basically, this tells windows to backup the command program and the screen saver file. Then we edited the settings so when windows loads the screen saver, we will get an unprotected dos prompt without logging in. When this appears enter this command :- net user password Example: If the admin username is "ABCD" and you want change the password to "admin123" Then type in the following command :- net user ABCD admin123 This will change the administrator password to admin123. You can now login as administrator !! 