How is it that humans have evolved beautiful females, whereas in animals, the male is beautiful, and woos the females?
Actually, the human version of a male peacock is the rebel without a cause. Sometimes critters are brightly colored because they want to advertise their nastiness - poison tree frogs are a good example of this.  But peacocks and cardinals are flashy and tasty which seems like a bad idea.  Which raises the question, why do lady birds think risky-colored boys are hot?  According to Jared Diamond, it's because horny males lie.  What's needed is something that speaks to their fitness that can't be faked.  The pick up line from a male peacock is this:  "Hey, baby, have you seen my tail?  Think how smart and fast I have to be to avoid predators with a flashy handicap like this.  All these smart, fast genes can be yours. You know you want me."  His conspicuous colors mean he's telling the truth. Not a lot of things eat humans anymore, but we still know how to play the "fitness through risk taking" card.  The human "bad boy" is saying - "I take giant risks, drive too fast, drink too much.  If I didn't have superior genes, I'd be dead.  All these smart, fast genes can be yours. You know you want me." Interestingly, the same sort of verifiable dialog goes on between lions and gazelle.  Lions are faced with a similar dilemma as a mating female - they need to choose a the best target for an energy intensive, high stakes, survival based encounter.  They could just chase whoever is closest to them, but everything would be a lot more efficient if they had some way of determining the very best candidate at the beginning of the hunt. Gazelles also have an agenda in this interaction. Running off in a panic every time a predator shows up is stressful, energy intensive and takes time away from important gazelle work, like feeding and getting laid.   In an inverse from the mating game, gazelle would benefit from a signal that tells the lion, "don't even bother with me, I'm too strong and fit."   The problem is the signal can't be faked or every gazelle would pretend to have it.  The answer is something called pronking.  Instead of running as fast as they can, confident gazelle tuck their heads down and bounce.  (You can see this behavior in the video below at .06 and again at .40).  A saavy predator can assess the pronk and move on to a less fit target. To summarize:  human males have the equivalent of peacock feathers for the same reasons, it's called risk taking.  Finally -  Heterosexual human males find human females beautiful, not because we are in some sort of absolute sense, but because many of the aspects of female beauty (the ratio of hip to waist and facial symmetry for example) are markers of reproductive fitness. If you were to ask a peacock to name the most beautiful thing in the world, he would say a peahen in season. Updated 15w ago • View Upvotes