What philosophical arguments from the Upanishads are useful in today's world?
In Taittiriopanishad, guru is instructing his pupil at the end of their course: Always say what is true. Do your duties. Continue, without neglect, the daily study of the Veda.  Now that you have come to the end of your stay with your teacher, live the life of a householder. Do not swerve from Truth and Dharma, and do something useful in the social economy. Achieve greatness, and do not fail to refresh your memory in respect of what you have learnt. Remember the gods and your ancestors. Honour your mother. Look upon her as God. Honour your father. Look upon him as God. Honour your teacher as God. Honour your guest. Look upon him as if God came to receive your attention. May you ever exercise your understanding and, distinguishing the good  from the blame-worthy, avoid the latter and ever do what is good.  Follow all that was good in your teacher’s life. You will meet with  better men than even the teachers with whom you have lived. Show them  due respect. Give gifts with faith, not neglectfully but with joy, with humility, and with kindness. We should not speak ill of food. We should not throw away food. We  should cltivate plenty of food. We should let no one who comes for food  be turned away. Here is a dialog between Devarshi Narad and the great sage Sanatkumar. Narad: Give me knowledge, Sir. Sanatkumar: Tell me what you know and I will then develop it further for you. Narad: I know the four vedas, ithihasas and puranas, grammar, arithmetic, divination, chronometry, politics, logic, the devavidya and brahmavidya of the scriptures, archery, rule, astronomy, the art of dealing with snakes, and the fine arts. I am conversant with mantras, but I do not know the Self (atman) well.  But I have heard that any man who knows the Self transcends  unhappiness; and I am unhappy. Would you then enable me to transcend  unhappiness? Sanatkumar: Everything that you have been studying is no more than a name. Revere the name. Narad: Is there anything greater than name? Santkumar: Speech is greater than the name; for speech makes the  Vedas and all the other books you have mentioned. Also  heaven and  earth, wind and space, water and fire, gods and men, beasts and birds,  grasses and trees, animals right down to worms, moths and ants, right (dharma)  and wrong, truth and falsehood, good and evil, pleasant and unpleasant -  these are all made known by speech. Revere speech. Narad: Is there anything greater than speech? Sanatkumar: Mind is greater than speech. Mind contains both speech and name. If a man has a mind to study mantras,  he studies them; if he has a mind to perform sacred actions, he  performs them; if he has a mind to wish for sons and cattle, he then  wishes for them; if he has a mind to wish for this world and the next,  he then wishes for them. Revere mind. Narad: Is there anything greater than mind? Sanatkumar: Will is greater than mind. When a man wills  something, then he has it in mind, then he utters speech and formulates  it in a name. All these meet in the will. Will is their foundation.  Heaven and earth were willed into existence; wind and space were willed  into existence; water and fire (tejas) were willed into  existence. Because these were willed into existence, rain was willed  into existence. Because rain was willed into existence, food was willed  into existence. Because food was willed into existence, prana was  willed into existence. Because prana was willed into existence, the  sacred formulas were willed into existence. Because the sacred formulas  were willed into existence, sacred actions (karma) were willed  into existence. Because sacred actions were willed into existence, the  world was willed into existence. Because the world was willed into  existence, all is willed into existence. Revere will. Narad: Is there anything greater than will? Sanatkumar: Thought is greater than will. When a man thinks, then  he wills, then he has it in mind, then he utters speech and formulates  it in a name. All these meet in thought. Tought is their foundation. If a  man knows a great deal, but is unthinking, people say of him: 'He is  nothing. On the other hand, if even if a man knows only a little, but  knows how to think, people are anxious to listen to him. Revere  thought. Narad: Is there anything greater than thought? Sanatkumar: Meditation is greater than thought.  Whenever men achieve greatness on earth, they may be said to have  received their due portion of the fruits of meditation. So while small  men are quarrelsome, do slanderous gossips, the great men may be said to  have received their due portion of the fruits of meditation. Revere  meditation. Narad: Is there anything greater than meditation? Sanatkumar: Understanding (vijnana) is greater than  meditation. For it is with understanding that one understands the Vedas,  stories, grammar, arithmetic, divination, chronometry, politics, logic,  devavidya and brahmavidya of the scriptures, the way to  approach disembodied spirits, archery, rule, astronomy, the art of  dealing with snakes, and the fine arts. It is with undersatnding that  one understands heaven and earth, wind and space, water and fire (tejas), gods and men, beasts and birds, grasses and trees, animals right down to worms, moths and ants, right (dharma)  and wrong, truth and falsehood, good and evil, pleasant and unpleasant,  this world and the next. Revere the understanding. Narad: Is there anything greater than understanding? Sanatkumar: Strength is greater than understanding. If a man is  strong, he will engage in manly effort; and, so engaged, he will serve  the wise. Serving the wise, he will become familiar with them. He will  become one who truly sees, hears, thinks, is aware, acts and  understands. It is by strength alone that the earth and sky and  atmosphere subsist, that the mountains subsist, that gods and men  subsist, that beasts and birds subsist, that grasses and trees subsist,  that animals right down to worms, moths and ants subsist, that the world  itself subsists. Revere strength. Narad: Is there anything greater than strength? Sanatkumar: Food is greater than strength. If a man abstains from  food, although he might still live, he would not be able to see, hear,  think, be aware of anything, act or understand. Once he starts to eat  again, however, he will be able to see, hear, think, be aware of things,  act and understand. Revere food. Narad: Is there anything greater than food? Sanatkumar: Water is greater than food. If the rains are  deficient, living creatures become ill, thinking that there will be a  decrease in food; but if the rains are abundant, living creatures will  be over-joyed, thinking that there will be plenty of food. Earth and  atmosphere and sky are nothing but water transmuted into different  forms; the mountains, gods and men, beasts and birds, grasses and trees,  animals right down to worms, moths and ants are nothing but water  transmuted into different forms. Revere water. Narad: Is there anything greater than water? Sanatkumar: Heat is greater than water. For heat  seizes hold of the wind and warms up space. Then with lightning flashing  upwards and sideways, the thunder roars. And so people say: 'There is  thunder and lightning; it is going to rain.' It is heat that gives the  first indication of coming rains and that pours down water. Revere  heat. Narad: Is there anything greater than heat? Sanatkumar: Space is greater than heat. For in space are the Sun and moon, lightning, stars and fire .Through space, a man calls, through space he hears, and through space  he answers. In space does a man take his pleasure, and in space is he  distressed: in space is he born and for space is he born. Revere  space. Narad: Is there anything greater than space? Sanatkumar: Memory is greater than space. If there were a crowd  of people who had no memory, they would hear nothing, have a mind to  nothing, and recognize nothing. But if their memory was intact, then  they would hear, have a mind to do something, and recognize people and  things; for it is by memory that one recognizes one's sons and cattle.  Revere memory! Narad: Is there anything greater than memory? Sanatkumar: Hope is greater than memory. For it is only that when  kindled by hope that memory learns the sacred formulas, performs sacred  actions, wishes for sons and cattle, wishes for this world and the  next. Revere hope. Narad: Is there anything greater than hope? Sanatkumar: Brahman is greater than hope. It is the breath  of life. Everything is fixed in this breath of life. By life does life  itself go on; life gives life, - gives it back to life. And so if a man is harsh towards his father or mother, brother or sister, teacher or a priest, people will curse him. But if, when the breath of life has left some people, then if someone  were burn them up completely, no one would say to him, 'You have killed  your father,' or 'You have killed your mother,' - or your brother or  sister or teacher or a priest. For truly the breath of life (brahman) is all these things; and  the man who sees that it is so has it thus in mind and understands that  it is so, and becomes enlightened and closer to Brahman 