What are the most treasured aspects of '90s adventure game design and how might these be modernized and used in modern games?
Anne gave the perfect answer, but I would still like to suggest 3 features to take away from this classic genre. 1. Dare to have a personality Back in the nineties, games had to stand out, both in terms of visual style, subject matter, gameplay features and not least story/character. The graphics were appealing, but they were far from photorealistic, and they left a lot to the players imagination - and I mean that in a good way. Most modern games are virtually indistiguishable from each other, particularily the dominant genre: military shooters. However, there are also games with unique and refined visual styles, even though they are based on well-known and established gameplay mechanics. Examples of modern games that manage to stand out due to their viusal style: the beautiful, hand-drawn 2D animated platformer Rayman Origins, and the isometric hack-and-slash loveliness that is Bastion. In terms of gameplay, both could have been made in the 90ties, but the presentation is modern, high-res - and quite lovely. Free demos are available for both games, check them out! 2. Take your time, challenge the mind The adventure games were all puzzle based; this is given. You can't have an adventure game without puzzles, at least I can't think of any. In Monkey Island, even the fencing was puzzle based, through the amusing dialogue combat. Today, most games are based on twich or timing, particularily action games. In the age of the Cyberweb, puzzle solutions and walkthroughs are easy to find online, so the idea of using a full weekend to ponder a particular puzzle is probably not valid any more. However, there are games that allow gamers to take their time and find the solution through the use of their brain, rather than just aggression and eye-hand coordination. I'd highly reccomend the splendid strategic RPG/puzzle game Heroes of Might And Magic: Clash of Heroes as an example worth paying attention to. Not an adventure game, tho. 3. Make it fun Games in the nineties rarely took themselves too seriously, and they always seemed to want to entertain. Now, a lot of the examples given earlier are made with significant contributions from Tim Schafer, and Tim is a smart, funny and charming guy, just like his games. However, ALL games seemed to be made to entertain back in the nineties. Most games today are more self-concious, angsty and, well, not a lot of fun to play. They're engaging, challenging and rewarding, but I very rarely smile while playing mondern games. Fun in games is usually about either: Absolutely totally sweet gameplay Ridiculous over the top situations Genuinely funny dialogue and characters Actually, I have problems finding good examples of modern games that are just fun to play. Batman comes close, but that is because of the quality of the gameplay, the world and the script - not because it is a light-hearted comedy (in fact, it is possibly the most brooding game ever). The afore-mention slap-happy Rayman Origins can be really funny, particularily in co-op, and the Rachet and Clank series has some genuinely funny comments and scenes. Some games tries very hard to be funny, but just ends up being silly, such as the Saints Row series. Silly and Funny is not the same. Uncharted has some good scenes and quips, I guess. I hear Gravity Rush is a real blast, and I am looking forward to playing it. My point is: it is difficult to come up with examples of well-written, funny modern games. But Day of the Tentacle, Grim fandango, Full Throttle, Indiana Jones and the Fate of Atlantis and a lot of other 90ties adventure games (also a few Tim Schefer didn't make) were so funny people are still playing them, still talking about them, still laughing of the jokes and puzzles. They just don't make them like that anymore. 