What is the whole process of a funeral procession in Tamil Nadu?
Thanks for A2A. I guess, I can't give a generalized answer, because, people from different community have different process of funeral processions. Even,same community people has different way of funeral processions because of their different geographical locations, like North Tamil Nadu people from same community, has different way compared to South Tamil Nadu people of same community. I only know about the Hindu funeral processions, hence, I will steer clear, of other religious based processes. Sorry, this will be a very looooonnngggg answer ; I will try to highlight only the things which are similar to almost all the hindu communities. Once, a person is dead, first, the room or the place where the body is to be kept for the display is cleaned.The body is covered with white cotton cloth(in the case of men, and a saree in the case of women) and made sure that eyes are closed and in order to stop the body from inflated due to the oxygen getting into their lungs, the nostrils, ears are covered using cotton plugs. Body is kept either on the floor or the cot or nowadays, a refrigerated glass display box, by having the head placed towards the South direction, which is considered as the direction where the lord of death "Yaman" or "Yamraj" lives(Similar to grim reaper of western culture). A traditional oil lamp called as "Vilaku" is lit adjacent to the side where the head was placed.  A one rupee coin will be placed on the forehead, which is meant to be the fees for the person who cremates him on the crematorium. There are other rituals, which changes according to the sex of the dead person, women and men. Again, some differences, if the women was dead as a sumangali(dead, while her husband is still living) and a women dead as a widow. I am not quite sure of all the rituals. I will try concentrate on rituals followed for men. Then, the people, mostly saivaites(people following saivism or followers of Lord Shiva) start to recite Thevaram and Thiruvasagam verses(Religious literature verses written by nayanmars or the great saints of Saivism). Then comes the OPPARI or LAMENTING. Women, gather around with open hair, start to sing their sorrows due to the person's death, singing the feeling, of how they miss that person, stating some of the greatness and achievements of the dead person, etc. They say those things in a musical tone.  In Tamil culture, or even I would say, most of the Indian culture embraces music on their every occasion and treat it like part of their life. From the first day of the birth to the last day of the life. Thalatu(lullaby) to the last Oppari(lament). every aspects of life of Indians are filled with music. In some community, the person who is about to perform all the final funeral rites, will be made to shave their hairs on their head and also shave their beards and moustache and won't eat anything until the cremation is done. The music band like the traditional, thappaatam and a changu(Chank - a species belonging to sea shells) blower is called to perform together. The general reason behind it is said as, in olden days(like during pre-modern age), where the medical field were not proper, and can't entirely conclude that a person was dead or not, these music percussion instruments are banged to make sure that a person is dead and not having a very deep sleep ;). Then the persons are called for constructing a "Paadai"(A stretcher like structure) made of 2 bamboo stems, placed parallel to each other and "Thennai Olai"(Coconut tree leaves) are used to create an interlinked mesh like structure to support the body while carrying. Optionally, these paadai are created even more bigger, like a big structure made of bamboo and decorated with flowers as per the individual's choices. Image Source: Page on fotolibra.com In the recent times, Some thing like the above picture are made, but still the main paadai is same as the simple 2 bamboo sticks and the coconut leaves. While all these things are being done, simultaneously, the purohit, will start some rituals, where the dead person's eldest son is opted to do the final rituals or the person who the dead person choose themselves before dying, if, the dead person don't have a son for themselves. According to the beliefs, generally, the rituals are 2 types, one is making aware of the fact that a person is dead to both their current generation family and the ancestors of the family. They make them ready to take their ultimate journey towards THE ONE or called as  "Parama Aatma" in Hindu culture. Saivaites, say, the dead people's souls reach Lord Shiva. The another part which the purohitars do, is the rituals for making sure that the soul starts the journey towards the swargam(Heaven) and try to release the soul from the death-rebirth cycle(Reincarnation) and get moksha(Salvation). Once, all the religious rites done at the place where the body was kept in the house, the body is taken towards the crematorium, on the built paadai, by only men, because, women are not allowed to go to the crematorium, I really don't know the reason, behind, it, IMO, I guess, it is said, because the women being more emotionally attached to the dead person, seeing lively, the body of their loved person getting cremated, they might get psychologically affected. The body was taken to the crematorium, either by taking the body through the streets by people carrying paadai on their shoulders or bullock carts, where the people play the thappaatam and dance throughout the way until they reach the crematorium. (The dance and the music is supposed to be taken as the metaphor, whatever you do or dance in your life, you can't take anything or do anything after you stopped breathing. there is a comedy dialog too like "Even though if a person is a great dance master, he can dance for his own funeral" ;) There, the purohitars will perform the rites, like putting the white rice on the mouth of the dead body(No idea, why they do that, sorry :( ), then the relatives get a sandalwood, if they can afford for it, to put it on the logs which will be used to cremate the body, there, the body is kept on the logs and the dried cow dung, which are used to cremate. The, person who is performing the final rites, will first initiate the fire. Now, in recent times, the modern crematorium shelters are used, where they use closed and supervised crematorium chambers. Once, the cremation is over, the people will go back to home, take a bath and complete few rituals and have food. They will wait for the next day. The second day, the person who did the final rites, will go to the crematorium, to collect the ashes or even some bones remained after the body burnt, they put it on a jar filled with milk, to separate the bone from a wooden chunk,(Bones will be drowned and wooden chunks will be floating), then they take the ashes in a sealed jar. People decide the place, where they can mix the ashes, some chooses, the sea, some chooses the holy place like Kashi or Rameshwaram and carry the sealed jar to those places and mix the ashes on the Ganges in Kashi or the sea at Rameshwaram. Others, opt the local rivers as the place for mixing the ashes. These are pretty much similar proceedings of a Hindu community's final funeral rites. I have only mentioned few highlights or the drop of the processions, from the actual processions, which are like an ocean. Hope this helped you to get a little bit of an idea about the subject. Disclaimer: The things I have mentioned here are my own interpretations of the funeral processions of people belonging to the Hindu community from North Tamil Nadu only, please feel free to comment here if there are any errors in my answer, I am all ears and happy to correct it. 