What is the way to develop careers in game development?
The easiest route in is to become an artist or a programmer. And that's by no means easy, but that's your best shot. There are lots of well-respected degrees and courses out there for both art and programming. They also have transferable skills for other industries should you end up deciding that the games industry isn't for you. My advice would be to do a traditional degree such as Computer Science or Art and Animation. You can then supplement this with a post-grad course in something more computer games focused. This will give you all the right qualifications to begin your career in games. Other roles are much harder to break into, though not impossible. QA is good way into other roles, but is extremely competitive. Often QA testers are hired by getting their foot in the door by knowing someone else. Design and Production are also more difficult because people in those roles usually start doing something else in the games industry. It is possible to go straight into those roles, but it's rare and very dependent on the skills the company is looking for at the time (for example, a company might be looking for a junior designer with narrative experience or a production manager who can speak multiple languages). Working on your own games and projects is a great head start. You can download Unity3D for free and mess around with it. There are lots of tools online to help you. Having a good portfolio is a must for any job interview in the games industry, whatever your role is. Create a website for yourself and fill it with the best and most relevant work you have. Let your skills speak for you. Another thing you can do is go to careers events where you know people from the industry are attending. You can talk face-to-face with games dev people, ask all the questions you have, and find out what skills their company are looking for. If you get into a good conversation with someone and get the chance to show off some of your work, it's a head start into getting an interview and hopefully your dream job. Good luck! 