How do you judge what I did? Read the details.
1. On what you asked: Well, first of all my dear average Joe, you are a GUY. You are certainly not a BIG GUY. What did you do? YOU AVERTED A FIGHT. How did you do that? You realized that you can't reason with a stupid guy with an empty top floor, and you also realized that fighting is always gonna end up bad both ways and you averted it by just getting over with what he asked you to do. Now, you may like that girl. But about the girl part, I will come to that later. For now, let me tell you, Most fights never end well. Some even end in death or atleast in spending hefty hospital charges. So, did you do the right thing? I bet you did. Have you ever seen Jaane Tu Ya Jaane Na? Model the Imran Khan Character in that film. Avert fights as much as you can. Don't go to a fight yourself, and don't invite a fight yourself. Don't participate in a fight even if someone invites you may it be politely or it be forcefully. Even in that movie, he's not a coward. But he just doesn't have to be a hero everytime a fight comes up and someone approaches him with a cold shoulder. That's what he believes in. Even if that's probably not what you believe in, and even if you averted it out of fear, there's NOTHING WRONG. A hero is not someone who has no fears. A hero is someone who has conquered his fears, faces those fears every single day and yet manages to push through them. 2. On The Girl: You're in your second year, and that makes you what? 19? Well. Focus on building your body and your mind. Mind first and body next. Get to the gym. Work it out. Hit the weights. Build your mental discipline and build your body with that discipline. Spread that discipline into other areas of your life. Start reading books. Start with 'The Secret' by Rhonda Byrne. Then take it from there. Read non-fiction, self improvement, psychology, etc. "Dude, how is this all relevant to the girl and my liking that girl?" It's relevant. Coz, none of this is gonna last. But that body you build and the knowledge you gain will. Think about the ROI of whatever you invest your time, energy and money on. Especially during the 20s. The more you focus on yourself and develop yourself, the better you become as a person. And, the better you become as a person, the better the quality of people that will come into your life. The better the quality of people that come into your life, the more the chances of a better person, an intellectually stimulating person connecting with you and eventually sharing her life with you. STOP GOING BEHIND a girl and stop building fantasies around a girl. Start focusing on your darn self and become the best and the greatest that you are destined to be. Then, you won't even have to think about a girl. The right person, equally deserving person will come into your life and join you on the journey of becoming better and change your world (not just your relationship status). I hope this helped. FOLLOW ME: I am Hercules Phaeton, and I am making the world a better place, one person at a time. Follow me at Website - HERCULES PHAETON - The Herculean Way Of Life Twitter - Hercules Phaeton Facebook - Hercules Phaeton - Live A Life Of Greatness Want to know how beautiful and amazing this world actually is? Check out my online media/news publishing startup that focuses on what's RIGHT with this world - Highterate - Get High Iterating Through Doses Of Awesome, Mind-blowing, And Inspiring Content! Follow HIGHTERATE on Facebook - Highterate Twitter - Highterate (@Highterate) | Twitter 