How can I improve my writing skills?
How to Become a Better Writer On the topic of how a person can improve their writing skills, inevitably two answers always rise to the the top: 1) Read more. 2) Write more. For a person who's managed to go their entire life without reading or writing a single thing, that's pretty good advice. But most of us aren't that person. Most of us read, and read often. Most us have at least attempted to write something before. And because of that, this advice is outdated and ineffective. You May Be Reading Too Much The problem with reading is that it's fun. Too much fun. I'm at the point now where I don't recommend reading to people who want to become better writers. Why? Because I'm sure they read plenty as it is. It's easy to lose track of time while reading when you should be doing other tasks. It's easy to turn reading into another form of resistance, another distraction that comes up when you should be spending that time writing. Most people who write or want to write already love to read. They love books. They want to write because long ago someone gave them the gift of the written word, some author inspired them with the magic of story-telling, the delineation of knowledge, or the wonder of poetry, and now they want to try their hand at giving that gift to someone else. Reading is great. I don't want to disparage books or what we can gain from reading. It's how I spend a good portion of my free time. And as I said before, all writers get into writing because they've been touched, unknowing or not, by books they've read in the past. But reading is also an excuse. The greatest barrier of entry to becoming a better writing is getting over the excuses that clutter our lives and prevent us from writing. Writing is just about the easiest activity you can start doing.Even easier than reading. You don't need a book. All you need is something to write with, a pen, a pencil, a crayon, and something to write on. If you're reading this, you probably have access to a word processor. But assuming you don't, any blank sheet of paper and a pen will do. Here's the hard part. Now you actually have to start writing. See what I mean? ou could spend a lifetime reading, you could go through reams and reams of books, you could fill a rolodex with authors and titles you've completed, but I guarantee you will learn more about writing and about yourself in just one hour of facing the blank page of a Microsoft word document than you would in a lifetime of reading. If you want to become a better writer you've got to focus on the actual process of writing. 3 Steps to Becoming a Better Writer There are three essential steps to improving your writing skills and becoming a more accomplished writer. As you will see, they are not all that difficult: 1) Write every day 2) Pay attention to what you write 3) Get feedback on your writing Simple right? If you want to become a writer, if you want to get to the point where you're writing pieces of worth that other people enjoy, perhaps get published, all you have to do is follow those three steps. It will take a significant amount of time, a lot of effort, but the process of improving as a writer is not all that complicated. Step 1: Write every day Steven Pressfield has several books devoted to the process of becoming a consistent writer. If you've spent long enough writing, or want to become a professional writer you will soon realize that writing is not about chasing the sudden and sporadic burst of artistic inspiration. Writing is about consistency. The quality of your work will vary. Not everyday will be your best. But consistently writing, each and every day, is the best way to improve your skills and have completed works to draw from. You need to get into the habit of writing every day. No excuses. Steven Pressfield calls this action "turning pro." When you finally commit to a schedule of writing every day is when you become a writer, when you turn into a professional instead of just an amateur or dabbler. Stephen King doesn't take a single day off of writing. Not for Christmas. Not for his birthday. Unfortunately, most of us are not Stephen King. Even if you love writing, it can seem daunting to have to write everyday. There are days that you'll be tired, days that you'll be busy, days that you just won't feel like writing. That's okay. As I said before, not every day will be your best day. Start by shaking off the pressure of always having to write perfect work. Instead, focus on the consistency of writing. Consistency trumps everything. Instead of trying to commit to writing a certain word count or page number, tell yourself that you are going to write one sentence. That's it. Just one sentence. But here's the trick: It has to be a good sentence, and you have to do it everyday. Of course you can write more than one sentence. Most of the time you'll find yourself doing much more than that. But if you can commit to writing just one sentence every day you'll make writing into a habit. You won't dread opening your word processor and having to create your best work. After all, it's just one sentence. Any one can write one good sentence a day. The beauty of this approach is that you'll find yourself doing far more than you would have otherwise. The process of writing is a lot like exercising. We find ways to put it off. We make excuses. We build it up in our head as this thing that will be more uncomfortable than it really is. But once we start exercising, we really enjoy it. Once we start going to the gym it becomes a habit, and pretty soon we can't imagine a day going past without working out. Writing isn't something that you should fear. But even if you love writing, the act of having to create can feel overwhelming. Take away that stress. Take away that pressure. Writing isn't sexy. The longer you do it the more you realize how unglamorous being an artist is. Consistency is what produces results. Doing the work is what gets the job done. Architects may have all the fun designing a building, but it's the guys who lay the brick and mortar every day that get the job done. Don't be a dabbler. Don't just be an amateur. Commit to writing one sentence. Everyday. Do the work and turn pro. Step 2: Pay attention to what you write Writing more often will build your skills, but you want to do more than that. You want to improve. Get better. You want to become a better writer. To do that you have to make it a point to pay attention to what you write. By that I mean several things. First of all, pay attention to your style and the way you write. Have you ever had the experience of writing where you looked up at the clock and realized hours had gone by? That feeling is incredible. That feeling is called flow. It's when you're so in-sync with what you're doing that it becomes second nature, that the words flow along instead of stuttering, that you find the act of creating and writing your world to be a smooth and seamless experience. This happens when you discover and write in your genuine voice. It takes time to find your voice. But the more you write, the more apparent it will become. Like Michelangelo carving a statute, bit by bit the stone will fall away and you'll see the true work of art beneath. Your voice is the source of authenticity and authority that will give power to your writing. Pay attention to what works for you and what doesn't. What gets your creative juices flowing and what bottles them up. Maybe humor isn't your strong point. Maybe you are better at using anecdotal analogies rather than metaphors. Maybe you like short, terse sentences rather than using long, flowery language. Find what works for you. Find how you can add a personal touch to your sentences. The other thing you need to pay attention to is what you like to write. This may seem obvious, but most of us don't really know what we enjoy writing until we start doing it. Explore at first. Try a bunch of different styles and genres. If all you've ever done is wrote fiction, than give memoir a shot. When I was in college all I wanted to do was write fictional long-form novels. I was obsessed with history and realistic fiction. It wasn't until I started experimenting with short stories that I found a medium that worked well for me. However, it was my nonfiction courses where I really discovered a passion for memoir writing. I found it enjoyable and effortless to translate events from my past and what I was feeling into stories that would interest my readers. I found a way to translate all of the experiences I was having in the medical field into something that anyone could read. Experiment. Play around with the genres of writing. Don't limit yourself. When you find that you keep returning to similar subjects time and again, you'll know that you're on to something. Most authors write about topics they want to explore. If you are passionate and interested in what you're writing about, it will come through to your reader and you'll have the desire to stick with it longer. Step 3: Get feedback on your writing The final step is where so many writers go wrong. I don't blame them. Regardless of how confident you are, we all hate criticism. Writing is a very solo, intimate act. As writers we put our feelings, our souls, our sense of being onto the page. We invest an incredible amount of time and energy into the things we write. It's hard to have someone tell you that they don't like what you've written. It's even harder when they say it was boring. But criticism is necessary. On the most basic level, writing is about communication. You as the author are trying to communicate something to your reader. Maybe that something is a story, or an emotion or a life lesson about the world. Whatever it is, you want the reader to feel as passionate about the subject as you did while writing it. If a reader is unable to gain that feeling, then you failed in your writing. It doesn't mean you're a hack. It doesn't mean your an awful writer. It just means that you did not accomplish what you set out to do. Look at criticism as feedback on how well you achieved your goal of communicating. Sometimes all we need is a little bit of change here and there and a prod in the right direction. But there will come times when you're better of scrapping the whole project and starting from the beginning. It's a tough pill to swallow but if you've never heard the phrase "kill your darlings" you haven't been in the business long enough. It's an incredibly frustrating phenomenon a writer will experience whereby an audience will seem to love something you wrote that you didn't really care for; and instead the pieces you pour everything into can end up as a literary dud. This shit happens and it happens to every writer. Does it suck having a story you thought for sure would be a killer turn out to be a debacle? Of course. You've got to move on. Start working on the next piece. And use the experience as a lesson on the importance of feedback. As a writer, you're too close to your piece of work. You can't think about it objectively. All the subtleties important to writing get overlooked in your head. For instance, you may forget to put in a few minor details about a character that means a lot for the reader. You didn't think twice about them because you know the character, he's like your child. You created him. Cut the reader some slack on this end and listen to what they have to say. Regardless of what the criticism is, take it all in and use it to your advantage. You don't need thick skin to be a writer you just have to change the way you view criticism. Constructive criticism is there to help you. It's a guide to instruct you on what's working and what could use some help. No one is attacking you as a person, or a writer, they're just critiquing what you've written. Don't take it personal. When I was in undergrad it could get pretty brutal during some of our seminars. It's hard to sit before a class of your peers while your professor, a six-time published author, tears your story apart. But you have to get through. Realize that you and your writing are so much better for it if you can get past the emotional response to criticism. Don't worry about getting the right audience or finding another writer who will "understand" your art. Anyone will do. The worst person you could get to critique your writing is a close friend, someone who's afraid of hurting your feelings and therefore will hold back in what they have to say. Now on the other hand, if you feel like someone starts disparaging you or your personal values rather than the work, then thank them for their opinion and never return. Some people will be jealous of your work. Some people will be bitter with themselves for not pursuing their own interest in art and will try and take it out on you. These are the only readers you need to avoid. But for the most part, anyone you get to read your work will provide you with some kind of feedback that you can use, a new perspective you may have overlooked, or a nugget of advice that will make your story that much better. Don't be afraid of seeking out advice. Aside from consistently writing everyday, having your work critiqued is the greatest tool any writer has on improving their skills. There is no greater way to learn than to recognize your flaws and celebrate your strengths. The sooner you can do both, the better. You can read more at http://www.mikelavere.com Also answered on Mike LaVere's answer to How does one become a better writer? 