What is your favorite 'easter egg' found in Tolkien's literary works?
When Gandalf fought the Balrog on the Bridge of Khazad-dûm, it's quite possible that the Balrog would recognise his sword. It had quite likely seen it before, after all. Gandalf acquired his sword, Glamdring, from the lair of three trolls (as detailed in 'The Hobbit'). How it got there is unknown; presumably looted from its original owner then stolen, captured, borrowed or bought from one hand to another for the next 8000 years or so until it ended up in that cave in Eriador. Who was the original owner? Turgon, the King of the Elven city of Gondolin. He was killed in the year 510 of the First Age when his city was attacked by the armies of the Dark Lord - a horde of dragons, Orcs and Trolls, but led by Morgoth's elite Balrogs. At the climax of the battle the Balrogs led their forces into the central square of the city, where their leader Gothmog fought hand-to-hand with Turgon's warleader Ecthelion of the Fountain and both killed the other - but there were too many enemies and the Elves were defeated. Turgon was commanding the battle from the steps of his palace - which is why I suggest that the Balrog (all the surviving Balrogs, in fact) would have seen his sword. When he realised he was defeated he passed his crown to his son-in-law Tuor, telling him to escape with as many survivors as possible, then went inside again and stood at the top of his highest tower to await the end of his city. The Balrogs brought up a giant dragon which wrapped itself around the palace and crushed it; Turgon was killed as the tower collapsed. Presumably at some point afterwards, a troll or some other creature combed through the rubble and found the king's mangled body - with his sword at his belt - buried under tons of rubble, and made off with the loot. One of the survivors who escaped from Gondolin was a seven-year-old boy named Eärendil. After he grew up he travelled to the Uttermost West and successfully begged the Valar to send an army to defeat Morgoth. All the Balrogs but one were destroyed in the War of Wrath - the survivor fled far away and hid under the Misty Mountains, doubtless brooding on its past and its lost opportunities. 