Mentors: If you could meet with anyone in the world, real or fictional, past or present, who would you choose? What would you want to do during your time together? And, how would you like the meeting to impact your life?
Mahakavi Subramanya Bharathi (1882-1921) Ever from the day I started reading Tamil this maverick Poet has been my inspiration, and a perennial role model in shaping my social ideologies and literary inclinations. If given a chance, Bharathiyar is the one person I would love to meet. I think Bharathi needs no introduction to the Tamil followers of Quora. For the uninitiated, and for the people from other linguistic states, Bharathi was the fire brand Nationalist poet from the land of Tamil Nadu. He was a pioneer,who freed the poetry from the golden chains of classical pundits, and wrote poems in simple but forceful words,so as to make even the uneducated or the illiterate to still relate to it and enjoy the beauty of Tamil. Bharathi left nothing untouched, and adorned every thing he touched like journalism,short story,essays and articles, Religious and Nationalist songs,New Verse( in the lines of Walt Whitman's Leaves of Grass) and even cartoons, and left his indelible imprint of his originality and genius in all his activities. The history of Tamil language and literature can truly be divided in to Pre  and Post Bharathi era, and not a single Tamil writer or poet who came after Bharathi would have escaped being influenced by Poet's towering personality in one way or the other. Bharathi was not just a poet, but he was a Reformer with progressive ideas far ahead of his times, and espoused feminist ideas and raised in revolt against caste discrimination and untouchability.He was a Nationalist and a freedom fighter,an ardent admirer of Bal Gangadhar Tilak,and with his songs awakened the spark of Nationalism in the hearts of thousands of Tamils.He was a scholar in Sanskrit,and was also aware of the literary movements in other Indian and European languages. Subramanya Bharathi    I would like to simply stay around him, hearing him sing his songs,or dance in ecstasy in his worship of Parashakti,and laugh at his impish humor about the hypocrisy of the society, or listen to him elaborating upon his new ideas on many things in life. I would like the meeting to impact me with his infectious energy,fearlessness,and his love for the simple common people. In fact I can already feel the Shakti (positive energy) flowing through me  even by writing the above lines about this rare human. Thanks,Muthu Raman  for giving me this opportunity, and sorry I am a bit late here. 