What are some of the best computer games of all time?
I am going with strictly games I played on my PC for this one. No console games. Dangerous Dave Ten levels. Collect gems and other goodies to increase your score. Get the trophy cup to "GO THRU THE DOOR" and complete a level. Guns and Jetpacks may be available to help you on the way against an assortment of enemies. Biomenace Standard platformer - guide Snake Logan through 3 episodes of ten levels (or maybe 12, I forget) each, rescuing hostages and fighting evil monsters. Skyroads Whoever said that the sky was the limit wasn't kidding. Features a series of elaborate obstacle courses through which you travel. Difficulty goes up after every level. Druidia literally makes you want to break your keyboard in frustration. Prince of Persia What saddens me the most is that a generation of gamers will never know the true age of Prince of Persia or its roots. Beating this game within 60 minutes made you feel an insane amount of satisfaction (that could probably rival beating Contra on the NES starting with 3 lives) that no current-gen game can. Hocus Pocus Although relatively not as popular as the other games, this was a gem that I was introduced to by cousins. Another platform game set in medieval-esque settings starring Hocus Pocus, wizard in training. Doom The mother of all FPS games. I never truly cared for Wolfenstein 3D because reality never appealed to me. Fighting Nazis didn't really feel the same as fighting fire-breathing aliens with spikes or a huge eye ball which shot stuff from it's huge mouth. This game defined a genre, one that I hate with all my life today since there is absolutely no concept of a storyline and everyone is playing online/multiplayer. Single player story mode - Doom had it all. Heretic If there was one game I liked better than Doom, it was Heretic. Simply for the fantastical element of the game. Also the first game that scared the living daylights out of me when I was a small kid. Commander Keen Another Apogee platformer. First time I recall using the Alt key in a game. Also, trivia: the protagonist of this game, Billy Blaze is actually the grandson of the decorated war hero that starred in Wolfenstein 3D. Rayman I am a big fan of platformers, I know. This is another brilliant game, and even more aesthetically appealing. Jazz Jackrabbit The most fun I've ever had playing a game on a computer was this. It defined my childhood. One of the most epic retelling of the story of the tortoise and the hare. 