What is the best sarcastic statement you have ever heard or read?
He's not insane. His mother had him tested. But he is insanely sarcastic - Sheldon Cooper For someone who 'doesn't understand sarcasm', Sheldon does produce some gems Sheldon: Biologically speaking, Howard is perfectly justified in seeking out the optimum mate for the propagation of his genetic line.  Howard: Thank you, Sheldon.  Sheldon: And whether that propagation is in the interest of humanity is, of course, an entirely different question. Zack: You know, I saw this great thing on the Discovery Channel. Turns out if you kill a starfish it'll just come back to life. Sheldon: Was the starfish wearing boxer shorts? Because you might have been watching Nickelodeon. Howard: Don't you think I should answer the engineering questions? I am an engineer. Sheldon: By that logic I should answer all the anthropology questions because I'm a mammal. *Playing 3D chess* Sheldon: Checkmate. Leonard: Oh, again? Sheldon: Obviously, you're not suited for three dimensional chess. Perhaps three dimensional Candy Land would be more your speed. Leonard: Just reset the board! Sheldon: It must be humbling to suck on so many levels. Sheldon: Good Morning your honor, Dr. Sheldon Cooper appearing in pro se - that is to say representing himself. Judge: I know what it means, I went to law school. Sheldon: Yet you wound up in traffic court. Sheldon: I think that you [Leonard] have as much of a chance of having a sexual relationship with Penny as the Hubble telescope does of discovering at the center of every black hole is a little man with a flashlight searching for a circuit breaker. Zack: Is that the laser? It's bitchin'. Sheldon: Yes. In 1917, when Albert Einstein established the theoretic foundation for the laser in his paper "Zur Quantentheorie der Strahlung", his fondest hope was that the resultant device be bitchin'. Zack: Well, mission accomplished. Zack: You're inferring I'm stupid. Sheldon: That's not correct. We implied you're stupid, you then inferred it. Edit: And this, thanks to Abhishek Chaudhary - Howard: So, how do you explain the ten years before Penny? Raj: Who were you respecting then? Leonard: What? I’ve dated plenty of women. There was Joyce Kim, Leslie Winkle. Sheldon: Notify the editors of the Oxford English Dictionary, the word plenty has been redefined to mean two. And many, many, many more .... The Big Bang Theory - Sheldon Quotes Updated 117w ago • View Upvotes