What are the most treasured aspects of '90s adventure game design and how might these be modernized and used in modern games?
I believe I agree with Anne in a lot of things but there are certain aspects of the question that may need more input in order for it to be answered correctly. I'm not saying its all here, I just want to open the concept even more so others can add other points of view to this question. First of all I may analyze the Question and based on my Analysis propose additional information. What are the most treasured aspects of '90s adventure game design and how might these be modernized and used in modern games? The first part of the question requires identifying the aspects that made these games a remarkable experience that transcends in our memory. These have been perfectly stated by Anne so I will center my efforts in how I believe they should evolve to deliver a better experience in the current generation. These are the aspects noted by Anne: Original Worlds & Storylines I have to support the idea of having better Storylines but I wouldn't focus in the content since I believe current games have evolved creating better and better stories. What I believe is, the evolution of the story needs to be a part of the game I've recently supported David Jaffe's vision that if all you have is a great story:  “Why wouldn’t you write a book, why wouldn’t you make a movie? It’s like being one of the world’s best chefs and instead of working in the world’s best restaurants, you ply your trade in McDonalds.” In order for these stories to transcend it is really important that it becomes a part of the game itself as long as we create worlds or mechanics that include the story in them we will satisfy the needs of meaningful interaction that the actual generation of players expects. I'm not saying that games should start as plain mechanics; you always need a theme in order to create context but the most important thing is how your theme is integrated to the mechanics in a meaningful way, as well as how you will modify the story for it to be a part of the game. It's important that the way the story is handled becomes a game itself; where the player feels that his choices make a difference in the evolution of the game creating multiple scenarios. Don't get me wrong, I know this is really really hard to accomplish but in some way the game's story must evolve using mechanics. Imagine something that can combine Mass Effect's Decision Making with Scribblenauts' "Write Anything, Solve Everything". I know this sounds pretty ambitious but in reality I'm sure something will come up any time soon that uses complex AI aided by next generation processing power. Hand-Drawn Animation & Diverse Art Direction This is something that will also evolve with game engines and creativity with tools like the UbiArt Framework used for Rayman Origins or Powerful tools like UDK or Unity, it depends more on Art Direction to captivate different players the focus should be on the overall identity of the game's Style. Modernization here I believe is Oriented towards experimentation. Higher Difficulty Levels & More Involved Puzzles Now this is a very Tricky aspect since I believe that in order to create that particular "Being Stuck effect" the puzzles will have to incorporate Dynamic elements; since by remaining static there will never be longevity. Just as Anne said, because users can simply look for the solution in a Walkthrough. Static Puzzles are powered by a single solution/enigma and this will often lead to a single solution easily represented in a walkthrough. So a way these may be Modernized is by incorporating  variables to them, using dynamic elements like physics, time, atmospheric conditions, sound or/and lighting for example, the player will get to a point where the puzzles may have multiple solutions. Think of something like Portal meets Echochrome meets Braid , although this only roughly eliminates the original problem perhaps the game could vary this puzzles according to the users past interactions, basically adapting the challenge according to the player's skill. Fewer Movies, More Imagination This revolves around a lot of the things I mentioned in the story issues, as long a movies have the gameplay added to them and not the other way around this will not evolve. Make the movies a part of the game, let the player control these elements. First-Class Single-Player Experience Anne's perception is totally true, though I still believe that adding interactions to others could use the advantage of todays connected multiplayer environment by making the game feed from others' interactions in certain points, imagine that we were left with situations based on other user's interactions. Even Puzzle rooms that dynamically change according to what other players did before us, these kind of things would still let us solve puzzles ourselves but others could influence the setting. This is just a mere idea of how we could benefit of both worlds, something akin Demon's Souls messaging. Finally Some might say all these ideas sound crazy but just to let you know I came up with everything just by thinking of the initial question. So imagine what will come in the future of those who really put their minds into it. Updated 201w ago • View Upvotes