How do you write dialogue trees for video games?
+1 for tools like ChatMapper and I'll mention 2 other, lesser options: A. Don't do it. Think about the difference between any "Choose your own adventure" book and the board game Clue. Compare product reusability versus word count. You could read the book a maximum of maybe 7 or 8 times (but you almost never read it more than 3 times). You could play Clue hundreds of times. Choose your own adventure books are narratology, the now outmoded school of game design based on non-interactive stories. Clue is ludology, the more modern school of design that brings us flexible, open world games, among others. Consider restructuring your words, not as branching dialog, but as "narremes" - atomic story pieces that all connect together in multiple ways. These little story triads need only an action, a target and an outcome (though you can make major, minor and dominant outcomes for each). B. If you still want to experiment with branching dialog on the cheap, use the old school method. Are you familiar with film screenplay format? Just add 2 parts to make it into interactive script. Screenplay blocks have the scene name in all caps (interior or exterior, place and time), the scene description below then a character name indented, with dialog under it. Example: (if the Quora formatting allows it) EXT. TITANIC FORWARD DECK - MORNING A passenger approaches one of the officers who is looking through binoculars.                                           PASSENGER 1                                 Excuse me, have you seen a blond                                girl pass by here? About 11 or 12?                                          OFFICER                                 No sir, I didn't see a soul, until you                                 arrived. It has been very quiet. To make this example interactive, add scene variant numbering and the "option bar". Example: EXT. TITANIC FORWARD DECK - MORNING - 1A A passenger approaches one of the officers who is looking through binoculars. [A. NEGATIVE    B.  Positive     C. Undecided     D. Angry]                                           PASSENGER 1                                 Excuse me, have you seen a blond                                girl pass by here? About 11 or 12?                                          OFFICER                                 No sir, I didn't see a soul, until you                                 arrived. It has been very quiet. EXT. TITANIC FORWARD DECK - MORNING - 1B A passenger approaches one of the officers who is looking through binoculars. [A. Negative     B. POSITIVE     C. Undecided     D. Angry]                                           PASSENGER 1                                 Excuse me, have you seen a blond                                girl pass by here? About 11 or 12?                                          OFFICER                                 Oh, you've just missed her.                                 She asked for the facilities, so I                                 directed her to the forward lounge. EXT. TITANIC FORWARD DECK - MORNING - 1C A passenger approaches one of the officers who is looking through binoculars. [A. Negative     B. Positive     C. UNDECIDED     D. Angry]                                           PASSENGER 1                                 Excuse me, have you seen a blond                                girl pass by here? About 11 or 12?                                          OFFICER                                There was a small groups here earlier.                                There could have been a girl with them,                                but I was looking through the binoculars,                                so I really couldn't say for sure. EXT. TITANIC FORWARD DECK - MORNING - 1D A passenger approaches one of the officers who is looking through binoculars. [A. Negative     B. Positive     C. Undecided     D. ANGRY]                                           PASSENGER 1                                 Excuse me, have you seen a blond                                girl pass by here? About 11 or 12?                                          OFFICER                                 Passengers are not allowed beyond                                 the yellow signs saying "crew only" 