What is the relationship between music and math?Convergence of infinite harmonic series and the musical octaves as manifested in the piano keys.
Originally Answered: Are mathematicians and musicians particularly closely related?I hate to put a cloud over the self-love party here. But one of the great things about math (and about music, and most other endeavors where expertise develops over time) is the joy from precision. However, most of the reasons people have given, above, would also answer, "Why do so many historians have backgrounds as dancers?"  (Something that, to my knowledge, does not happen to be the case.) Some alternative suggestions: math and music are pursuits that (a) many people are introduced to when young, (b) many people have the opportunity to study continuously throughout their years of school ("math is the same in every country," as someone who had moved a lot once put it to me), (c) benefit from sustained attention and precision (probably far more than they benefit from creativity or originality), (d) in our culture, well-off families that value education often particularly promote, (e) people can continue, in some form, throughout their lives.  In short, I'm saying: let's look at the people on the way into this pipeline; socioeconomic factors; family backgrounds; educational habits; and finally, personalities. What I'm less likely to buy are (a) connections between the topics (because history is like a dance, too, and likewise there are probably conferences on the history *of* dance), and (b) connections between motivations / rewards / practice of the fields (because those occur in *any* activities -- see, e.g., http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Flo... ). It would be fascinating to know if studies show a correlation between math and music beyond the percentages you would expect by chance given the number of people in each activity. And to see if this correlation becomes stronger over the years of childhood, and how it is associated with demographics or personalities. 