Are there any mathematics studies higher than calculus? If so, which ones?
There are two ways of looking at it, depending on exactly what you mean by "higher". If you're just talking about when a field of math is covered (ie what part of undergraduate/graduate education), then pretty much all of math is higher than calculus. But this tells us more about our education system than it does about mathematics: we happen to teach calculus relatively early, in large part because it's useful for a wide range of science and engineering. Practical and social considerations aside, nothing stops us from teaching many other fields of math before calculus. Most people, taking this view of what "higher" entails, would say that abstract algebra is higher than calculus—but nothing fundamentally stops us from teaching it to high schoolers. Abstract algebra is nicely self-contained and doesn't depend on calculus or even most of the math taught in school. Instead, you could get by with little more than a few weeks of basic ideas from set theory building upon familiar ideas from elementary algebra and arithmetic. And, in fact, we almost did adopt this approach in the US back in the 60s in the form of "New Math". It didn't catch on for all sorts of reasons, none to do with mathematics. I think it's a shame: the topics they tried to cover do a better job of inculcating mathematical thinking than what we teach now and would have been incredibly useful for preparing students for fields like computer science. A slightly narrower way of looking at it is to define "higher" as "depending on" or "building upon" calculus. And there is a fair number of fields you can study that extend or generalize the concepts taught in calculus. But there's also a fair number of fields that don't and instead go in orthogonal directions. Some fields also use calculus but don't necessarily build upon it and I'm not sure which category they fit in, but many don't use it at all or, at least, not to a significant extent. Interestingly, while these fields build upon the ideas covered in calculus, most calculus classes do a poor job of covering the fundamentals in a way that's easy to fully formalize or generalize. Instead, they tend to build up a narrow intuition specific to problems in calculus and give you a toolbox for solving those problems—an approach that is, again, aimed more at engineers and scientists using calculus than people diving into pure mathematics. In practice, this means that mathematicians end up relearning a lot of the same concepts from the ground up in the form of real analysis, a core course in most math programs. This gives a strong foundation to the ideas involved in calculus, suitable for extending to other fields and deeper exploration. So: there is a ton of math to learn after calculus, and we could call all of it "higher". But much of it is actually orthogonal to calculus: it studies different objects in different ways. You don't really need calculus to go into many of these fields, so it's also useful to think about ones that are "higher" in terms of extending or building upon the same ideas as calculus. Updated 7 Nov • View Upvotes