Are there any mathematics studies higher than calculus? If so, which ones?
There are a lot of answers to the first question, but not many (at least not in exhaustive list form) to the second, so I'll answer that one. In list form. Linear Algebra- At the lower division level, this isn't really more advanced than calculus. You start off learning about vectors and matrices and their properties and some useful things you can do with them. Later on you learn about vectors, but this time they aren't just arrays of numbers or directed line segments but abstract entities belonging to what is known as a vector space. The properties of vectors, vector spaces, and operators (i.e. abstractified matrices) are pretty much the core of quantum mechanics. Abstract Algebra- No, abstracting the concept of a number to a variable isn't enough. In abstract algebra, you abstract the entire concept of algebra. Multiplication and addition of real numbers now becomes arbitrary operation 1 and arbitrary operation 2 on arbitrary member x of arbitrary number system X. This takes you to the concept of a group, a number system combined with a single operation satisfying some initial properties, and a ring, a number system combined with two operations. One area where group theory (more accurately, group representation theory)  has found astounding success is inorganic chemistry where the symmetry of atomic orbitals is exploited to build molecular orbitals. Set Theory- Continuing on with abstraction, set theory studies sets which are collections of objects (usually numbers). Sets can be ordered. Sets can be infinite. Sets can be created by combining two sets together in some way. Some interesting properties can be derived from set theory, such as the concept of differing sizes of infinite sets and the Banach-Tarski Paradox. One of set theory's biggest accomplishments is setting a standard for mathematical notations and proofs. Real Analysis- In a nutshell, real analysis is the rigorous version of calculus; instead of one section on epsilon-delta definitions and proofs, you have an entire book made up of them. The main purpose of real analysis is to serve as a prerequisites for pretty much everything else. I am speaking only of undergraduate real analysis and couldn't tell you what is covered in graduate level analysis (except for something called measure theory). Complex Analysis- Like real analysis, but with complex numbers instead of real numbers. Useful in physics. Functional Analysis- I've heard this referred to as linear algebra but without the restriction that your vector spaces be finite. Instead of studying sets of points, you study sets of functions. Also useful in physics. Topology- Kind of like geometry, except abstracted so that your shapes are allowed to bend and stretch while still being considered the same shape (something like that). Ordinary Differential Equations- This is what happens when you combine elementary algebra with calculus. A differential equation is like a polynomial equation except instead of polynomials you have derivatives of differing order (something like x''+x=0). Useful in modeling which takes place frequently in physics and finance. Partial Differential Equations- PDE is to ODE what multivariable calculus is to single variable calculus. A partial differential equation is a differential equation containing more than one function (something like x''+y'=0). Nonlinear Differential Equations- These are differential equations that aren't linear (instead of x'', you might have something like sin(x'')). An undergraduate course in nonlinear differential equations will likely study the properties of these equations rather than methods for finding explicit solutions. Useful in modeling. Number Theory- Number theory studies the properties of integers. A hot topic in number theory is the study of prime numbers, which are used in cryptography. Number theory tends to find uses in computer science due to the discrete nature of computers. Graph Theory- Graph theory studies graphs, which are collections of nodes and edges, nodes being objects and edges connecting them. Graph theory is used frequently to study networks (i.e. Facebook). Differential Geometry- Differential geometry is what you get when you combine geometry with calculus. It's most famous use is probably in the formulation of general relativity. Tensor Analysis- A tensor is like a vector but... more abstract. You can think of a tensor as an array of numbers but without restriction on the number of dimensions (so a matrix can be thought of as a 2D tensor and a vector as a 1D tensor). Useful in physics, particularly relativity. Probability Theory- Studies probability. Useful for actuaries, amongst other people. And those are just the books that I have on my shelf (I actually haven't read most of them, so don't expect me to actually know anything about all those subjects), most of which are covered in undergraduate courses. If you want a full list, check the course listings at any university. After that, go to the math department website and look at the research summaries of the math professors. 