What are some of the great projects implemented using the concepts of Graph Theory?Real Life Products or Projects that involve the usage of graphs for  implementing them.
On of the biggest problem in compilers has been solved using the graph coloring problem. The problem of how to allocate registers to variables  has been solved using the concept of graph coloring. While writing programs the programmers doesn't think about allocation of variables and they just use the variables in the program as per their requirements. Now the compiler has the responsibility to store these large number of variables in limited number of registers. This is required because the register operations are faster than the memory operations. So its in the interest of efficiency of program to store as much variable as possible in registers. Now while allocating variables into the memory few variables can occupy the same register while some cannot, and they have to be stored in the different registers. So basically all those variables that are going to be used at same time cannot be stored in the same register as the value of one variable will override the value of other variable. Also if there is a move instruction then the source and destination variable can be stored in the same register. For eg. for b = a + 1 both a and b can be stored in same register. Also there are some variables which always needs to be in some particular register like program counters, this further reduces the number of available registers. So for the process of  allocation of registers, compiler consider each variable as  a vertex of graph. And if two variables cannot be assigned to same register they are connected using interference edge. Similarly, preference edge connects variables which can be assigned same register. Thus the register allocation has been converted into K coloring problem with few vertices having fixed color( fixed register allocations). That is to color the maximum number of vertices in the graph such that no two ends of interference edges are of same color. Updated 23 Mar 2013 • View Upvotes