What is the relationship between music and math?Convergence of infinite harmonic series and the musical octaves as manifested in the piano keys.
I'd like to add a note about Fourier Analysis to this discussion.  It is a technique for breaking down functions into simpler, harmonically related periodic functions.  Moreover, the author of the idea, Joseph Fourier, does seem to have based it on his observation of the vibrations of a violin string.  While not every bit of mathematics is related to music -- this kind of harmonic analysis certainly is. See this link for a very brief treatment: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Fou... And then, there's also the overtone series.  The idea is that when something is struck and resonates, there's a fundamental frequency, and then there are overtones (which, at its simplest, are the fundamental times two, and multiples of two.)  The interesting thing is that our ears (and brains) don't hear all of the overtones in the same way. Imagine you've made a list, with the fundamental frequency, and then the overtone frequencies, so that you can see the multiples: (fundamental)  x2  x4  x6  x8  x10  x12  x14  x16  x18  x20 etc. Notice that these are just multiples of two, the overtones. But those overtones which are powers of two, namely:                         2    4         8                           16                 etc. These overtones specifically, we hear as "octaves" of the fundamental frequency. I think this is fascinating, and, to my mind, unexplained.  Why would we hear powers of two differently than other overtones? And what about other frequency relationships?  Can we hear powers of three, as well, and do they stand out in a similar fashion to powers of two?  What about other roots, such as e, the natural log?  Will we hear something special if we construct frequencies based on any of these? Note that the overtones in the above which are not powers of two -- these overtones are used to make up the other notes of the western scale.  The distance (in frequency) between such an overtone and the octaves above and below it -- that distance is noted, and then used to construct the same note in the lowest octave, to make up the other notes in the scale. Maybe music is an invitation to mathematical analysis.  Certainly, that's what the ancient Greeks and Chinese (and others) thought when they did the experimental work to come up with the scale. Forgive me for any mistakes in the above, and please do comment if you find one! Updated 27 Aug 2012 • View Upvotes