What is the relationship between music and math?Convergence of infinite harmonic series and the musical octaves as manifested in the piano keys.
Originally Answered: Interdisciplinary Topics: How closely related are music and math? The circle of fifths -- from wikipedia. Music and math have a very close relationship that stretches back thousands of years, to the very origins of music and civilization. In fact, it's unfortunate that we don't teach these connections to kids in school, because that might make them see mathematics in a new light. Music involves creating patterns of sound. Mathematics can be described as the study of patterns. So you can study everything in music -- melody, harmony, rhythm, timbre -- from several different mathematical perspectives, including geometry, number theory, trigonometry, differential calculus, combinatorics and signal processing. Also, the electrical and electronic tools used to make modern music are based on a mathematical understanding of how music works. A rhythm is "a sequence in time repeated" -- from Wikipedia's article on Rhythm. Firstly let's talk about rhythm. When you're tapping your toes to a catchy beat, you're basically working with a periodic function -- in other words, a wave. Even music without a drumbeat has a rhythm -- it determines where you place the notes (and even the silences!). Next we can talk about melody. A musical note is made up of waves. These waves are produced by vibrations of a string (like in guitars, pianos and harps) of a membrane (like drums) or of a column of air (like flutes, saxophones and trumpets). High frequency vibrations are not heard as discrete rhythms, but instead as more continuous sounds that have a particular pitch and timbre. For reasons that are still being studied by mathematicians, musicians and scientists, the particular notes that sound pleasurable when played in a sequence as a melody often have particular mathematical relationships. The "gap" between two musical notes is called an interval. An important number is the ratio of the frequency between two notes. Cultures all around the world like to hear sequences of notes involving small integer ratios among the frequencies of the notes. One such popular interval is the perfect fifth which is the interval between C and G (or 'Do' and 'So', or 'Sa' and 'Pa' in Indian classical music). The ratio between the two frequencies is 2:3. If you were building a harp, you could use these ratios to determine the lengths of the strings. The intervals between notes that sound good in a melody also form the basis of Harmony -- the playing of multiple notes at the same time. A chord played on the piano or strummed on a guitar consists of three or more notes played simultaneously or in quick succession, so they overlap with each other. Chords that sound harmonious to most ears contain the same integer intervals that are often considered melodious. What I've written just scratches the surface of the links between math and music. Here are some links for further exploration: The magical mathematics of music Gödel, Escher, Bach - a strange and brilliant book on the connections between music, mathematics and art Rhythm and Mathematics -- Very cool new research on the mathematics of rhythm Ear Training for Sound Engineers -- Demos of Pure tones and complex sounds. Algorithmic composition -- you can use mathematics and computer code to generate music these days! Musica universalis -- ancient people believed that the connections between math, music and astronomy pointed to a higher order to the cosmos. This documentary series really piqued my curiousity about the myriad connections between math and music: Some of these mathematical ideas helped me experiment with computer-generated music -- I made this little piece and an accompanying visualization: 