What is the relationship between music and math?Convergence of infinite harmonic series and the musical octaves as manifested in the piano keys.
Originally Answered: Genius and Geniuses: What are some of the parallels between math and music?There aren't much. Music is an art in patterns, while math is an art in different kinds of patterns at a much higher level of abstraction. Schubert and Beethoven weren't mathematicians. But there is a formal language aspect to music, in that the 12 tone scale is like integers mod 12, with a certain harmony pattern. The stuff you read in music theory is useless, so I'll tell you the real deal. To do this, you need a notation. I will name the 12 tones with single capital letter names: CJDKEFLGHAIB The letters A-G are the standard English note names: C = do  D= re and so on, while the letters HIJKL have been added, keeping the name "H" for the semitone between G and A, as was traditional in Bach's time. This way you don't distinguish the tones from one another by calling some of them "sharps" or "flats", they are all symmetrical, as the are on the scale. You also need a notation for relative tones, to describe tones which are different from a given tone. I will use the following: abcdefghijk for +1-+11, l for +12 (octave), then la lb lc for the next octave up. To go down yxwvutsrqpon represent -1 to -11. m is -12, while z is zero, or just another name for the tone itself. These little letters are relative to the big letter, so that Cdg is a major triad in C Ddg is a major triad in D, and so on. To indicate that tones are simultaneous I use <> brackets to enclose the simultaneous tones (written vertically when not in ascii). <Ddg> is a major D chord <Dcg> is a minor C chord. To indicate rhythm, I use ordinary parentheses to divide time, and + to indicate when the tone extends over the next slot. So that CCGGAAG. | FFEEDDC. | GGFFEED. | GGFFEED . | CCGGEEG. | FFEEDDC.| Is "Twinkle Twinkle Little Star". I hate the standard musical heiroglyphs. I usually write it this way: [C][!!!!!!!!] zzggiig. | eeddbbz. | ggeeddb. | ggeeddb. | zzggiig. | eeddbbz. | The brackets means don't make a sound, just tones are relative to the key (C in this case), and the whole thing is in eight quarter notes between the bars, and the bars are nothing, just like the divisions of measures in a staff. I use scoping rules, so that <Ddg> allows you to play a D major chord without changing what "z" means in the outer context. <D> for a D note without changing the conext (the stuff inside the brackets is a different local scope for the relative tones). If you want to have a melody externally and a D major chord specified absolutely, you say <<Ddg>d> where the innermost d is relative to D, so it's actually L, the inner g is relative to D, so it's A, while the d played simultaneously is relative to C (or whatever the outer context is). You need some links to match the "+" to what it is extending, but it works ok, you can label the + using a previous tone too, and I use - for a glide. It's just a replacement for the silly ancient notation people use, because I don't want to buy special paper, or use special software. Ascii is fine to express the ideas. The basic unit of time for a letter is a quarter notes (or whatever you decide the unit of time is). Then, to divide time, use parentheses for integer division of time, and + signs to indicate the extension of the tone into adjacent spaces: [!!!!] C (CD) (+ F) (C .) or in relative way: [C][!!!!] z (zb) (+g)(z.) The . means a rest. It's ASCII friendly music notation. The frequencies go up by a factor of twelth-root of two every step. There are two critical tones relative to any tone: e and g. The g is the so-called fifth, and the e is the fourth. The frequency ratio lz/e is equal to g/z, that's what makes them special. These have overlapping harmonics, because they are close to integer ratio of 3/2 in frequency. The major third is "d", and sort of has overlapping harmonics, while the minor third is "c", which is basically just neutral with "z". The overlapping harmonics thing is overblown, it basically only is needed to understand e and g. The remaining tones are basically all equal, except for a,f, and k. These are the most dissonant tones. To make scales, you just avoid the three dissonant tones, a,f,k. So that a major scale is zbdegi and k k is special, because it is dissonant, and used to produce the "tension before release" in European classical music. You can use a and f for a similar effect, but a "goes the other way" (meaning the melodies are going down). The minor scale is the tones zcdeghj the "real scale", meaning what people understand when they are playing an instrument in a key is the union of the major and minor omitting a,f,k. z bcd e g hij z e g are the main anchors, the bcd are the three non-dissonant tones between z and e, while hij are the three nondissonant tones between z and mg. All these 9 tones, the scale minus a,f,k, are all not dissonant with z, and allow our ear to keep imagining z is droning on underneath. When a,f,k appear, to a lesser extent d and h, there is a certain amount of dissonance, and these are often used as a transition tone to z (the tonic), the disrupt the imagined drone with dissonance. There are symmetric scales: z bc e g ij This is one of the "modes" (I don't like the way these are explained--- basically, take z eg and fill in a random selection of bcd,hij, and you get a reasonable scale, the modes are just cyclic rotations of zbdegik to make the tonic elsewhere) Which is nice, because the intervals going up can be turned into intervals going down from the same tonic. The major scale is symmetric with respect to an inversion of order around the tone "d". This allows you to write a melody, and then reverse it and play the reverse intervals relative to d, without leaving the major scale for z. There are the equal-interval scales, like the 6 tone scale: z b d f h j Which is a completely equal inteval thing which is rather dissonant, but it's like the Simpson's theme, very avant garde sounding. There is also the circle of fifths, which can be understood best this way: 0:[z] 1:[eg] 2:[bj] 3:[ci] 4:[dh] 5:[ka] 6:[f] This is arranged in terms of distance from the tonic, in steps of fifths or fourths. The closest to z are e and g, and then the e and g of e and g, which are b and j, then c and i, then d and h, then k and a, finally f. These represent how far away from the tonic you are harmonically. To arrange it in a circle, do this: fahcjezgbidkf. The middle is z, and going out you get more distant fifth-steps (going right) or fourth steps (going left) To make musical tone patterns, it's not mathematical thinking, rather it's understanding the aesthetic relationship of the tones to one another, and being able to transition from one key to another, reverse a melody, make harmonies between simultaneous melodies, and divide time in strange ways, with polyrhythms. These are the simple skills you learn in composition school. To make music using these skills is an art like abstract painting, the mathematics ends with the simple observations above. Updated 15 Jan 2014 • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Mutasim Mim