What is the relationship between music and math?Convergence of infinite harmonic series and the musical octaves as manifested in the piano keys.
Meter: Meter is fractal. 4/4 is the most common time signature, but we start to realize that 4/4 is just the tip of the iceberg; 4 beats sounds normal but if you have 3 measures of 4/4 it sounds unfinished. You want to add that extra measure to make it 4 measures of 4/4! And then when you have 3 of those (12 measures) you want to make it 16 measures to make it sound complete. There is something beautiful about the power of 2 in meter in music that we seem to appreciate. Harmony/Counterpoint: Harmony and counterpoint are often at odds with each other but the type of thinking one must employ to use them are very similar. Every note has a set of "recommended" intervals to fit with the other notes, both horizontally (in the time domain) and vertically (in the interval domain). Trying to figure out a creative way to satisfy all these requirements to make your music sound pleasant while also making sure it sounds interesting is like solving a sodoku puzzle with an artistic twist. Frequency domain translation: The human ear (or auditory part of the brain) is extremely good at "math". Specifically, it naturally performs Fourier transforms effortlessly. It processes music naturally in a way that EECS undergrads have to spend hours in class doing equations to even begin to understand how to do mathematically. It deciphers pitches in a way that extreme geniuses have to spend thousands of hours figuring out how to make computers do, and only recently have we even scratched the surface of using computers to decipher music, in Melodyne's "DNA" (direct note access) technology, the leading software to decipher multiple pitches from music (which still doesn't work half as good as the human ear). Sight-reading: If you've ever sight-read music, you start to realize that the parts in your brain that need to go into overdrive are the same as the ones that must activate when performing intense mental arithmetic. I have no evidence to back this up, only personal experience. 