What is the relationship between music and math?Convergence of infinite harmonic series and the musical octaves as manifested in the piano keys.
Originally Answered: Are mathematicians and musicians particularly closely related?I'm a classical musician that has a BA and MA in mathematics-related subjects. I started playing classical violin at 4 and moved to classical voice at 11. I gave up opera while in college due to illness and I studied math. Since I'm healthy again, I'm back to singing opera. I'm more of a musician now than a mathematician, but I suppose I'm a bit of both at heart. There are a lot of connections between Mathematics and Music that are hard to describe to people that haven't studied them at a high level. I'd say the most interesting and obvious connection between the two of them is the study of the sheer intricacies of patterns--at least that's what excites me most about them both. Mathematics has entire fields devoted to the study of patterns, functions, quantities, and shapes. Music is the patterns, functions, colors and shapes of sound. I'm synesthetic <http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Synesthesia> especially spatial form synesthetic. So I "feel" and "see" time, space and also sounds. This synesthesia has influenced a deeper understanding and love of both music and mathematics. It has also made me more likely to excel at them both. While I was fine in reading/literature/history/science, nothing ever "moved" me like mathematics and music did... except maybe dance. Have you asked mathematicians/musicians about how music/math moves them? It's deep. I appreciate both music and mathematics by how I "feel" and "see" them. There are a world of patterns and similarities between the two that I can't quite describe in words to other people who aren't synesthetic and/or mathematicians or musicians. The irony is that, once I got into high-level mathematics and I was doing proofs and was no longer able to visualize the function or geometry, I wasn't very good at mathematics anymore! I'm willing to guess that a lot of people that are into and excel at both mathematics and music are probably synesthetic as well. There's little research on the area but synesthesia is much more common than we think it is. I didn't even know what synesthesia was was until a few years ago! It's also very common for mathematicians and people that are good in mathematics to be or have training as classical musicians. There is definitely a correlation between musical precociousness and mathematical understanding, it just hasn't been studied yet. 