What is the relationship between music and math?Convergence of infinite harmonic series and the musical octaves as manifested in the piano keys.
This is a very interesting question, something that has always intrigued me. I am myself a student of mathematics as well as music and having spent a lot of time doing both, I definitely sense a deep connection between the two. I would specifically like to focus on abstract mathematics and classical music where I believe the relation is much stronger. These are a few similarities in abstract mathematics and classical music which I have observed- 1. Seemingly sudden spark of intelligence In abstract mathematics, some proofs/parts of proofs appear as an outcome of pure genius. You are just in awe of the mathematician and you wonder how could he ever have thought of something like this. Similarly, in a classical composition or during a performance, an artist renders an amazing variation, out of the blue and you are again in awe.. you wonder how could the artist ever have come up with something like that. But though both these phenomena may appear as a sudden spark of intelligence, the experts in either field will be able to trace this spark. Such sparks are always a result of getting oneself immersed in it completely, whether it is Galois theory(part of abstract algebra) or the Raga(a certain combination of notes used as a basis in Indian classical music) 2. Intellectual Satisfaction Many theories are dealt with in detail for the sake of satiating the mathematical inquisitiveness or mathematical hunger of the theorists. They seem to have absolutely no practical significance. Similarly a great artist will come up with some complicated composition for the sake of his artistic satisfaction. A novice in music may not like such a composition. But neither the theorists nor the artists care. The point is, when you achieve a certain level of expertise in either field, you tend to challenge yourself irrespective of the appeal or application of your work to the general public. 3. Levels of Abstraction Given any theorem and its proof, the things that an amateur student can comprehend and the things that a seasoned mathematician will be able to observe will be different by a huge margin. Similarly, an enthusiastic listener will definitely enjoy a magnificent performance but an artist will be able to appreciate the magnificence in a whole different way. The proof and the performance are the same but they give different insights to different people. 4. Maturity for Appreciation This is in continuation with the previous point. Since there exists level of abstraction, you need to attain a certain maturity in the mathematical theory or in your music to be able to gain a greater insight, to be able to see the proof or the performance in its various dimensions. The theory or the music needs to seep into you in some way. 5.  Freedom within Boundaries For  any mathematical theory, you are given a set of premises and  assumptions and you have to work your way considering those constraints.  Similarly in classical music, there is a certain format of a  performance or there is restriction to a certain scale or Raga for a  performance. In  both cases, the restrictions may seem to hinder the flow of  mathematical or artistic thought, but the true beauty lies in the  creation achieved within those boundaries.      I would also like to strongly believe from my personal experiences, that being good in one of them or spending time in one of the things will help you in the other. This has been hypothesized by many people but the formal proofs for the same are awaited !! 