What is a great way to learn math and computer science concurrently (ideally with one helping another)?Or learning how to program and thinking mathematically at the same time. Engage math in learning how to code and vice versa. I love coding. I feel like I'll be much better at math if I use math a lot in coding. I'm interested in both programming and computer science. I'm looking for solutions when all of it is explicitly tied together.
There's a great book called How to Excel at Math and Science (Even If You Flunked Algebra): Barbara Oakley: 9780399165245: Amazon.com: Books (which focuses more on learning than on science and math, so don't be thrown off by the title). You can even take a free class on the subject (it's literally that book in class form) atPage on coursera.org. I'd also recommend The Classic Guide to Improving Your Memory at Work, at School, and at Play: Harry Lorayne, Jerry Lucas: 9780345410023: Amazon.com: Books and The Mathemagician's Guide to Lightning Calculation and Amazing Math Tricks: Arthur Benjamin, Michael Shermer: 9780307338402: Amazon.com: Books. The first book can help you retain all of the information you gain from studying. The second book is amazing for training your mind to make lightening calculations. The second book actually makes use of some of the systems that they teach you in the first book, so they really go hand-in-hand (though the first book has way more general applications, such as remembering dates, shopping lists, names, addresses, phone numbers, etc). As for practicing those memory skills, I use Math Worksheet Generator to generate math problems, and Random Noun Generator to generate random lists, which I then try to memorize. You can also pick a subject, like US States, Presidents, or the Periodic Table, and try to memorize those, bit by bit. You should also definitely download Anki - powerful, intelligent flashcards. When you're trying to learn a subject, just create a deck of flash cards and Anki will help you do spaced repetitions, which is hands down the fastest way to learn and retain information. For instance, I'm currently memorizing the 100 "peg words" from the Memory Book, so every day I add 10 more of the peg words to my "peg word deck" in Anki, and review the entire deck. The new words will always pop up, along with any problem words I'd studied previously. The words that I've got down will come up less often (or not at all, depending on where I am in my training). Take some free classes from edX. I'm taking a free Computer Science course from Harvard on there right now. It's an amazing tool for learning pretty much any subjects you could be interested in, and it's all free. Their Introduction to Algebra and Introduction to Geometry courses are both amazing! The Algebra course actually takes you from basic addition and subtraction all the way through Quadratics, so even if you were never a math whiz, it will give you the knowledge you need to get through. I started with the basics as a refresher, and it only took about an hour to work my way through all of the problems up through Factoring. 