What are the different branches of mathematics, and what type of problems are they designed to solve?You don't have to list all of the branches. If you find a branch that is interesting and feel you can explain it well, go for it. However, if you see there is a branch someone didn't explain yet, and feel like you can explain that one well, go right ahead. If someone already mentioned the branch you like and find it's somewhat incomplete, try and complete it. Thanks.
There are many many branches and subbranches in mathematics. Most of them connect to one another in many ways, so there's no definite answer to that question. However, here are some major branches of mathematics : Analysis : it's the study of functions, calculus, differential equations... It is perhaps the branche of mathematics which has the most obvious and direct applications to other sciences. In analysis, you study the ways in which a certain quantity behaves when it depends on one or several parameters, like the position of a ball thrown by a football player depending on time and on how he launched it. I'd say it takes its origins in Descartes' work and was developped a lot by Newton and Leibniz, and those who came after them. Algebra : It used to be the study of equations. How do you find a quantity that equals its own square plus one ? While most civilization had some sort of algebra, the name come from Al-Jabr which, in arab, means to add a quantity to an equation in order to simplify it. Like when you have x - 3 = 0 and you had 3 to both sides of the equation to get x = 3. Since the 19th century, Algebra is more the science of structures. Mathematicians discovered that numbers weren't the only things on which you could do calculus, and that if, instead of focusing on what exactly are the objects you're manipulating you focus more precisely on the rules you are allowed to use to do such calculus, you'd get more general and strong results. It is very connected with the studying of polynomials, and thus with such topics as algebraic geometry (obviously) and number theory that were mentionned earlier. Probability theory : The study of probabilities, I guess you know what that is. This field took a new turn in the beginning of the XXth century with the work of Kolmogorov. It is now very connected to analysis but also has links with discrete maths. Discrete maths : I guess you could call that "computer scientist's maths". I don't know much myself about this field, but this is were graph theory belongs, for instance. Geometry : Again, you certainly have an intuitive knowledge of what geometry is. At least, geometry of the plane. It is about studying shapes  and locations. During the last centuries, it has taken a more abstract turn which would be hard to explain here. Of course, these fields are themselves divided in many subfields, and there are probably a lot of topics that do not fit very well in any of those fields, but from the top of my head, these are the major branches of mathematics. 