What is the relationship between music and math?Convergence of infinite harmonic series and the musical octaves as manifested in the piano keys.
Pitch is the emergent property of compression and rarefaction, over time, created in the medium by energy transfer through it. However, if you can make it so that another wave causes rarefaction where there should be compression, or vice versa, you can negate the effect of the sound. This is called phase inversion. However, if you wanted to amplify the sound, you would apply that same wave form again, creating a greater amount of compression at times which the recorded wave form is known to produce compressions, and rarefactions where it is known to produce them. When discussing quantity, we may be speaking of it in complete abstraction, or speaking of it with respect to the number of notes used in a chord, or the quantity of possible configurations of notes. But each note periodically recurs, due to the fact the frequency is measured by wavelength and period and that pitches whose periods are integer multiples of others reenforce each other by starting their compressions in the same places and ending their rarefactions in the same places. It is sort of like this. If the period is 1, with a compression occurring from 0 to 1/2, and a rarefaction from 1/2 to 1, the note of period 1/2 which offers compression from 0 to 1/4, rarefaction from 1/4 to 1/2, and continues as per it's periocity with compression from 1/2 to 3/4 and rarefaction from 3/4 to 1 l, we call this an octave an notes of this property are known by their note names, and differentiates by subscripts. This is partly the reason for why octaves are grouped together. This naturally implies the usefulness of modular arithmetic models of music. As, well, the simultaneous sonation of these pitches gives rise, naturally, to the concepts of permutation and combination, as scholars attempt to find easier ways of generating sequences, which is approached quite mathematically. 