What is the most intriguing mathematical concept you have ever encountered?
Before Gödel proved incompleteness, he proved completeness, a theorem I consider incredibly profound and undeservedly overlooked by its more famous cousin. It says something akin to "a statement can be proven if and only if it must be true," or (as I often, more provocatively, say it) "anything which is true can be proven and anything that is false can be disproven" Given incompleteness states that there is something that is unprovable, we arrive at an important question: is that unprovable sentence true or false? By completeness, it's neither (or, more correctly, we legitimately can't tell)! This problem is more confounding. Hopefully you're saying to yourself: "Having something not be provable is one thing, but how can it be neither true nor false?" The fundamental issue is that there's more than one thing which could be happening and they disagree on the sentence in question. I like to explain this concept with a Sherlock Holmes analogy. Imagine that there's been a murder! Sherlock Holmes has narrowed it down to three suspects: Anne, Bob, and Carl. An eyewitness states that the culprit was clearly a man. Can Sherlock prove that Bob was the murderer? "lol, obviously not," you say "it could be Bob or Carl, what a stupid question, you dumbass!" I agree with you (though you didn't have to be so rude about it… geez…). The fact of the matter is that our axioms "It's either Anne, Bob, or Carl" and "It's a man" are not enough to prove/disprove that Bob is the murderer. This is what completeness is all about. Peano came out with a set of axioms that defined the natural numbers (0, 1, 2, …). While the natural numbers as we know them satisfy Peano's axioms, there's also a set of non-standard natural numbers (it starts with 0, 1, 2, …, but then goes on to add a whole bunch of infinitely large numbers as well) which satisfies Peano arithmetic. Comparing that to my metaphor from earlier, Peano's axioms are the clues to the crime and the naturals and non-standard naturals are two possible explanations of events. In other words, our axioms are not explicit enough to tell us what is happening under the hood. When we can't prove something true or false, that means that there are multiple explanations of the axioms (i.e. "it could be either Bob or Carl") and the disagree on the conclusion (i.e. "it's Bob"). Is that statement true or false? Well, neither really, because in one version of events it's Bob and in the other it's Carl; mathematician's wish it was one or the other, but many times it's just useful to know what could be happening and the question of what exactly is happening is considered to be a bit naïve. For those curious, examining what satisfies the axioms rather than what's happening because of the axioms is called Model theory. It's a fun topic, and one of the really early results is that their are structures that are completely different, but they agree on any mathematical statement. So really, even if every sentence was either an axiom or a negation of an axiom, we still couldn't tell exactly what's going on behind the scenes. Anyway, the takeaway from this is that completeness is just as cool if not more so than incompleteness. It hints at an entire different way of thinking about the notion of truth and axioms. Universal truth does not exist; we are merely asking if every structure satisfying the initial conditions (the axioms) also satisfy the conclusion, not whether the conclusion is fundamentally true or false. Updated 7 Dec 2013 • View Upvotes