Are there any mathematics studies higher than calculus? If so, which ones?
Short answer: oh God yes. I would put Linear Algebra and Probability & Statistics on an equivalent rung, personally. LA is very different, but roughly equal in complexity and very complimentary.  Undergraduate Probability/Stats is more of an applied math course.  It's like Logic mixed with a hard science with a heavy calculus base that you won't be touching too much directly.  Graduate level Prob/Stats is a different beast and goes in the bottom list. Some pure-math biggies: Differential Equations: It's algebra again, only variables turn into derivatives and integrals of functions and you solve for the functions themselves. Calculus of Variations:  In regular calculus, you have problems where you try to find the values of variables that maximize or minimize a function.  In this, you try to find the function that maximizes or minimizes a function of that function.  Involves a lot of Differential Equations. Chaos Theory: Deep dive into non-linear systems that behave in "weird" ways. Topology:  Studies the mathematics of spaces Manifolds: Specialized foray deeper into Topology Numerical Analysis: Studies problems that don't have closed-form solutions (i.e. an answer that is a formula you can plug & chug with) If you really want to find out how far down the rabbit hole Calculus and Linear Algebra will take you, check out these fields which give them a real workout.  They're not "math classes," but they will make your Calculus courses look easy. Special Relativity: Combines vector calculus and linear algebra with the constant speed of light in a vacuum.  The physics leads to some non-linear transformations and a lot of non-intuitive results. General Relativity: Spacetime isn't just flat, mass curves it.  Takes manfiolds, vector calculus, and linear algebra to some scary places. Quantum Mechanics: Differential equations, calculus and linear algebra.  This will show you just how hard it can be to solve one equation. Fourier Analysis (or Linear Systems): An integral-based transform from one space to another with just a ridiculous amount of applicability. I based this on Calculus, The Course(s), but there's an argument to be made that calculus the field kind of tops the hierarchy.  It's the end of the arithmetic->algebra->calculus conceptual train of thought, and so much math beyond here is really applied calculus.  But Calculus, The Course(s) is so just the tip of the iceberg of what it can really do. 