How are Combinatorics and Topology connected?
Lots of ways. Here's one I'm particularly fond of: One place to look for combinatorially interesting sequences in topology is in sequences of Betti numbers attached to spaces. Very, very roughly speaking, the kth Betti number b k   of a space "counts the number of k-dimensional holes" in the space, but this slogan shouldn't be taken too seriously. If X  is a space, its Betti numbers can be arranged into a generating function P X (t)=b 0 +b 1 t+b 2 t 2 +...  (very much like the generating functions that occur in combinatorics) called the Poincaré series of X  . One reason it's nice to do this is that the Poincare series is additive and multiplicative with respect to disjoint union and cartesian product respectively; that is, we have P X⊔Y =P X +P Y ,P X×Y =P X P Y .  Example. The n-dimensional Torus T n   has Poincaré series P T n  (t)=(1+t) n =∑ n k=0 (nk)t k   so its Betti numbers are binomial coefficients. This is a corollary of the fact that P T (t)=1+t  and of the fact I mentioned above about the Poincaré series being multiplicative. Now, why is it interesting to realize a sequence as a sequence of Betti numbers of a space? It's because if you know interesting things about your space, they can translate to interesting things about your sequence. For example, if your space is a particularly nice kind of space called a closed orientable manifold, then Poincaré duality tells you that its Betti numbers are symmetric; that is, b k =b n−k   where n  is the dimension of the space. In particular, the n-dimensional torus is such a space, so this can be thought of as a topological explanation for why (nk)=(nn−k)  . For a more sophisticated example, if your space comes from algebraic geometry in a particular way, then the hard Lefschetz theorem (Lefschetz hyperplane theorem) tells you that its even-indexed and odd-indexed Betti numbers are unimodal, meaning that the sequences b 0 ,b 2 ,...  and b 1 ,b 3 ,...  first increase and then decrease. Applying this result to spaces called Grassmannians tells you that a certain sequence counting partitions that fit into a box is unimodal; apparently a purely combinatorial proof of this result isn't known. See Stanley (Page on mathunion.org) for more details. See also: Topological combinatorics Combinatorial topology 