What is the relationship between music and math?Convergence of infinite harmonic series and the musical octaves as manifested in the piano keys.
Originally Answered: Interdisciplinary Topics: How closely related are music and math?Douglas Zare makes an excellent point: "If you want to understand music, study music not mathematics. If you want to understand math, study mathematics and not music." However, I fail to understand his insistence that music and mathematics are not closely related.  Perhaps we should be more precise and ask if music and arithmetic are closely related, since music is certainly intimately related to number. In this sort of discussion we run the risk of failing to distinguish between the way things are and what we think about things--our ideas about them. In a book I was reading on the subject of temperament, the author (whose name, for his sake and mine I have forgotten) seemed under the impression that our musical scale was an invention, someone's "idea".  But the notes of our scale are intimately related to harmonic frequencies naturally produced by resonances in such things as a tensioned string or a column of air in a pipe. Why do we call a pitch of 440 hz (A) the "same" as one of 880 hz?  This is what we call an octave and it is the simplest ratio of two pitches (1:2).  The next most consonant interval (or "good" sounding if you must) is a perfect fifth with a ratio of 2:3.  Intervals become less consonant (or more dissonant) as the ratios of their frequencies become less simple.  Our "invention" was actually a compromise in the decision to have only 12 notes in the octave, necessitated by the limitations of keyboard instruments (and the number of fingers available).  Early harpsichords and organs sometimes had more than 12 notes per octave in order to have say, both d-sharp and e-flat; both g-sharp and a-flat. However, we do not need to know anything about the numbers in order to understand music, and Douglas' point is well taken. But I would hasten to qualify this statement by saying that we already do know the numbers and that this is a central component of the power music has on us.  While it is true that there is an associative component to the effect music has on us (that tune was playing when you met your first love...or when she broke up with you!), in my experience that effect is minor and seldom.  Where I was and what was going on in my life when I first heard Mahler's Ninth has virtually nothing to do with the powerful ways in which it moves me. It is my contention that we are at a certain level omniscient.  And by that I mean that by nature we understand in our bones (or you might say in our neurology) how the universe works, how the relationships, the numbers, make up the fabric of our being. And music, by being built on those relationships puts us in touch with that understanding whether or not we can touch it with our intellect. We are acutely sensitive to patterns and relationships whether we know it or not. While learning to play Fauré's Romance Op. 69 for cello and piano I was so moved by the beauty of the piece that I had to take a closer look. It begins with an upward scale in the phrygian mode on C# then goes into a lovely melody in A major (closely related to the phrygian scale). The second part of this melody modulates up a whole step to B major--a rather tricky feat in itself. This is then repeated so as to end in C# major, brilliantly setting us up to return to the C# phrygian scale and do it all again, but replacing the second part of the melody with a satisfying coda in A major.  Was my appreciation of the music enhanced by this analysis? Yes, by all means. Was my initial emotional response any less than it is now? No. Could you have been moved as much or more than I was even if you didn't understand an iota of what I just described? Absolutely! A word about dissonance.  I have lately been enraptured by music of American composer Morten Lauridsen. Many of his pieces end with a decidedly dissonant chord.  A dissonance always demands to be resolved to a consonance and that is always my feeling as the chord begins. But as it is held, there comes a point when I suddenly feel that "Oh...it IS resolved."  I believe that my mind has simply come to understand the order in what it first saw as chaos. Douglas made another excellent point: "...the differences between a good performance and a bad performance, and between a brilliant piece of music and a boring one, are critical. Mathematics says almost nothing about these." I think we will continue to discover how psychological effects of music can be understood in terms of relationship of patterns, and numbers, but musicians will always go beyond the intellect to touch what we know in our bones and our hearts. By the way, I LOVE Roger Zare's Geometries, have downloaded it from iTunes and will listen many times.  Perhaps one day I'll understand what it means in terms of fractals and tangents. Or perhaps not. My bones will understand. 