What is the relationship between music and math?Convergence of infinite harmonic series and the musical octaves as manifested in the piano keys.
Thanks for the A2A! So much.  So so much.  I did a portion of my Thesis on the connections between music and math.  Proportional breakdowns in music are so complex and so beautiful that I truly can't go into it here.  But here are a few links to some really informative sites. Music and math: The genius of Beethoven - Natalya St. Clair The Correlation Between Music and Math: A Neurobiology Perspective Pythagoras: Music and Space The Harmony of the World Harmony of Spheres and Harmonic Proportions in Architecture with a review of Croatian Renaissance examples On the Pythagorean Tradition In Medieval scholarship Music was taught before even attempting Mathematics.  To understand the underlying complexity of music is to have a good foothold on the basics of Mathematics.  Of course, anything can be broken down into constituent parts which would mean anything can be related to Math, but Music has intricate mathematical complexities that are quite beautiful and astounding once you begin to discover them.  And vice-versa.  For instance, The human DNA strand we all know is a double helix.  But it does not exist as simply as is typically shown in most pop-culture representations with the grooves being equally spaced.  The two Helices do not twist in a 1:1 spatial proportion.  They twist in a 2:3 proportion.  There is a major and minor groove that creates this proportion.  And as anyone with any music theory knowledge knows, this proportion resonates as a perfect fifth. Prolific, over-simplified, incorrect graphic representation showing 1:1 ratio: Correctly proportioned graphic representation showing 2:3 ratio: Musical proportions (note the 3/2.....P5): As far back as ancient Greece philosophers and mathematicians alike were equating the universe to math and music.  These connections are everpresent and are part of what makes music so enveloping and consuming to humans.  Music is the combination of the mathematical with the spiritual.  The corporeal with the ethereal.  The measurable with the unmeasurable.  It wasn't until Bach began utilizing more complex intervals and harmonic relationships that music began to grow away from this "perfect" Greek system.  With new dissonances and chords, different keys and scalar derivations, a larger scale of notes and notation had to be devised.  This need arose from the disparate continuity of thirds, fifths and octaves when defined by simple integer ratios.   From these disparities arose the 12 tone system comprised of 12 even-tempered semi-tones.  For a more complete history of the mathematical breakdown of music and its history, go here: Music and mathematics As well, the Golden Ratio as expressed in the Fibonacci series can be found throughout music and musical composition.  Schillinger System The notation of music, in its expression of patterns and breaking down into halfs, quarters, eighths, sixteenths, etc. speaks loudly of its base in mathematics.  As does the tonal system; half steps, whole steps, fourths, sevenths, etc. The entire mental state of mathematical thinking, problem-solving and building from pattern sets to discover new buildups and breakdowns is shared between mathematicians and musicians alike; only from different directions.  Whereas musicians sometimes aspire toward complexity, mathematicians often seek simple, elegant proofs.  If one were to look at the historical periods in Mathematics, (Medieval, Renaissance, Baroque, Classical, Romantic, etc.) one would find striking resemblance to the music of those periods.  However the relationships between math and painting, sculpture and literature of those periods is far more disconnected. For more info check out a few good books on the subject.  Essays on the Philosophy of Music - Ernst Bloch Math and Music: Harmonious - Trudi H Garland and Charity V. Kahn Classical Mathematics - Jim Henle Did Mozart Use The Golden Section? - Mike May The Pythagorean Plato - Ernest G. McClain Can Mozart Make Maths Add Up? - Alison Motluk On Mathematics and Music - Harvey Reid The Phi Factor: Mathematical Proportions In Musical Forms - James A. Rothwell Mathematics and Music - Dave Rusin In short, there is a fundamentally intertwined connection between Music and Mathematics that is often overlooked or ignored altogether.  But that doesn't negate its existence.  For me, the Mathematics of Music is part of what makes it so beautiful.  The unerring and everpresent truth of Math is present in the construct of Music; and it always will be.  "The musical flow of instinctive response is the material of mathematical design." - J. Davis :) 