What are some unsolved problems in mathematics?
Originally Answered: What are some of the most 'beautiful' and challenging unsolved problems in Mathematics currently?I'll give a generalized problem from applied math which rears its ugly head in many different ways (i.e. it has no specific statement anywhere in the literature, but all applied mathematicians who have dealt with it will know what I'm talking about). I will just call this the "lack of sparsity problem" Over the course of the past century, computers have made possible the ability to solve certain types of physics problems using highly sophisticated mathematical techniques. Of the techniques that have been developed are algorithms like the conjugate gradient (CG) the generalized minimum residual algorithm (GMRES), and associated techniques for accelerating those methods (preconditioners: multigrid, incomplete LU/Cholesky, Jacobi, many many more). Techniques like this have seen an incredible application to physics arising from diffusion processes like heat flow, or in diffusive approximations to wave equations like the Eddy current approximation to Maxwell's equations. We have reduced the cost of solving these types of equations from the standard O(N 3 )  to in many cases O(N∗log(N))  , independently of the complexity of the underlying problem. Here's the frustrating problem: every single technique developed to date only works this well on problems with highly diffusive properties, this shows up in theory as well where non diffusive problems give a tremendous amount of difficulty in proving the most basic facts (which often as not turn out to not be true). The moment I take a conjugate gradient algorithm and a really state-of-the-art multigrid preconditioner and apply it to say Helmholtz' equation (models frequency domain acoustic wave propagation), it simply breaks down. This nasty problem shows up in more ways than simply making them harder to solve as well. The basic problem at play here is that solutions to diffusive problems are "sparse:" they generally admit very crude approximations with no worry of localized errors in that approximation propagating throughout the solution and ruining your answer (this is often called "pollution"), this property makes them very amenable to all the above mentioned solution techniques. Translate this over to a wave problem: the moment you have a complicated wave, even very good in-theory approximations will generate a very bad pollution effect which ultimately results in all known solution techniques failing. There is a minimum quality of approximation you have to achieve before they become applicable, but the moment you hit that minimum approximation you are often no longer "winning" by using the more advanced algorithms, you might have been better off just doing something else that is simpler. Researchers have been banging their head on this one for a very long time. There are some good special-case solutions, but nothing yet that works in general. It is very likely that a solution to this problem will require a complete paradigm shift in how we view such problems and how we attempt to approximate them, totally new mathematics. Everybody I've spoken to about this all has their own "intuition" as to why this happens, but this problem so far has resisted any systematic rigorous mathematical attack on it. If it is ever resolved, the implications in mathematics and in applications would be tremendous. 