How can graph theory be applied to neuroscience?I'm a high school student learning graph theory for a program at UC Davis, and it was mentioned that it can be applied to neuroscience. Since neuroscience is a field I am considering pursuing, I was wondering where exactly the relationship is.
The main application of graph theory to neuroscience is Bayesian belief networks (Bayesian network). Many theoreticians believe that "Bayesian networks", which are also called "bayesian belief networks" and more recently "deep belief networks", describe how the brain models the world, especially for perception. Perhaps the best paper to explain the application of this idea to the brain is Lee & Mumford (2003). [1] "Beliefs" here do not mean religious beliefs, but rather anything you can believe to be true about the world in the present moment. Is there a car coming as you are about to cross the street? The basis of the belief that there is (or is not) derives from evidence you have recently collected. If you are not looking at the road, you don't know, so your uncertainty is high. If you look one way, you can be somewhat confident, but you don't have information about the other way. If you don't see anything but you hear a sound, you might look again just to be sure. You are essentially triangulating across sources of evidence. This type of "inference" about the state of the world can be modeled as a graph of interrelated "beliefs". (was there a sound? was movement seen? What is the estimated speed of the car?). Many believe that the individual neurons, or perhaps clusters of neurons in different parts of the brain, are basically representing truth values like this. They update their probabilities based on evidence, which affects their activity level (spike rate). The interconnections between neurons may correspond to the lines that connect nodes in the graph describing a Bayesian network. Technology entrepreneur and pioneer Jeff Hawkins based his artificial intelligence company Numenta on a model of bayesian networks. He discusses hierarchical belief models for perception in his book On Intelligence. [2] ---- [1] Lee TS, Mumford D (2003). Hierarchical Bayesian inference in the visual cortex. Journal of the Optical Society of America. (- Google Scholar) [2] Hawkins J (2005). On Intelligence. 