What is meaning of a reciprocal connection in brain anatomy?
Do you know what connectivity means? if  NO,  read on.                              else                                      jump to RECIPROCAL CONNECTION IN BRAIN Brain connectivity refers to a pattern of anatomical links (anatomical connectivity), of statistical dependencies ("functional connectivity") or of causal interactions ("effective connectivity") between distinct units within a nervous system. Brain connectivity is crucial to elucidating how neurons and neural networks process information. Take the example of a simple brain like fish brain (Not very easy like drosophila or very complex like mice). For explanation purpose, I am assuming fish brain has only 100 neurons. These 100 neurons can be thought like 100 soldiers whose purpose is to safeguard the country (Our dear fish) ​ A neuroscientist want to learn about this country and understand how this country is surviving and fight against harsh environment, enemies etc. One logical guess will be it has something to do with the 100 soldiers, the relationship and social interaction among these soldiers, some grouping and division of labour among these soldiers, some secret service (some soldiers may not be anatomically related, but they will be functionally related) One common method is to study functional connectivity. Inject some radioactive dye and trace this dye. If you could trace this dye in say 37 out of 100 neurons; it implies these 37 neurons form a circuit and are interconnected. Nowadays we have diffusionMRI and DTI for such studies. Another method is functional connectivity. We are observing the activity of all the 100 soldiers simultaneously. If we observe them for a long time, we can see some patterns emerging; like whenever neuron 2 and 3 are firing 67th neuron remains silent. Or, when 34th and 89th neurons fire, 2 and neuron will fire alternatively. Functional connectivity is the correlation concept - it's a descriptive concept, simply defined as the temporal correlation between remote timeseries or samples. As the old adage goes, correlation doesn't imply causation. Another approach above this level is finding out the direction of these connection by complex graph theory analysis and mathematical number crunching. ​ RECIPROCAL CONNECTION IN BRAIN ANATOMY: 