What is the relationship between music and math?Convergence of infinite harmonic series and the musical octaves as manifested in the piano keys.
Originally Answered: Interdisciplinary Topics: How closely related are music and math?Many people would like mathematics and music to be closely related. They are not. There are some connections. Basic mathematics can help you to understand some parts of music theory. Fourier analysis can help you to understand overtones. The phenomenon of beats/difference tones is easiest to understand mathematically. Note durations are usually rational numbers times a beat, and understanding fractions helps you to see how different lines of a score fit together. The circle of fifths is easy to understand in modular arithmetic. If you want to deal with digitized music, you need to work with some math. Some music is inspired by mathematics. Some composers have explicitly referenced mathematical ideas. A few modern composers have tried to embed some mathematical objects into musical works. Change-ringers explicitly try to play every permutation of notes with some restrictions. However, many other disciplines use a lot more mathematics than music does, and the musical pieces which were written using mathematics, not just inspired by it, are considerably less popular than musical pieces written by composers with only a very limited understanding of mathematics. You do not need to know your times table to play music beautifully. Many more composers have been inspired by nonmathematical subjects such as religion, love, war, myths, and other art than have been inspired by mathematics. Deep mathematics is almost never known or used by musicians in a musical context -- even an award winning modern work like Roger Zare's Geometries was not based on mathematics directly, as the composer (my brother) states. I don't recommend studying advanced mathematics to those who want to understand music better. If you want to understand music, study music not mathematics. If you want to understand math, study mathematics and not music. By contrast, physics and mathematics are quite closely related. If you want to understand one better, it's reasonable to take some courses in the other. So are mathematics and computer science. Many types of engineering are related to parts of mathematics. Other disciplines like economics use significant amounts of mathematics beyond calculus. If you are going to study economics, you should take multivariable calculus, differential equations, statistics, etc. But I can't recommend studying those to become a better performer, composer, conductor, or even an avid listener. Little math beyond grade school fractions will help you with playing or composing music. If you want to write academic papers about music or to design musical instruments, then you might want to learn a bit more, but music is not as mathematical as carpentry or American football. Mathematics is much better at describing sound rather than music. To a musician, the differences between a good performance and a bad performance, and between a brilliant piece of music and a boring one, are critical. Mathematics says almost nothing about these. Why do people want to say math and music are closely related, even though they are not? People say the same about chess and mathematics. These are intellectual, abstract pursuits which lift us out of the mundane. Some people have hypothesized that the same parts of our brains respond to mathematics and to music. However, that doesn't make them related on a deep level, and they aren't. Sorry. Updated 12 Dec 2013 • View Upvotes