What is the best way to find the longest common palindromic substring between 2 strings?
This can be done in linear time. First, note that you can find the longest palindromic substring of a single string in linear time, using Manacher's algorithm. Also note that we can find the longest common substring between two strings in linear time by building a Suffix tree for each and taking their intersection. The easiest way to intersect two suffix trees is just to build them together; for two strings A and B, we compute the suffix tree of the string "A$B#" for special characters $ and #. The result is the union of the two trees. To get the intersection, we just chop off any subtree not containing both a $ and a #. We just have to combine the two: Run Manacher's algorithm on each string to find the longest palindrome centered at any given character.* Build the union suffix tree of the two strings, as described above. Traverse the tree, finding all nodes such that the path from the root to that node is the second half of a palindrome - in each of the original strings. (For example, if one of the strings is "dcabacef", the suffix tree has a path for the suffix "bacef". The string "bac" is the second half of the palindrome of "cabac", but "bace" is not the second half of any palindrome; therefore, we'll cut off this path at the "c".) Here is how I would implement this: traverse the tree, looking at each $ and # leaf. Each such leaf corresponds to a suffix in one of the strings (such as "bacef"). We mark the leaf with the largest radius of a palindrome centered at the start of the suffix ("cabac", 3). As we do this, for every node v of depth d, we will keep v if and only if its subtree has both a $ and # of value at least d. The deepest point of the resulting chopped-up tree gives you the longest common palindrome. (*) For simplicity let's say that any palindrome is odd-length so that every palindrome has a center. To deal with even-length, you can first add dummy characters between any two characters (e.g., replace "aac" with "a&a&c", so that every palindrome has a center: the even-length "aa" is centered at the "&" character). 