★What are some good resources for learning text mining online?I can only find materials concerned with data mining in general. I would like more focused direction towards text mining. I found Text Mining and Analytics on coursera, however, it will start September 2015. I can't afford to wait that long.
If you want to learn text mining; it is basically two components Machine learning and Natural Language processing. I will tell you what I have used in learning it online Natural language processing 1.      Stanford NLP Christopher Manning: Coursera 2.       Stanford: Foundation of Statistical NLP: Foundations of Statistical Natural Language Processing 3.      NLP: Information Retrieval Page on washington.edu 4.      Stanford: Information Retrieval and Web Search (Good): Information Retrieval and Web Search Machine Learning: While there are many good sources, I would rather tell you to be specific to algorithms. If you are going to do text mining, it is better to stick to SVM, Logistic Regression and Random Forest for supervised learning and K-means for unsupervised learning, some of the cool sources are as: 1.   Machine Learning Videos by Yaser: Machine Learning Video Library 2.   Mining Massive Datasets: Coursera 3.   Machine Learning in ML (Andrew NG): Coursera But i think you should use platform specific resource to learn For python: Natural language processing with python NLTK Book others: - Natural Language Toolkit for Python (NLTK): Natural Language Toolkit - Natural Language Processing with Python (book): Natural Language Processing with Python (free online version: NLTK Book) - Python Text Processing with NLTK 2.0 Cookbook (book): Python Text Processing with NLTK 2.0 Cookbook - Python wrapper for the Stanford CoreNLP Java library: Python Package Index - guess_language (Python library for language identification):https://bitbucket.org/spirit/gue... - MITIE (new C/C++-based NER library from MIT with a Python API): mit-nlp/MITIE - gensim (topic modeling library for Python): gensim: topic modelling for humans For R: there is tm package and nlp package which can be used    Embed Quote