★What's the easiest way to learn linear programming?Hello, I am coming from a heavy java background and want to learn LP. What's the best way to do so? Greetings
Linear programming is NOT a type of programming language, or even really something you do with your computer. It's a technique in mathematics to solve certain types of problems, similar to how finding derivatives or transforming a matrix are other types of techniques. It's called a "program" because the concept was invented during WWII where "programs" were just algorithms in order to solve problems, and in this case, the problem is an optimization problem. A linear program has three major components: variables, constraints, and objectives (just one objective, usually). I'll give you an example of a linear program, stolen from my college lecture notes. There are 168 hours in a 7 day week. I'm in college, so I need to study, party, and eat (I go to Carnegie Mellon, so it's not like I sleep). I want to eat 3 square meals (1 hour each) a day, and I definitely don't want to study more than 14 hours a day (but anything less than that is totally reasonable). If I don't study at least 10 hours a day, I will probably fail my courses (seriously, you don't understand what this school is like!) and my time is only devoted to these three things. Let's also say that if I party, I need to study even more to make up for it (the example I'm basing this off of uses 2S+E-3P >= 150, that is, if I never party then this is never a problem, but if I party at all, then the weighted difference between the time I spend studying/eating and the time I spend partying has to be quite significant). So, 3 variables: S, P, E. Many constraints: S+P+E=168, E >= 21, S >= 70, S <= 98, 2S+E-3P >= 150, P >= 0 Now, can you give me values for S, P, and E, such that all of the constraints are valid? I'm sure you can, there are many answers. But what is the "best" answer? We will make the third component of the linear program our *objective*. What should our objective be? I'm 21 years old, so my objective is going to be to MAXIMIZE the value of P. That is, I am interested in knowing, out of all the valid assignments of S, P, and E, which one has the highest value of P while not going over my rules. And... that's pretty much it. Linear programming in a nutshell. Has absolutely nothing to do with functional programming, or object oriented programming, or web programming, or whatever. It's just a mathematical optimization problem. If you want to *use* linear programs to solve problems, I've heard that Excel can solve them (yes, Microsoft Excel, the spreadsheet software), but I know that you can also do them in Mathematica, Maple, MATLAB, and SAS. The bonus of doing it in Mathematica is that you can probably just type it into Wolfram Alpha and get it solved in your browser.    Embed Quote