★What are some applications of linear programming that are useful in industry or the sciences?I've just learned this set of techniques and they are by far the most interesting I have come across in my study of CS thus far!  How useful are they and what are some applications?  I am planning on applying for a Ph.D. in CS so I'm more academically minded, but applications in industry are appreciated too.
Here's a somewhat surprising application of linear programming to bioengineering: Flux balance analysis. The basic idea is to model how fast different chemical reactions are occurring in a cell, also known as the flux through those reactions (if you've seen network flow, you can replace the word "flux" with "flow" in your head, as we're about to define things similar to capacity and conservation constraints.  AFAIK there's no direct reduction of FBA to standard network flow, as our constraints have a slightly more general form).  These rates are often bounded by internal limitations (e.g. maximum rate of catalysis by the enzyme responsible for the reaction) and external limitations (e.g. amount of nutrients in the media).  Moreover, for each molecule in the cell, conservation of mass imposes a linear constraint on the reactions involve that molecule.  For example, if the only two possible reactions involving molecule A are A + A -> B and C + D -> A, then we know that the second reaction must occur at exactly twice the rate of the first reaction, or else A will either build up or become depleted.  In general, we get a bunch of constraints that state that some linear combinations of fluxes equals zero (the only exception is for molecules that are imported or exported by the cell). You can set the objective function to be something like total biomass output (represented as a linear combination of some number of molecules).  This makes sense for example in bacterial populations; it's been shown that within a population of bacteria, a small group of bacteria that divide faster will quickly come to dominate the population, as you might expect. Now, you just throw everything into a black box LP solver.  You wind up with a vector of fluxes, which give you a prediction of how much flux is going through each reaction in the metabolic network you care about. With this model, you can do "experiments" like knocking out different genes, thus shutting off certain fluxes, and seeing how the cell changes to accommodate this.  One neat application is this paper: Metabolic engineering of Escherichia coli for the production of polylactic acid and its copolymers, in which they use FBA to determine a series of alterations that would get E. Coli to produce a lot of Polylactic acid, a widely-used biopolymer.    Embed Quote