I want to practice algorithms for 10 days (240 hours). Where should I start?I have fair knowledge of Algorithms.
So many pointless answers to a good question. Kartik Ayyar has a great answer, though. You already probably know a few algorithms, which are basically just a recipe for solving a problem.  For example, the "binary search" algorithm is so simple, you can invent it yourself in a few minutes by playing this game: "I'm thinking of a number between 1 and 100. Every time you guess, I'll tell you if my number is higher or lower than your guess" Play it with someone for 5 minutes and you'll figure out binary search by yourself.  The solution to something like the "Knapsack Problem" is similarly intuitive. For learning more than what is immediately obvious, I would start with edX It's built on MIT's openCourseWare material, but in a more guided, complete environment. Courses 6.00.1x and 6.00.2x have a lot of really good explanations about algorithms that you can even understand well without any programming experience. My life experience in algorithms? I started learning programming when I was, I dunno, 12 or so. Picked up some books at the library on Javascript, Basic (<3) and Perl and the like and taught myself syntax. I didn't learn anything "computer sciency" or anything, just a bunch of instructions to make the computer do stuff. (At 12, I felt like God! Bwahahah!) So if I had to slove a problem, I always invented my own "algorithm" Pretty much just ugly, slow, brute-force crap, but it got the job done. Fast-forward to a couple months ago, I've now got 12 years of experience in various different programming languages, but still don't know "algorithms" in the academic way that a CS student would. So I take the edX courses, and learn the names for stuff everybody already knows, plus other more efficient ways of handling problems. In conclusion, yes, you can learn algorithms in ten days, especially if you have a good background. You won't have enough to program a search engine, or start folding proteins, but you'll be able to name and explain a few. Start with edX, and trying to solve problems on your own. If you have a specific problem, Google it and try to find an algorithmic solution. If not, just start reading about algorithms, Wikipedia would be a good start, then pick one that you like and try to really understand it. EDIT: To all the people posting pointless, unhelpful answers, master the difference between the word "learn" and the word "master". Heck, you can learn what an algorithm IS in about 10 minutes. 