Who are the most accomplished female scientists?
Lynn Margulis is one of the foremost evolutionary biologists of our time, and the main proponent of the theory of the endosymbiotic origin of eukaryotic organelles. When she first wrote up her seminal paper The Origin of Mitosing Eukaryotic Cells, it was rejected by fifteen journals before the Journal of Theoretical Biology published it. In the face of immense opposition, she pushed through and, by carefully gathering evidence, eventually positioned her theory as the dominant one in explaining how organelles like mitochondria and chloroplasts evolved. She has also taken on the neo-Darwinian paradigm of evolution happening primarily through competition-based natural selection. Whether you agree or not, you have to agree that that takes guts. (Fun fact: She got married to Carl Sagan at 19.) Barbara McClintock was the discover of transposons or "jumping genes" - DNA sequences that can move or copy themselves into new locations within the genome. We now know that these sequences actually take up a large portion of the "junk DNA" in our cells, and the evidence is mounting that they may play a major role in evolution by deactivating or duplicating genes, or by influencing development. Biologists can also use transposons to manipulate the DNA of living organisms. McClintock also encountered enough skepticism to make most scientists wilt and disown their ideas, but she held fast. Before Ada Yonath came along, X-ray crystallographers had mostly given up hope of discovering the structure of the ribosome. It was too large, too complex, too hard to crystallize. Over decades, Yonath tried nearly every conceivable technique. Eventually, she cracked the structure, then followed up by studying the effects of a wide variety of antibiotics on ribosomes, which allows much more efficient drug design. She has also discovered the structure of many other large molecules, advancing scientific knowledge in innumerable, subtle ways. Jane Goodall broke down nearly every paradigm about what constitutes a human. Through her studies of chimpanzees at Gombe, she discovered that chimpanzees use tools, often eat meat, and have unimaginably complex social interactions - just like us. She observed chimpanzees inventing and innovating. She witnessed their curiosity first-hand. Throughout her career, she was repeatedly accused of attributing human behavior to animals, which were expected to act like machines - but time and time again, she found evidence showing that, no, that was actually how chimpanzees behave. And besides being a great scientist, she is also a great humanitarian. 