How does one become good at problem solving?
For clarity, let me start with problems of mathematical nature. There is no scarcity of people who feel that they are not good at mathematics because they think that they “can’t think fast enough” or “understand nothing”  or “can’t get started”. I see differently: the main troubles lie more in  thinking too fast, understanding too much, or not knowing when to stop.  This generalizes well beyond problems of formal-mathematical nature. Mathematics is more about precision and complete adherence to the  formal system one is talking about. However, we need to be precisely as  precise as the formulation of the system requires. There are  mathematical formalisms to  discussion about approximate, uncertain and  fuzzy ideas. When mathematicians understand complex ideas, the jump is  not from “nothing”  to “everything” but from “almost known” to  “completely known” traversing through the well-organized structure  largely build for this purpose. Thus, the essence of mathematics is thinking slowly so that you can  catch up with your thoughts so as to ensure your adherence to the  precise rules; stopping and clearing your current confusion, and not  continuing without even being aware of confusion, when you are not sure  if you have followed the process correctly. You  should stop well before you begin to feel that you “understand  nothing”, well before you “understand something”.  That is, when you  feel that you “almost understand”. From there you should take as much  time it takes to “completely understand”. In order to generalize this  to  other common problems, we might have to replace “completely” with  “reasonably” or “approximately” or “well enough”. When you can’t answer but are really interested in finding, ask more questions. Way before you begin to think about solving a problem, it is necessary we get stuck enough: when you are attempting to solve the problem of formulating the  problem/goal/question itself rather than searching for answer to a  well-defined question. It is much better to plan well and long enough  than to terminate a big project mid-way, after wasting a lot of  resources. Once you start, you  might not even have control over it and  may not be able to stop it until it is too late or costly. More comprehensive views on problem solving can be read at my blog Problem Solving (P&S) : Many problems vanish when you: state clearly; ask why do you want to  solve them; think its causes and the consequence of your solutions; plan  what next after you solve it, or not; analyze the cost and benefit; see  it in broader and holistic context. Many manifestations of ideas about complex problem solving can be expressed is some form of abstraction and decomposition. Review process can best start from within to avoid wasteful external  explorations – a surprisingly large part of troubles can be  traced to  our own stupidity. 