If I want to start with bioinformatics or computational biology, what topics should I learn? What are the actual challenges in this field?
Thansk for asking the question: Depending on the context that the terms bioinformatics and compuational biology are used you may be exploring somewhat two different fields. If you have a biology background and is capable of asking biological question then learning how to answer them using bioinformatics techniques is worthwhile, computational biology is more concerned with algorithms development. You'd have to understand things in three broad  disciplines of bioinformatics: biology, matehmatics/statistics and computer sciences. In a nut shell, here is a quick review of what can come in handy in your educational journey: sequence alignment and mapping are very essential topics in bioinformatics, the things we learn from them are incredible and their principles lay the fondation for much of what comes later in bioinformatics. Microarrays types and analysis. NGS types and analysis techniques. Protein Structure prediction and visualization (molecular modeling), this has many applications in bioinformatics and drug discovery informatics. Statistical inference, study design and hypothesis testing, as a bioinformatician an ideal situation is that you partake in designing studies by asking questions to the PI and guiding the data generation in the lab. Biology is becoming exceedingly data driven so remember a lot lays on the outcomes of your analysis. So it's your right you get the data the way you think is more appropriate to the analysis with appropriate answers to biological replicates and technical replicates. A bad dataset means a loss of precious time and resources into an underpowered analysis and you'd be blamed for that. Algorithms in Bioinformatics and their applications. programming and programming and programming all the time, if you are not a programmer you are not a bioinformatician, a lot of analysis tasks will involve format conversions that needs robust understanding of data structures  so pick a language such as Perl or Python for the task, for me, Perl has always been convenient because it totally interfaces with the OS nicely. Also pick a functional language such as R or SAS for statistical analysis. Investing good time in learning these is going to be rewarding. Read everything that comes your way, primary sources academic journals and review articles, secondary sources blogs and news in the fields of genomics and proteomics. 