What are the best applications of linearity of expectation?
Buffon's needle is the following classic problem: suppose you drop a needle of length 1 on a floor made of parallel strips, each of which has width 1. What's the probability that the needle lands on the boundary between two strips? There is a straightforward solution that involves computing a certain integral. But you can use linearity of expectation to solve this problem without computing any integrals, by solving a harder-looking problem called Buffon's noodle. In Buffon's noodle, the needle is... well, it's a noodle now. It  still has length 1, but it can curve. The new question is: what's the expected number of times that the noodle intersects the boundary between two strips? Note that if the noodle is a needle, then it can intersect a boundary at most once (with probability 1  ), so this reduces to the probability in the needle case. But rephrasing the problem as a problem about expectation allows us to cleverly leverage linearity of expectation, as follows. Generalize the problem to a noodle of arbitrary length L  . Note that if you cut the noodle into two smaller noodles, then the expected number of intersections for the big noodle is the sum of the expected number of intersections for the two smaller noodles. It follows that the answer is linear with respect to cutting up noodles. This part requires a bit of handwaving; it can be done more rigorously but I think that detracts from the charm of the argument. Cut the noodle up into a bunch of really small noodles. If the noodles are reasonable (e.g. not space-filling curves), then the really small noodles will be approximately really small needles, and if you make sure they all have the same really small length then the answer should be approximately the same for all of them. It follows that the answer is linear with respect to the length of noodles. That is, it must be a constant multiple cL  of L  . It remains to determine the constant c  , and to do that it suffices to solve the problem for any noodle shape. Let's solve it for a circle of diameter 1, where it's obvious: the number of intersections is always 2. Since a circle of diameter 1 has circumference π  , it follows that c=2π   . Hence the answer to Buffon's noodle, and in particular Buffon's needle, is 2π   . 