Who are the most accomplished female scientists?
Hypatia (AD 350-370 – AD 415) Although  she may not be familiar, Hypatia was a Greek philosopher and  mathematician that was born circa AD350-370 and lived in Egypt. She is  best known for being the first woman to truly study and work in  mathematics. She was the head of the Platonist school in Alexandria,  where she taught philosophy and astronomy.  She was not afraid to work  in areas that were generally considered to be strictly for men, and was  very well-known at the time for her knowledge. She helped her  mathematician father edit a few of his works, and penned her own: “The  Astronomical Canon”. Sadly, Hypatia was murdered by a Christian mob in  March of AD 415, when they dragged her through the streets and then set  her on fire. Emilie du Chatelet (1706 – 1749) This  woman, (who’s full name was Gabrielle-Emilie Le Tonnelier de Breteuil)  married a French marquis, and had three children before she became  involved in science. At the age of 27, she finally began to truly study  mathematics and physics and her love for these subjects grew when she  began an affair with the famous philosopher Voltaire (who was also  interested in these topics). The couple built a laboratory at du  Chatelet’s home, but sadly, their love did not last. Emilie du Chatelet  is best known for her translation of Isaac Newton’s ‘Prinicipia’, which  is still being used today. She died at the age of 43, after undergoing  complications while giving birth. Caroline Herschel (1750 – 1848) Although  Caroline Herschel described herself as the “Cinderella of the family”,  this actually worked in her favor when she was sent to be the head of  her brother’s household in England. She mastered the art of singing at  her brother’s request, and then decided to study astronomy when he  switched his career to that subject. She was the first woman to discover  a comet, and would later go on to discover seven more. She also had her  work published by the Royal Society, and was the first woman to be paid  for her scientific work. Throughout her lifetime she attained numerous  rewards, including a medal from the Royal Astronomical Society. She died  in 1848, at the ripe old age of 97. Mary Anning (1799 – 1847) Mary  Anning began her archaeology career at the young age of 11, when her  brother made her help him dig up the skeleton of a crocodile in their  hometown of Lyme Regis, England. However, Anning had not dug up a  crocodile, but an Ichthyosaurus or “fish-lizard”, as it was  later called. She also discovered the long-necked plesiosaurs and a  pterodactyl, along with hundreds of other fossils. Her discoveries  helped scientists piece together images of marine life during the  Jurassic period. She never had any formal schooling, although she did  plenty of studying on her own. Many world-renowned archaeologists  traveled to England in order to work with her. Mary Somerville (1780 – 1872) This  Scottish scientist first became interested in mathematics at the age of  fourteen, when she was intrigued by the x’s and y’s as the answer to a  problem in a ladies magazine. After she was married and her husband  passed away, she returned to her love of mathematics in her native  Edinburgh and began to associate with people like Sir Walter Scott and  John Playfair. After she was married a second time, she began to  experiment with magnetism and dove into her studies on mathematics,  physics, chemistry, and astronomy. She translated ‘The Mechanism of the  Heavens’ into English, and it was used as a textbook for nearly a  hundred years. She was also named into the Royal Astronomical Society,  one of the first two women to do so. Maria Mitchell (1818 – 1889) As  a young child, Maria Mitchell learned how to observe the sky and the  stars from her father, who taught his children how to use a sextant and  reflecting telescope. When she was 17, she had already opened up her own  school for girls in order to teach them about science and math. In  1847, Mitchell discovered a comet and earned accolades around the world,  including a medal from the King of Denmark. She was also the first  woman to be elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. She  became the first female astronomy professor in the United States,  teaching at Vassar College in 1865. Marie Curie (1867-1934) Marie  Curie is probably the most famous female scientist throughout history.  She was born in Warsaw, Poland on Nov. 7, 1867, and eventually married a  man named Pierre Curie, who became her partner in scientific discovery.  She is and Pierre were credited with discovering two elements, polonium and radium.  She won the 1902 Nobel Prize in Physics with her husband, and their  other partner Henri Becquerel. She was also the sole winner of the 1911  Nobel Prize in Chemistry, as well as the first female professor at the  University of Paris. She also founded the Curie Institutes of Paris and  Warsaw, both of which are still open and teaching students today. Lise Meitner (1878 – 1968) At  the age of 14, Lise Meitner was told that she could not continue her  education as women were barred from higher formal education in Austria.  However, her determination to study radioactivity never wavered, and she  was finally admitted to the University of Vienna at the age of 21.  After receiving her doctorate, she made her way to Berlin and worked  with Otto Hahn—however, as a woman (and Austrian Jew) she was forbidden  to attend any lectures or use any of the labs, and was forced to work in  the basement. After the Second World War had ended, she continued to  collaborate with Hahn, and eventually discovered ‘nuclear fission’,  which led to the atomic bomb. Although Hahn earned a Nobel Prize for the  discovery, Meitner was sadly overlooked. Florence Nightingale  Nightingale is described as "a true pioneer in the graphical  representation of statistics", and is credited with developing a form of  the pie chart now known as the polar area diagram or occasionally the Nightingale rose diagram, equivalent to a modern circular histogram, in order to illustrate seasonal sources of patient mortality in the military field hospital she managed. Jane Goodall (1934-present) Jane  Goodall was born in London, England in 1934. She was given a toy  chimpanzee as a child by her father, and she credits this with beginning  her early love of animals. At the age of 23, Goodall went to Tannzania  in order to study chimpanzees and their habits. She ended up studying  and interacting with them for nearly 45 years—even being accepted into  the family group of the animals. Goodall is credited with changing the  perceptions about differences between primates and humans. Her  biographer credited her with being the “woman who redefined man”. She is  the founder of the ‘Jane Goodall Institute’ and has received numerous  awards and accolades for her achievements. Sally Ride (1951-present) This  future astronaut was born in Los Angeles, California in 1951. She  attended Stanford University, where she earned numerous degrees in  physics. After completing two-years of training, she became the first  American woman in space in 1983 on the STS-7 mission. She served on  numerous other space missions and worked with NASA for many years. She  is currently the President and CEO of ‘Sally Ride Science’, a company  that she founded to create programs for elementary school children in  order to garner interest in space. 