How does one become good at problem solving?
An excerpt from my book (Learn from the best, available on amazon): Just like a test, life too has problems.  (In fact, life is filled with many problems.)  As I discussed previously, one main difference between winners and losers is the way that they solve problems.  Learning how to correctly solve problems is key to becoming a winner. In general, losers don't actually solve problems.  For example, losers use an obstacle as an excuse to give up.  The reality is, almost nothing in life goes as planned.  No matter how fortunate you are, you're going to have problems in life.  Furthermore, instead of trying to solve problems, losers simply attempt to mask the symptoms of problems with various unhealthy habits: drugs, unhealthy eating, excessive shopping, etc.  The problem is, these unhealthy habits don't actually solve the problem.  (They merely cover up the symptoms.)  Moreover, after these unhealthy habits stop masking the original problem, not only has it returned, but also there is a new problem: the unhealthy habit itself. Not only do these unhealthy habits do nothing to solve problems, they end up creating their own problems in addition to the existing problems.  You should never use unhealthy choices in order to solve problems in your life. How you solve these problems is crucial.  (Learning how to solve problems correctly is a key part of working smarter.)  Now that we know how not to solve problems (by using unhealthy habits), how do winners solve problems? Winners use three main tools to solve problems: trial and error, making goals, and going through the grieving process.  Even though everyone has heard of these concepts before, relatively few people completely understand them.  (Moreover, virtually no one uses them as efficiently as possible.) Practically every problem you encounter in life can be solved using one of these three methods.  Whichever method you use is determined by the type of problem. Trial and error is mainly used for problems for which the problem is unknown, e.g., trying to find the cause of your headache.  (The headache is a symptom of a problem; you don't know the actual problem.  Trial and error can also be used to solve known problems with unknown solutions.)  The goal making process is a process used for problems where both the problem and the solution are known (problem: being overweight, solution: diet and exercise). (These solutions are known because of other human's trial and error.  For example, humans didn't always know that the solution to being overweight was diet and exercise.  However, they found it out eventually through trial and error.) The grieving process is used to solve known problems with no possible solutions (or unknown solutions), e.g., the death of a parent.  (In other words, mostly things which have already occurred and are unchangeable.) Solving your problems as efficiently as possible will change your life immensely.  Now that you know how not to solve problems (by using unhealthy habits), let's go into the three ways to solve problems. 