What are some interesting results in graph theory?
Let G be any digraph with vertex set V (loops are allowed, but not multiple edges). The complement Ḡ is a digraph with an edge from v to w if and only if G does not contain such an edge. A path or cycle on G is a subdigraph that is a (directed) path or cycle digraph. Paths and cycles are never allowed to use the same vertex twice (that is, no two arrows can point to or from the same vertex). A path may be an isolated vertex; a cycle may be a loop. A path or cycle passing through every vertex is said to be Hamiltonian. A cycle-cover is a subdigraph that is a union of disjoint cycles and such that every vertex is contained in some cycle. A digraph G, a Hamiltonian path on G, and a cycle cover of G: That a permutation can be represented either as a word or as a collection of cycles is one of the most broadly exercised combinatorial devices, and graphically, this may be regarded as a correspondence between Hamiltonian paths and cycle-covers. Interestingly, such a correspondence exists even if the arrows of the Hamiltonian paths and cycle-covers are restricted by an acyclic digraph. An acyclic digraph G and its complement Ḡ (first row), the seven Hamiltonian paths on Ḡ (second row), and the seven cycle-covers of Ḡ (third row): A sketch of a direct bijective proof of the Theorem: The chromatic symmetric function XG(x1, x2, ...) = XG of a graph G is a symmetric function that generalizes the chromatic polynomial. It was first studied in detail by Stanley, but the open problem that has been the motivation for much subsequent work, the poset-chain conjecture, was posed earlier by Stanley and Stembridge. This conjecture asserts that the chromatic symmetric function of the incomparability graph of certain posets is e-positive, meaning the coefficients in its expansion in terms of elementary symmetric functions (called the e-coefficients of the graph) are all nonnegative. One application of the above correspondence is a new formula for the e-coefficients of incomparability graphs. The simplest case of this formula exposes some interesting combinatorics, involving two bijections of acyclic orientations: the shatter bijection between weakly decreasing Hamiltonian paths and acyclic orientations of an incomparability graph, and the second-sink bijection, which for connected incomparability graphs gives a correspondence between circular acyclic orientations with a fixed greatest sink and acyclic orientations with a unique sink at the same fixed vertex. It is also possible to elaborate the well-known result that the linear term of the chromatic polynomial is, up to sign, the number of acyclic orientations with a unique sink at a fixed vertex; this involves a third bijection, well known in trace theory, between acyclic orientations and stable link sequences. 