★Do hyperlinks help SEO? How?
To understand how (hyper)links help your natural search performance (SEO) you need to go back to where it all began... The method of using link related data in ranking algorithms was pioneered by Google in the late 90s/early 00s. Although others had experimented and discussed the possibility of using link data in search ranking algorithms, it was Google's inclusion of this key element in their ranking algorithms that propelled them to the top of the search engine charts (and it could be argued that this move specifically allowed them to go on to become the Goliath that they are today). Prior to this development, search engines had primarily relied on content based ranking factors - such as the frequency a search term appeared in the page content and/or meta data. The problem with this approach was that it left the door open to spam tactics and manipulation. Web marketers quickly realised that the top ranking for high volume (and therefore valuable) keywords could easily be achieved with some intense copy and paste action - and all you really needed to do was have the target keyword in your content and meta data more than anyone else. The above algorithmic weaknesses resulted in a situation where search engine rankings were structured without any democratic process. Websites that didn't deserve to rank well, due to their poor quality content or user experience, could invest in some SEO skills and take the cheap route to the top. What was needed, was a way to evaluate those pages based on another metric that was not so easy to manipulate - and that's where links stepped in. The principal was very simple, links between online documents serve the same purpose as citations, accreditations or references written into academic papers. If an academic paper references (links to) a source, then that is the equivalent of the paper saying "hey, check these guys out, they're an authority on the subject". Now, if lots of other academic papers also reference the same source, then that collective referencing would suggest that this source is not only an authority on the subject, but a massive one at that. Consequently, if this hugely authoritative paper also contains a reference to a source, then that is the equivalent of them saying "sure, what I've done is great, but actually I used these guys - who are also an authority on the subject". Now, that would be a reference (link), the same as all the others, but that reference should really carry more weight because it's from an academic paper that has already been proven to be very authoritative on the subject. Another way to look at it is that links between online documents are votes in a never ending election, and the more votes you have, the cooler you are and the higher you should rank. Also, if you receive votes from people who also have a lot of votes, then that is the equivalent of them saying "I like this guy and I've got the backing of all the people who voted for me". So, the volume and authority of a document's citations/references/votes/links can be used in ranking algorithms to structure ranking results in a more democratic way - therefore improving the quality of search results! Great stuff! The search engine sets off, crawls as much of the web as it can, and ends up with a huge database full of all the info it needs to build a link graph. This shows them who links to who, and therefore who should rank higher. That's kind of like Act One... Act Two is when it gets complicated. The above method is a great way to evaluate the authority of an online document, but it cannot evaluate relevance, so the search engines have another problem they need to overcome. For example, you run a website selling sports memorabilia and you get a link from a very high authority website that sells pet food, the same day you also get a link from a very low authority website that specialises in sports autographs. Which link should have more positive impact on your site's natural search performance? When you consider authority in isolation, the answer would be the pet food website, but if you throw relevance into the mix, the answer would be the sports autograph website, surely? Or maybe, to find a balance between authority and relevance the two links should be scored based on a calculation involving both relevance and authority? How Google assigns and calculates relevance is probably best left for another post; as it starts to look deeply at semantics, markup, co occurrence and linguistic processing - to name but a few factors. In relation to links specifically, all you need to know here is that search engines try to understand (and take into account) the subject and relevance of a link, in the same way they try to understand the subject and relevance of a document. They do that by looking at the text around a link, and the text contained within the link itself - in either the form of anchor text for text links, or the alt attribute for image links. If the textual content it finds is similar to the textual content on and around the destination document, then the link may be deemed as relevant. The closer the similarity, the more relevant the two documents may be deemed to be. Along side this search engines will also look at link 'communities' to form connections between websites within a larger industry context. So, if your sports memorabilia website is well linked within the global sporting memorabilia community, this is likely to benefit you more than if the website was well linked from within the global pet food industry - but really this is just evaluating relevance on a larger scale. In SEO we try to build links based on these two factors, relevance and authority. If you can get highly authoritative and relevant websites to link to your website, then you're probably going to rank well. Relevance and authority, aren't the only factors that are important though; in recent years Google specifically have layered algorithms on top which look at more link factors, such as (in no particular order): - Age - How long have the two websites or the link been around? - Geolocation/Language - Is this link within a relevant geographic area to the destination document? Are the two documents related geographically and linguistically? - Networks/Trends - Does this link appear from a website hosted on a unique IP address, or is this link on the same IP address as the last 1,000 links we found? - Position on the page - Is the link within a high or low area of visibility on the page? Has the link been tucked away out of sight in the footer? Does the link appear within a banner or code that usually indicates a payment has been made? - Styling - Does the link use a specific font style that hides it from view? Has the link been deliberately concealed? - Frequency/Duplication - Is this link in a site wide footer, or does it appear a limited number of times within the website content? Does the same link appear in the same content elsewhere on the web? Does the link use exactly the same anchor text as a high value keyword, and appear across many different websites, suggesting its part of a keyword targeting campaign? - Nofollow - Does the link use a nofollow attribute (which removes it from future ranking calculations)? - Penalties - Has the website that the link appears on been impacted negatively in any way? Does it have a history of malicious practices? Is it hosted on the same IP address of other sites we've penalised? There are many more increasingly minor factors, right down to little things such as the position within a paragraph that the link appears - but the overall answer that search engines are trying to get to with all of those questions is - is this link natural? There are still ways to manipulate that decision making process so that manually built links appear natural, but it is getting harder. The more search engines develop algorithms, the more difficult it becomes to manipulate them. Some SEOs like to stay within the search engine guidelines (which are basically a watered down explanation of what their algorithms try to do) where as some SEOs still take advantage of opportunities to manipulate the algorithms, be that for financial gain, or due to client demands. All of the above only addresses the role links play in ranking content, but it should also be said that links act as a gateway into your website, and they then go on to act as the pathways through your website's content. The way search engines discover new content (there are other ways, but this is the main way) is by navigating through different documents via their links - search engine spiders/bots/crawlers are kind of like low ability web users wildly clicking on every link they find and so on and so on until they find everything they can. So without these gates and pathways into your site you're less likely to get a visit from the search engines as they crawl the web looking for new stuff. If you publish a new website and new content, then this is important to know - and it can explain why new content takes time to be indexed. So the short answer to your question is, links don't just help SEO, they are a massive part of what SEO is! You should think logically and carefully about how you link within your own website (your menu structure) and if you're trying to build a long lasting website you should do all your external link building with the search engines' criteria in mind. As a real world example of how to do that, the sporting memorabilia website could pay the sports autograph website a fee to add a big banner to the top right corner of the website saying "supported by these guys - sports memorabilia etc..." Or the sports memorabilia website could work with the sports autograph website to organise a small charity auction event, they PR that event, build a microsite, speak on the local radio, speak to the media, invite some bloggers, and support the build up to that event with loads of social content. That would undoubtedly cost more, but if done well that sort of activity will result in a much more impactful and long lasting link profile.    Embed Quote