★What are some good resources to use when doing market research for a startup?(Besides MTurk) :-]
Electronic databases unlocked by your state public library card First of all, let me address a common myth. You do not have to be at the library physically to access most resources. I also try to click on resources that are supposed to be available only inside the library and sometimes find them accessible remotely. If you live in a small town and your local library is not very useful, take a trip to the largest city in your state and get that library card. You can do that as a resident of that state. There is a city near me called Hayward that could be considered as a less desirable city. They have a city library that has limited electronic resources. ACCESS HAYWARD Hayward residents are part of the Alameda County. A-Z Resources Alameda County - As you can see there is a slight difference. ;)  Most of them have no idea this is available to them. I remember talking to someone who was frustrated their HTML books were out of date (although they did have the excellent Headfirst HTML5 title). I showed her that she could read electronic books released as recently as last week on Safari and Books 24x7 for free if she had an Alameda County library card. Still, that library pales in comparison to the digital resources available for San Francisco patrons. Articles and Databases. A Hayward resident can get access to this instantly. I was talking to someone the other day. He lives in New York. I want that card. I think I'll pick up one when I visit NY. My San Francisco library is very fruitful, but the New York library card unlocks access to resources I never thought were available. For example, you can access Online video tutorials & training for free. That's $25/mo for anyone else. Here, have a look. ;) Articles and Databases - as of this writing, that is 698 resources! Similarly, my Alameda county card unlocks access to 3600 tech books on Safari, but my San Francisco card unlocks access to 5100 tech books on Safari. I frequently use the D&B Million Dollar Database So... this is funny... While writing this answer I decided to find a library in my state that has access to Company Information (Hoovers)... Well, it turns out that the Oakland Library has zero security for that particular database (and a few others). Articles and Databases Try to click on Hoover's link. No authentication necessary. Enjoy. This is a very expensive service. The "student" price is $49/mo and it starts at $4000/year for everyone else. You'll see why it is worth it in just a few seconds. Here, for example, is the entire global market (as far as Hoovers is aware at least, I am not so sure about China and India data) for one of my products. It suggests that I should prioritize French language over German. For another market, I see that Italy is more important. Within USA for that market, I can see that for that market CA, TX, FL, and NY are most important, in that order. City libraries and county libraries have access to different resources. Both cities of Oakland and Hayward are located in Alameda county. It may be worth looking at every city library site to find the resources you need, which is what I did when I accessed the Oakland library site. I have a library card for Alameda, Santa Clara, and San Francisco counties. Now it looks like I need to stop by the Oakland city library as well.    Embed Quote