★Why do startups seldom hire market research companies?Why do big companies?
Startups are generally born with a niche market or a product differentiator in mind that solves a problem. These companies are, by default, entering into a market to position themselves uniquely. They have the vision, they just need to focus on building the product, acquiring customers, and iterating based on feedback. Focusing on building a product and getting it out to customers IS the market research. If people don't use or purchase the product, then their 'research' shows that, no, in fact, the idea was not novel enough or enough of an improvement over existing businesses. Besides this fact, market research is expensive, and implementing the findings can be costly. Big companies, on the other hand, are more established. Since product development cycles at big companies are almost always much slower than those at startup companies, competitors can catch up to them quickly and what differentiation that the big company did have to get ahead, is suddenly a narrow gap, if there is any at all. Market research companies can help big companies evaluate their position from an outside, independent view, and show where the company currently stands in what is likely a hotly contested industry. Instead of focusing on rapid iteration and design, the big company is more likely to go with incremental changes in pricing, offering derivative products, or going after or maintaining strength in a particular product segment. Example: Airline booking is a hotly contested space with a lot of innovation going on. Kayak, Cheapoair, Priceline, Expedia, and Orbitz all have similar products with some small amounts of differentiation. Each has their own customer base, and is focused on keeping their current customers and trying to take market share from the others. They might hire a market research firm to find where they stand, how they are currently viewed by users of their competitors, and do organizational comparisons to make incremental changes and get an edge. Airline booking startups, on the other hand, are approaching the problem from a different way. Hipmunk, for example, is differentiating itself with an extremely intuitive visualization of available flights, as well as their "agony" algorithm that helps customers find the most convenient flights faster. Flightfox is attacking the problem of finding the right flight. With so many options, it's hard to know if you're getting a good deal on a ticket, and it gets exponentially more difficult for multi-destination flights. Flightfox attacks this problem by having a group of experts work to help find you an itinerary that makes sense.    Embed Quote