★Would you outsource your startup's market research?
I outsource market research all the time, but I would not recommend it for entrepreneurs. I do it because I work with commercialization of research, and I just don’t have time to do it myself, and besides, I don’t stay with each project for too long anyway. However, I always advice that entrepreneurs do their own research, because there is so much learning that you miss by just reading the report that some consultant has made. As is well established, one of the most common mistakes entrepreneurs make is to forget to check that their product is in demand. When you do market research yourself you learn a lot you didn’t know you didn’t know, and can explore avenues that you didn’t even know existed. Consultants are not good at making these kinds of course corrections, and will generally answer only what you ask them rather than what you need know (but don’t know that you need to know), because they don’t have the knowledge about your business to recognize the need for a course correction, they don’t have the authority to change the objectives in any case, and they’re not incentivized to do it. That being said, many times entrepreneurs just don’t want to talk to customers, this is of course not ideal, but it’s reality. In my experience such entrepreneurs rarely succeed on their own, but they might recruit a co-founder who can take a more active role. If entrepreneurs outsource their market research I think they benefit greatly from listening in on interviews, and being able to slip the interviewer follow up questions. One should also have progress meetings and workshops over the course of a project to adjust the course and/or the interview guide. We typically spend between US$30 - $60K on a market analysis that includes in depth interviews, but we always use industry experts, who typically work in well-known consultancies. For example we have used Qittitut (Welcome to Qittitut Consulting) for projects in shale gas, and are currently in dialogue with companies like IDC and Gartner for a project in high performance computing. We start the process of selecting a company by contacting firms that the project participants recommend. We typically get an offer describing - Objectives - Market scope - Methodology (or interview approach or similar) - Deliverables - Why choose us. And chose from that. A schedule might look like this (Kjeller is the location of my company): Milestones - Internal data gathering, kick-off meeting, and brainstorming --->By videoconference, (2 to 3 hours), to be scheduled sometime between 20 June  and 26 June - Majority of interviews  conducted and initial strategy development --->Late June through July - Interim workshop --->By videoconference, (half-day) end of July/ beginning of August -Finish interviewing, market analysis, strategy development --->August -Final full-day workshop in Kjeller --->In Kjeller, end of August/beginning of September; specific date TBD -Complete final plan and other deliverables --->7 days after final workshop Hope this helps, and good luck with your venture!    Embed Quote