★How do online market research / survey companies find participants?And how are the participants commonly compensated? Gift cards? Money earned from building up points?
Typically research / survey companies (Panel companies is probably a better name) will focus on online sources as offline recruitment is expensive. Some common ways of finding respondents are: Online advertising: survey sites will directly advertise to drive traffic to their sign up pages either using google adverts, facebook ads or ads on various high traffic websites. Co-registration: when a person registers on a website, the site owner may try to encourage them to tick a box to register on other sites as well (including survey sites).  They will receive payment for each person who ticks this box and that individual will get invited to confirm their interest in joining the survey site. Affiliate networks: affiliate networks work hard to generate traffic by building multiple sites and gathering interesting offers or content (or simply being better than survey sites at online advertising).  They also work hard to monetise their traffic and will encourage their site users to visit survey sites to register on the survey site.  They will receive payment for this.. Email lists: these can be pretty spammy but if you've registered on a site and allowed them to send you email or allowed them to allow partners to send you email, then you may find you receive offers to join survey companies in your inbox. Telephone researchers: if you do a survey on the phone you may be offered the chance to sign up for an online research panel at the end of the interview. Intercept surveys: this is sort of a variant of online advertising...you may get a pop up survey on certain sites.  Sometimes it's the site asking your opinion.  Normally it's a research company - they will ask you some questions and hopefully get you to also join a panel at the end of the interview so they can generate more value from you.  In the nicest way possible of course. Member get member schemes: existing panel members are asked to recruit their friends.  Sometimes one gets fraud and multiple account creation from this source but generally it's a good source of decent respondents.There's a few others ways as well.  We used to use email lists but stopped about 5 years ago.  We still use affiliate networks but they are a bit murky sometimes and not massively effective.  Co-registration seems ok but we've not used it a lot to be honest. One tends to get quite good quality respondents from telephone interview invitations.  We're about to start doing intercept surveys and up the incentives on our member get member scheme.  However our most successful route though for getting quality respondents is..    Embed Quote