★How do you conduct market research?It seems to me that the success of business plans are dependent on good market research. Therefore, it seems business opportunities would be revealed by researching all markets, somehow. Is this possible? How do people conduct "market research" ? (I truly know nothing about this)
There are a lot of different approaches to this. Before you begin conducting research with your prospective market, the people you hope will be consumers of your offering, it's good to start by enlisting the help of experts in your industry. When you find a true expert, they often have insights from years in spent inside the market and a sensitivity to trends or events that will affect the market in the future. A colleague of mine who is a professor and the CEO of a new company has had remarkable success with this approach. Skipping over the people who are junior or middling in their careers right to the great lights in his field has turned up excellent mentorship and advice that helps him narrow the scope of his marketing research considerably. In other words, it helped him get the right start. His approach for contacting people cold is simple and very effective. He describes it here: http://spinnakr.com/blog/how-to-.... Once you get to the part where you are actually interviewing or researching consumers (or aspirational consumers) the most important  thing is a truly representative demographic sample. The second most important thing is avoiding the introduction of bias, which happens far too often. A PhD data scientist I know explained the bias problem like this: "Some campaigns that are meant to evaluate or test a new offering actually have very serious biases. This is because it’s easier to assign a treatment to a particular population than to really make it random. For example, a marketer might draw on the fact that they don’t have many customers in Alaska, and will test the offering only on Alaskans because it seems less risky. Instead, experiments that are going to be used to change an offering need to be truly random." A Data Scientist’s Marketing Experiment with Counters: Interview with Katya Vasilaky    Embed Quote