★How do you conduct market research?It seems to me that the success of business plans are dependent on good market research. Therefore, it seems business opportunities would be revealed by researching all markets, somehow. Is this possible? How do people conduct "market research" ? (I truly know nothing about this)
*Disclosure: I am the UK Manager of Marketest All of these answers are great; here is my opinion. Let’s start with the basics; market research can be defined as the systematic, objective collection of data and analysis of data about a particular target market, competitor or the market place. Before you conduct the market research it is essential to understand your target market and the research characteristics; The geographical location: local, regional, national, European or international market The type of product/service: a product group (i.e. cosmetics), a type of product (i.e. perfume), a branch of the product type (women’s perfume) or a specified product (a particular brand of perfume) Chronological/time-oriented: past, present or future market The buyers’ profile: sex, age, socio-economical classification, level of education, etc. The intermediates or the end user profiles: stockists, retailers, wholesalers, manufacturers, mothers, children, etc. As a side note; when we conduct market research for our clients we use our own panel website where respondents have profile questionnaires which include the above characteristics. This allows us to present the clients results in a cross-tabulation format with age, gender and socio-economic class details for each question.  In terms of the methods that can be undertaken; Primary - conducting your own bespoke piece of market research. Answering questions that have not been asked before. Secondary - using information that is readily available, for example by utilising your local library you will have access to reference materials, magazines, directories of associations, etc. Also local colleges, libraries or business schools, vocational or technical institutes, chambers of commerce, trade associations etc…will all have useful research data. Within both of these types of research quantitative and qualitative research can be performed; Quantitative - numerically oriented, requires significant attention to the measurement of market phenomena and often involves statistical analysis. The main rule with quantitative research is that every respondent is asked the same series of questions. The approach is very structured and normally involves large numbers of interviews/questionnaires. The most common quantitative technique is the ‘market research survey’. These are basically projects that involve the collection of data from multiple cases – such as consumers or a set of products. Quantitative surveys can be conducted by mail, face-to-face, telephone, email or web. Qualitative - provides an understanding of how or why things are as they are. It is often used to provide reasoning behind quantitative data. Unlike quantitative research there are no fixed set of questions but, instead, a topic guide is used to explore various issues in an in-depth manner. Qualitative research is mostly in a face-to-face format and can be conducted using one respondent, a paired depth (2 respondents), a triad (3 respondents), a mini group discussion (4-5 respondents) and, focus groups (6-8 respondents). I know its a long answer but I hope it has helped you.    Embed Quote