★What are some good resources to use when doing market research for a startup?(Besides MTurk) :-]
1. SurveyMonkey - is a default destination if you know what questions to ask and where to find people to answer them. 2. Google Consumer Surveys -  is a great resource to get timely answers to your questions.  - It's very reasonably priced (10c per response per question)  - It's very flexible, you decide how many questions / responses you really need  - It gives you profile data for free  - It simplifies writing of your questionnaire a lot; and its constraints generally help you to avoid bad questionnaire practices  - Unlike MTurk, it gives you real normal people, and you can target / define any market you are actually after with screening question That said, Google Consumer Surveys still requires you to come up with your questions and has limited analytical capability. 3. http://www.zappistore.com - is a great way to buy well-known branded market research products for a fraction of traditional cost. ZappiStore repackaged and standardised TNS, MillwardBrown and mmr products, so you can buy them for a roughly 10% of their normal price. And you still get full service (however limited) in terms of questionnaire development, data collection and reporting. And you get much more analytic capability comparing to SurveyMonkey and Google Consumer Surveys. 4. http://Proved.co - the product I'm a co-founder of - is a one-click tool to test and validate start-up ideas.  - It's very fast, usually two hours to get the results.  - It combines scores and metrics with qualitative data, namely rich free-speech feedback from real potential customers.  - It benchmarks your idea / product / message / design against thousands of others in its benchmarking database.  - And it's still reasonably priced, between $50 and $240 per idea, depending on how many responses you need. I've recently held a seminar on the topic. You may find my slides useful on the topic too: Market research for startups: understand customers and reduce risks    Embed Quote