★Is market research useful for a small business?Is it worth it?
Knowing is profitable because guessing is expensive It's either research or a fortune teller, because you work for your customers, who live in a market. Pretending that you had foreseen everything about a market is plain silly and also a recipe for disaster. Business opportunities are generated all the time by people and organizations who could become your target customers if you can cater to their needs. Discovering opportunities requires market research, even if it's only your own observation, which cannot provide much detail. Market research lowers the risk of failure and can tell you what is most likely to persuade your customers. Knowing this will help you lower your cost per sale, because your marketing will be more assertive. The two types of research are: 1. Primary Capture new information 2. Secondary Research Use existing information You can also categorize your marketing research as: 1. Exploratory or descriptive 2. Qualitative or quantitative Designing a proper market research is a delicate process that entails much busy work, which makes it unappealing to small businesses on a budget. My experience is that this is particularly true about business owners with a long career in sales, because their mindset is that of an executor. Get Started There are books for non-marketers that will outline how to design a research and how to implement it: they are a better place to start than publications and courses for marketing professionals. You will not become an expert overnight, but you will be able to shop for good researchers or consultants. Note You will find out soon enough that market research is a constant need, because your customers priorities will shift. Monitoring your market will help you lower your cost per sale by anticipating opportunities and threats before being forced to adapt to follow a leader and clash with undifferentiated competitors. References http://www.amazon.com/Marketing-... http://www.customerspecs.com/blo...    Embed Quote