★How do you conduct market research?It seems to me that the success of business plans are dependent on good market research. Therefore, it seems business opportunities would be revealed by researching all markets, somehow. Is this possible? How do people conduct "market research" ? (I truly know nothing about this)
I advise writers to do market research before writing for whatever they intend to write for. Here is my own case I worked in the Animation industry writing scripts for advertising and short educational films. One day a producer asked if I could write a children's TV series. It was at very short notice of 'tomorrow if possible, but yesterday is better'. He had a children's TV series just coming to an end, and his scriptwriter had left the country. I had never written anything like this. A TV commercial is simply having a relevant idea, and short educational films are based on scripts drafted out by experts, and just revised for animation. A children's animated TV series requires Set of new characters New and unique designs New locations A theme that is consistent for the series A global appeal and easily translated Specifically suited to children's humour and knowledge Has merchandising potential Can be produced to a low budget and short deadline Can be done by the existing studio capabilities Can have a guaranteed pilot out within weeks Can have at least five completed storyboards out with the pilot Can have twenty outline headings along  with the pilot To accept such a job with no previous experience was a gamble as time was short, and if I did not come up with something suitable the producer would lose the job. At this time I did not have a child of my own, and had no special interest in the Children's market. It required Market research It did not...require inspiration or imagination at this stage. My first step was to Look at all the competition Find their viewing figures Check their time slots for screening Check the age range of child viewers Check with parents what their children watched Check with parents what books and merchandising they bought Checked the libraries for children's books Checked with children what they liked and why Checked the charity shops to see what children's book they had Checked on child psychology for children's interests. I discovered that children liked cartoon characters they could draw and color in. They liked books they could read themselves, or easily follow when read to. They liked short stories They liked to have clear cut good and bad characters They liked to have characters that were suitable as toys They liked to have easy to remember names They liked to have characters concerned with children's issues such as helping friends, preparing adventures, taking risks not too dangerous, eating treats, having odd habits, etc. In general, the sort of issues and situations they had themselve. When the market research had been done and discussed the next stage was to create the characters. I chose a cat as the main character because cat stories for children are the most common I chose yellow for the color because yellow is the happiest color. I drew a a right angled triangle and made the main character fit in the middle. The rest were taller or shorter, not the same. This helped with identity. The other characters all had different colors They each had different accents They each had  some identifying quirk that could be used when required The main character was never seen in profile, so always facing the audience. They were always dressed in simple clothes so easier to draw Here is the character The series is called 'Henry's Cat' It won the Academy award in the UK and the ACE award in the USA It was the result of Market Research.    Embed Quote