★How much does market research cost per response?Just a range, any information will help
There is no real answer to this as there are so many variables that can change the cost. For example, is the research being done internally, sending a questionnaire to customers from your own database, and not employing an agency? In this case, the total cost is the time to prepare the questionnaire, post it and analyse the results. If the questionnaire is web-based on your own web-site, then the cost is actually only time as there isn't even postage to pay. So you could say that the cost is $0 per response. If the results lead to strategies that enable you to make millions or save large sums owing to gathering customer feedback, then there is no cost, only gain. In contrast, in-depth qualitative face-to-face research interviews done by a top agency, involving B2B research with senior executives can cost well over $1000 per response - especially if the research is global. (I've just quoted for some in-depth B2B research that will need to be global but conducted via the telephone and my sum was approaching $500 per interview).  The cost can thus be anything from $0 per response to $1000 plus per response. It depends on what you are researching, what sector or industry what geography (local, regional, global - which will also impact method) the background of the interviewee, consumer or B2B or public sector, the potential size of sample (sampling frame), the actual sample size, whether qual or quant research, method (post, telephone, web, face-to-face), who does the research, etc.Ultimately an agency will base its charges on the time required and their costs to conduct the market research based on prior experience, plus their mark-up / profit expectation. The factors above will be used to decide what to charge (as a good agency will know how long it takes to do certain types of research). If you want to know the cost per response, an added variable will be response rate. This can vary from under 1% to 100% and can be influenced also by any incentive. I suspect that you'd get close to 100% response on a simple un-intrusive questionnaire where each responder was given $10,000 for filling in the form, and around 0% on a survey done in a shopping mall, asking people how many times in the past year they'd stolen goods / walked out of a shop without paying where there was not even an incentive to participate. Ultimately, the only way to decide on what the cost of the market research per response is, is to work out the cost of NOT doing the research to your business. That can help determine whether or not to proceed.    Embed Quote