★What are the best ways to motivate respondents for market research?Apart from incentives, is direct feedback an option? And is gamification a good path to follow? Other ideas? ...
There's a whole array of things which determine what works as motivation and makes the question tough to answer - the type of study, the type of respondent, the cultural expectations around research in that market, and so on. It's also worth pointing out that there's really two different levels of motivation at play: motivation to participate, and motivation to complete (or continue participating, in an open-ended project). This is often overlooked! So off the top of my head, to take each in turn. Motivation to participate: Extrinsic motivations - financial incentives, etc. - are always useful, especially if that's what people in your desired sample have come to expect from research participation. Flattery is a powerful motivator - giving someone the sense that their opinion matters and that the survey is important, perhaps that they're one of only a few being asked to participate. And finally social pressure - this was a great motivator in the F2F days, where some people would feel they were letting down the nice lady with the clipboard by NOT participating. Motivation to complete/continue: The most important thing here is to make your project as non-boring as possible. It isn't always possible to make a research task interesting but there are usually ways of improving it. Enjoyable tasks are intrinsically motivating! My opinion in game mechanics is that they're better used to reward behaviour than force it, and that they're best used in situations where participants interact. So more useful for MROCs than surveys! Of course, using some game-like features could make your survey more entertaining, but there's emerging evidence that changing survey aesthetics for the sake of engagement may affect data quality. Access to results, finally, can be a powerful motivator at either stage, but is often easier said than done, since research companies typically don't own the data they collect. In the wider culture of opinion-giving online, though, access to results is pretty much a hygiene factor so you should give serious attention to this, I think.    Embed Quote