★What is the difference between a regular marketing research and an ethnographic marketing research?What are the benefits of having a research done by an ethnographer? We define regular market research as the two step process that includes focus groups/interviews and quantitative research.
There is not really such thing as singular type of "regular market research," as there are numerous different types/styles of research that fall within the overall category of marketing research, ethnographic research being one of them. Ethnographic market research occurs when research is conducted within the consumer's natural environment. For example, if you're testing a new dish being served in a restaurant, the respondent would be recruited from the restaurant and would either partake in an interview or fill out a questionnaire, while still in their dining experience. Or, perhaps you are researching a new household product, the researcher would have a scheduled appointment to visit the consumer respondent in their home to discuss the product. I'll assume that perhaps by regular market research you mean a traditional focus group or individual interview that happens within a research facility with a moderator and clients viewing from a one-way mirror. So, the basic difference would be environment. The benefits of conducting ethnographic research is such that you are able to accumulate a lot more information about the respondent. The respondent will often feel a lot more comfortable as they are in their natural environment, and the context will be a lot more in line with how the consumer experience would be or currently is. Also, as far as expenses go, you don't have the cost of client travel expenses (as they can't actually be a part of the "live" experience) or the facility rental fee. On the down side, ethnographic researchers can lean on the more expensive side (usually market researchers will do many types of research, and perhaps specialize in ethnography). It requires a lot of travel for the researcher, and thus the groups/interviews will have to span across a longer period of time (compared to scheduling groups/interviews back to back at a facility). Additionally, on the time framing side, clients can't view live results and will have to wait for video footage from the researcher and their videographer. Ethnographic research could also be overkill on data collection, depending on the research objective.    Embed Quote