★Should I conduct market research before starting development on an app?How do I know my app will be interesting and/or popular? What are the techniques you employ to carry out this research?
Yes . you should . This will help you make a better product . from your question it looks like that you only want to do demand validation .  ie to ascertain that their is a market for your app idea . this can be done in many ways . let me explain with an example . Lets say you want to create a Path /Instagram  client for  unsupported platform like BB10 and Windows Phone platform . How do you validate market for  that ?   Qualitative Validation : Do a online survey . circulate it among your friends Put a question on Quora Talk to Users :  Do a bar test , if you can explain your product to some random person in Bar and he likes it ? Extrapolate : is there a validation of market in some proxy markets . things  like Uber (company) for Europe , @groupOn for India , @hackernews for Graphics artist usually have a market . Quantitative Validation Google Trend : A basic keyword search for terms like "Path for lumia" "Path for Blackberry" will give you some understanding of relative demand of these product on the platform . Here is the screen shot for the demand of Instagram (company) on BlackBerry and Nokia Lumia . looking at the data its evident  that there is a bigger demand of your app on BlackBerry .    in the same way you can do a comparative search for demand of path on these two platforms.  This will help you prioritize your development better. Analytics Reports : You can also refer to the Research Report published by Analytic firms like Flurry, Distimo etc . they usually have some good insight . Don't read gartners and other strategy crap . They are not worth the paper they are printed upon. Contact People in App Store :Find your way to the people who manage App stores in your country /area . Try to find out if there is actually the need of what you are building . These guys are usually helpful. Ask them about undeserved search keyword  on app store. or find out the click trail for terminate -without-download session . mining this data will help you get a sense of whats going on Search Mining ( ASO ):  services like SearchMan offers good insight for validating user demands .    Embed Quote