★Where do startup entrepreneurs get market research?I am curious about where startup people find facts, stats, and market knowledge numbers, if they don't have the money to purchase an entire market research document?
I researched this particular topic couple of months ago and while not scientific here’s what I found out. If you ask startups if they do market research the answer is often "no" as they don’t do it in the traditional sense. However, most do it in some shape of form. As always Google is the first go to solution. There really is a lot of free data published, it might require you to leave your contact details to get access to particular white papers or reports but it’s usually worth it. * If you’re counting dimes then use Mechanical Turk, it’s not unheard of to get hundreds of responses to a simple survey with a budget of $50. Use Mechanical Turk as the recruitment tool and use the first couple of questions to get demographic data. This won’t be super scientific but might be good enough. * Turn to friends and family, use your Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn networks. Again, beware of the bias and if you’re after a very specific market (wealthy who invest in vine or gold, for example) then that probably won’t work. Budget: $0 * If you know where your target market hangs out then recruit someone who’s in touch with them. A mobile app developer creating sports betting game successfully paid a few barmen to recruit people to take their survey since their patrons were interested in the topic. Budget: $50-100 * Use Google Surveys - I don’t have any experience myself but a few people I know have used it for affordable, quick surveys. Downside - not a lot of control, US-only. * Jump on an omnibus - this is a classical way of getting a few of your questions into a proper survey but not footing the whole bill. I know of a few startups who took their first steps in market research with an omnibus. This means that your questions are added to the end of some other ongoing survey that matches the audience parameters. Someone else pays most of the cost (or the whole survey is a mish-mash of questions from different clients). * Do your own research. It can be decently affordable. Using someone like http://Ansr.io you can get 400 completed surveys (this is almost always enough for a statistically valid result): 10 questions, US market, iPhone users. Cost: $749 Lifecake used them recently and here’s the case study: Lifecake case study: simple survey with BIG results - Ansr.io’s blog (they ended up using the data for product direction, convincing investors and for PR). Friends at Transferwise used an alternative service with similar positive results. Disclaimer: I work for Ansr.io.    Embed Quote