★What are some good new market research tools?Need some exciting (as data can be) alternatives to old comScore and Compete...
There are a lot of good DIY market research tools out there. However, the design of the research project is much more important than the tool you use to collect the information. First, be sure you have a clear understanding of your problem. What is the problem you are facing? Why do you need the information? What you hope to accomplish by using this information? If you keep your objective in mind, that will help you avoid getting sidetracked from your research goal as you design the project. Second, identify who has this information. That is your target respondent. Third, determine how you are going to collect this information. This is usually the part where companies start looking for help or for a DIY platform. Usually, the first part is to do qualitative research. This is stuff like focus groups and in depth interviews. There is a lot of easy ways to do DIY qualitative. For example, find an online forum where people are talking about this stuff and see if you can glean some insights to what they are thinking. Talk to some customers in the store and get their opinions on things. Just listen and get ideas and feedback regarding your objective. The second part is to conduct quantitative research by using the insights to develop a questionnaire. This is a critical step. There are many methodologies that you can use, some are simple and some complex. The easiest and most common is multiple choice questions. Remember, you only get the information that you ask for. It is HIGHLY critical that you make this as clear and concise as possible. Nobody wants to take a 45 min survey. This leads to a common phenomenon known as "survey fatigue". When this happens, completion rates go down and people just refuse to continue. Too many people (and market research companies) are guilty of this. Also, make sure that all of your questions are clear and not biased. There are a ton of common pitfalls to look out for, of which I do not have the room to discuss in length (cultural biased, double question, vague, subject to multiple interpretations, unclear wording, etc.). Always have somebody else review it for mistakes and test it on somebody before you go live. Make changes as necessary. Be careful about open ended questions. They are valuable but don't expect the person to write an essay and don't have too many of them. Remember, you'll have to read them when its done! Well, you can collect this information using a variety of methods. You should choose the method(s) that will allow you to engage your target respondent. These are the most common: Online - This is what most people do for DIY these days. There are a lot of god DIY options. There are some good survey tools out there such as Zoomerang and Gizmo. My favorite is Qualtrics (www.qualtrics.com). I personally don't like Surveymonkey, since there are a lot better ones out there. Face to Face - Print a stack of surveys and start hustling. You can catch people in your shop, go to peoples office, stop people on the street or at a mall, go door to door, or find people at events. Telephone - Get a list of potential respondents and get on the phone! You can enter the data by paper, into an excel sheet, or even into an online platform. Telephone may not be right for complicated surveys or when it requires the person to see something visual (i.e. evaluate logo designs). Fax/Mail - This is an older method, but still has its purposes. Each one has its strengths and weaknesses. Online is usually a method of choice because it requires the least training, it can include multimedia, does not require data entry, delivers real time data, and does not require a lot of man power. Face to face and telephone can give you a bit more verification of identity and deliver a more random sample. REGARDLESS, of the method, make sure you include screening questions to make sure the right person is taking the survey! If your shop sells maternity clothes, you probably don't want a 55 year old single bartender taking the survey (not that I have anything against 55 year old single bartenders). So, probably a bit more information that what you asked, but pertinent nonetheless.    Embed Quote