★How do you do market research for a startup idea?
Obviously, there are multiple ways to answer this question, but I'll just share my way.  These steps don't have to be particular to any one field/industry.  Market Research: Summarize what your idea/concept is (in this case, for your startup) What is your idea? Who would benefit from it Why they would benefit How you plan on making money from this idea 2.  Take the problem statement from your summary, and Google to see if people frequently mention/complain about it (blogs, forums, etc).  Now: Who are those people? Why are they complaining? Document any surprises to your assumptions (what you expected would be discussed/would happen but this Google search disproves) You should have a rough idea of the people that could really stand to benefit from your idea; these are your tentative customer segments 3.  Now Google for reports on your industry, your customers. There are TONS of reports and surveys.  If you have access to a public library, they often have subscriptions to report and analytics databases.  Ditto for schools and universities.  Some general questions that should be addressed by this process: Who are all the stakeholders in my industry? What matters to the stakeholders? Who/what powers stakeholders' decision-making? Do some customer segment analysis at this point.  Based upon Step 2, find reports and/or surveys offering more clarity on the customers that have a problem your startup is trying to address. How many people are having this issue? What are people currently doing to get around this issue?  How many people are doing this? 4.  Competitive Research. The good thing about competitors: you know there's some merit to your idea; the bad thing: well, they are your competitors Google your idea and see if any competitors pop-up Figure out what differentiates you from them and vice versa You should probably do an on-going update of this list so that if someone (customers, partners, VCs, angels, etc) ever mentions it to you, you know who they're referring to and you have a good idea of what they're doing now and, naturally, why your product is superior    Embed Quote