What's the dark side of Silicon Valley?
1) Housing prices are ridiculous. The cost just keeps going up and SV is one of the most expensive places in the US. To give you an idea, in this article, six of the ten places are in Silicon Valley. [Article] See for yourself below or on Zillow. Figure from paper of Economics Professor Kroll of UC Berkeley You might think that you'll get a deal on an old home but you won't. They are just as expensive and remember that this paper is before the housing crash. Prices afterwards are just regaining to the same levels and will probably continue to rise as more people move to the area disillusioned by stories of fame and riches. Another Figure from a Different Paper of Professor Kroll For those of you who are not familiar with the price of housing in the US, the figure above will help clarify how terrible it is in SV (SF Bay Area). You can see that most housing in the US at the peak is around 200,000 USD while in SV is triple the price of a typical home in the US. That bump in price is not due to quality but rather demand as companies keep bring in people to the area and are concentrated in the South Bay. The worst part about it is the price of housing outpaces wages increases so the later people enter the housing market in SV. The worse they have it. This means you'll either be in debt with a huge mortgage to live in a lower end home or driving for an hour or two one way to live in a decent home for a decent price which you would hardly spend any of your time in since you're driving most of your free time away. Remember you'll be at work for at least 8 hours (if you don't take a lunch break and don't want that raise/promotion), 2 to 4 hours on the road, with a good 8 hours of sleep and an hour to get ready in the morning which leaves ~3-5 hours of free time...at that point your life revolves around work, going to work, leaving for work and getting ready for work. 2) Lack of single women. If you're a guy (and chances are that you're a guy) don't come to SV looking for a girl because more than likely you won't have much luck. The odds are stacked against you on two fronts: quantity and money. First off, the entire west coast has a higher single male to single female ratio. Just look especially around that part of northern California.  That's SV in case you didn't know (I didn't until I got hired for my co-op out here). But you don't have to just take my word or a maps up on it... Related: Why does the Bay Area appear to have so few physically attractive women? Why are some people reluctant to move to the Silicon Valley despite it making all kinds of sense? If you regret moving to the Bay Area, what are your reasons? Are women or men more dissatisfied in the dating and singles scene in San Francisco? Things I've Learned about Silicon Valley by User on Posts What this translates to is it's a buyers market and women have it made (or not). This shows itself in the fact that you will be trying to 'out peacock' other guys (spend more money) just to be noticed. It has been noticed and seems pretty common sense. A scarcity of women leads men to spend more, save less. Also, a lot of guys go up to San Francisco for the the difference in gender ratio. It's still bad but it's just not as bad as SV. TL;DR: Expect to remain single with no dates and pay a lot of money for a mediocre life that revolves around work. Updated 140w ago • View Upvotes