What's the dark side of Silicon Valley?
So my answer isn't all necessarily specific to SV/SF, but given the high concentration of startups & entrepreneurs, this is definitely a financial dark side of working at/running a startups in SV/SF which is probably more common in SV/SF than many other places. Financial Burden #1: AMT for ISO's (note this is not SV only, just really common bc of startups & ISOs) Having been an early employee at a tech startup that had good growth, I ran into this situation dealing with Incentivized Stock Options (ISO's) upon leaving my company. You run into this nice little tax issue called Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT). I've talked to plenty of startup employees who all got burned and some were even bankrupted by this tax. The basic situation is this: employee w/ ISO's leaves company employee has 90 days to BUY their options otherwise, forfeit them altogether if available, employee can sell options on some secondary market & make money off their options (yay -- this I guess could be the bright side!) many times (like my case), employee is stuck holding these options w/ no real liquidity option because the company is still private, not listed on SecondMarket, etc. and now the employee is subject to the AMT...(dark side) In cases of #4, you make be holding stock options *worth* $1M, that you just paid $10,000 to buy (made up numbers for explanation purposes). One might think that if you have these options you bought for $10K, you don't pay taxes until you sell them to someone and at that point, pay taxes on sale price - $10,000. but NO, that is not the case. Instead, if you are left holding those options (and don't have a liquidity option), you are on the hook to pay taxes on those options via AMT. The AMT tax rate is a set 26-28% depending on your income/etc. So in this case, this employee would be paying taxes on having earned a theoretical $990,000. Imagine paying ~$300K in taxes when all you're holding is some paper saying you have options worth $1M in a company even though you can't actually sell it all for $1M or perhaps at all. Financial Burden #2: San Francisco 1.5% payroll tax San Francisco is the only city I've heard of doing this (but I don't actively check to see if other cities do this, so who knows). Regardless, they basically charge companies a 1.5% tax on their companies based on a minimum payroll of $150,000. You can read more here: American Legal Publishing - Online Library or here: New SF Payroll Tax System Approved By Voters Is Complex, Costly - CBS San Francisco Regardless, this has been reason enough for many folks starting companies to want to start them out of SF proper. Financial Burden #3: Retroactive Tax SF had a Tax break for investing in start-ups and people followed the guidelines, invested their money appropriately, paid their taxes appropriately, and then... SF was like haha, just kidding, we actually shouldn't have given you that tax break, so now we're retroactively taking it away. You now owe us all this money. These 2 are great write ups that cover all of this better than I ever can: Because of asset seizures, I am starting my new company outside California California To Hit Startup Founders with Big Retroactive Tax Bills - Xconomy Financial Burden #4: Cost of living (mentioned by many) Have you seen this? (you can go to Trulia here to play around for yourself: Page on Trulia) Regardless, these prices to me are out of this world. Note the scale at the bottom... this is all prices per 1 bedroom. --- Regardless of the above, I do love living in SF & working in tech. There are benefits for sure in being here, but I definitely have felt some of the financial pains of living in the valley and they can hurt when you're not one of the million/billionaires you read about on TechCrunch. 