What's next after social democracy?
Vast majority of intellectuals advocate a form of socialism combined with elements of democracy as the next logical step. Anarchy and a Laissez-faire economy along with a night watchman government are also options. This is called as Minarchism. By night watchman government, I mean a government which maintains essentials for daily living and law and order situation. Wikipedia defines it as : The state's only legitimate function is the protection of individuals from aggression, theft, breach of contract, and fraud, and the only legitimate governmental institutions are the military, police, and courts. That being said, democracy is here to stay for a long, long time. Why? Because compared to the options, democracy with a few changes can keep the people happy and satisfied, for the simple reason that collective responsibility of the people is less. Citizens vote once every 4-5 years, pay taxes and that's pretty much it. In return you have infrastructure, security in various forms and daily essential services. Major problems spread over geographical locations are sorted out by a few elected officials, while the law and order is maintained in other parts of the state/country. Democracy is a process by which people are free to choose the man who will get the blame Laurence J. Peter The question stated that democracy has been here for around two hundred years. The core of democracy has remained the same, but the fundamental rights and the constitution has been amended to suit the needs of our times. There is no better example of change happening to the fundamentals of the constitution like SOPA/PIPA protests, gay marriage legalization etc. If democracy changes in major world democracies to regulate capitalism in various forms and bring in changes so that the major grievances are addressed, then democracy will prevail for a long time. For example, Paul Krugman advocates a "social net" - health care and basic necessities are socialized, where as other sectors are capitalistic. This ensures that the less fortunate members of society can still be given a second chance and do not fall into a life of crime. This will ensure that the role of major corporations(the scenario suggested by other answers) is checked and balanced. Besides, see the countries on the list of Democracy Index given full democracy score: Now watch the human development index map: The similarity is striking isn't it? The countries in the democracy index also are consistently on top of the development index as well. Despite the flaws and pitfalls, democracy simply works and keeps the lights on. No matter what the debate, democracy evolves to suit the needs of the time, as proven over the years. That is the reason I would say that the core democratic principles(elected governments) are here to stay, while changes to its form are inevitable. 