Wealthier nations tend to be less religious. Is low religiosity a cause, a consequence or just correlated with high wealth?
Its a correlation but there is several clear reasons as to why this is the case. EDUCATION In more developed nations the vast majority of people are literate (at least 90%) and this means that they have a knowledge of the theist and atheist perspective on religion, thus allowing them to make a fair judgement as to whether or not they wish to follow a religion.  Also an education provides the critical thinking skills to evaluate this information about religion. In less developed countries fewer people are literate (around 65%) and this means that fewer people are able to make this decision in the same way that people from developed countries are. As a result, the rest of the people are more gullible and less able to analyse the arguments for and against God, hence people who have been indoctrinated aren't able to leave the religion and people are also more likely to join a religion. This leads to far higher proportions of the population having religious beliefs than in wealthier nations. SOCIAL STATUS In wealthier countries the people have less need to believe in a God or pray for the things they need as they can simply get these thing themselves. Also they have less time for religious devotion as they have more work to do. However in poorer countries the people have fewer opportunities and thus they have a need to believe in God because they have nothing to lose. If they believe and pray and get something out of it, great, if not, fair enough. Also they do 'lesser' jobs and thus have more time on their hands to follow their religion. This leads to an increased number of atheists in developed nations. However, to be completely sure of this you would have to measure the levels of theism and atheism in a developing country as the GDP per capita increased. For example, you could measure the levels of theism and atheism in South Africa ( a rapidly developing economy) and if you saw a correlation and could rule out social changes then you will have guaranteed proof of this correlation and also the causation behind it ( remember the Golden Rule - correlation doesn't mean causation). 