What are the advantages and disadvantages of dictatorship system of governance?Which countries are currently under the leadership of a dictator?
It would be nice, before you read the answer ahead, you clear your earlier notions, and have an open mind. At the end of my answer, you can form your own opinion. The Economist Intelligence Unit Democracy index map for 2012, with greener colours representing more democratic countries. More the greenery, more the democracy :p We live in a world, which has come to adjunct dictatorship and monarchy with tyranny, evil, and backwardness, and synonymous to murderous dictators in history such as Hitler and Stalin(less so). Most of what we believe in is heavily influenced by the post World War 2 scenario. The allies had just defeated a dictator, who had been depicted as the embodiment of evil incarnate. An another dictator with whom they had just collaborated, was seen as threat.  Of the allies, USA and UK have been most successful in exporting their cultures and media. The Cold war did its bit to fuel the views on dictatorship. Even disregarding that, with the advent of Pax Britannica, and smooth takeover by America in setting up Pax Americana; ever since Modern History, these countries although did employ colonialism, did slowly export their liberalist views. Their victory in World War 2, was victory on so many levels. That is why, Britain is called the mother of democracies. Its Parliamentary acts have set so many more democratic governments. And although Britain spread the idea of individual rights throughout the empire - it rarely gave those rights to the people of the empire. Ancient Athens invented the concept of democracy, France promoted the ideals liberty and the United States stood up for and promoted freedom. So in a way, all these countries have a right to the title "mother of democracy". So, thats the brief history and the general outlook on democracy and dictatorship. A dictatorship can take the country to either new heights with a tremendous progress, or, lead to utter destruction. It all majorly depends on the dictator. He/she sets the tone. The dictator need not worry so much about keeping his people happy. If the dictator is patriotic, and is keen to develop the nation, he/she will be able to do so with tremendous zeal. The dictator will be able to drive his people to breaking point, if need be, to pay the price for his esteemed development.  Whatever be, you get the idea, even an average dictator can effectively eliminate any kind of threats and checks on him/her, and can force his/her people to pay the price for what he/she desires. It is this critical factor which can make a dictatorship successful, in the sense that the country makes progress and is able to focus, and does what needs to be done. Success comes at a price. And a dictatorship, can effectively squeeze from the people the price for the success and development. Of course, benevolent monarchies, and heads of state have existed, the key idea is, the advantage a dictatorship has is the ability to focus, and being able to do what needs to be done to attain success, sometimes ruthlessly. The choice will not always be between the right and the wrong. Oft-times the choice will be between the easy and the right. It is in these kind of situations, that the dictator can, provided he/she is of sound mind and is given proper guidance, can take the right and hard decision. It is this that makes a dictatorship dangerous to other countries too. Without any checks on the dictator, if the dictator were to have an aggressive foreign policy, other countries might find it hard to influence him. After all the International politics are all about checks and balances. Dictatorship makes it even more difficult to influence the dictator. Compared to Democracy, Dictatorship is like laser beam. If you focus it in the right direction, it will give you awesome results, but should you point it in the wong direction, it will burn you up. Just that 'you' are not there in the dictatorship. It is the dictator who calls the shots. But, if the dictator is ineffective, corrupt and not a capable administrator, it is with the same intensity and speed that the country will collapse. The strength of Dictatorship is its weakness. It all depends upon the Dictator. Whereas, in a Democracy, it is a scattered force. It has to please its people to survive. A Democracy has so many checks and balances that in most cases when you have to do something good and progressive, you please some amount of people and most certainly displease another set of people. This also leads to each stakeholder in the formation of democracy, to try and keep giving out populist moves. A string of these kind of moves can be jarring for the country's development. It is in this kind of scenarios, where when a choice has to be made between the easy and the right, democracy generally tends to do the expedient. Also, since in democracy, every stakeholder has to consulted, it is generally slow, in being unable to take fast and decisive actions. Where Dictatorship can be construed as risky and bold, Democracy is cautious and slower. The fundamental philosophy behind Democracy is that, it thinks you are capable of deciding what is good for you. So, I ask you now, what makes you think you are good enough to decide who is good for running the country? And in general, do you think everybody is competent enough to decide what is good for the country. More so, how does one decide what makes one competent. Lastly the government itself. Lets say, we take Defence Minister or the Finance/Economics/Commerce Minister of a democratically elected country. What in the God's name has made him/her qualified to make decisions on such crucial matters such as the defence of the realm.. the economy of the county. Let us examine the skills he/she had, had to use, to acquire this much coveted status in the society. 1) He/she has been able to successfully convince the people of the constituency he/she stood from, that he is a most capable representative whom they must elect.. etc. 2) He/she has been able to do the same in his political party too. Ergo, none of these skills involve administrational skills, and decision making capabilities. Now, I'm not saying that in monarchies only economists do the economies and the coal miners becomes the coal ministers... But generally, monarchies tend to have people selected by the king, who are capable in their respective chosen field. On the whole, democracy provides for more participation by the people, and in general provides for better welfare measures.  But if the country were not strong enough, will it be able to sustain the welfare measures? Although, democracy is not a new idea, it has taken root only in early modern History, say about 200 - 300 years ago. So,  if you go by majority, as we do in democracy, you see for much part of the history, we have been following Monarchy :p Many forms of Government have been tried and will be tried in this world of sin and woe. No one pretends that democracy is perfect or all-wise. Indeed, it has been said that democracy is the worst form of government except all those other forms that have been tried from time to time. -Winston Churchill Updated 15 Jun 2014 • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Suraj Majee