What is the Indo-Bangladesh land deal? How will it affect India?
The borders between India and Pakistan (esp. on the Bengal side) were demarcated in a very shabby manner by the Border Committee headed by Sir Cyril Radcliffe. This resulted in several enclaves - small regions of one country contained completely within another country. ​ ​This is a first order enclave wherein the region X belongs to country A but it lies completely within country B. There are 106 Indian enclaves in Bangladesh and 92 Bangladeshi enclaves in India. Out of these, 24 are second-order enclaves a.k.a counter-enclaves i.e. enclaves within enclaves. ​ ​ ​Wait.. Things don't just end here. There is one counter-counter-enclave (3rd order enclave) too! Yes.. An Indian enclave within a Bangladeshi enclave within an Indian enclave within Bangladesh! ​ ​ Why does such a seemingly stupid setup exists in the first place? When colonial bosses demarcated the boundaries of their colonies, they hardly ever gave a personal physical visit to the areas that were to be divided. These demarcations were mostly carried out casually over a cup of tea in their lavish boardrooms. For Indo-Pak border, "Sir" Radcliffe first assigned villages on the border areas to each of the countries, then the talukas (sub-divisions) and then drew the border lines on the map. But he was extremely careless while doing so. He assigned some villages/talukas that actually fell within India according to his demarcation on the map to Bangladesh and vice versa. This gave birth to first-order enclaves. In some cases he assigned a village to one country but the taluka, within which the village existed, to the other country while the taluka itself did not geographically belong to the country it was assigned to. These became second-order conclaves. In order avoid further complexities in expression, I'll leave it upon the reader to figure out how 3rd order enclaves were formed. I'm sure you got the funda here. The problem arising out of such a setup People residing within enclaves are literally trapped. An Indian village/taluka within Bangladesh belongs to India only in name. It is completely within Bangladesh and as such, is totally cut off from India. People residing in these enclaves are deprived of all the benefits of being a citizen of India. Same is the case for people living in Bangladeshi enclaves in India. The way out In September 2011, Prime Ministers Manmohan Singh of India and Sheikh Hasina of Bangladesh signed an accord under which both the countries agreed to exchange the enclaves they hold. But any exchange of land with a foreign country requires a Constitutional amendment. The 119th Constitutional Amendment Bill thus is an amendment to the constitution that seeks to give effect to the Land Boundary Accord signed with Bangladesh. An exchange of enclaves will free the people living in such enclaves from the trap that they had been living in for so long. Their village/taluka will now be recognized as a part of the country where it geographically belongs and they will have access to all the services available to the other citizens of the country. Edit: Some unverified sources (mostly local legends) attribute the genesis of the enclaves to a chess/card between a Mughal commander and the Raja of Cooch Behar. It is said that the villages and talukas were kept at stake in the match and since no side managed a clear victory the end result of the game was these enclaves of various orders. 