What is the Indo-Bangladesh land deal? How will it affect India?
Originally Answered: What is the significance of the Land Border Agreement and the transit rights of PM Modi signed in Bangladesh and how will it affect the India-Bangladesh ties?Well, it ends the Indo-Bangladesh border dispute and opens the door for a lot of opportunities: Move over LBA (Land Boundary Agreement). The next big thing on the radar screens of Indo-Bangladesh is coastal shipping. This  is a sector which offers myriads of opportunities not only to boost  bilateral trade, economic cooperation and people-to-people contacts, but  also take this process beyond the shores of India and Bangladesh and  integrate Bhutan and Nepal also in the India-Bangladesh growth story. In  other words, coastal shipping is the key sector for kick starting the  concept of BBIN (Bangladesh, Bhutan, India and Nepal) a sub-regional  developmental approach within the eight-nation SAARC (South Asian  Association for Regional Cooperation). This was a major thrust area of discussions between Prime Minister Narendra Modi and his Bangladeshi counterpart Sheikh Hasina in their two-hour-long  delegation-level and restricted format talks in Dhaka on 6 June. True,  in terms of the 22 agreements and MoUs that were signed between India  and Bangladesh on 6 June obviously the most important was the exchange  of Instruments of Ratification of the Land Boundary Agreement (LBA) and  its Protocol. The two sides also exchanged letters spelling out  the shared understanding of the two governments on how to go about  implementing the provisions of the Agreement and Protocol, a complicated  and time consuming exercise entailing the job of re-aligning the  boundary, exchanging the enclaves and enabling the movement of those  enclave residents who choose to relocate with minimal inconvenience. The  important thing is that the two sides went far beyond the LBA and its  Protocol and concluded a major agreement on coastal shipping. Foreign  Secretary S Jaishankar highlighted the importance of the coastal  shipping agreement as follows, “We see this as really a very key  understanding that would allow us to use our common bay and each other’s  waterways for movement of cargo. As of now, the bulk of our trade takes  place across the land border, and to the extent that we have sea trade  this is done through distant ports. The goods are taken to distant ports  and then they are reloaded into feeder vessels which then bring them  into Chittagong. What this Coastal Shipping Agreement would do is  basically enable the direct regular movement of ships between India and  Bangladesh, which would bring the shipping time down from 30 to 40 days  on average to seven to 10 days.” The impact of the coastal  shipping agreement would be two-fold: (i) it would relieve the  congestion on Indian Land Customs Stations which is an impediment to  trade; and (ii) it would contribute to the growth of the shipping  industry in Bangladesh as well as the ancillary services sector. To  ensure the success of the coastal shipping agreement, the two sides  also agreed on several related agreements. For example, they renewed the  Protocol on Inland Waterways and Transport which will boost the  Bangladeshi shipping industry and would provide more certainty and  predictability to the industry and its investors. Simultaneously,  the two sides also inked a key MoU in this sphere relating to access to  Chittagong and Mongla ports for the movement of goods to and from India.  "With the proposed bridge over Feni river on India-Bangladesh border,  there will be road connectivity from Chittagong to Agartala which will  allow the movement of goods from Indian ports to Chittagong and Mongla  ports which would then obviously could move on to Tripura and other  regions of the North East through road,” Foreign Secretary Jaishankar  elaborated. All these should be seen in the larger context of the  bilateral trade agreement which was also renewed. It allows India on its  part to improve access to its northeast region and allows Bangladesh  access through India to Nepal and Bhutan. This is the real big  picture. Once the tangible benefits of coastal shipping agreement and  all the above mentioned agreements start trickling in, two other  important and contiguous neighbours of India, namely Bhutan and Nepal,  will also start reaping the fruits of development and connectivity. Improved  connectivity will enhance mutual trade which in turn will bring a new  spurt of growth to the entire region and a new vigour to India’s trade  ties in the immediate neighbourhood. India and Bangladesh have  also agreed that Indian Special Economic Zones will be established in  Bangladesh, a point specifically mentioned by Sheikh Hasina in her  remarks at the conclusion of her talks with PM Modi. This would  inevitably help Bangladesh in substantially restoring the bilateral  trade balance which is currently loaded heavily against Bangladesh. Of  the $6.5 billion bilateral trade, Bangladeshi exports to India account  for a mere half a billion dollars. Moreover, the above measures  would spark off greater export-led growth in diverse sectors like  textiles, leather goods, pharmaceuticals, auto components, ship building  and marine food processing, to name a few. All this is aimed at  capacity building through land transit and connectivity. Over and above  this, India’s offer of a new line of credit to Bangladesh worth $2  billion will provide the necessary financial cushion to take bilateral  trade to a new level. Significantly, the new proposed LoC is broader  than the first LoC and includes new areas like roads, ports, power,  education and health. The bottom line is this. While the LBA is  now glorious past, costal shipping agreement beckons an even more  glorious and bright future for India and Bangladesh. It is time  for Bhutan and Nepal to get on to this new bandwagon called BBIN which  is low on politics and high on growth-oriented development. Move over land border agreement; in Modi-Hasina era, it's all about shipping - Firstpost 