Is it fair to say that the United States government is corruption-free with negligible bribery? If no, which areas need improvement?
No country is corruption free.  In recent years, we've seen a string of state-level politicians being indicted on various corruption charges, with a sprinkling of national-level government officials in the mix.  Some areas are more corrupt than others.  It's been pointed out that you're statistically more likely to be indicted if you're elected Governor of Illinois than if you kill someone.  (4 out of the last 8 Illinois Governors have been indicted, and only 47% of murders are cleared by arrest).   What I will say is that outright bribery and corruption very rarely happens in places where the average citizen would see it.  Things like traffic cops accepting bribes and officials demanding extra money before they'll turn on your water or power is vanishingly uncommon in the United States.  Most people who live in the US their whole lives will never see that in person.   What happens outside of the public eye?  Who knows.  Things like congressmen accepting bribes from contractors and special interest groups certainly happens.  As do things like judges taking bribes from defendants (and prison officials in at least one case) and police officers stealing money and drugs from criminals or from evidence lockers.  How widespread such practices are is impossible to say, for the simple reason that they usually stay out of the public eye.  And what about non-governmental stuff?  Insider trading, sweetheart deals between friends, trading of favors and influence, price manipulation schemes.  Things like that are very rarely prosecuted, which could mean they don't happen, or that they're almost never found out.  If a rich guy commits a horrific crime and gets away with no prison time, was there bribery involved?  Or did he just have a really good lawyer and an overly sympathetic judge? Hard to say for sure.   And that's not getting into the many, many practices that aren't even technically illegal, but are clearly not exactly ethical, and which happen all the time.  Enumerating those would take a whole post on it's own.   I suspect that any time you have money and power in play, people are going to game the system for their own advantage.  I'm really not confident that can ever be stopped.  The best any country can do is catch the most egregious cases and minimize the burden from the rest of them.  America does a pretty good job at that, but every time we get a peek at the backdoor dealings that happen at the highest levels of government and business, we're reminded that things are far from perfect. 