What's the dark side of Silicon Valley?
It is amazingly difficult to start/have a family if you make "normal" salaries here (you know, only in the $100k range). The amount of wealth in the area has driven up home prices near the places where the jobs are to astronomical levels. I own a home in San Jose that I'm able to afford, in a neighborhood described by my Realtor as "a first time buyer's neighborhood", because both my wife and I work. She recently gave birth to our first child and we're preparing her to go into day care. It is going to cost me more in one year to put my baby in day care than I spent putting myself through 5 years of college. Having my wife not work, however, would put an extremely significant dent in our finances to where it would be very hard to pay bills on just my salary. We literally can not afford another child. Additionally, I have to establish my schedule based on commute traffic which typically has me out of the house well before 7 a.m. and many times back home by about 8 p.m. Leaving work at 5 p.m. simply doesn't make sense, because I would get home at the exact same time if I left at 7 p.m. I have the benefit of sometimes having flexible working locations. I can't imagine it for people who don't. While you tend to hear a lot about the awesomeness of companies like Google and Facebook, the fact is that the vast majority of companies in the Silicon Valley are just as slow moving and driven by petty personal politics as companies anywhere else. The difference is that many of these companies produce products with high margins (like software) that are in high demand. I've worked at places here that feel like a Dilbert cartoon. Pointless meetings, decision makers who either make horrible decisions or no decisions at all, inept co-workers, etc. One major difference here is that people do tend to be willing to work longer hours, albeit with mixed results. As others have said, there is still plenty of poverty in the area. East San Jose, East Palo Alto, parts of Fremont and Milpitas are very undesirable places. Which to a lot of people is puzzling especially when every other car on the freeway is a Lexus, BMW, Mercedes, Porsche, or Tesla. Also, I see a fair number of Lamborghinis, Ferraris, Aston Martins, Maseratis, and even a Bugatti Veyron (OMG IT WAS SO AWESOME) as well. Every major metropolitan area has this problem and I personally don't know of any good solutions to fixing it (and anyone who claims to doesn't either!) I've heard the argument made, and it isn't entirely without merit, that solutions that come out of the Silicon Valley can actually be detrimental to the economy because the efficiency and automation that companies are able to achieve using these products effectively lowers demand for labor. Basically, I've heard it argued that we destroy jobs here. And people here know this. It's something that's hard to measure, and I'd say in some cases it's true (I once worked on a project where literally one of the goals was to eliminate a 900 person global department). I believe in the long run what we do in the Silicon Valley creates more jobs but with different skill sets. With all of that said, this is the place I choose to live and work. I am surrounded by the smartest people in the world who are from all over the world and getting to experience first hand the companies that change the world. Updated 137w ago • View Upvotes