What are some must-have software for programmers using Linux?
The question makes it very tempting for developers to give you their own very subjective idea of what are important tools for them to use in their own, specific,  area of work. A good answer will differ depending on the domain. Are you a Linux kernel developer, a web designer, or an embedded systems guy? Absolute essentials A text editor: There are many to choose from. Hardcore users will use Vim or Emacs as these will radically improve your writing performance over time. The learning curve is steep so patience and determination will be required. Others prefer a more graphical approach such as NetBeans or Eclipse. These come with wide support for a variety of languages and nifty features such as code-completion, refactoring and integration with version control systems. Note that using these systems will also take some time in learning for advanced use. Other common editors are: Gedit, Kate, Geany, Kwrite, Sublime-text, Scribe, ScITE, Codelite, Redcar (ruby), MonoDevelop (C#)... The list is long. A compiler: Or an interpreter, depending on the language. If you use ruby I strongly recommend having a look at RVM. Version control system: Very important. Most popular in the Linux world is Git (and increasingly gaining popularity on all systems). Subversion is perhaps the most popular overall and is also supported on Linux, however users tend to complain over the lack of a convenient graphical interface such as TortoiseSVN for Windows. Others with an increasing popularity: Mercurial, Bazaar. Nice-to-haves Guake - drop-down terminal "Quake style". Excellent for running intermittent commands in the flow of work. SparkleShare - A DropBox alternative to sync your documents with a group or between your computers. Uses Git under the hood and as such can be used with any Git hosting. VirtualBox - Install virtual operating systems for cross-platform experiments, testing. GitG - If using Git. This will show you a graphical history of all commits, click a line to see diff. Firebug - For web developers. Really, it will make your life so much easier. I would also recommend using some kind of issue tracking system. There are quite a few to choose from: Redmine, Bugzilla, Jira. My favourite is Jira, although you need to pay $10 for it. For others see: Comparison of issue-tracking systems 