How should we continue to improve Data.gov?
I quite appreciate the work that you are doing and have been following the Home | Data.gov project since its start. I'm quite proud of it, really. I think the biggest thing to improve is to make known that resources like Home | Data.gov exist. I am no longer surprised when I see others haven't discovered it yet, in spite of mentioning it to anyone that might be interested. I would suggest the inclusion of training resources so that consuming the data products be made more broad in respect to the perspectives interpreting the data. I would put resources ranging from introductory to quite comfortable using the content. For instance, the visualization demo at itdashboard.gov is quite useful for intuitive comparison and as a learning tool. I'm sure that those in your department know of good resources for all skill levels. The fundamental cause that guides most libraries is that providing training resources are necessary for equal access to services. For instance, even if you are unable to read you can enlist the aid of the Library of Congress. And this organization is quite thorough in its conviction to provide the best research resources consistently through a mix of guided research suggestions as well as lending their librarians' research prowess to virtually any requester. Home | Data.gov might consider a similar range of services for it's consumers at all levels of statistical knowledge. The 'meaning' of the offered numbers could very well represent very different things to unusual audiences with different perspectives and experiences. Possibly the Library of Congress could be contacted regarding their methods of enabling equal access directly through their services in-house, as well as robust standards forming and molding of information science trickling to institutions that train other librarians who then go on to serve other populations? (Yes, it realize it's a very long sentence, but you get the point: they have a fairly complete model of impact as a research resource to the entire country ;-) ) This leads me to my last question I would like to pose: is there a census regarding the users of Home | Data.gov? I would be quite interested to know who already uses it and how they came to find the resource. Do a poll! 