By the end of 1993, there were only 623 websites on the World Wide Web. Where can I get the list of these 623 websites?
I am not sure about those 623 sites, but after coming across this question I found the below few sites founded before 1995 : 1991 : CERN : The link is a snapshot of the CERN site, the first website, as of November 1992. The Web was publicly announced (via a posting to the Usenet newsgroup alt.hypertext) on August 6, 1991. World Wide Web Virtual Library : Originally Tim Berners-Lee's web catalog at CERN. Stanford Linear Accelerator Center : Paul Kunz from SLAC visited Tim Berners-Lee at CERN in September 1991. He was impressed by the WWW project and brought a copy of the software back to Stanford. SLAC launched the first web server in North America on December 12, 1991. ACME Laboratories : A free software site, created by Jeffrey Poskanzer, who created the compact web server thttpd. It is still active today. 1992 : National Center for Supercomputing Applications : The National Center for Supercomputing Applications site was an early home to the NCSA Mosaic web browser, as well as documentation on the web and a "What's New?" list which many people used as an early web directory. Fermilab : Second web server in North America, following in the trend of high-energy physics laboratories. SunSITE : Early, comprehensive archiving project. Project as a whole started in 1992 and was quick to move to the web. Ohio State University : Department of Computer and Information ScienceEarly development of gateway programs, and mass conversion of existing documents, including RFCs, TeXinfo, UNIX man pages, and the Usenet FAQs. 1993 : By the end of 1993, there were 623 websites, according to a study by MIT Researcher Matthew Gray. Doctor Fun : One of the first webcomics, noted by the NCSA as "a major breakthrough for the Web". The LANL preprint archive : Web access to thousands of papers in physics, mathematics, computer science, and biology; developed out of earlier gopher, ftp, and e-mail archives at Los Alamos. Now housed at lanl.arxiv.org Global Network Navigator : Example of an early web directory created by O'Reilly Media and one of the Web's first commercial sites; it was hosted at Bolt Beranek and Newman (BBN). Heaven's GateA spin off of Heaven's Gate BBS, a pet memorial website. The Internet Movie Database : Founded in 1989 by participants in the Usenet newsgroup rec.arts.movies, the IMDB was rolled out on the web in late 1993, hosted by the computer science department ofCardiff University in Wales. Internet Underground Music Archive : Created by students at the University of California, Santa Cruz to help promote unsigned musical artists. Music was shared using the MP2 format, presaging the later extreme popularity of MP3 sharing and Online music stores. SITO : After a start as an anonymous ftp-based art gallery and collaborative collective, the OTIS project (later SITO) moves to the web thanks to SunSITE's hosting. The Tech The MIT campus newspaper, The Tech, claims to be the first newspaper to deliver content over the Web, beginning in May 1993. MTV The music television network's domain was registered in 1993 by VJ Adam Curry, who personally ran a small unofficial site. PARC Map ServerArguably the earliest precursor of MapQuest and Google Maps. PARC Researcher Steve Putz tied an existing map viewing program to the web. Now defunct. Principia Cybernetica Probably the first complex, collaborative knowledge system, sporting a hierarchical structure, index, map, annotations, search, plenty of hyperlinks, etc. Designed by Francis Heylighen, Cliff Joslyn and Valentin Turchin to develop a cybernetic philosophy. ExPASy The first life sciences web site. Still activeTrojan room coffee pot The first webcam.Trincoll Journala multimedia magazine published by students at Trinity College in Hartford Connecticut Source and for further ref : List of websites founded before 1995 Hope this helps. 