What is the Indo-Bangladesh land deal? How will it affect India?
The design and reason of LBA's existence have already been explained extensively and quite sufficiently already, so I can keep it short. It is alleged that ISI recruits "people" to cause agitation when fundamentalist BNP is in power and well, the country as a whole suffers. This deal at least persuades Bangladeshis to not vote for them again soon, hence reducing tensions around the border. Chinese recently asked Indian Government to make sure that the link between China, India and Bangladesh[China, Bhutan, India something link it is called, I am not writing a text book here so go find out, it's being planned] should be monitored to see whether drug trade and crime does not flourish. So, yes, that region is prone to this vile and the general good will being created must help us mitigate this and forward more transportation connections with other neighbouring countries which creates more business for locals. However, presently Bangladesh is 4th largest garment exporter globally and although talking to Bangladeshi locals still does not show them to be very fond of what their nation offers, it still is agreeable[i hope] that the nation is on the track to become better. Poverty reduced to about half of what it was, mortality rate is down and I hope population control must be on the way too. Besides this, there are several garbage picking[and other scavenging jobs] people in Delhi in fact who are from Bangladesh, came because of refugee distress and confusion and worse still, cannot tell to anyone here that they are from Bangladesh, or else they are beaten up by locals in India. It can be reasonably stated that we do not have a bloody history of civil wars just because we had a [clumsy]partition right at out birth. However, the permeability of border with Bangladesh somewhat renders the whole partition scenario a joke and still affecting millions of lives in a very detrimental way. There are two kinds of effects of this on India--long term and short term. Short term benefits are business and good will, long terms are whatever the good will could bring. We have about $ 6.1 Billion business with Bangladesh presently in exports and about $400 million in imports. Bangladesh's depending on India largely at the moment makes India a strongly placed nation in its region, a quest which had China waging war on Vietnam in 1979; only that we did it[I hope] without wars. Direct links between Guwahati, Tripura and Dhaka give north-east a better placed in economic terms kind tomorrow. PS Let's hope for the best! 