What is the Indo-Bangladesh land deal? How will it affect India?
Originally Answered: What is the Land Boundary Agreement between India and Bangladesh? What was the issue that led to this agreement?This is an issue since time of Formation of India & Pakistan. Pakistan had 2 parts. East Pakistan & west Pakistan. During Partition while the nation's were divided by the arbitary unthoughful line which ruined many lives was drawn the Princely states were more or less ignored to be a part of anyone. The Nawabs had the choice to decide. After Bangladesh War of Liberation, the already existing problem of enclaves became more grave. What is an enclave? An enclave is a separate mass of land which is independent surrounded by another sovereign. Now after the War of independence of Bangladesh, the enclaves which decided to be a part of India were in Bangladesh. And the parts which wanted to be a part of Pakistan ie. Eventually Bangladesh were in India. Basically in this deal India would Lose 70 sq km of land to Bangladesh while gaining 28 sq km of Land from Bangladesh. This deal was initially opposed vehemently by BJP when congress had brought it up. But considering Mr. Modi's international policy of building relationships with all the neighborhood, it was necessary that this deal was finally materialized. What this deal will enable? Strong borders & defined military presence in owned territory. Ensuring safety of borders from Anti National elements of both nations existing in territories. Now these elements were given stay during the period of miscommunication between both nation while Bangladesh was under military rule & employing anti-India policy by improving relationship with China, Pakistan & Muslim countries. Giving shelter to ULFA & other terrorist groups. India too sheltered groups which were anti-Bangladesh. Now the relationship has increased & will improve further more by this deal. Secondly. It will be possible to keep a better check on Bangladeshi illegal migrations which is a nuisance to our democracy. And most importantly. Gaining trust of nation which is our immediate neighbor & surrounded by land on 3 sides by us with the 4th side being water largely belonging to us helps keep check on any mis-adventure by them. Nation saved. Win-win for all. 