What tools do you use to monitor buzz about your startup?You know, besides the obvious like google alerts, etc...
I've used both free and paid apps and trying to answer your question, there are two things that comes to my mind. There are two levels to "monitoring". Level 1 - Casual Monitoring - Where you scan the internet and find out mentions of your brand/company/whatever. Level 2 - Engaged Monitoring - Where you do social media monitoring and scale up the process from there to further levels ahead. For example, in casual monitoring you use tools like socialmention.com or Google alerts or even Twitter search to do a basic scan of the web finding out mentions of your brand. Most people (while not all) end it there. May be they'd reply/contact to the mention but nothing beyond. But in Engaged Monitoring, you would collect as much data as possible connected to the mention and put it into perspective. For example, if its a forum mention (which not many free tools do) you figure out a way to contact them, measure the emotional value (hate/love) to the mention, guage the influential value of the post/user/forum. This happens over many networks, not just twitter/blogsearch etc. Also the big difference is in the way all these data is collected, studied and put into perspective. For example Google alerts or social mention can give you individual alerts from across the web. However you cannot easily put it all together by time frame/category/demographics and study the relevance of all the data. This is where sophisticated social media monitoring tools come in to picture. Radian6 is not bad but a good agency tool that's expensive. I've tried Scoutlabs, Meltwaterbuzz, Alterian and a host of other free stuff. What I found would probably surprise you. None of these tools are a one stop solution as they claim to be. And you don't need too much sophistication either, unless you're dealing with a multitude of keywords and brands. Your objectives and KPIs are key in deciding what tool to use. And I use a mix of everything. I wouldn't put all my eggs in one basket, for obvious reasons. I've even put together a list of social media monitoring tools for those looking for info here - http://www.dailybloggr.com/2010/... Hope it helps. 