What's next after social democracy?
No one really knows the answer to this question, though some have believed they do.  Once upon a time, communists thought that social democracy was merely a way of postponing the inevitable collapse of capitalism.  Most communists thought that communism was the inevitable next step, although some saw barbarism as a possible outcome of capitalism's collapse. Some social democrats saw social democracy as a viable end state, with extensive social provision stably combining with private ownership of the means of production.  Others (e.g., Maidner in Sweden) saw social democracy as a way station on the road to democratic socialism, with workers gradually acquiring the means of production. Then there are dyed-in-the-wool neoliberals who see social democracy as a temporary form of capitalism, one perhaps suited to a world of national economies, but unsuited to a globalized economy. (There are some, of course, who never reconciled themselves to social democracy, even temporarily.  This group is particularly strong in the United States.)  Some neoliberals have explored the possibility of "market friendly" means of social protection as a replacement for social democracy, while others are simply glad to see the integument of social democracy swept aside. What has become of these once-self-assured positions? I don't know anyone who believes in the inevitable triumph of communism.  Social democracy is now fighting a rearguard action against globalized capitalism, so even those who see social democracy as a viable form of class compromise are on the defensive, while very few see possibilities for transition to democratic socialism. Meanwhile, the neoliberal position still has powerful defenders, but it has become self-evidently bankrupt in the wake of the global, ongoing economic crisis.  (The Eurozone is now officially back in negative growth territory, other rich capitalist countries are stagnant, and rumblings of troubles in China's real estate markets and banking system pose the danger of a collapse worse than that of 2007-8.)  A neoliberal economy could "win" in the sense that alternatives do not present themselves as politically viable, but the vaunted dynamism of the global neoliberal economy looks particularly hollow right now. Is there a way past the options of a retreating social democracy and a powerful but failing neoliberalism?  Perhaps.  One strategic intervention would be social protection against market depredations/failures.  These would include, for example, the unsustainable private health care system in the United States and the threat caused by the continuing accumulation of greenhouse gases in the atmosphere.  Another strategic intervention would entail social revolt against a financial sector that has become disconnected from its textbook functions, produces little of social value, distributes income upward, and produces periodic crises.  You saw something of this in the Occupy movement, although that turns out to have been a flash in the pan.  The revolts in Spain and Greece seem to have more staying power, although they are far from winning.  I guess what I'm saying here is that consistent pressure for "non-reformist reforms" in normal times combined with the readiness and capacity to revolt in times of crisis is a way forward.  I don't have a ready answer, however, to the "forward to what" question.  Some form of workers' control, incorporating markets as at least an interim solution, would be what I would aim for, but I have no idea whether or not that will ever become politically feasible. TL:DR version - I don't know, but I have unreasonable hopes. 