What is the Indo-Bangladesh land deal? How will it affect India?
Originally Answered: What is the importance of the India-Bangladesh land boundary bill?The problem with the Land Boundary Agreement which has been lying in limbo because of the inability of the Govt of India to pass it since the last 41years has been dealt with at last. The following are the ramifications: 1) The people living in the enclaves will become citizens of either of the two countries thereby paving the way for access to basic facilities like electricity ,education ,health services and more importantly a certain future and dignified life as citizens of country. To even begin to imagine how they may have lived all these years without a state to look after them makes me shudder. 2) It will surely stop infiltration as the road to enclaves is an open border for now as verification of all the residents moving in and out of the two regions is not possible for now. So a closed border would help in a better way to keep a check on infiltration. 3) The reduced infiltration gives the border states a chance at peaceful existence if the problem of those that have already settled in can be solved. Economic Benefits: 1) The apparently laughable issue of cattle smuggling from India  to Bangladesh may be solved to a certain extent. 2) India can push Bangladesh to allow it access to its seven sister states through it to cut down on the cost of time and money.This could be a harbinger for better growth prospects and improve connectivity with the region. International repercussions: 1) The world watched India make a promise and not fulfill it for 41 years. The passing of this act gives an assurance to the world in general and Bangladesh in particular that this government is serious about fulfilling its promises and having better relations with its neighbours. 2) Questions were being raised in Bangladesh about the returns it was getting for helping India by going out of its way when India could not even pass a bill that was in india 's interest more than anyone else. This act vindicates Sheikh Hasina's friendly policy towards India and would shore up her ratings against the fundamentalist backer and anti-india opposition leader Khaleda Zia. These are the few  possible fallouts of the deal that I could think of. Hope it answers your question. :) Updated 27 Jun • View Upvotes