Does anyone really know what "small government" means?
Patrick Hochstenbach & Jimmy Drew pretty much covered it.  I'd add, however, a completely different spin:  ease of migration & life cycle (the aging of America)as well.  If one considers "small government" to be mostly related to conservative-republican politics, then this ranking by the Economist (simplified here in Salon @The 10 most conservative (and liberal) cities in America) illustrates what I am thinking:  Most Conservative 1. Mesa, Arizona 2. Oklahoma City, OK 3. Virginia Beach, VA 4. Colorado Springs, CO 5. Jacksonville, FL 6. Arlington, TX 7. Anaheim, CA 8. Omaha, NE 9. Tulsa, OK 10. Aurora, CO Most Liberal 1. San Francisco, CA 2. Washington, DC 3. Seattle, WA 4. Oakland, CA 5. Boston, MA 6. Minneapolis, MN 7. Detroit, MI 8. New York, NY 9. Buffalo, NY 10. Baltimore, MD the full Economist rankings are here:  Urban ideologies The point that stands out to me is that the cities on the most liberal list are for the most part on the "creative coasts" where most of the nation's wealth is generated while the most conservative are for the most part retirement enclaves.   The latter, not incidentally I think, is also the quarter where we hear the most "small government" ruckus as well. In other words, people amass wealth, raise & educate their children in one region, with superior services at all levels of government --and high taxes, but then retire to lower costs areas to preserve as much personal wealth as possible.  This pretty much tracks with the cries for "small government" in my observations.  However, red states are also the most dependent on government programs (all federal distributions, less federal tax input), so are unable or unwilling to walk the talk. you can examine the research at States Most & Least Dependent on the Federal Government Conclusion: So, while there are many "small government" models and motivations (as Patrick Hochstenbach & Jimmy Drew detailed elsewhere) I'd add into the mix the most powerful of them all: economics & preserving wealth in retirement.  Those on the federal gravy train are really most interested in preserving their haul while kicking anyone else in the face who wants to climb aboard. 