What is the Indo-Bangladesh land deal? How will it affect India?
India and Bangladesh have a 4096.7 km long land boundary. The boundary (with erstwhile East Pakistan) was determined by the Radcliffe Award of 1947. Disputes arose out of provisions of the award. The Nehru-Noon Agreement of 1958 and the Agreement Concerning the Demarcation of the Land Boundary between India and Bangladesh and Related Matters of 1974 sought to find a solution to the complex nature of the border demarcation involved. However, three outstanding issues pertaining to an undemarcated land boundary of approximately 6.1 km in three sectors: Daikhata-56(West Bengal), Muhuri River-Belonia (Tripura) and Lathitila-Dumabari (Assam), exchange of enclaves and adverse possessions remained unsettled. The 2011 Protocol, signed during the then PM Manmohan Singh's visit to Bangladesh, will result in a fixed demarcated boundary in all the un-demarcated segments, exchange of 111 Indian enclaves in Bangladesh with 51 Bangladesh enclaves in India and a resolution of all adversely possessed areas. In the exchange of enclaves, India will transfer 111 enclaves with a total area of 17,160.63 acres to Bangladesh, while Bangladesh would transfer 51 enclaves with an area of 7,110.02 acres to India. While on paper, the exchange of enclaves between India and Bangladesh may seem like a loss of Indian land to Bangladesh, the actual scenario is quite different as the enclaves are located deep inside the territory of both countries and there has been no physical access to them from either country. The inhabitants in the enclaves could not enjoy full legal rights as citizens of either India or Bangladesh and infrastructure facilities such as electricity, schools and health services were deficient. Further, due to lack of access to these areas by the law and order enforcing agencies and weak property rights, certain enclaves became hot beds of criminal activities. A joint headcount estimated the population in the enclaves to be around 51,549 (37,334 in Indian enclaves in Bangladesh). The Central government had already allocated 3,008 crore rupees to West Bengal for rehabilitation of the Indians who will migrate to India. In respect of Adverse Possessions, India will receive 2777.038 acres of land and will transfer 2267.682 acres of land to Bangladesh through implementation of the 2011 Protocol. Indian 'adverse possession' refers to territory within Indian control, but which is legally part of Bangladesh. Residents of these adverse possessions are Indian citizens. The same applies to Bangladeshi adverse possessions. The reality, though is that the area is already in Bangladeshi possession, and handing it over is merely a procedural acceptance of the de facto situation on the ground. Exchange of enclaves and the drawing of boundaries to maintain status quo of adverse possessions involving transfer and de jure control of territories requires a constitutional amendment. However, no constitutional amendment is necessary for resolution of undemarcated sectors under the 2011 Protocol as this is within the competence of the Executive Wing of the Government. This historic agreement will contribute to a stable and peaceful boundary and create an environment conducive to enhanced bilateral cooperation. It will result in better management and coordination of the border and strengthen our ability to deal with smuggling, illegal activities and other trans-border crimes. During PM Modi's probable visit Bangladesh in June, India will look for transit through Bangladesh to connect with Northeast. Teesta-water-sharing agreement will be next on agenda. Due to newly generated good-will our ex-PM Atal Bihari Vajpayee could get the top Bangla Honour. Also, it gives good signals to our neighbors to whom India has made many promises but rarely fulfilled them to their full expectations. Passing the constitutional amendment bill and ratifying the agreement creates a positive attitude towards India and says that now we mean business and are ready to act on those promises. Updated 10 May • View Upvotes