★How might an SMTP email account be compromised?We get occasional events where an attacker logs straight in to an SSL-protected SMTP server and sends spam. The account holders deny they fell for phishing or have malware-ridden PCs or weak passwords, and it's rare enough that a server-side compromise seems unlikely. I'd say about 0.2% of accounts per year. There is no recurrence after changing passwords.
There are several compromise vectors that come to mind, though these shouldn't be considered all inclusive. They fell for a phishing attempt.  This could happen to even the most careful individual, and they may not even be aware of it.  Phishing attempts today can be very sophisticated. They have malware on their computer systems.  Maybe it's the new toolbar that's proven to be so helpful.  Or maybe it's the new free game they downloaded and play. They have used a weak password.  One person's strong may be another person's weak.  Maybe they used the name of their pet, figuring that no one but their inner circle knows the name of their pet. Maybe someone they trust also has their account credentials, and their computer got compromised. Maybe they use the same password for all their online accounts, and one of those systems that has the account got compromised. Maybe they used these same credentials to log into another service, the service is not using https, and they were on a public wifi access point. Maybe they were the victim of Social Engineering. Maybe they were in a public place, logged into their account, and someone doing some shoulder surfing took note of their credentials. Maybe they don't have an antivirus program on their computer, or they do, but have allowed the subscription to run out.  Or it's not configured to show alerts, or it is and they are clicking <OK> because it's getting in the way of what ever they are doing at the time.Again, this list isn't all inclusive, as there could be other ways their credentials are being compromised.  You might think about putting out a weekly email with tips on how to keep their credentials safe, but do it as a customer service so that no one feels embarrassed and singled out.    Embed Quote