★SMTP: Is there a tool to 'properly' check whether an email address will bounce?
Dhugal - We used to face this problem ourselves.  Our parent company was running several lead generation campaigns and we were generating around 1MM - 3MM leads per month and sending auto responder emails to all of them.  The problem was many of the leads contained invalid email addresses and this negatively impacted our own email deliverability.  Our emails started going to the junk mail folder and we even became blacklisted at some ISP's.  When we looked at options to address this, there weren't any great ones.  SMTP checks are not scaleable at volume and can often return inconsistent results.  There were other companies who offered "email verification" by utilizing their own email database of known good email addresses and known bad email addresses.  The problem with this solution of course is that no one has a database with every single email address in the world and what's good today can be bad tomorrow and vice versa. So we started off on this quest to find a way to find a way to verify email addresses in real time without relying solely on SMPT checks or databases.  That was about 4 years ago and through a lot of learning, relationships and good old fashioned trial and error, we launched BriteVerify 3 years ago.  We perform real time email verification by authenticating that the email username at the email domain exists in real time directly with the actual email providers themselves.  Our service works with consumer, business and International email addresses and we even have an office in London if you'd like to set up a meeting.  You can try us out for free directly on our homepage (Real Email Verification | BriteVerify) and you can access our technology in web forms, via API or our files (email list) verification platform for your existing legacy data.  We have a reseller option available as well if you'd like to partner with us to offer a list cleansing service to your customers. As a disclaimer, I obviously work for BriteVerify, but this is what we do all day long every day - so apologies if this is overly promotional.  Just as any FYI, we already work with EmailVision and several other ESP's in the EU region.    Embed Quote