★What is a normal/acceptable frequency of SMTP RFC error 450 (try again later) being emitted by an SMTP server?Is there a certain level where one can say that there is a risk that the email won't be delivered, or may face severe delays.
This is a capacity versus offered load question. Capacity is determined both by underlying Computer Hardware Performance, and by the SMTP Server implementation, atop a given Operating System. How many E-mail transactions per unit time can a given SMTP server implementation process? Offered load is what the Internet sends to you, i.e. how many people want to correspond with your SMTP server, and how often? In order to determine an acceptable frequency of "450 try again later" (which suggests a capacity overload, i.e. an undelivered queue of previously accepted E-mail), you need to have a capacity plan: how much E-mail are you expecting, and measure how much you actually get. One you have that, you need to know how many E-mail transactions per unit time each SMTP server you're considering using can process, and thus which of them will exceed your required capacity (yes, you want to have more capacity than you think, both to make sure that the system is responsive to traffic spikes, and also to account for future growth). If your current SMTP server is emitting "450", then it's probably hitting some capacity limit. The question about that is: are those events correlated with an unusual spike in activity (traffic), or are they routine? If the latter, you need a bigger/faster/higher-capacity SMTP server. The bad part is if your server is routinely emitting 450 towards a given peer; most SMTP clients (those with E-mail to send to you) will only wait three days before giving up and returning the E-mail back to the sender with a report that it is undeliverable. Unless your business is very E-mail based (e.g. eBay uses E-mail extensively as part of its customer interaction, and they have many millions of members; Email Deliverability is a very big issue for them), it shouldn't be that difficult to find a quite modest SMTP server configuration that will serve your needs. IMHO, for my own use, I don't expect my SMTP server (I use Postfix on NetBSD running an old Sun Microsystems server) to ever emit "450" unless my server is under attack (e.g. Distributed Denial of Service (DDoS)).    Embed Quote