What are some of the most ingenious algorithms in computer science?added bonus if the algorithm runs in constant time
Artificial Intelligence, Machine learning related algorithms: (1) Genetic algorithm:    In the computer science field of artificial intelligence, a genetic algorithm (GA) is a search heuristic that mimics the process of natural evolution. This heuristic is routinely used to generate useful solutions to optimization and search problems. Genetic algorithms belong to the larger class of evolutionary algorithms (EA), which generate solutions to optimization problems using techniques inspired by natural evolution, such as inheritance, mutation, selection, and crossover. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gen... (2) Ant colony optimization algorithms:   In computer science and operations research, the ant colony optimization algorithm (ACO) is a probabilistic technique for solving computational problems which can be reduced to finding good paths through graphs. This algorithm is a member of ant colony algorithms family, in swarm intelligence methods, and it constitutes some metaheuristic optimizations. Initially proposed by Marco Dorigo in 1992 in his PhD thesis,[1][2] the first algorithm was aiming to search for an optimal path in a graph, based on the behavior of ants seeking a path between their colony and a source of food. The original idea has since diversified to solve a wider class of numerical problems, and as a result, several problems have emerged, drawing on various aspects of the behavior of ants. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ant... (3)Simulated annealing: Simulated annealing (SA) is a generic probabilistic metaheuristic for the global optimization problem of locating a good approximation to the global optimum of a given function in a large search space. It is often used when the search space is discrete (e.g., all tours that visit a given set of cities). For certain problems, simulated annealing may be more efficient than exhaustive enumeration — provided that the goal is merely to find an acceptably good solution in a fixed amount of time, rather than the best possible solution. The name and inspiration come from annealing in metallurgy, a technique involving heating and controlled cooling of a material to increase the size of its crystals and reduce their defects. The heat causes the atoms to become unstuck from their initial positions (a local minimum of the internal energy) and wander randomly through states of higher energy; the slow cooling gives them more chances of finding configurations with lower internal energy than the initial one. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sim... (4)Backpropagation    Backpropagation is a common method of training artificial neural networks so as to minimize the objective function. Arthur E. Bryson and Yu-Chi Ho described it as a multi-stage dynamic system optimization method in 1969.[1][2] It wasn't until 1974 and later, when applied in the context of neural networks and through the work of Paul Werbos,[3] David E. Rumelhart, Geoffrey E. Hinton and Ronald J. Williams,[4][5] that it gained recognition, and it led to a “renaissance” in the field of artificial neural network research. It is a supervised learning method, and is a generalization of the delta rule. It requires a dataset of the desired output for many inputs, making up the training set. It is most useful for feed-forward networks (networks that have no feedback, or simply, that have no connections that loop). The term is an abbreviation for "backward propagation of errors". Backpropagation requires that the activation function used by the artificial neurons (or "nodes") be differentiable. http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bac...       In my option the basic(classics) algorithms more like "the skills", by contrast the complex algorithms more like "the thoughts"(more ingenious?). 