As a developer, how much space should I allocate for Linux?I don't have much experience with programming in the Linux environment. But I want to learn development in the Linux environment. I will keep my data in my NTFS partitions. So how much space should I allocate for the / partition and the swap partition?
If you're running Windows or another OS on your machine that already has a bunch of data and stuff on it... I  would recommend a virtual machine.  For the VM I would also recommend resource allocation along the same lines as the other answers. You may need a decent amount of space to try out a whole bunch of things - which may mean installing oodles of libraries and dev packages. For this, I would go for a least 30G. Using virtual machines is a different concept to creating a partition for dual boot or whathaveyou, but it opens up greater flexibility in my opinion. Using a VM instead will make it so you don't have to resize your NTFS partition to accommodate a dedicated linux partition. With a VM you can host the linux box using the various filesystems available in the VM right there on the NTFS system. Pros of using a VM: With a VM, you can set up virtual disks and partitions which will be easy to resize as you will and need to. You can set up "shared folders" from the NTFS host drive to store your dev project source and binaries. This works quite fine (i've never had issues with it anyway). If you don't plan on setting up a large /home partition (or using the /home directory on a single partition deployment of the distro) utilising shared folders should be good enough and you won't need to allocate more resources to the VM. VMs make it very easy to manage multiple environments. It is easy enough to fire up more VMs if you want to try different linux distros. And if you need more space for your windows instance, you can shutdown, or resize, and even remove an existing virtual machine easily enough without having to mess with your existing partitions on the host disk. Cons of using a VM: You will, of course have a performance hit running a distro in a VM while windows is running in the background, so having enough ram and CPU cores to allocate to the VM may be an issue if you do not have a lot to give to begin with. Setting up a VM (e.g using hyperv, vmware/vsphere,virtualbox etc) can be a bit of an ordeal if you're not familiar with VMs, although if you do something wrong, its not too terrible to adjust or delete and start again. However, the learning curve isn't too steep at all. Graphics cards/drivers can be problematic in VMs, so if you're planning on doing projects that demand your graphics card (for example making a 3D game, playing with OpenGL, SDL etc...) for this I would recommend to instead go for a dual boot system. 