What will happen if we use more than 4GB of memory in a 32-bit system?Will the system be able to use more than 4GB? In what condition can a system have more than 4GB of memory?
Robert Love's answer is absolutely accurate in terms of modern 32-bit processors running modern operating systems, which is presumably what the OP asked about, so I'm not intending this as a critique.  But before we had processors with hardware support for virtual memory, we still had techniques for extending physical RAM size beyond the processor's address space.  E.g., bank-switching.    So for a more general answer, I would just put it in terms of physical memory size and address space size. Physical memory size is how much memory you have.  It's determined by your budget, and by the physical limits of the system design.  Address space size is how many bytes a running program can access via unique address values. This is determined by the logical size of an address as defined in the CPU's instruction set.  Bank-switching was a way that allowed programs to use non-unique addresses and therefore access more physical RAM than the address space allowed.  A program would send a hardware signal that disconnected one bank of memory and connected another. So if you had two banks for a particular range of addresses, a pointer with a value within that range could actually be referring to the memory in bank-A or bank-B. Of course, the program had to keep very careful track of which bank was connected at all times. Virtual memory, of course, is a much more elegant way to 'disconnect' physical memory addresses from the pointer values that programs use to access them.  One of the interesting things about virtual memory is that it was introduced in order to allow programs to access an address space that was larger than the physical memory, then for a period of time with 32-bit processors and PAE the virtual address spaces were often smaller than the physical memory size, but with 64-bit processors we're now back to virtual address spaces being (in most cases) larger than the physical memory size! 