What is your favorite tree?
The Baobab tree.  It's known as "The Tree of Life” and it’s no wonder why.  This tree is remarkable and has a great many life-sustaining qualities.  It's looks have the ability to turn heads and stop traffic.  A large tree can hold up to 100,000 liters of water During severe droughts, people and animals cut or chew the branches and trunk to access drinking water. The leaves and fruit are edible, known as "monkey bread".  Both are packed with vital nutrients. The fruit is filled with seeds that can be ground into something resembling coffee beans. The seeds are not usually eaten and dispersed as they're discarded by animals eating on the go.  This is important for propagation because the seed pods don't break open when they fall from the tree to the ground. The baobab's appearance changes dramatically as the years go by and the older it gets, the more plentiful its resources.  It changes from a smooth, pinkish color to a beautiful mosaic of lines, crevices and clefts...  ...a lot like us, in fact. Elders and villagers held meetings in the shade of the largest baobab trees.... ...and many important decisions are still made there. The bark of the baobab is used to make rope, baskets, cloth, fishing line, waterproof roofs, musical instrument strings and canoes. Stripping the bark from the lower trunk of most trees usually leads to the death of the tree, but the baobab not only survives, it regenerates new bark.  When the tree does eventually die, it rots from the inside and collapses, leaving behind a pile of fibers, adding to its mystique - many native Africans claim they don't die at all, they simply disappear. The white powder puff flowers bloom only after dark.  Bats pollinate while chasing insects at night.  Bush babies also spread the pollen, which when mixed with water, can be used as glue. Inside the Ombalantu Baobab tree at Outapi in Owamboland, Namibia. It's a naturally hollow tree with a circumference of 30m; used as a chapel; it can seat about 20 people. This baobab was used as a prison in the 1800s The largest recorded baobab – the Glencoe Baobab, had a circumference of 47m (154 ft) and a diameter of 15.9m (52 ft.), but recently split into two parts.  After it split, the Sundland Baobab in South Africa, claimed the record with a reported circumference of 30m (100 ft.)    The Sundland Baobab has been converted into a pub & wine cellar. Entrance to the pub in the hollow of the tree An interior wall of the pub, with a few embellishments, resembles another icon of Africa. For many Africans, the month of December means celebration - a season of love, sharing and merriment and the baobab is always included in the festivities. Other uses include a public lavatory With or without a view For most of the year, the tree is leafless, and looks very much like it has its roots sticking up in the air. There are numerous legends offering explanations of how the baobab came to be known as "the upside down tree" - the most prevalent being that the tree somehow offended God, who uprooted it and planted it again upside down to keep it quiet.  Anyone daring to pick a flower, for instance, will be eaten by a lion.  On the other hand, if you drink water in which the seeds have been soaked, you'll be safe from a crocodile attack. Explorer, David Livingstone, described in one of his reports, a baobab whose hollow trunk housed 20 to 30 men. Certain tribes in the Transvaal wash baby boys in water soaked in the bark of a baobab. Then, like the tree, they will grow up mighty and strong. Some baobab's are reported to have been carbon dated to be more than 3000 years old. When Nelson Mandela passed on last year, it was said of him, "The large baobab tree has fallen, but its roots will nourish the soil forever." The baobab is held in high regard among the people of Africa.  It's revered and respected and has brought color and life to African culture and history for thousands of years.   It's synonymous with life; offering water, food and shelter, asking little in return.  Imagine the spectacles the baobab has witnessed over thousands of years -  the lion prides that have rested in its shade, the western black rhino and abundant herds of elephants passing by; the native people, who've worshiped at its base, praying for rain; the soldiers and natives fighting for independence and criminals and travelers who have sought shelter in its hollow trunk; and the sunrises of a million new days. Photos: Bing images Updated 25 Jan • View Upvotes