How are isomorphisms used within pure mathematics?Can you give me examples of use and when isomorphisms are used whitin pure mathematics fields (also which field and how...). Thanks in advance.
Thanks for A2A. Your question is too general. In fact all pure math is permeated by different sorts isomorphisms, and the more advanced ones are not always easy to understand.  For instance,  every bijection is an isomorphism in the category of sets, e.g  N≅Z  . I will give you only a drop in  the ocean of examples: 1) Linear algebra. Let  V  and W  are finite dimensional vector spaces, and   V ∗   and W ∗     are their duals. Then it holds:  Hom(V,W)≅V ∗ ⊗W≅V ∗ ⊗W ∗∗   ≅W ∗∗ ⊗V ∗ ≅Hom(W ∗ ,V ∗ ).  Note that we applied a number of different natural isomorphisms relating Hom  and tensor products,  finite dim. vector spaces and their double duals (W ∗∗ ≅W  ) to prove that the vector spaces  Hom(V,W)    and  Hom(W ∗ ,V ∗ )  are isomorphic. 2) Complex geometry.   Let X  be a complex projective manifold. Assume that we want to describe Pic(X)  which is  a set of isomorphism classes of line bundles on X  . First isomorphism you use  Pic(X)≅H 1 (X,O ∗ X )  . You have an exact sequence  of sheafs (so-called exponential sequence): 1→Z − →O X → exp(2πi⋅) O ∗ X →1  Since X  is compact,  H 0 (X,O ∗ X )=0  and one gets an exact long sequence:  0→H 1 (X,Z)→H 1 (X,O X )  →H 1 (X,O ∗ X )→H 2 (X,Z)  . It describes roughly a structure of Picard group.  Since  H 1 (X,Z)  is a lattice in a C  -vector space H 1 (X,O ∗ X )  , Picard group  is made from  a "continious" part Pic 0 (X)≅H 1 (X,O X )/H 1 (X,Z)  and a discrete part measured by its image in H 2 (X,Z)  . This are many  calculations of this sort but much more involved which use long exact sequences, spectral sequences, etc.  with many various isomorphisms in the geometry and algebraic topology. 3) Algebraic/Differential topology  See for example the Thom isomorphisms in Thom space . 4) Representation theory. Probably the easiest example are Young tableaux . The representations of symmetric group  S n   over C  are in bijection with partitions of n  .  You can also derive many combinatorial properties of Young tableau into properties of the representation, e.g a number of standard Young tableau determines dimension of a representation.   5) Arithmetic geometry.  An easiest and very classical example is an elliptic curve E  . If you have a lattice Λ⊂C  there is an isomorphism between C/Λ  and a elliptic curve given by Weierstrass ℘  -function and its derivative. Weierstrass ℘  -function is a double periodic function (i.e well defined on  C/Λ  ) given by ℘(z)=1z 2  +∑ ω∈Λ,ω≠0 (1(z−ω) 2  −1ω 2  )  By sending z↦(℘(z),℘ ′ (z))  you get an elliptic curve y 2 =4x 3 −g 2 x−g 3     as the image of this map. In particular, one gets a group law on the elliptic curve in this way. One can easily obtain  an inverse map using  example 2) since E≅Pic 0 (E)≅H 1 (E,O X )/H 1 (E,Z)  . Note that  elliptic curves look topologically like tori since you obtain C/Λ  by gluing opposite sides of the fundamental domain of  the lattice Λ  . 6) Algebra.  Probably at least one third of maps considered in algebra are (ring, group, module, etc.) isomorphisms . Some are rather interesting, take for example Artin–Wedderburn theorem . 7) Hodge theory. Look  at the Hodge diamond  filled  with the numbers h p,q =dimH q (X,Ω p )  of a regular projective variety. This is an example for the complex dimension n=3  .    In fact, if you take a real example, you'll notice that  it has a mirror symmetry.  Serre duality (isomorphism) implies that h i,j =h n−i,n−j   and Hodge decomposition (with the corresponding isomorphism)  implies  that h i,j =h j,i   . 8) Number theory.  For instance, there is an isomorphism between group of isomorphism classes of binary integral  primitive quadratic forms   and the narrow  ideal class group of Q(D − −  √ )  : Binary quadratic form Updated 10 Mar • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Anonymous