Statistical Mechanics: What is the "fermion sign problem"?http://physics.aps.org/articles/...
Our first thought should be that it must have something to do with the fact that fermions obey "Fermi-Dirac statistics" (cf. The Fermi-Dirac Distribution) rather than Bose-Einstein (Bose–Einstein statistics) or Maxwell-Boltzmann (Maxwell–Boltzmann statistics).  This is the most basic and can be taken as the defining feature of fermions.  The simplest way to put it is that if you have a wavefunction (in position space) of two fermions, then if you were to interchange those two fermions you would have to multiply the wavefunction by -1, ie, ψ→−ψ  , which of course flips it upside down.  Note that |ψ(x)| 2   hasn't changed anywhere.  Note also that if the two fermions were in the same state (that is, including position, x), then interchanging them tells us ψ(x)=−ψ(x)  , which requires ψ=0  .  So two fermions can't occupy the same state.  This is the Pauli exclusion principle.  For bosons (ie, quantum mechanical particles that obey Bose-Einstein stats), ψ  is unchanged under a swap of particles.  Maxwell-Boltzmann doesn't really apply in quantum mechanics. Another angle on the same idea is that in quantum field theory, creation and annihilation operators commute for bosonic fields but must anticommute for fermionic fields, or else when you try to quantize the theory you'll get nonsense. Ultimately, this is a rather deep and important fact and is related via the spin-statistics theorem (Spin–statistics theorem) to the fermions having half-integer spin while bosons have integer spin.  The representation theory of the Lorentz (or Poincare) group gives some pretty deep insight into where all this comes from (Representation theory of the Lorentz group). The Wikipedia page Numerical sign problem tells us In physics, the sign problem is typically (but not exclusively) encountered in calculations of the properties of a quantum mechanical system with large number of strongly interacting fermions, or in field theories involving a non-zero density of strongly interacting fermions. Because the particles are strongly interacting, perturbation theory is inapplicable, and one is forced to use brute-force numerical methods. Because the particles are fermions, their wavefunction changes sign when any two fermions are interchanged (due to the symmetry of the wave function, see Pauli principle). So unless there are cancellations arising from some symmetry of the system, the quantum-mechanical sum over all multi-particle states involves an integral over a function that is highly oscillatory, and hence hard to evaluate numerically, particularly in high dimension. Since the dimension of the integral is given by the number of particles, the sign problem becomes severe in the thermodynamic limit.So indeed, the 'sign problem' is intrinsically related to fermions' statistics.  In particular, it's just the problem of calculating observables in practice when you have lots of strongly interacting particles.  Strongly interacting means the perturbative methods that might simplify such a problem are no good because the situation is not a 'small perturbation' away from a bunch of free particles or anything like that.  First pretend that the particles are all distinguishable - we'd still have to do a sum over all consistent configurations or histories since we're doing quantum mechanics.  But then for each of those single configurations we now have to also include all the configurations that look the same but where particles are interchanged.  So the number of terms we have to compute gets huge very quickly.  Now because of the statistics of fermions, we have to keep track of adding positive and negative terms.  If we take the number of fermions to be very large, we can replace the sum by an integral.  Then you're integrating over a function that is sometimes positive and sometimes negative, and that's the oscillatory nature the quote refers to.  So now hopefully the statement below from Wikipedia makes some intuitive sense.  The 'large number of variables' referred to is the set of variables that keeps track of the configurations, such as the position or momentum of each particle, etc. The numerical sign problem refers to the difficulty of numerically evaluating the integral of a highly oscillatory function of a large number of variables. Numerical methods fail because of the near-cancellation of the positive and negative contributions to the integral. Each has to be integrated to very high precision in order for their difference to be obtained with useful accuracy. The sign problem is one of the major unsolved problems in the physics of many-particle systems. To some extent, this is a problem of mathematical technology rather than physics, but it is likely that the solution - if we find one - will rely on the physics. 