Can all mathematical functions be fully replicated using a sequence of '+', '-' , 'x', '/' operators (as can y to the power x)?
As Joachim Pense explained, the space of functions R R   is so ridiculously large you cannot even hope to describe all of its elements in a comprehensible way. We can't even represent all real numbers in a comprehensible way, let alone functions. But that isn't that much of a problem. It's actually very common in mathematics. In measure theory, for example, we can prove that there exist non-measurable real sets, but we can't construct them. In any case, we have many tools to describe functions. But they're far more complicated than what you proposed. Here is a non-exhaustive list (I daresay an exhaustive list cannot exist) Basic numerical operators: addition +, multiplication x, powers ^ More advanced numerical operators: factorial !, Euler phi ϕ  , modulo %, floor and ceiling, partition function, Knuth arrows, etc. Limits: lim  , e.g. Taylor expansions (also lim sup, etc.) Definite integration, e.g. Fourier transform of any other function Indefinite integration, e.g. Gamma function, Breakdown into cases: {  , e.g. Indicator functions, Recursive definition, e.g. Ackermann function Differential equation are sometimes very useful ways of describing a function, especially if the equation has not been "solved" (i.e. if the solution(s) hasn't been written out in terms of the above); we can still calculate the function numerically and manipulate it theoretically, like any other function More particular descriptions: Set manipulation: inf, sup, cardinality or other properties of sets mapped back to real numbers, e.g. PrimeCountingFunction Manipulating binary, decimal or other numerical representations, e.g. Cantor function Manipulating non-numerical representations such as prime factors, e.g. radical function Addendum: The breakdown of x^y in the description is only valid if y is a positive integer, not for general real numbers, so even the power operator produces a negative answer to the question I included only +, x and ^, not -, / and sqrt, because they are the same: a-b is nothing more than a+(-1)*b, and a/b is just a*(b^-1) You say "mathematical functions" but actually mean functions that map real numbers to real numbers. In general, a mathematical function can map any set to any other set, including sets of complex numbers but also other sets, other functions or algebraic structures. Some of the operations above can be described in terms of others, e.g. manipulating a numerical representation can be described using limits and modulos, or factorials can be described using recursive definition or the gamma function 