What are the 10 must-know algorithms and data structures for a software engineer?
The Amazon Algorithm "Amazon is a fantastic example of incorporating very sophisticated machine run algorithms that are designed to manage the overall behavior of the group of people who are visiting that website." ~Jerry Kaplan According to Jerry Kaplan, Amazon exploit the fact that they know a whole lot more about buying patterns than the average consumer does, and that sort of information asymmetry is the real crux of their business plan. Browsing History Most websites track our behavior and in doing so present products and information based upon our browsing history. This is convenient to the consumer but, Amazon also consider what consumers might be willing to pay for a product. As a matter of fact the best machine algorithms can determine when to charge someone more for a product (than the next guy). Amazon are the perfect example of this machine algorithm 'magic'. Their algorithm analyzes; time of day, what you bought in past, how you respond to incentives, where you are from (source), your browser etc. etc. in order for them to get you to buy at the highest price possible. As a consumer on Amazon, you in fact adhere to very specific statistical properties. Giant Machine Learning Algorithm Amazon's biggest problem is that it wants people to keep shopping after they buy what they came for, even though they don't need the vast majority of what Amazon sells. The giant algorithm is designed to arbitrage what it pays for a product and what it sells that product for to consumers. The algorithm adjusts profits within a zone which could never before be achieved in the retail market. Amazon also built an index of items that customers tend to purchase together. When someone views a page or makes a purchase, the site shows them products with high ratings and similar qualities based on that index "item-to-item collaborative filtering". The process is super fast and scalable. The recommendation engine is therefore, also based on products not just people. "The next time you spot a price shift for a product you've been keeping an eye on, remember that a hyper-intelligent computer system has for just as long kept its eye on you, and it's smarter than you think." Watch Jerry Kaplan discuss: Amazon’s Algorithm ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------- The author has curated this video and has no affiliation with Amazon or Jerry Kaplan Updated 1 Oct • View Upvotes