How do I start learning or strengthen my knowledge of data structures and algorithms?
Originally Answered: How do I learn Data Structures and Algorithms?WARNING:- This answer might seem be long but contains my experiences with this fundamental field. The book "Introduction to Algorithms" (CLRS) mentioned in all the posts is considered bible of this field. However, I think that if you are a beginner in this field with a moderate programming experience and an average mathematical background, this book might have a very steep learning learning curve which you should avoid at this point of time. I am not saying that steep learning curve is bad but as a beginner, your focus should be to ensure an intuitive understanding of algorithms along with the knowledge of implementing those algorithms in your language of choice. Once you get this step right, you can start drilling down to the technical details of various data structures and algorithms. When you will start studying the technical details, "Introduction to Algorithms" would prove to be an invaluable guide and reference. Once you study this book completely, you should be able to understand most of the match editorials of algorithmic competitions - solving one by yourself would need more than the knowledge of algorithms, it needs practice. But that is a topic for other discussion. Anyways, CLRS assumes a fair amount of background on the part of the reader. If you do have an exceptional instructor who takes care of the intuition and implementation part, then by all means go for this book. But if you are not that lucky, then I would suggest you to begin with reading How to Solve it by Computer . This is a book written for people like you and me who want to enter into this beautiful field but lack the weapons in the arsenal to make it past the gates of this mansion. Also, this book is written without emphasizing any language and hence follows a pseudocode - approach which is very important as it works as a detox to the whole "language-oriented" thinking which makes it difficult to think about complex problems because you are too focused on the programming language that you forget to look at the problem. However, if you are not very strong in programming and need a book that teaches algorithms by implementing them in a programming language, I would seriously recommend Sams Teach Yourself Data Structures and Algorithms in 24 Hours: Robert Lafore: 978067231633g3: Amazon.com: Books . It's a very well written book with very lucid explanation. Having read it myself, I can vouch for the effectiveness of this book. Don't try to finish off this book in 24 hours. Take your time to read it. Read it thoroughly. It won't take you far but will make your basics in DS/Algo as well as C++ very strong. If you read this book, I don't think that you'll need the book I mentioned above. After reading this book, go for CLRS. You will have the treat of your life. If you are Java person, then studying  Amazon.com: Bundle of Algorithms in Java, Third Edition, Parts 1-5: Fundamentals, Data Structures, Sorting, Searching, and Graph Algorithms (3rd Edition) (Pts. 1-5) (0785342775785): Robert Sedgewick: Books will make your base very strong. However, it takes a rigorous route and teaches you many algorithms. For learning these topics in C, take a look at Algorithms in C, Parts 1-5 (Bundle): Fundamentals, Data Structures, Sorting, Searching, and Graph Algorithms (3rd Edition): Robert Sedgewick: 0785342756081: Amazon.com: Books. I haven't studied this series but since the writer is the same, so the pedagogy should be similar. Also, algorithms are always the same. It is the implementation that changes,so don't panic if you find one algorithm written in two different languages and you are unable to understand one or the other. Updated 13 Feb • View Upvotes