How do I start learning or strengthen my knowledge of data structures and algorithms?
Originally Answered: What are the best resources for me to increase my knowledge in data structure and algorithms?Introduction to Algorithms, Third Edition, by Cormen, Leiserson, Rivest and Stein is a good intro to algorithms and data structures. It has many  exercises at the end of each chapter. most of them are simple, but there  are some more difficult. Some Online resources: 1.Geeks for Geeks This is one of the best computer science portal for geeks, mainly  focus on Data structures and Algorithms. Analysis of  algorithms,Searching and Sorting, Greedy Algorithms, Dynamic  programming, Pattern searching, Backtracking, Divide and Conquer and Bit  algorithms are explained clearly.   2.Top Coder Top coder is one of the coding contest site mainly focus on  algorithmic questions. Here is the good collection of algorithmic topics  by various topcoder members.     3. OpenclassRoom- Stanford University Here is the collection of video tutorials by Prof.  Tim Roughgarden  from Stanford univ. Topics discussed here are Introduction to  fundamental techniques for designing and analyzing algorithms, including  asymptotic analysis; divide-and-conquer algorithms and recurrences;  greedy algorithms; data structures; dynamic programming; graph  algorithms; and randomized algorithms     4. Introduction to Algorithms – Massachusetts Institute of Technology Here is the collection of lecture slides,code on various algorithmic topics by Massachusetts institute of technology   5. Stanford CS Education Library This online library collects education CS material from Stanford courses and distributes them for free.   Here are few more sites that might help you to learn data structures and algorithms: 1. CSE 214 - Lecture Notes 2.Lectures in Advanced Data Structures (6.851) 3. CS 61B: Data Structures 4.Coursera 5. https://www.coursera.org/course/... 6. Page on Careercup 7.Page on Careercup 8 LeetCode 9 Newest 'data-structures' Questions - Stack Overflow 10. Newest 'algorithm' Questions - Stack Overflow 11 Introduction to Algorithms Course Online 