How do I start learning or strengthen my knowledge of data structures and algorithms?
Originally Answered: How do I improve my coding skills and improve my knowledge of algorithms and data structures in my 2 month summer holiday?Thanks for the A2A :) In short: Code, code and code. There is no substitute for programming practice. In detail: According to me, preparing for placements right after 2nd year is not necessary at all. I would recommend the following to help you become a better programmer rather than just help you to ace interviews. Find your passion:Application development and competitive programming are 2 major streams of programming. You can try both of these or pick any one based on your interest. For example, I was interested in web development in my freshman year, so during my first year I started learning web development during the summer holiday (PHP, HTML, Javascript) in order to create a website for my class in which the class representatives and teachers can post homeworks, timetable and other updates. Learning things by doing them is so effective! Note: App development knowledge will always give you a hand in finishing your academic projects. If you are interested, you can do non-academic projects as well. All these will help build up your resume. Never think that app development does not involve algorithms. For example, I (along with a few others) created a Chrome app for passwordless authentication  based on an RSA algorithm. Through that, I came to know how authentication worked using an RSA algorithm. Later in my sophomore year, I started solving problems in Spoj and found it interesting as well, and thus my journey in competitive programming started. This really helped me to develop my algorithmic skills. Even if you don't find a passion, don't stop coding! Jessica Su has put forward her view regarding this in one of her answers:   Some people think everyone who codes should be passionate, and people who don't code for fun don't belong in the field.  I think that's silly, and you can be a perfectly good programmer without living and breathing your work.  But you still need to make a concerted effort to gain experience and be solid on your fundamentals. Hack your mind: It's very important to be confident when solving programming problems. For example you might have the attitude that you can never solve a DP problem. You just have to let it go by hacking your mind. Later, try doing the same DP problem (you will surely solve it or at least partially solve it). So it's important to have a positive attitude when you practice programming. Create a discussion board:Start a discussion group on either Quora or Facebook and add your friends. It's always better to discuss problems rather than do them all alone. You will get different kinds of response which will help you to solve the problem in hand using different approaches. Have a "Question of the day" session or constantly keep updating with interesting questions. Work at a startup:Intern at a startup if you don't have an internship in an established company. According to what I have heard from many of my friends and seniors, technical internships give you great programming experience and add value to your resume. You will learn about many exciting programming tools and technologies. During summer of my 2nd year, I got an offer to intern at a startup but I gave up that opportunity because of my college schedule (just one month of summer holidays). I don't think that's your case. You have 2 months. From what I've heard, many startups don't have a scheduled hiring period. You can apply any time you want (even during the start of your summer), and if you have an impressive resume you might get an immediate offer to intern. Attend a MOOC: Coursera, Udacity, and many similar sites offer MOOCs (Massive Open Online Courses) on many computer fields such as Algorithms, Artificial intelligence, database, etc. Register for these classes and try solving their assignments as well (no use in just registering). Internship interview preparation:If companies visit your college to recruit interns, try your best to get an offer. Plan accordingly and start preparing. Most of the internship interviews test your basics in coding, algorithm and data structure. Try solving sample interview questions. Please don't spend an entire summer holidays just for interview preparation. I don't think it's necessary. A decent knowledge on algorithms and data structure coupled with flawless coding skill will fetch you an intern for sure. All the best. :) Updated 29 Jul 2014 • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Anonymous