Why is my brand new partition taking up a hundreds of MB even though there's no data on it?
This is one of those, depends questions.  But, the issue is a combination of the difference between binary and base ten representations of numbers. 1GB (binary) = 1,073,741,824 (base10) bytes which means that if size is reported it matters in what system.  This was causing so much confusion for Apple customers that Apple corrects this calculation so a 200GB drive reports 200GB starting with 10.6. How OS X and iOS report storage capacity Wonderful, right.  Nope.  Because formatting a HDD takes some of the usable space still.  Thus even though the drive size correction calculation is done, you still see that the drive reports less space than the Manufacturer claims they sold you.  Depending on the formatting technique, this consumption can be very significant.  Especially with FAT and the old Apple versions of the HFS format. Also, on new Apple Computers, a recovery partition (invisible) is being added with the OS which also takes up significant space, but is often a lifesaver if anything goes wrong.  (Access by pressing Command-R at the Startup Chime.) But, for SSD and Flash Drives, even more space is lost on formatting.  This is because a significant amount of space is set aside for "wear-out" because these technologies allow SSD drives last significantly longer.  The SSD/Flash technology only can allow a bit to be set and reset so many times (cycles).  This is not a exact fixed number but a statistical event.  Thus bits on a flash device at some point "wear out" and if these are in the middle of something crucial, Poof!  Bright engineers found a way around this behavior by a number of techniques that predict failures and move the data to spread the "wear" around.  The formatting sets aside some "reserve" to replace the lost bytes and whaaa laaa!  10 Times the life.  But in a 256GB drive, its going to cost you 6GB or more... for this. Apple lists these set-asides for SSD and Flash Drives as: EFI Partition Restore Partition Wear-leveling blocks Write-buffer area Metadata Spare blocks Grown bad blocks Factory bad blocks So, in the long run, this is just normal.  The manufacturer doesn't dictate the OS, so they cannot specify the formatted capacity, just the capacity raw.  Thus, in the end, it is just a fact of the digital age.. 