Why does a pen drive or hard disc show less memory capacity than the printed memory?
The General Story: There are 3 different reasons behind the less memory shown on your external storage device: Different operating systems treat your disk differently. Windows OS may not show the disk space like Linux, Mac or Unix. There are little discrepancies between the file formats and algorithms used by different operating systems. A portion of memory space in your external storage is reserved for system files and data sector for better performance. By default your pen drive is on NTFS format and some space is required for memory allocation.This is the primary reason behind the less usable space than the mentioned space. The root cause of the difference of what is printed on the box of the external device and the actually displayed memory in the computer is is the calculation method used by the disk manufacturing companies. Our computers work on base 2 (binary) number system rather than the decimal system. One megabyte of the product you are using is equal to 1,000,000 bytes in decimal base, but for a computer it is 1,048,576 bytes in binary base. For each gigabyte advertised in base 10, you're actually receiving about 70 megabytes less than a gigabyte in base 2. Manufacturers of disk drives will usually publish a disclaimer in this respect that the figures stated by them are in the base 10 of the number system. This is the reason that the memory displayed in our computers appears to be less than what is actually given by the manufacturers. The manufacturers do not cheat the people in this respect. Now if you have a different Problem: The situations I stated above were the common phenomenon, but sometimes, Hard Drives or Pendrives can have a different problem too. Drives with large storage quantity you bought may contain exceptionally low memory space, for example. a 16 GB Pendrive may contain about 200 MB free scape, though there are no files in it.  The root of these case is that the device may contain bugs or viruses, or is badly formatted. Of course there is are nice solutions too. Note: Previous data in the drive will be lost. First Solution: 1.  Plug in your external drive 2. Type "diskmgmt.msc" in Run box to open Disk Management. 3. Select your external drive’s partition. 4. Right click on it and select the option of “Delete Volume” in it. 5. This will delete the memory space allocated and free up the total space. 6. Now in the empty space created again right click and select “Create Volume” to create the space. 7. Select the file system and format the partition to be able to use it again. Second Solution: If you are unsure of the first solution or if it does not work for you then try using this format utility called HP Format Disk Utility which is actually a low level format utility. Use this utility to format the drive and it shall be working again normally. Picture Courtesy: First one- Me, Second one-Tech Salsa 