What are the procedures to format a hard drive in a computer?especially a hard drive bigger than 100MB
Since didn't ask about a specific operating system I am guessing you want to know about the concept, not particular instructions. A hard drive, SSD, SD card, or generally all storage devices are just large buckets of bits, binary 1s and 0s.  In order to make use of them you need a file system.  A file system (like NTFS/FAT32/XFS) specification defines how its going to accomplish to job of organizing those bit-buckets into file/folder structure.  A file system needs to keep track of where files live, what their parent directory is, various permissions, file-names, timestamps, where available space resides for new file creations or file expansions, where space is used, and a bunch of other stuff.  You can have multiple file systems on a disk, these are contained within disk partitions and some can be marked as boot-able, indicating they contain the operating system instructions to actually run Windows/Linux/whatever.  To format a drive, first a partition table needs to get put on the disk, typically in the first couple sectors but not always.  This holds the information that says where partitions start, what type they are, and how large they are.  From there, a file system needs to get put in those partitions.  Typically the first sector of a partition will contain a boot-sector, which will define where all the file-system meta-data files will reside, some basics about the file-system itself (how many bytes/sector, how many sectors/cluster, stuff like that). The final step in a format is laying down a small amount of directories and files. The root directory needs to get defined at a minimum.  There are generally two types of formatting.  A deep format that will actually write data (mostly zeros) to every possible sector, or a quick format that will only lay-down the necessary meta-data mechanisms but not overwrite each and every sector. Additionally, some modern storage equipment that is running advanced format may have multiple logical sectors per physical sector on the disk.  In these cases you need to be cognizant of laying down a partition structure that aligns on these same boundaries otherwise the read/write performance can be significantly worse. 