Statistical Mechanics: What is the "fermion sign problem"?http://physics.aps.org/articles/...
The other answers are good ones, but I would like to add the algorithmic perspective because the problem arises in quantum Monte Carlo simulations of quantum many-body systems which exhibit the sign problem, and it turns out to be NP-hard in the general case. Let's start at the very beginning. We have a many-body quantum system with N  particles and m  possible states, so our state-space is exponentially large: m N   (for m=2  , say spins of electrons, and N=100  of them, this is a 10 30   -dimensional state space). Luckily there is a procedure that allows us to ignore most of these provided that we can do an honest representative sampling of them. This is the job of the Monte Carlo algorithm. The procedure usually starts by mapping the evolution of the quantum system into a classical Monte Carlo trajectory (we add one dimension to the exponent when doing this), meaning that you hop from state to state with certain probabilities. It's not very useful to go into the details of how it's done, and you can find a lot of good reading material out there [1]. The relevant thing is the partition function: Z=Trexp(−βH)  Taking a Taylor expansion and choosing a [complete] basis for the Hamiltonian, you can get a sum over P(c i )  , probabilities for the i  th configuration of the system. Then the expectation of some macroscopic observable looks like the classical case: ⟨A⟩=∑ i A(c i )P(c i )Z .  For quantum systems consisting of bosons, all of the P(c i )  's will be positive, but because of the antisymmetry of fermionic wavefunctions that Kevin explains, we can have negative probability contributions as well (if it helps to sooth that funny feeling, you can say Boltzmann weights instead of probabilities). Sometimes the magnitude of these probabilities is extremely small, and the energies (or whatever observable) will be highly oscillatory over the space of configurations, and you can imagine that the Monte Carlo scheme will find it difficult to sample all these states with high fidelity. You might have the clever idea to choose a basis that makes the Hamiltonian diagonal, which gets rid of the sign problem, but then you're doing eigendecompositions of a system that still scales exponentially, i.e., O(m N )  (as a side note, I really love seeing this type of cleverness be shot down by computational complexity, it just goes to show us how powerful of an idea it is). At least the problem is basis-dependent, which may help to find efficient approximation schemes for some cases. It's possible to show that in some bosonic (and frustration-free fermionic) cases a Monte Carlo algorithm can achieve some error ϵ  in time that scales polynomially with the system properties, namely the number of particles and the temperature. For frustrated fermionic systems, the error scales exponentially [2]. So what is frustration? A simple intuitive example is finding ground states of the 3D lattice Ising model, where we have a graph of N  vertices with binary ±1  spin values, so m=2  . The edges between them can be positive or negative, implying a positive or negative correlation between each spin. Now imagine three spins who are trying to minimize their overall energy. If the edges between two of the spins is negative, but the third edge is positive, it is impossible to completely satisfy this energetically (this is essentially a triangle inequality) so we say that it is frustrated. Having many of these around can increase the difficulty of a problem, and in the general case the Ising model is NP-complete [3]. It's stated as a decision problem, where you run a Monte Carlo simulation at some temperature and ask if there is any configuration which gives an energy less than some chosen threshold. Obviously you can calculate the energy of the configuration in polynomial time to check this, hence it is NP-complete. And since the corresponding optimization problem (Monte Carlo algorithm) has an NP-complete decision version, it itself is NP-hard [4]. I think this is quite an interesting area where computational complexity theory meets quantum physics. The most interesting part lies in our belief that even quantum computers aren't expected to be able to solve NP-complete problems efficiently, even though quantum simulation is probably its most valuable capability. There is a lot of study currently on the topic of what kinds of Hamiltonians are efficiently simulable. For example, a "stoquastic" Hamiltonian has all real and non-negative off-diagonal elements in some basis, and since you can encode a classical optimization problem like 3SAT into a diagonal Hamiltonian (which is also stoquastic), we know that it is at least NP-hard [5]. References: [1] I highly recommend David Chandler's introductory statistical mechanics book. It has a good chapter on Monte Carlo and is a great book all-around. [2] For example, the Heisenberg antiferromagnetic (all negative couplings) model on bipartite graphs can avoid the sign problem with a proper basis change: Ground-state correlations of quantum antiferromagnets: A Green-function Monte Carlo study. [3] See The Ising model is NP-complete by B.A. Cipra, a well-written article. [4] An excellent paper describes much of this post in more detail, and proves the NP-hard-ness of the sign problem: [cond-mat/0408370] Computational complexity and fundamental limitations to fermionic quantum Monte Carlo simulations [5] The work of Sergey Bravyi is very relevant here, especially this paper: [1402.2295] Monte Carlo simulation of stoquastic Hamiltonians. Updated 19 Aug 2014 • View Upvotes