★What are the technical, definitional elements of a "mesh network" as that phrase is now being used?Mesh, noun: a material made of a network of wire or thread. an interlaced structure; a computer network in which each computer is connected to a number of others, especially as in an n-dimensional lattice.So, what does this phrase "mesh network" really mean in terms of technical elements that define it, and thus that can be used as a checklist to identify one?
A mesh network is very close to what is described by the second definition: it's a computer network in which each computer is connected to a number of others. Practical mesh networks also have other defining features: All nodes must be connected, either directly or indirectly (via intermediate nodes). In other words, groups of disconnected nodes are not allowed. The mean distance (measured as the number of links, possibly passing through intermediate nodes) between the nodes should be relatively small, specially compared to the size of the network. The network must be relatively rich in connections. In particular, it should not be a tree, a star, or even a ring, where the total number of connections is kept to a minimum. The network should have redundant connections. Each node should be served by at least two links - and possibly more - to its neighbors. If all nodes are connected to every other node, the network is called a "full mesh". In this kind of network the distance is always 1, and the level of redundancy is maximized. However, a full mesh is very expensive and does not scale very well, because the total number of connections grows exponentially. A "partial mesh" is a less extreme version, where nodes have redundant connections, but not to every other node - generally two or three for each node are enough. More recently, the term "mesh network" started to be applied to a very specific technology, that are radio-based mesh networks. These networks have a few additional features: Dynamic discovery. Modern radio-based mesh networks can discover the existence of neighboring nodes, and build a richly connected topology automatically. Geographical coverage. Radio signals can be mapped to the local geography. While this mapping should be done in 3D, for all practical effects this map can be usually reduced to a 2D, flat view, that limits and drives topology choices. Considerations such as distance and interference come into play, and are used to select which links can be stablished to form the resulting mesh.    Embed Quote