★Is pCell, from Artemis, really "the Holy Grail of wireless networking"?
Thanks for the A2A, William I think "Holy Grail" might be a bit overstated... I've been following this for a long time, much longer than it's been in the popular press. I believe that it is technologically feasible to massively increase the amount of bandwidth which can be extracted from a particular slice of spectrum in a particular geography. I also know, from experience, that there's a giant difference between doing something that works for one user and that works for 1,000, and and even bigger difference in jumping from 1,000 to 1,000,000... It remains to be seen if Mr. Perlman's pCell will deliver the suggested performance at scale. Tony Li makes an excellent, excellent point as well: even if it does scale, perfectly, and it doesn't have any other undesirable side effects like too much radiated EMF and sucking your battery dry in a matter of moments, and hypothetically let's say you can get to 1Gbps per user in wireless bandwidth  - how exactly does that help, given the limits and already highly profit-pressured operating costs of terrestrial bandwidth?? I'm looking with a very sharp eye  at the economics of building and operating fiber networks, and of expanding the capacity of existing fiber networks, and it's not nearly as attractive as it used to be. And when you step up to the IP routing layer, it's just flat grim. I don't think there would be a problem with getting consumers to step up and pay for new devices capable of massively higher throughput. And I don't think it would be terribly difficult to get carriers to step up to upgrading transmission infrastructure to support it - there's a direct correlation to revenue for them. However, getting past that, into core networks? At current IP transit prices, probably doable. However, if Joe Consumer expects to get "unlimited" capacity on his now-1000x-faster device for the same price, that will push postalized IP transit prices into the "not profitable" area, which means that price pressure would ripple up-line, quickly. Will people pay $10 per GB of data? $5? $1? That, ultimately, will drive how all this plays out - the technology, cool as it may be, is only part of a much larger and complex ecosystem.    Embed Quote