★What are the greatest technical challenges for wireless networks in the next 10 to 15 years?
I believe there are several challenges; some of them which might be addressed in the next 5-10 years and some which probably might not be addressed completely even after 15 years. 1. Multimedia and real-time video transmission over wireless - This requires huge bandwidth and an intelligent mechanism would be to sufficiently compress the video/multimedia. But then the signals have to be decoded quickly at the receiver level. This should be addressed completely within next 5-7 years. 2. Seamless communication over heterogeneous wireless networks: It is a bit wierd that we still do not have seamless connectivity across different available networks. We need a mechanism for switching between different available networks (WiFi, WiMAX, or any other 3G networks) with a single subscription. This would potentially be as well linked with multihop transmission and the video transmission mentioned above. 3. Energy optimization/harvesting in wireless devices: This if true could be a killer. Current iphones have a battery life of 5-6 hours max. when used continuously. Just imagine if we had a device that will automatically take energy from the environment. This is not just restricted to solar or thermal. But there are several other mechanisms - like extracting energy from acoustics (may not be promising) and tapping the keys (has a very good energy potential). I think efficient energy harvesting and making the device free from any power supply requirement would remain a very long term challenge. 4. Integration of Cognitive Radio into wireless networks: There are lots of work in this domain, especially done by Prof. Linda Doyle (CTVR, Dublin), Prof. Petri Manohen (RWTH Aachen) and CWC Oulu within Europe. But I believe CR is a vast ocean and we are still in the nascent steps of spectrum sensing/spectrum management. There are several open challenges like automatic understanding of  the environment, able to devote the entire bandwidth to set of users (even for a short time), self configuration of nodes to form networks (more like adhoc, but as we all know, ad hoc is mainly in research publications with very less real-world deployment). Among the 4 mentioned above, I believe challenges in Energy and CR would still remain even after 10-15 years    Embed Quote