★What is the difference between Bluetooth and other wireless networks?
I'm not sure what are the other 'wireless networks' but I assume you mean WiFi in general so 802.11a/b/g/n/ac (let's skip a legacy 802.11). First of all Bluetooth works in the same 2.4 GHz ISM band (2.4 - 2.4835 GHz) as 802.11/b/g/n . The rest of the networks work in 5GHz band (ISM / U-NII). So the first thing would be coverage. Bluetooth is designed to serve PAN (Personal Area Network) networks to allow a few devices to work together in close proximity (like Mac Mini with Apple wireless keyboard; your laptop computer and your phone). Bluetooth 4.0 is said to work up to 100m if there are no obstacles between transmitter and receiver. Speed: While 802.11 networks can work up to almost 7Gbps (802.11ac with 8 spatial streams), bluetooth will work most likely with speed around 2Mbps. Bluetooth 3.0 + HS can work with speed even up to 24Mbps but  then it would use 802.11 link anyway and bluetooth part would be used only for a connection establishment. When it comes to Bluetooth 4.0 speed is below 1Mbps because the main purpose of the latest generation of this technology is to consume much less power (it was designed for use in sensor networks). Spread spectrum technique - this is very important difference. While 802.11 networks use DSSS, OFDM and so on Bluetooth uses FHSS (Frequency Hoping Spread Spectrum). This is quite danger for other wireless networks as it uses a whole band of 2.4GHz ISM causes so-called 'all-band interference'. Forutantely Bluetooth most likely doesn't consume much energy hence it is rather silent for other networks anyway. Bluetooth works in Master-Slave topology. In each Blueteooth cell there's one 'Master' device and 'up to' 7 slaves - there's no such limitation in WiFi. Also this is Master who decides which device can transmit and when. WiFi clients use DCF (Distributed Coordination Function) so they contend for the medium. I partialy mentioned that earlier but another thing is power. Bluetooth devices are grouped into classes where class 1 devices (the most power consuming) use 100mW. Normally WiFi adapters work with power around 250mW. There is much more differences but I will skip them hoping that this is somehow answering your question ;)..    Embed Quote