★What are some interesting topics for research combining knowledge of wireless networking and machine learning?Something like cognitive radio.
Of course decoding of messages or signals on reception is all about statistical inference, a fraternal twin of machine learning... As far as research topics, I'd ask if you meant wireless networking to be strictly in the lower layers (PHY/MAC) or the entire networking stack. Machine learning algorithms are being used quite commonly for purposes of anomaly detection, intrusion detection, protocol classification, botnet activity detection, traffic load prediction, and more. These issues were initially dealt with deterministic approaches based on fixed port numbers, IP address ranges, or specific signatures in the data payload, all of which get impaired when dynamic port assignment is used, when source IP addresses are spoofed or when socket-layer encryption is used, respectively. So ML has been increasingly applied using features such as packet size distribution, inter-packet arrival times, aspects of TCP window behaviour, to obtain protocol classification or malware detection, and I am sure there are many open topics in the space. All of the above is not really specific to wireless as they act on network and/or transport layer features of the traffic. If you intended your question within the lower layers that are specific to wireless protocols, and not counting the usual decoding aspects, I suppose you could look in the general direction of whether physical-layer features can be used to either classify device types or individual users in a group or activity being performed by users (searching vs steaming vs uploading pics, vs texting, etc.). So the idea would be to investigate whether any of the useful things that are getting learned using features at higher layers can be learned using lower layer features (e.g., in the PHY domain). This may be helpful for cases where packets are encrypted at low layers, thus invalidating the upper layer feature approaches.    Embed Quote