★Is pCell, from Artemis, really "the Holy Grail of wireless networking"?
There is a huge amount of marketing noise around this. A lot of the articles are very naive: I suppose we all want the perfect thing, and it is nice to hype the lone inventor who has solved the big problems.... But I am sceptical. A somewhat detailed article (IEEE Spectrum) here: 5G Service On Your 4G Phone? Here is the NYT article Wireless System Could Offer a Private Fast Lane This is the only one I have seen offering some dissenting views. I know Seven Crowley as an internet "colleague" and have a lot of respect for him, so I'd tend to agree with his cautions. He wrote a blog here (a year ago) based on patent filings & FCC registrations. Rearden discloses more experimental details at FCC’s request, plans to use Clearwire spectrum UPDATE Mr Perlman replied to my comments - see his response below. As far as I can tell, peeling through the hype: Mr Perlman is claiming 1000X advantage, with no new interefernce.That is a huge claim: Turbo codes (which genuinely were revolutionary, as once in a generation advantage)  "only" gave 3dB. Most technologies are offering +20%, perhaps +50% - 2X as an extreme - but 1000X would be remarkable. Still, that might be journalistic hype. There could be some very worthwhile gains. pCell - formerly known as DIDO"Personal cell" is the idea that you can make a cell arbitarily small - each terminal has a signal set of waves that it alone receives, from a constellation of antennas. You have lots of antennas then each user sees a diiferent combination of signals. Have enough antennas and and lots of very smart maths, then that is viable. But it is sort of part of the same idea as a lot of mainstream concepts: CoMP, massive MIMO, distributed MIMO etc So the logic is good. On the other hand, that really needs user co-operation, and Mr Perlman says it is one way ie it upgrades the network but can still use normal, existing, phones. If so, that would be remarkable: it would be very important, it doesn't need new devices, and it means it doesn't need standards. He could do it directly, without waiting or co-operating with 3GPP etc.  That would be huge. It also means it could work with all technologies: LTE, WiFi, 5G etc. That would be huge too. *BUT* I don't understand how that can work... How do you focus these beams without feedback path? How does the network know where you are in order to create the required ensemble across different antennas? How do UEs resolve all the different MIMO signals without some dedicated hardware? Precedent... This is not unprecedented:  as IO said, it is somewhat similar to CoMP or massive MIMO. More preciently, Marty Cooper(*)  of Arraycomm has talked about it as the "end game" of Cooper's Law (cell's get smaller; the ultimate is cell shrinks to be one terminal) Of the million times improvement in the last 45 years, roughly 25 times were the result of being able to use more spectrum, 5 times can be attributed to the ability to divide the radio spectrum into narrower slices — frequency division. Modulation techniques like FM, SSB, time division multiplexing, and various approaches to spread spectrum can take credit for another 5 times or so. The remaining sixteen hundred times improvement was the result of confining the area used for individual conversations to smaller and smaller areas — what we call spectrum re-use.... (more)Loading...