★Why is wireless network connectivity inherently slower than a landline internet connection?Is the answer higher chances of packet loss? Hence the justification for PowerLine network adapters, and other similar technology.
Packet loss is a big contributor because interference can come from so many devices. The 2.4 GHz and 5GHz spectrum is unlicensed in the USA so that generally speaking any device can use those frequencies at will. When you have wifi devices transmitting, Bluetooth devices sending audio, microwaves cooking, baby monitors transmitting, old cordless phones in use, etc ... you can see how the chance of uninterrupted communication is rare the more people/devices there are around you. Any time two devices transmit at the same moment on the same frequencies there is a good chance one or both will have to resend data. Also, the number of device to device connections competing for bandwidth is quite different in wireless vs wired networking. With Ethernet links there are exactly two devices on one cable. Often a computer and a switch/router device. Those devices pretty much have full use of the cable between them with no interference. [think of Ethernet links between PC to router and then between router to another PC as two separate connections.] With Wi-Fi if you send a file between two computers the data goes from a PC to the router and then from the router to another PC but this time it's using the same wireless frequency. So both PCs really only get half the total wireless bandwidth when talking to each other. Plus you have the phones, Bluetooth, microwaves, etc... getting in the way too using up some of the bandwidth possible within a frequency. You mentioned powerline networking (HomePlug) and that fits somewhere between Wi-Fi and ethernet. It's more like Wi-Fi in that multiple devices are sharing available bandwidth but the performance should be more reliable because there isn't likely to be as much interference from other devices. This may change if powerline networking becomes super popular or you live/work in a dense building (apartments/skyscraper/etc). Leave a comment if you need me to expand on anything. I could go on and on about details and corner cases for a while.    Embed Quote