How did Thomas Cormen and his co-authors generate the index for their classic algorithms book?
I created the index for Introduction to Algorithms.  It was by a combination of plenty of tedious work and a program called windex that Ron Rivest wrote when we were writing the first edition. As I've written elsewhere, we produced the book using LaTeX.  Ron's windex program organizes the index, based on the \index commands inserted into the LaTeX source.  windex takes care of alphabetizing, but it has four other important features: It allows for a two-level index.  For example, the index has an entry "algorithm," and under it are second-level entries "correctness of," "origin of word," "running time of," and "as a technology."  The \index command that produced the second-level entry "correctness of" looks like \index{algorithm/correctness of}. It allows for an entry to be alphabetized one way but to print another way.  For example, we have a macro \proc to print procedure names in small caps.  Where the index has an entry for "Above" (imagine that I had written that in small caps), we alphabetize it as "Above" but it prints as \proc{Above}.  Obviously, we don't want to alphabetize it as "\proc{Above}." It coalesces page ranges.  If there's an index entry on page 10 and on page 11, the pages in the index are listed as "10–11" and not "10, 11."  It also allows for an index entry to indicate the start or end of a range, using the symbols < and >. It ignores certain words when alphabetizing second-level entries.  Examples: "a," "by," "for," and "of."As you might imagine, the windex program saves a huge amount of work. Along with the windex program, I added some LaTeX macros to simplify some of the commands within the .tex files. The rest of the work to produce the index was, as I said, tedious.  On a hardcopy of each chapter, I marked locations that I thought should be indexed.  At first, each location was indexed as just a first-level entry, so that the resulting index had only first-level entries.  That's known as a "concordance."  Then, I went back through and added the second-level entries.  Some index entries appear in several second-level entries.  For example, red-black tree appears as a first-level entry, and red-black trees appears as a second-level entry under data structure and balanced search tree.  It also has a see also for interval tree, order-statistic tree, and under the second-level entry tree/red-black appears see red-black tree. If memory serves, I spent six weeks solid generating the index for the first edition.  And that was with help from a couple of students who marked terms in the hardcopy for me.  For the second and third editions, I produced the index entirely on my own.  Because index commands from previous editions were already in our files, I think I spent "only" a week indexing each of the latter two editions. When I started indexing the first edition, I learned that there are professional indexers.  I mentioned this fact to a grad-school buddy, and his response was "If I had a choice between being a professional indexer and a bullet to the head, I'd choose the bullet."  With all due respect to professional indexers, after indexing the first edition, I came to agree. 