What should I expect in a Software Engineer interview at Google and how should I prepare?
I believe that there are already tons of advice on how to prepare software engineer interview at Google, but I'd like to share my experience how did I crack it IN 2 MONTHS since definitely there are certain ways that can make your life easier. Be familiar with basic data structure and algorithm. I can't emphasize more about this point since it is the most fundamental thing for a software engineer interview. If you fail to get a good grasp of those basic data structures you learnt at school, you just failed the whole interview. I'm not exaggerating, once you've been thru several technical interviews, you'll realize how important it is. Books about data structure and algorithm are everywhere, do make sure you are very clear about basic stuffs like binary tree, queue, stack, linked list and also be fast at estimating efficiency of your code because most of the interviewers will ask time/space complexity of your code. Practice writing code on whiteboard. This is what most people ignores. It looks quite simple at first glance, right? But it isn't once you try it. You'll miss so much about those fancy shortcuts on your favorite text editors and IDEs and what's more, it's so inconvenient to modify the code like inserting another piece of codes in between. But you have to get over it as most of the real interviews will ask you to write SOLID code on whiteboard. It doesn't need to be compiled, but it should be almost there. No pseudo code! This is even true for Google interview as during the onsite interviews you'll be asked to write a bunch of solid code on whiteboard and discuss with interviewers about its efficiency. Practice with real interview questions for Google. Since you already have a target, it isn't hard for you to get some real questions from past Google interviews. In fact, there are tons of them online and it's almost impossible for you to finish all. The point here is not to expect having the same question in your interview (though it's possible), but to get an idea about what kind of questions Google likes to ask, how difficult it is in general, and find out your weak point. For instance, if you keep failing on binary tree questions, you should go check your textbook and do some google search about it. Practice with MOCK INTERVIEWS. It's a great experience for you to practice in a way where you can't fail. You can do this with your friends and interview them back. I also got my mock interview fromhttp://www.gainlo.co  whose interviewers are working at Google, Facebook etc. and gave me tons of feedbacks.Personally mock interview is the most effective approach I've ever had because you will have totally different feeling when thinking and solving problems in front of a person. You'll be nervous, and you may fail even at the simplest question. Also interviewers from real interview won't give you any authentic feedback, they can only tell you those official response, which is no other than bullshit. However a mock interviewer will help you improve in every way especially he/she is experienced. All in all, practice makes perfect. It's never too late to start preparing for your interview and it's always worthwhile to spend time on it. Updated 15 Aug • View Upvotes