How do you become highly proficient in Algorithmic Coding?I am coder without a background in Computer Science. But want to learn a lot in this field. Any books that a new-bi can read ? How to get started and get the fundamentals really strong ?
You need to have a good grasp of how to analyze the time complexity and space complexity of code. This is a very important skill as it provides you with a yardstick to compare one algorithm to another algorithm. Any basic course in data structures or algorithms will have heavy emphasis on this (if they do not have then I would think that the school's computer science programme is not good). You can try reading Introduction to Algorithms, but I am not sure whether you will be motivated enough sufficiently to read it entirely. The next step is to equip yourself with commonly used data structures and common ideas to solve a problem and algorithms. Data structures like stack, queue, linked list, skiplist, hashtables, bloom filters, trees, binary search trees, balanced binary search trees, priority queues, union find, trie, suffix array, suffix trees, segment trees/interval trees, fenwick trees and so on.  Concepts that you should experiment with: binary search (and ternary search, depending on circumstances) greedy, dynamic programming (Longest increasing subsequence, edit distance etc etc), complete search, heurstics search and so on. Algorithms you should know are like quicksort, mergesort, DFS, BFS, Dijkstra, Prims', Kruskal, bipartite matching, maximum flow stuff, graham scan, jarvis march and so on. I probably left out a lot of things but I guess the names here should get you started. Practice. Alex Levin provided some resources to try algorithmic problems. To add to the list, you can try SPOJ, codeforces, codechef, uva online judge, and so on. Try searching for the archive of ACM ICPC regionals and world final problems too.The above is a long list of things to read up on, and so I wish you the best of luck. Finally, as I am a good friend of Steven Halim, I will shamelessly advertise for his book: https://sites.google.com/site/st... PS: I just found this link: What do you think of Competitive Programming book by Steven Halim? 