What types of technical questions are asked in developer interviews?
This list is not exhaustive--I'll keep updating this as I remember (or am told about) more. Keep in mind that I'm still a student, so this may only be relevant for new grad interviews (having never been an "experienced" hire candidate, I can't speak to the content of those interviews). For each type, I'll list a few samples Simple Factual Questions [1] What port does HTTP use? What is the time complexity of merge sort? What data structure underlies a Python list? Data Structure/Algorithms Questions Given two nodes in an arbitrary tree, write a function to find the most-specific-common-ancestor Given a list of n integers, write a function to determine if any two sum to k [2] Given k guards in a museum with n rooms that are connected in a certain way (was drawn on a whiteboard when I was asked this) write a function to determine which of the k guards is closest to each of the n rooms Tedious Programming Questions Given an integer, write a function to print it out in words (e.g. given 342, print "three-hundred forty-two" Given an amount charged and cash tendered, write a function to make change using the fewest number of bills/coins possible Language-Specific Questions What is the difference between an Interface and an Abstract Class in Java? If in a Python class, you inherit from multiple parent classes that both have an instance method of the same name, which implementation is picked by default for the child class? Implement a Data Structure Questions Implement a "min-stack" (a data structure that behaves just like a stack in terms of push and pop but also supports a function min that returns (but does not pop) the minimum number currently on the stack) Implement an LRU cache Using only arrays and primitive types, implement an auto-resizing array Math-y Questions How many trailing zeros does the number 52! have? Given a streaming input of integers and only constant storage, for any n, how can you randomly select one of the n integers you have seen so far such that each has probability 1/n of being selected? Explain a CS Concept Questions Explain how heapsort works How can you sort in sub-n log n time? What is a mutex? What's the difference between a thread and a process? Explain a Real-World System How does DNS work? [3] When you type "google.com" into your address bar and press enter, what happens? [4] How does virtual memory work? Security Questions Describe the browser security model How does SSL work? What is a SQL injection attack? What is XSS? System Design Questions [5] How would you design an elevator system? How would you design a system for running A/B tests on some fraction of the user base? "Real World" Questions How do you prevent click-jacking? How would you implement a "People You May Know" feature in our product? Database Questions Given some application and desired functionality, how would you lay out the schema? Given this schema, write a query to retrieve x How could you make this query run faster? Unix Tools Questions Write a command to find all occurrences of a string for all files in a directory Given standard Apache access logs, write a command to find the number of unique IPs that hit your web server in the last week Programming Experience Questions What is your favorite language and why? What are your favorite frameworks? What are some cross-browser inconsistencies? What is your favorite third-party API? What's your favorite version control system? -- [1] Yelp (company) asked me a bunch of these during my on-campus interview after the Career Fair last fall. [2] The more interesting variant is determine if any x sum to k. [3] Alternatively, if you don't know, they might walk you through it by framing the problem it solves in a particular way and asking you for a solution. [4] I have heard that one particular interviewer (who is actually an active Quora user—but I won't give him away by @ mentioning) has a twist on this where he gives you the first step, "a hardware interrupt is generated, take it from there." [5] These may or may not involve actually coding parts of your design. Updated 9 Oct 2012 • View Upvotes