What are different ways I can enhance my knowledge, skills, build my personality (1st year at MAIT), so I can secure a good job. What are some books and coding competitions that can help me in building my skills?
It's good that you are asking these questions but it seems your sole focus is on getting an internship/job at facebook/google. I am not saying it's a bad goal but your focus in college should be on learning things and becoming better. Don't worry about placements just yet, take things as they come. You may or may not get a job in college but the things you learn there will be with you forever. Who knows, you might start your own venture. The truth is they won't teach you everything in college. You have to take the plunge and learn things on your own. Take a balanced approach, you want to be a good developer but you don't want get backlogs! Study for exams too, read good books. Learn from your teachers, learn as much as you can from them. Don't become a rebel and/or insult them in any way, listen to them and if you think they are not right don't follow their advice. You might think they don't know anything but they valuable experience that you can use. Focus on your data structures and algorithm classes. Learn to implement them in your favourite language. DON'T use Borland C++, i can't stress this enough. It's ancient, nobody uses it and you miss out on so many cool features that the new compilers offer. Use GCC or it's windows equivalent Cygwin / Minimalist GNU for Windows. The best thing would be to install a GNU/Linux OS on your system which has gcc by default and you'd have to install it for your OS classes anyway. Join a competitive programming site like Codechef, Topcoder, SPOJ etc. Learn to use Git and put up your personal projects there. Keep working on hobby projects, they don't have to be pretty just make sure you learn stuff. Open a Github account and put your projects there and contribute to open source projects. A word of caution, don't go gung ho over your favourite language. You should focus on getting the job done, not on the language you like. Here's a link to more resources : Ashish Gaur's answer to What are the best websites a programmer should visit? Last but not the least, have fun! You won't reminisce your algorithm classes when you're old! Good luck :) 