What is the significance of the projective plane in mathematics?
Some reasons why finite projective planes are important inside mathematics: They are related to system of mutually orthogonal latin squares. More specifically, the maximum number of pairwise orthogonal latin squares of order n is n-1. The bound is achieved when n is a prime power but is that the only n for which this holds? That's an old and important open problem in combinatorics.  They are related to Steiner system. Read this post by Cameron: Steiner systems. Solutions to some important extremal problems in combinatorics and graph theory, like the Turan problem of C_4 free graphs and constructive lower bounds on off diagonal Ramsey numbers, are obtained from finite projective planes: On graphs that do not contain a Thomsen graph, Graphs from Projective Planes, graphs without quadrilaterals - old, graphs without quadrilaterals - new, Some constructive bounds on Ramsey numbers. Projective planes are used in design theory, coding theory and cryptography: Error Correcting Codes and Finite Projective Planes, Low-density parity-check codes based on finite geometries: a rediscovery and new results, Linear codes from finite projective spaces, Applications of finite geometry in coding theory and cryptography, Planes, Biplanes and their Codes. Certain substructures of projective planes called ovals and hyperovals have been useful objects for studying some interesting finite groups and designs (among other things): http://www.win.tue.nl/~hansc/mat..., http://cage.ugent.be/~fdc/intens.... The incidence graphs of finite projective planes are important examples of certain classes of extremal graphs. See Heawood graph, Moore graph, Balaban 10-Cage | Visual Insight, and (k,6)-graphs. Some interesting combinatorial results like the friendship theorem which says that "If in a finite society any two individuals have a unique common friend, then there exists someone who is everyone else’s friend." can be proved using the theory of projective planes. Also see De Bruijn–Erdős theorem (incidence geometry). The notion of Semifield is interlinked with that of projective planes. See Donald Knuth's PhD thesis on this topic. You can also check out some surveys here and here. The Fano plane defines the multiplication in the octonions. Other useful links: Elements of Finite Geometry Incidence Geometry by Eric Moorhouse Projective Geometry: from foundations to applications Finite Geometry and Combinatorial Applications An Introduction to Finite Projective Planes The search for a finite projective plane of order 10 Updated 1d ago • View Upvotes