Why is the seemingly obvious proof of the four colour theorem wrong?
I do not understand your "proof".  It is not "obvious" to me at all.  It asserts that a certain kind of graph needs 4 colors, and explains why (that is obvious).  However, it does not in any way as far as I can discern, explain why every planar graph can be done with four colors. Kempe's 4-color "proof" was published for ten years before Heawood found the flaw.  It is a relatively simple and elementary but much more rigorous and complex than the "proof" you assert above.  Kempe's proof is by induction and fails in a very subtle way.     Here are Conway's comments about it: "I  did read a few of the papers from this period, including Kempe's proof, Tait's deduction of his edge-coloring criterion from it, and an article in which Heawood pointed out the mistake, among other things, and the impression I got from them was much the same as Jim's. There was indeed a fair amount of interest in Kempe's "theorem", but not much evidence that any great number of people actually scrutinized his proof, or even read it.  I don't think it would have made much difference if they had.  The proof is very convincing, and in the days when the amateur provers were still interested in FCT, 2 times out of 3 "Kempe's Catastrophe", as Tom O'Beirne used to call it, was the proof they'd produce.  Tom  had a set lecture in which he gave Kempe's proof, illustrated by  a specially made-up board with colored pegs, and seldom could anyone  in the audience find anything wrong with it." A detailed discussion about the proof, related to a coloring algorithm, can be found here: Lab 3 Note, a proof that five colors suffices can be salvaged from Kempe's ideas.  Indeed, this proof is described in the excellent book  "The Enjoyment of Mathematics, by Rademacher and Toeplitz".  The Enjoyment of Math: Hans Rademacher, Otto Toeplitz: 9780691023519: Amazon.com: Books Note the 5-color proof uses induction and the idea of Kempe "chains" which implies a global approach. 