★Are evolution and an increase in intelligence interconnected?I mean, is it necessary that human-like species (who are intelligent) will always eventually evolve from the most basic living forms? If not then why are we searching for extraterrestrial intelligence?
As I've been A2A, I will answer but I will try and give a different perspective to the other answers, even though I suspect Malcolm Sargeant is probably correct (and gave the answer I probably would have given, if I'd had a blank canvas so to speak). Richard Dawkins, for one, has argued that there is a certain sense of inevitability to the evolution of intelligent life although he does not use the word 'inevitable' and is not referring  to Earth but rather the entire Universe. His argument is pretty simple - given enough worlds, there is likely to be life elsewhere and given enough worlds with life, there is likely to be intelligent life on at least one (other) world. Indeed, the whole SETI programme is predicated on the assumption that evolution will have lead to the emergence of intelligent life not only on one other occasion but on many, many other occasions. We can look at examples of certain features on Earth - such as eyes - that are apparently so useful that they have independently evolved several dozen times. This does not mean eyes are an inevitable consequence of evolution but they must be a pretty likely outcome of it. Other useful features - flight, echolocation, stings - have also evolved more than once on Earth. Therefore, given that intelligence has so many uses for an organism - given the right circumstances - and given that there are so many possible circumstances of life in the Universe, you can argue that it is highly likely that if you were to somehow reset the evolutionary clock back to zero and run the Universe again, you could be pretty sure intelligent life would appear somewhere (just not necessarily on Earth). For some reason this reminds me of a witticism of Ghandi's, suitably modified: Reporter: What do you think of intelligent life on Earth? Ghandi: I think it would be a good idea.    Embed Quote