★Is there any scientific evidence that proves or disproves interconnected/ cosmic consciousness?
Cosmic consciousness is the idea that the universe exists as an interconnected network of conciousness, with each conscious being linked to every other. In the 19th century, Canadian psychiatrist Richard M. Bucke developed a theory which claimed that cosmic consciousness lies in a mystic state above and beyond self-conciousness, the natural state of man's consciousness, which then lies above animal consciousness. Bucke believed that cosmic consciousness was available to “some individuals of the male sex, between 30 and 40, and who are highly developed with good intellect, high morals, a superior physique, and an earnest religious feeling”. At the time of his writing, he believed that only thirteen individuals had attainted this level of awareness. [Cosmic Consciousness, An Experience in Oneness] More recently, James Lovelock has developed the "Gaia theory" over the last twenty-five years as a scientific claim, in which he believes that the earth's "biota",(plant and animal life), together with its environment, acts as a single, self regulating living system. The system includes the near-surface rocks and atmosphere. In particular, it regulates the chemistry of the oceans, composition of the atmosphere and surface temperature The Gaia theory suggests that, in some sense, the earth is "alive". "Long ago the Greeks, thinking this way, gave to the Earth the name Gaia or, for short, Ge. In those days, science and theology were one and science, although less precise, had soul. As time passed this warm relationship faded and was replaced by the frigidity of the schoolmen. The life sciences, no longer concerned with life, fell to classifying dead things and even to vivisection. Ge was stolen from theology to become no more the root from which the disciplines of geography and geology were named. Now at last there are signs of a change. Science becomes holistic again and rediscovers soul, and theology, moved by ecumenical forces, begins to realise that Gaia is not to be subdivided for academic convenience and that Ge is much more than just a prefix".JAMES LOVELOCK [Philosophy Physics Metaphysics of Space, Wave Structure of Matter. Famous Science Art Quotes]   Granted, all life has a common starting point and the components of life and the universe are also shared, but, there is no scientific evidence, to my knowledge, that could either prove or disprove the theory that cosmic consciousness exists, and therefore acts in unison with human consciousness. Such knowledge is metaphysical or philosophical, at this point.   While the identification of correlations between aspects of brain activity and aspects of consciousness may constrain the specification of neurobiologically plausible models, such correlations do not by themselves provide explanatory links between neural activity and consciousness. At present, however, no single model of consciousness appears sufficient to account fully for the multidimensional properties of conscious experience. Moreover, although some of these models have gained prominence, none has yet been accepted as definitive, or even as a foundation upon which to build a definitive model.[Scholarpedia: Models of Conciousness]    Embed Quote