★Is there any scientific evidence that proves or disproves interconnected/ cosmic consciousness?
I have understood this interconnectedness in terms of the behavior of electrons. When Einstein introduced the concept of photons, he showed that waves could have particle aspects. 18 years later Prince Louis de Broglie showed that every particle had wave aspects. Combining the energy-frequency relation for photons with Einstein's famous equation E=mc2, where "E" is energy, "m" is mass and "c" is the speed of light, de Broglie argued that every particle had a frequency, something only waves have. This was hard to explain since particles are supposed to have an exact location, whereas waves are spread over a range of locations. But remember that two waves can interfere to form another, more complex wave. If we add enough waves together, we can make a wave packet with a range of locations that's as small as we want. This doesn't give a particle an exact location, but it looks like an exact location and so explains why we see it that way. The trick is that whenever we measure the position of the particle, the range of locations narrows just enough so that we never see the wave, a process called wave collapse. The reason we know the wave exists is because it determines the possible range over which we might see the particle. If this seems far fetched to you, you're in good company: what exactly happens when a particle-wave collapses is still debated by physicists today. But it works, so let's put off discussing wave collapse for a bit. Recall the double-slit experiment from above, but this time let's do it with electrons, which are one of the fundamental particles. On the other side of the barrier we put a screen that emits light when an electron hits it. Now, the electron hitting the screen amounts to a measurement of its position, so the electron-wave collapses and we only see a tiny speck. But repeating this process many times creates an interference pattern! The electron-wave is determining the possible range of locations: an electron is very likely to appear at points of reinforcement, and has zero chance of appearing at points of cancellation. Another phenomenon explained by the particle-wave is tunneling, which occurs when a particle actually passes through a seemingly impenetrable barrier. When a particle hits a barrier, it either has enough energy to break through or it doesn't and bounces back. But with a wave, part of it can pass through while part of it is reflected, making it possible for the particle to appear on the other side. Uncertainty Since a particle is a wave, it simultaneously exists over a range of locations. This range is called the uncertainty of the particle's position. In the picture to the right, the triangle in front of the "x" is the Greek letter delta. If "x" stands for the particle's position, then "delta x" represents the range of possible locations for the particle, or the uncertainty of "x". The narrower you want to make the range of positions, the more waves you have to add together. This creates a wider range of wavelengths for the wave packet. According to de Broglie, a particle's momentum (its speed times its mass) is related to its wavelength. Therefore a narrow range, or small uncertainty, in position means a wide range, or large uncertainty, in momentum. Werner Heisenberg derived these uncertainty relations, between position and momentum, and between energy and time. The "h" is a number called "Planks constant" (the line through it means divide by twice the number "Pi"). They put an absolute limit on how much we can know about a particle. Electron Orbits in Atoms de Broglie's wave also predicts the orbits of electrons in atoms. The radius of an electron's orbit must be a multiple of its wavelength. Since its wavelength is related to its energy, the electron can only have certain discreet values of energy. We say that its energy is quantized. To the right is shown the difference bet... (more)Loading...