★What is Open Source Interconnection (OSI) ? What are layers?
Hello Harsha, I agree whit Bharat, I think you meant Open System Interconnection. If you did mean Open Source Internet, I dont know anything about it. Anways I will explain Open System Interconnection & hope that it will be useful to you. History During the days when networking was at infancy, All the companies used to develop their own protocols to work with. The downside to this was that computer from Company A would not communicate with Computer of Company B. This is because Company A's computer is speaking in French and Company B's computer was speaking in german. So an open protocol suite (common language) had to be built, so that different vendors can intercommunicate.ISO was one of the organizations which came up with an answer known as the OSI Protocol Suite. A model was created in its documentation to learn and understand the different OSI Protocols.  An another organization was the US Department of Defence who had a network known as the ARPANET. They also build up a protocol Suite known as the TCP/IP Protocol suite. Since the Internet used the TCP/IP Protocol Suite, the OSI protocol suite did not have a great success, But the model which was created for the Protocol suite was a better model than the TCP/IP's Model and therefore it is important to know it from an educational perspective, but since OSI model was not created for the TCP/IP Protocols , all the protocols does not fit nicely in this model. OSI Model OSI Model consists of seven Layers Physical, Data-Link, Network, Transport, Session, Presentation, Application If you are learning it for the first time, It is a good idea to use a mnemonic to remember it.I like the mnemonic provided by CBT Nugget's Jeremy Ciora: Please Do Not Throw Sausage Pizza Away Physical: The Physical Layer, also known as the Layer 1, consists of any physical component of a computer network will fall under this layer. The NIC, Cables, Electric Signals etc. The PDU of this layer is known as Bits Data-Link: The Data-Link Layer, also known as the Layer 2, consists mainly of the Layer 2 addressing (MAC address when talking about ethernet and DLCI when talking about the Frame-Relay). Layer 2 addressing is used to communicate within the same network. The layer 2 address will keep changing whenever a packet passes from one network to an another.The PDU is Frames Network: The Network Layer, also known as the Layer 3, consists of the Layer 3 addressing ( IP address is the most commonly used protocol, but other protocols does exist like apple talk, which I do not know much about) & the Protocols  which needs to be used (eg TCP or UDP).Layer 3 addresses are used to communicate between different networks. The Layer 3 information in a packet never changes and will remain the same from the time the packet leaves your computer and is delivered to the remote server/pc. The PDU for this layer is Packets Transport: The Transport Layer, also known as the Layer 4, consists port numbers. These port numbers are the address used by services in a computer. For example TCP port 80 is associated with the HTTP service.A server may run different services like HTTP,HTTPS, FTP,TFTP etc. The protocol+Port number decides to which service should the packet should be delivered. Transport layer also has mechanisms for Error detection and correction. The PDU for this layer is Segment. Note: As a network engineer, all the layers mentioned uptill now is the most important. Rest of the Layer is not as important since it is in system side & the PDU for rest of the layer is known as user Data. Session: The Session Layer, also known as the Layer 5, Creates,Matains & terminates sessions. This layer is also responsible for choosing which port number must be used by the Transport layer Decides whether the applications should work in a half duplex mode or full duplex mode Buffers the data before sending it to the Presentation/Application layer Provides Synchronization Points so that even if an error occurs it has a point to fall back on Presentation: The Presentation Layer, also known as the Layer 6,  is responsible encoding,decoding,encryption & decryption of data. Application: The Application Layer, also known as the Layer 7, is the layer which provides a interface to users from which a computer can understand what the user wants. Any protocol which requires an Operating System is considered to be in this layer. This is the over-view of the OSI Model, but if you are looking into it in depth, it is a very huge topic to cover. So If you need more information please do not hesitate to ask. Vishnu Anilkumar Founder of ITnotes.in    Embed Quote