★What would have been the disadvantages and the costs of a world network based on ATM (Asynchronous Transfer Mode) technology instead of the IP interconnection?I have in mind to create a scenario in which there are only ATM networks, so I would find some percentual of the more costs compared to IP.
Gish, it is amusing to see twenty year old technology battles unearthed. First. ATM lost. IP won. The end. That said, if ATM had won, the world wouldn't be so different. Maybe some other firm would have suceeded instead of Cisco. But Cisco had ATM too -- so no big deal. Yes, there was a lot of emotion. Yes, there was a lot of hyperbole. But a few facts to complicate the "it is obvious that IP is better... " polemic 1)  MPLS is ATM re-invented. So is Layer 2 switching. Just bigger packets (sometimes) instead of smaller cells Switching not routing. Virtual circuits, tags, labels etc -- those were all things that ATM had that "We do not need those things. We use routing". 20 years later "Oh,OK, Switching is good too... " 2) Most of the Internet in 1990s in 2000s still ran on ATM. DSL for a long time was IP over ATM. Backbones were IP over ATM over IP. So anyone saying "it is inefficient" really needs to say "hypothetically perhaps it could have been more efficient, but it wasn't, and it didn't really matter - the internet suceeded despite running over ATM" 3)  ATM was promoted as a solution for voice and video.  IP was for data. And one of the killers for ATM was its associoation with "Video On Demand (VOD)" "VOD failed. ATM failed because everyone wanted web instead of video, so who wants a protocol that is optimised for video?" That logic looks rather ludicrous in a world of Netflix, where video on demand is now > 50% of internet and were are arguing about net neutrality and traffic prioritisation. 4) Yes, ATM had lots of priorities. And, guess what, we have re-invented them. We have TOS, DSCP, QoE, QoS, tag bit, service flows and all the rest... And we argue about net neutrality and proritisation. And we use DPI to try to work out content that maybe could have been labelled in the first place and been more efficient, but it it doesn't much matter because we do it anyway... 5) If you want to think about overhead, don't just think about nice easy web pages. What is the packet overhead for VoIP? It is HORRIBLE. 40 bytes header for 40 bytes data :( I was in a meeting today about that:  VoWiFi can killer a lot of routers, simply because they are not dimensioned for a 10X increase in packets-per-second cf standard MTU That 10% overhead of ATM header doesn't seem so bad anymore... Summary: There'd be different protocols. Different equipment. Maybe some companies would do better, other worse. But the world would look much the same, the internet would work much the same (as, indeed, it did / does) Update A remark in the comments: I don't think the technology is why ATM was more expensive: switching is easier than routing, and routers still include QoS I think it was that ATM was "old guard" and high margin; IP was disruptive, innovative and more aggressive The economics *were* different - but it was mindset and innovation, not "cell tax" vs "packet tax"    Embed Quote