★How is the prefrontal cortex interconnected with the nucleus accumbens?
The prefrontal cortex (PFC) sends excitatory (glutamatergic) connections  to the nucleus accumbens (NAcc), which is part of the striatum. The  NAcc contains inhibitory (GABAergic) medium spiny projection neurons (MSPNs), as  well as tonically active cholinergic neurons, and several types of inhibitory (GABAergic)  interneurons. There are 2 classes of MSPNs: one that expresses D1-type dopamine receptors, and one that expresses D2-type dopamine receptors. The  entire cortex sends projections to the striatum. From the striatum,  there are direct and indirect pathways to the thalamus. The thalamus in  turn sends excitatory (glutamatergic) projections back to cortex, creating a cortex-striatum-thalamus loop. The NAcc also sends projections to the ventral tegmental area (VTA), which is the main source of dopamine to the cortex. These loops are organized in an interesting topography. See these diagrams and the associated references for more: "The  connections between the cerebral cortex and the basal ganglia can be   viewed as a series of parallel-projecting, largely segregated loops or   channels conveying limbic (shown in red), associative (shown in  yellow–green)  and sensorimotor (shown in blue–white) information.  Functional  territories represented at the level of cerebral cortex are  maintained  throughout the basal ganglia nuclei and thalamic relays.  Note, however,  that for each loop the relay points in the cortex, basal  ganglia and  thalamus, offer opportunities for activity inside the loop  to be  modified or modulated by signals from outside the loop." [via: Goal-directed and habitual control in the basal ganglia: implications for Parkinson's disease : Nature Reviews Neuroscience] via A New Anatomical Framework for Neuropsychiatric Disorders and Drug Abuse The red and yellow areas are PFC sub-regions. The NAcc is part of the ventral striatum, and receives projections from the limbic s-b-regions of the PFC, such as the orbitofrontal cortex (OFC) and the anterior cingulate cortex (ACC).   All cortico-striatal circuits are arranged in loops as follows: 'Here is a highly simplified schematic diagram of the basal ganglia circuit. I drew this for my PhD thesis! :) Key parts of the basal  ganglia are the striatum, the globus pallidus (GP), the substrania nigra  (SN), and the subthalamic nucleus (STN).  The pathway that starts with  the "D1- MSPNs " is the Go pathway, and the pathway that starts with the "D2- MSPNs" the No-Go pathway.' [Originally posted here.] Basal ganglia circuits are involved in a variety of tasks including reinforcement learning, planning, and motor control. For more on the basal ganglia's role in motor control and planning, see this answer: How does the brain allow effortless control of muscles but prevent inadvertent firing? Separating 'thinking about moving', 'intending to move', and 'commanding movement' sounds complicated. For more diagrams of functional parcellation of the brain, see this answer: Neuroscience: if you are asked to divide the human brain in n parts (n smaller than 10) and describe broadly their function how would you do it?    Embed Quote