★What are the supposed advantages of Toslink vs. copper for audio interconnects?
Quick answer: Toslink is better for super long runs, otherwise use copper coax. To elaborate, if you believe that low jitter clocks produce better quality sound, Toslink is on the hairy edge for high performance audio.   Coax will outperform it except in some cases of very long runs or improper coax terminations. The S/Pdif standard is remarkable in that it can transfer the whole of audio information -- sample timing, sample values, and some encoding -- all on a single wire (or fiber).  In S/Pdif the timing accuracy of samples during conversion can affect qualitative aspects of the sound quality.  From a pure signal processing perspective if the digital transmission line bandwidth is sufficient, audible results should not be impacted, however many groups of listeners report better results correlated with reduced RMS jitter in the recovered clock (<1 ns). Digging deeper, the conversion clock is derived from the signal edges, which occur at about 3 MHz (double the sample frequency due to the timing encoding scheme called biphasic mark encoding).  Toslink's bandwidth of 10 MHz should be sufficient in theory. However, to produce reliable high slew rate edges from which to derive the conversion clock at the DAC, you need at least about 10x the bandwidth to produce good sharp edges needed to recover a low jitter clock.  You really want about 30-100 MHz of bandwidth in your transmission line to recover a good clock.  The lower bandwidth of Toslink makes it more susceptible to jitter in the derived clock (and in fact can inject it).  In other words Toslink is about an order of magnitude too slow for high end audio.  But it works great for your xbox, which is the class of products it was designed for. Now Toslink has the indisputable advantage in that it enables extremely long cable runs with good signal coupling irrespective of grounding or electromotive or radio frequency interference (EMI/RFI).  It cannot act as an antenna for noise feeding into the analog circuits which can couple between components.  So it is better at preserving signal quality over extremely long runs. Shielded coax has higher bandwidth in principle, however there is high attenuation over very large runs and can cause ground loops.  If signal wires or terminations are not impedance matched, internal reflections along the transmission line (think of waves bouncing back and forth between ends of cable) may cause a blurring of the signal edges.  This can effectively reduce the bandwidth of the cable by a factor of 10 or more, putting the effective bandwidth in the 10-100 MHz regime, not much better or even potentially worse than Toslink.  It's why you should use very carefully terminated coax lines; those fancy audio connectors on the end of a 3 Ghz coax cable will destroy the cable bandwidth.    Embed Quote