★What will be used in the future multi-core processor  interconnection?
Speaking for the next 20y+ or so till these would go into mass production (maybe much less?) There are 2 competing schools of thought that i can think of at the moment: quantum wires optical interconnects (which can also be quantum wires, for light) Quantum wires confine the wavelength of the particles (electrons or photons) in a tiny space, paradoxically increasing their momentum. Optical interconnects are being used now, but in specialist applications (light-RF conversions, high speed communications amplifiers and so on) Thunderbolt, appropriately named, is an optical interface. The problem with optical interconnects is that you would need your whole chip to be made from GaAs, GaN or other heterostructure material with a direct band gap. Silicon is just too poor at transmitting light by comparison (you would need small lasers/ SLEDs as well) The other issue optical interfaces have is that they are not power-savvy. Whilst you can achieve an internal quantum efficiency of 100% (convert all eh pairs to generate photons), achieving a true high external quantum efficiency is much harder. A lot of this wasted power is lost as heat, which spells bad news for the device in general. So the best bet would be with quantum wires. made of slightly contrasting materials, but it can be done in silicon. This does raise reliability problems. Will they last as long as regular interconnects? Do you need extra steps to passivate them? Essentially, are they economically viable? If the chip is a telecommunications SoC, then issues get a bit muddy, because these components often feature analogue and digital components which have very different requirements. Solutions now include: BiCMOS transistor process - a compromise between MOSFETs and BJTs System in a Package - connect several chips directly via wire or tab bonding and package them together in the same epoxy - obviously slower, but might mitigate noise issues.    Embed Quote