★How is a person's desire to be wholly good and wholly devoid of bad/evil to be reconciled with the universal law of yin yang, which says that the universe is a constant harmonious interaction of the two opposing forces (i.e. positive/negative, good/bad), which are interconnected and interdependent?
Complexly worded question. First off, desire to be wholly 'good' is not the goal, the desire should be to transcend good and bad. Yin Yang signifies that goal, that balance of what you've come to unconsciously accept as good and evil. You must deeply realise that there is this state of what is called a transcendence of good/evil - the balance of good and bad, which is neither and/or either. A place of good and bad, a place of no good, no bad. The very definition of good and bad looses any meaning. A state of void of good and bad. I as any simple folk have asked myself... what or who is bad? Hitler! who is good? Gandhi!! A! yes Hitler is bad and Gandhi is good. It seems very simple. The emotions that gets invoked in us at the mere mention of either of the names polarises one way or the other. It is simple, it is lazy, it gives us comfort, at worse it makes us lethargic. None of us wants to dig deeper, neither by the way of reason nor by the way of heart. Yin-Yang is a transcendence - a higher and/or deeper philosophy of 'what is'. It is only for those who can question was Hitler really an evil person, was Gandhi a really non-violent person? what made them so? Were they really so? As long as one can stomach these kinds of train of thoughts, the transcendence of good and evil will always elude us and will be in pits of hell (mind conflicts) that will torment us on and on. Once you have asked this question, your journey is to continue on this seemingly difficult path. But if you are brave enough, you will be able to deeply realise the symbol of yin-yang. It is not a journey for the weak, it is not for those who wants a lazy answer of what is good and what is evil - and if you are inclined in this way - there are priests and prophets of your organised religion that can provide you with a simpleton answers to your simpleton questions of what is good and what is bad. And that will be the way for you.    Embed Quote