★Why is it so hard to fathom that we are interconnected?
Because we aren't, really. At least, not in anything but a figurative sense. Sure, our actions affect each other. I don't think the majority of people have trouble understanding that - we are very much hardwired to be social creatures. But "we affect each other" is a very different concept than the sorts of things implied by the term "interconnected," often. The parts of our body are interconnected. But we aren't interconnected to each other - there's no expectation of direct feedback to me when something unrelated happens to you. So there's no intuitive sense that we are "interconnected." It's a concept that is suggested to us, to consider. So what might make that "hard to fathom" as a concept? Let me illustrate my guess... For example: Suppose each of us has a car - yours is in your driveway, mine's in my garage on the other side of town. Do we say that these two cars are interconnected? Most people would intuitively answer "no" - based on the fact that the cars aren't actually affecting each other in this state. One could be struck by a meteorite the very next instant and the other one would be entirely unaffected. Now, figuratively, would could still argue that they are nonetheless interconnected. After all, we both drive in the same town - perhaps sometimes we are both on the road at the same time, and thus one of us  contributes to the other's traffic. How much traffic you encounter affects how much gas you spend, how long your engine is running per day, etc. So if your car is struck by a meteorite right now in your driveway, my car might still be affected, eventually, the next time I'm in traffic where you would have been if you had a working car, and the traffic is affected by the lack of that one additional vehicle. If all that aligned, my commute might be reduced by 5 seconds that day. Maybe. No-one would argue with the facts of that relationship, but still it doesn't sit well with us to say that the two cars are "interconnected" - because at that level of separation, and at that minimal an impact, it doesn't actually give us any useful information. In fact, it doesn't give us any information we can act on, at all. So the statement that our cars are interconnected is shown for what it was: A figurative abstraction that we can't apply to our daily lives, and whose truth or falsity we will never be able to directly confirm in practice. The suggestion that humans are all interconnected is equally abstract and figurative. Suggesting that we are all part of one universe doesn't, by itself, give us any information at all. The meaning of that expression is generally "Be more mindful of your affects on others, even those that seem little" - that sentence isn't likely to be hard to fathom to all that many people.    Embed Quote