★Is there any scientific evidence that proves or disproves interconnected/ cosmic consciousness?
The evidence is that there is no "interconnection", other than on a very basic level, e.g. neutrinos pass through our brains and "may" have some interaction. The problem however is that this evidence has to correlate two or more branches of science. First of all, we define "consciousness". This is very hard to define, and we can only use psychology to define it..  Intelligence is easy to define - it is pattern recognition. Memory is also easy to define - it is how we store both the data and the algorithm used to process the data to extract the "pattern". We can say that Pavlov's dogs are intelligent, because they remember the pattern of the dinner bell, and process resulting algorithm that says "food now". But the problem is that we are reluctant to say that the dogs are actually "aware" of the process, whereas our evolution lets us comprehend a "more abstract and complex" pattern. Consciousness. Compared to Pavlov's dogs, we don't completely assume it is dinner time just because the dinner bell rings, because we are aware that dinner bells can serve a "purpose".. If we are Aztecs solar eclipses have a "purpose" we either don't understand, or we blame on Quetzacoytl and the Spanish conquistadores that look like him. If we are modern day astronomers, solar eclipses ACT LIKE they have a purpose, but we understand the reason. You might say therefore that "conciousness" is the ability to synthesise concepts like "God", "reason", and "purpose", as part of a general strategy of "pattern recognition". Now we define possible "connections". Here we are helped by physics, because our science has reached the point where we can correlate how the human brain works to how a computer works - and computers can connect across vast distances. The problem is that the human brain "connections" and "logic structures" are now well understood, and are clearly based on the biochemistry of the brain. We have no way of transmitting "brain waves" from one brain to another so that they can convey complex information. This is for three reasons: a. "brain waves" are the consequence of brain activity, not the medium of brain activity. b. each persons "brain waves" are unique to that person c. an amplified "brain wave" transducer connected to just one area of a "receiver" brain would not stimulate all the corresponding areas to the transmitting  brain. Electrical stimulation has to be from a specific area of the transmitter brain to a specific area of the receiver brain, and so far the experimental results have not yet "conveyed" anything more complex than basic emotional or "instinctive" states of mind. Note that this is to be expected - brain waves are unique to the person. So even if there is some "telepathic" connection between conscious entities, the evidence is that it would only work on a basic, electro-chemical, level, between corresponding areas of two brains of a single species. In other words there is a very very remote possibility that a "super-human" like Obiwan Kenobi in Star Wars might be able to detect the extermination of the human beings on a distant planet, because his "mitochondrial DNA" are somehow electrochemically interconnected to others of his species, there is enough energy in the electromagnetic medium of transmission to compensate for the effects of relativity and transmisison paths, and his brain is advanced enough to be able to extract this information out of a noise floor which is several orders of magnitude greater in amplitude And this information would be no more than just a vague feeling that something terrible just happened, x number of years ago, on a planet x number of light years away. Not in any sense an ability to communicate high level concepts of "purpose", And this "feeling" would be very hard to distinguish from the "feeling" that Montezuma had about Cortez, or the "feeling" the Cargo Cultists had about the US Navy ships that brought them manna from heaven in WW2.    Embed Quote