★Why is the order parameter of lipids in the bilayer important?
Summary: Order parameter is a sensitive measure of structural orientation or flexibility of lipids in a bilayer, in other words, it can be linked to configurational entropy. Lipid bilayers are extremely flexible and dynamic (in the liquid state), and adapt to different processes such as signaling and transport. It is also a property that can be experimentally measured from NMR/ESR, and consequently evaluated using simulations. Thus, almost every study on lipid structure (or dynamics) will evaluate some form of an order parameter. Why is it important to characterize order in lipid bilayers? Biological membranes do not form a single homogenous fluid lipid phase (fluid mosaic model), as taught in most junior classes. They are extremely inhomogenous, display phase behavior and have a physics of their own. Here is the more conventional view of bilayers (From biological membranes to biomimetic model membranes) : Membranes also display lateral and orientational order, more specifically, the trans-->gauche isomerisation occurs frequently in the liquid state, thus affecting conformational order (From biological membranes to biomimetic model membranes). As mentioned, bilayers display phase behavior, they can go from gel-like liquid crystalline state to highly disordered liquid state. These states affect membrane fluidity and permeability, and ergo membrane functions. For the above mentioned reasons, order parameter is a good property to gain insights on the state of the system, and draw connections to function. How are order parameters evaluated? Most studies use the liquid crystalline order parameter as a measure of spatial motion of a C-H (or D in the case of NMR) or a C-C vector. It is given by the following tensor , where is the angle between molecular axis and the bilayer normal: Figure showing C-D vector and the bilayer axis , from [Page on virginia.edu] Here is the order parameter plot for POPC lipids, can take a value between -0.5 and 1. In the plot below, you can see a decrease in order from the head group region [first few C atoms] towards the tail [last few C atoms]. Figure from [Page on virginia.edu] The charged head groups of lipids interact with other head groups, ions or water molecules. Thus their motions are restricted. The motions of the tails occur in a more fluid environment, and the order parameters of different segments of the bilayer gives us information about the anisotropy that exists.