★Why is the average Indian (male or female), so obsessed with fairness of skin as a major parameter for defining beauty?
A common condescending comment: Generally, South Indians are dark skinned, and not beautiful enough. A common reply from a South Indian: You racist. Do you know Aishwarya Rai is a South Indian ? Have you seen Mahesh Babu ? Do you even know how fair they are, and how beautiful they are. A reply I would like to hear: You racist. Beauty is not a property of the fair skinned. There are millions of South Indians who are dark and beautiful. One of them is me. One of my common doubts: But I don't see a lot of dark skinned South Indian actresses, though the major chunk of population in the South is dark skinned. The ones who are dark are generally made into a female version of Michael Jackson, with bucket fulls of make-up. On this subject, I have seen women racializing themselves. Even dark skinned women consider themselves inferior when compared to their fairer skinned counterparts. Whoever is dark tries to achieve as much fairness as cosmetics can provide. In my experience, Indians are crazily obsessed with fairness; not in society, but in skin tone. It plays a major role in deciding the prospective worth of bride and groom in the Indian matrimonial market. Girls who are not fair are asked to study hard and form a successful career, so that they can get a desirable groom. Parents get worried if the baby girl is not fair. Parents force their children to marry fairer people so that they can breed fairer children. Parents in India don’t allow their children to play outside as they’ll get tanned.I remember my mother used to say, Drink milk, not tea; it makes you fairer. And I used to reply, if this would have been the case, Indians would look like Snow White and British would look like Kenya cricket team.   Many Indians feel their country's disturbing obsession with fairness has been compounded in recent years with the invasion of European and American retail outlets and widespread access to information via the Internet. It is far from truth. This division is nothing new, and its roots can be traced back to distinct intervals in Indian history. The first case of color based division is found in the Rigveda; where fairer skinned Aryan speakers are termed as superior than darker skinned Dasas(natives). During the period of British imperialistic rule in India, Indians accepted the British racial superiority and one of its basis was skin color. British themselves were quite fond of claiming themselves as racially superior. During the tenure of Narsimha Rao as the Prime Minister, ample jokes were cracked on his skin tone while Gandhi s have always remained the fair skinned heroes. Due to its historical roots, color superiority is deep rooted in the Indian society. India needs to get over its colonial past and it needs strong efforts to change the course. One is started by a famous actress Nandita Das and it is called Dark is beautiful; and indeed she is.    Embed Quote