★Why is the average Indian (male or female), so obsessed with fairness of skin as a major parameter for defining beauty?
This is a pretty disturbing trend, First, is this really an issue worth addressing? I think it is. However it's not unique. Most people look at embellishing some feature or the other. Is wearing make-up wrong then? Wearing accessories/jewellery? All of these have similar effects as focusing on fair skin. We glorify being slim, having clear complexion etc. I think the solution is more toward reducing importance on outward appearances. The fair skin focus in particular is so deep rooted in India that it does need to be addressed separately. Now on to answering your question:) Some of the reasons: Movie culture Movies make people look good. It's easy to admire/have a crush on actresses. They are dressed great, there are talented people behind the camera, and most of the characters portrayed are designed so we like them. Most actresses in India are fair or wear enough makeup to look fair. They are considered beautiful and hence people attribute beauty to girls who look like them. Idolizing the west We tend to take after/imitate western culture. Hollywood movies and actors are popular in India and considered attractive. Again, people who look like Hollywood stars are considered more attractive. Marketing/Advertisements We are heavily influenced by ads. Did you know the picture in our minds of Santa Claus (a plump cheerful man in a red suit) all started after a Coca cola campaign. Santa Claus was thought to be thin before that and there was no common representation of how he looked. He wears red because those were Coca cola's colors. [1] If something so popular was influenced by an advertisement, its no surprise what a far-reaching effect they can have. Fair & Lovely ads portray women becoming successful after becoming fair skinned, a girl spurned by her boyfriend uses a fairness cream and he comes right back. All of this plays on our minds. Exclusivity Indians have traditionally been dark skinned, there is only a small section of people who are fair skinned. This combined with above factors makes fair skin seem more appealing. [1] Santa Claus    Embed Quote