★What are the parameters for comparing headphones?
Thank you for the A2A. It will depend on a number of factors, some which are general for everyone, and some which depends on your personal taste and desired use for the headphones. Quality is important. Go for a well-established brand, such as Sennheiser, Denon, AKG, Grado, Audio-Technica, Beyerdynamic etc., and avoid the newer "fancy" brands such as Beats by Dr. Dre, Ferrari-branded headphones, 50 Cent cans and so on. Here you pay premium for less, and you probably want to avoid that. Impedance (electrical impedance, measured in Ohm) should match the device you're going to connect your headphones to. So for use with portable music players (cellphones included) or a computer with an average sound card you want low impedance, which is probably 50 Ohm or below. If you got some high-end hi-fi equipment, an expensive sound card for your computer or a dedicated headphone amplifier,then refer to the specifications of that equipment and consider higher impedance headphones. Read more here: Headphones or here What Is Headphone Impedance? Your preferred genre of music should be taken into account too. For classical or acoustic music with little bass you probably want an open or semi-open design, such as the Sennheiser HD 650 - High Quality Headphones - Around Ear Headphone but for heavy bass-driven electronic music you're probably better off with a closed pair of headphones such as the Audio-Technica ATH-M50S. Also if you intend to use the headphones on the go, such as on public transport or any other noisy environment a closed design would be better, since it effectively blocks out noise. No need for any noise-reduction built-in to the headphones, a proper closed design is sufficient to leave out unwanted noise. Getting the above three things right and you're on your way to having a good sound experience. Getting a product from one of the well-respected manufacturers out there should ensure overall good quality, like a quality cable that is properly connected so it doesn't get loose etc., and also it should ensure a good balance between price and sound quality. If you pay 100€ for a pair of headphones from any of those brands that I mentioned, chances are they will be comparable to any pair of 100€ from any of the other brands. While they won't be identical, you're still getting the same value for your money. The same piece of music will sound different on different headphones. In general closed designs will enhance the bass (lower frequencies) and open designs will enhance the treble (higher frequencies). Overall an open design will tend to give you the most neutral reproduction of the music, and open designs tend to have better mid-tones, thus they are better for music where the vocal is important. For instance, cheap closed headphones will often have a truly overpowered bass reproduction leaving you with almost no clarity in the mid-tones, resulting in an overall dull sound experience.  If possible you should try out some different models at a store selling headphones. If you intend to use them on the go with your cellphone then bring the phone and connect the headphones so you can check out the sound of your own music collection. Compare different models to make the right buying decision in the end. Some headphones are extremely comfortable and can thus be worn for extended periods of time without causing discomfort, while others (more common for closed designs) will cause so much pressure on the head that wearing them for more than an hour or two might be unpleasant and even cause a headache. For instance, I own a pair of Audio-Technica ATH-M50 that I use on the go. They perfectly well cancel out noise from the surroundings and the sound they produce suits my on-the-go music style very well, but it is a closed design and the pressure they cause on the head is noticeable, so I don't like to wear them at home for extended periods. While at home, and there is no noise that needs to be blocked out, I would prefer my Sennheiser HD-600 which is an open design and extremely comfortable for literally unlimited continuous hours of listening. So my recommendation is that you find out what your budget is, then read reviews of headphones in that price range and consider their pros and cons. I would highly recommend trying before buying. You might also want to check whether or not you can get replacement parts for your headphones, such as new ear pads. Being able to replace such parts will ensure a much longer life for your headphones, thus an initially larger investment might very well turn out to be the cheaper solution in the end. You might want to take a look at this site: Headphone forums and reviews for audiophiles    Embed Quote