★When is it philosophically legitimate to regard parameters of probability distributions as random variables?That is, when using probability distributions to model processes in the real world, rather than purely mathematically.
So, "to regard parameters of probability distributions as random variables" is basically to place a prior probability distribution on the parameters of probability distribution. The term "random variables" is fraught with problems.  Parameters of a probability distribution in the physical/real world, are probably neither random nor variable!  In fact, even having "parameters" to a distribution is probably wrong because the "real" distribution for the aspect the physical/real world that you are considering is almost certainly not in the parameterised model family you are using. As the great philosopher Aristotle said "All models are wrong, but some are useful."  No, ahh, that was the the statistician George E. P. Box,  Anyway ...  I'd say a related thing applies to prior probability distributions. So while some statisticians go through angst, guilt, fear and shame at having to come up with a prior distribution, "do I understand what it means?", "is it illegitimate?", "what does it mean to be ignorant?", "does it go with this cute little linear model I just got?",  I take a more engineering approach.  What can you do in practice?  To a degree it depends on what you're task is. There are many different strategies one can take in practice.  Experts have all sorts of tricks they have developed for developing reasonable prior probabilities.  Sometimes they use ones that are computationally convenient.  Some models are so clearly wrong (like using a standard linear model to predict a complex phenomena), that then placing prior probabilities on the parameters is a problematic use of the Bayesian paradigm.  Sometimes we cannot think of the right priors, so we put priors on priors.  Most strategies that are *not* Bayesian, i.e., don't use prior probabilities, can be show to have mathematically inconsistencies.  Should that stop you from using them.  No.  Cross validation, Bootstrap, etc., all very useful and somewhat easy to use. Anyway, using prior probabilities is a computational, modelling paradigm.  Its not "right" or "wrong", or for that matter "good" or "evil".  We do it because it often works, and in some cases works really well.  Yes, it is a bit dangerous for the casual student looking for a routine recipe, or for the scientist seeking to make recommendations that millions of people's lives may rest on.    Embed Quote