★What is a parameter vector?
"Parameters",  as you probably know, are numbers that are in some way controlled, or given in advance, or kept constant within the given situation, as an example: in math, when you give the radius of a circle, you can view it as a constant parameter in your equations; in physics, there are many numbers that describe the properties of the system: coefficient of friction, dielectric constant or conductivity, etc., these are "numbers given in advance", which don't change in time. Sometimes, you do want (if you can) to change the physical parameters deliberately, and study how it reflects on the behavior of the system. A "vector of parameters" is just a collection of parameters (numbers) which forms a vector. If it is a standard 3D (three-dimensional) vector in real space, that would mean that you take your three parameters A, B, C, and collect them into a 3D vector (A,B,C). This makes sense only if these three numbers behave as a 3D vector: when you perform rotations of space, the three numbers A,B,C should change into each other appropriately, just as x,y, and z components of a normal 3D vector get mixed when the vector is rotated. Alternatively, the vector could mean just an abstract element of a vector space, not necessarily in real space (like it was in the above example). For instance (A,B,C,D,E) would be a 5 component vector of parameters A,B,C,D,E. In this abstract case, "vector space" just means you are allowed to form linear combinations, e.g. take vectors v1 and v2, and then a*v1+b*v2 would again be a vector. So in this case, it could be that you are able to form linear combinations of parameters A1, A2,... and also are allowed to combine B1,B2,B3... etc. so then it is convenient to put A and B as components of a vector (A,B) and allow linear combinations: a*(A1,B1)+b*(A2,B2)=(a*(A1+A2),b*(B1+B... Then the "length" of this vector could have a specific meaning, etc. This use of parameters is more common in statistical analysis, where there are many statistical variables and parameters you need to study at the same time.    Embed Quote