★What are the parameters determining the degree of responsibility for an action?
As with many of my answers, I turn to writers who have spent more time thinking on this subject than I have: Daniel Dennett and Galen Strawson. Starrting with Strawson, he says: You do what you do, in any given situation, because of the way you are. In order to be ultimately responsible for what you do, you have to be ultimately responsible for the way you are — at least in certain crucial mental respects. But you cannot be ultimately responsible for the way you are in any respect at all. So you cannot be ultimately responsible for what you do. So we are not "ultimately responsible" for our actions, but Strawson says this philosophical argument has no bearing on the Law, social norms etc. So WTF??? Dennett, on the other hand, believes by talking on the right "level" (not the atomic, or the evolutionary but the social/legal level) he can salvage "Free Will worth wanting", that is, pretty much our conventional understanding of Free Will: all other things being equal (eg one was not physically compelled, or otherwise forced to act against her beliefs and intentions) we ("normal", psychologically healthy, economically unconstrained in the relevant ways) are responsible for our actions. In refreshing my recollection of Dennett's position, I ran across Sam Harris, who I had not read before. His take (here he his distinguishing his view on Free Will from Dennetts):  "people are mistaken in believing that they are free in the usual sense. I claim that this realization has consequences..." Harris is a neuroscientist with an undergrad degree in philosophy. I think Harris makes the point that lands on the Aristotelian Mean: we ARE responsible when we consciously, unconstrainedly act. But there are extenuating circumstances ("excuses") many of which we have not fully explained scientifically but which we are learning about daily that DO affect our actions and our culpability. These as-yet-unknown biological facts DO constrain our actions and when we discover them, we will (eventually) change the way we look at "evil" and punishment    Embed Quote