★Is Latent Dirichlet Allocation a parametic model or nonparametric?I used to think LDA is a nonparametric model, because the number of parameters do not increase when the dataset grows(like Knn). However, In some papers, i find that "LDA is parametric because the number of topics must be set by user in advance".
Your confusion is a consequence of a fact that there is no universally accepted definition of "non-parametric" in statistics. And "non-parametric" can refer to different things depending on whether we are talking about data or talking about a model. Your question refers to the model aspect of non-parametric, for which in practice there are two common interpretations: A non-parametric model is one in which there is no assumption about the particular probability distribution from the data are generated. A more precise way of saying this is that a non-parametric model is one in which the dimension of the parameter space is infinite. For example, it takes one parameter to specify a Poisson distribution: ; it takes two parameters to specify a normal distribution: ; and it takes three parameters to specify a hypergeometric distribution: . But it would take an infinite number of parameters to specify a non-parametric distribution. (Although this definition seems neat and compelling, some statisticians find it unsatisfactory on the grounds that you could in fact parameterize (think "index") each member in the set of all possible probability distributions by a value in the interval .) A non-parametric model is one in which there are parameters, but the number of parameters and the types of parameters are not decided upon until looking at the data. For example, the number of parameters might grow dynamically with some measure of the complexity of the data, once they have been observed. Let us for a moment consider a model as a black box which takes data as input and provides parameter estimates as output. If the model is parametric, you do not know in advance what those parameter estimates are going to be, but you do know in advance how many of them you will get and what they will mean. (If you are fitting a normal model, you know you will get two parameters as output, and that one of them will be an estimate of the mean and the other will be an estimate of the variance.) If the model is non-parametric, you know in advance neither what those parameter estimates are going to be nor how many of them you will get and what they will mean. (Passing the model one dataset might yield two parameters, where one is a location estimate and another is a scale estimate; passing the same model a different dataset might yield three parameters, where one is a location estimate, one is a shape estimate, and one is a kurtosis estimate.) The classic LDA model is a parametric model under both definitions, since (1) the data are drawn from a hierarchical Bayesian model which you can fully specify as a list of parameters, and (2) the number of parameters is known in advance (in particular, the researcher chooses the number of topics in advance). However, there are numerous variants of LDA in which the number of topics can be learned from the data and thus do not have to be chosen in advance. These models are still parametric under definition (1), since once the number of topics is chosen, you can fully specify the model by a list of parameters; but is non-parametric under definition (2), since the number of parameters is not known in advance.    Embed Quote