★What are the parameters which control transistor amplification?
There are 2 things that give you an amplification factor: external circuitry (follow an amplifier tutorial for this) internal transistor design (look up alpha & beta parameters in BJTs and the higher speed ) Beta is related to the transconductance (transfer of the inverse of resistance) by definition, [1] As you can see, alpha is a measure of pure LOSS, so the ideal transistor has alpha close to 1. In practice, it's anywhere between 0.95 - 0.998+ Take a minute to reflect these upon the BJT transistor symbol: Finally, The following is a standard simplified Pi-model network of a low frequency transistor: for small signal low freq, [2] is an equivalent resistance that varies a bit. Where  is the transconductance, is the equivalent emitter  resistance, the threshold voltage (which increases nonlinearly  with Ic unfortunately). All these equations are differential if you need accuracy. It's a dry subject that one needs to work through to understand it better.  Fortunately, with the standard Pi or T representations all you need is to apply Kirchoff. The rest of the questions: First off, transistors don't work well in an AC regimen (think of them as a special diode), you'll need to double their number in the signal path for positive and negative edge of  the wave. This configuration is often called push-pull, though it has other names. If the ac wave is biased with DC and the resulting wave is within the transistor's paramters, it's ok to use only one, but your amplification factor (if needed) is likely to be lower, unless you use a bigger transistor. The coupling/decoupling that you mention is necessary in amplifier stages: from Bipolar Transistors Fundamentals - Wiki - Technology Transfer Services C1, C2, C4,C6 remove the DC bias. It is necessary to re-add the biasing so that the wave won't begin to clip at the peaks as it passes through the transistors. The amplifiers would also increase DC levels as well, and this is not desirable. R4//R5 and R8//R9 with the same value act as a 1/2 voltage divider. You'd need 1% tolerance or better; in practice it's harder to do exactly 1/2 of the voltage, so this isn't the best design. Adding and removing the DC bias ensures a clean slate at all stages and removes the Vsat of the transistors to some degree. It's also important that C1,C2,C4,C6 are based on a plastic film rather than electrolytics to prevent waveform harmonic distorsion. 1uF is a "rule of thumb" reference value. If designing with high quality op amps, it may be possible to get away without all this nonsense. [1] Bipolar junction transistor [2] USC Dr. Grigory Simin's lecture notes -there are hundreds of these things available, so if you find this hard to follow, look for something similar. -- I may return later with more details on how these internal paramters influence the transistor; the web is full of them but not all of the info is good.    Embed Quote