What do you think every Indian should know about your state/union territory?
First things first, Andhra Pradesh is still one state, technically speaking, so the answer will cover all regions of the state- Coastal, Rayalaseema and Telangana.  Also once the bifurcation is done,the residual state will still be Andhra Pradesh, it is Telangana that will be the new state. Dinesh Venkata  has more or less covered many good points about my state, Andhra Pradesh, and adding to his answer, here are some more. Handmade Toys Andhra Pradesh is famous for it's handmade toys and you have 3 major centers for this- Nirmal in Adilabad district, Kondapalli in Krishna dist and Etikopakka in Vizag district. Nirmal has a hoary 400 year old tradition, it is famous for it's wooden toys and paintings,that adorn many a showcase in homes. Kondapalli in Krishna district, apart from it's fort, is famous for it's  toys made out of light softwood. They are made by artisans who had migrated from Rajasthan centuries ago, and settled down. The Dasavataram set and the dancing dolls are especially famous. Etikopakka in Vishakapatnam district, is quite famous for it's wooden toys made out of lacquer colors. They are especially famous for the games like Tic Tac Toe or 9 Pins , made out of wooden toys. And this is a mini kitchen set Sarees. While not as famous a brand as Mysore or Kanchivaram, the silk sarees in Andhra Pradesh, have their own beauty. Noted for their finesse and textures, made on handlooms, it was said, about them, that they were so fine they could be folded and put in a matchbox. So if you are seeking to buy some beautiful sarees for a marriage, you can try out some of these. Dharmavaram in Anantapur district, famed for it's silk sarees, very fine texture. Venkatagiri in Nellore district famous for it's cotton sarees. Gadwal in Mahbubnagar district famous for it's silk sarees. Mangalagiri in Guntur district famous for it's cotton sarees. Temples The temples in Andhra Pradesh do not dwarf you with their sheer size and grandeur like those in Tamil Nadu, nor as richly decorated as those in Karnataka. What the state does have is a diversity in architecture, where temples differ from region to region. Andhra Pradesh has been ruled by a whole host of dynasties ranging from the Badami Chalukyas, Cholas to the Satavahanas, Kakatiyas to Vijayanagar, the Gajapatis and later the Nizams. And this counts for the diversity in the temples too. Srimukhalingam in Srikakulam district, has a traditional Kalinga architecture, one of the oldest sites. Again the Navabrahma temples in Alampur, Mahboobnagar district, are built in Chalukyan style architecture. Lepakshi in Anantapur district, famous for it's sculptures, and massive Nandi statue, reflects the traditional Vijayanagara style. In fact ancient name of Andhra Pradesh is Trilinga Desha, so called because of the 3 Shiva temples- Kaleswaram in Karimnagar district, Draksharamam in E.Godavari district and Srisailam in Kurnool district. That apart Andhra Pradesh has some very interesting temples too, which are worth a watch. Ryali in East Godavari district has a temple dedicated to Lord Vishnu in his Mohini form. The front part of the idol is in the form of Keshava, and the rear part is in the form of  Jaganmohini, his female avatar. Srikurmam near Srikakulam, has a temple, where Vishnu is worshipped in Kurmavataram, probably the only one of it's kind in India, it is also the name of the village around it. Ahobilam, in Kurnool district, has an idol of Lord Narasimha in a cave, which is how it gets it's name too, Bilam is the telugu word for cave. And one of the 32 Narasimha Kshetras in the state, other well known ones being Simhachalam, Yadagirigutta, Antarvedi. Simhachalam near Vishakapatnam, has Lord Vishnu in the form of  Sri Varaha Narasimha, the idol combines both the Varaha and Narasimha avatars of Lord Vishnu. Cuisine There is more to Andhra Pradesh cuisine, than just biryani. Yes while we do like the Hyderabad biryani, it is not the be all and end all of our cuisine, which is much more rich and diverse. Well yes be warned though, our cuisine is very spicy, and this is the reason why we use curd in our meals daily, to cool down the spice quotient. This is how generally a typical meal looks like in Andhra Pradesh, with some variations region wise. People in Andhra Pradesh, generally eat rice a lot, though it is somewhat less in the drier Telangana region. And a normal Andhra meal consists of papads, rice, dals, rasam, pickles, curry and curd. I had answered some questions here on food from Andhra Pradesh do check out, for a more detailed perspective. Ratnakar Sadasyula(రత్నాకర్ సదస్యుల)'s answer to Indian Cuisine and Food: What are the famous sweets and snacks of different parts of India? Ratnakar Sadasyula(రత్నాకర్ సదస్యుల)'s answer to What do people eat for breakfast in India? And for an overall look at Telugu cuisine do check out here. http://centreright.in/2013/03/ko... Natural Beauty With the second largest coastline in India, two major rivers, Godavari and Krishna flowing through it, and a terrain that varies from green plains to rocky plateau, Andhra Pradesh is a veritable treasure trove for the adventurous. The best part is that many of these areas are still not explored much, and if you are seeking something off the beaten track, this is the place to be in.Lakes, mighty rivers, waterfalls, caves, gorges, hills, beaches, Andhra  Pradesh offers just about everything for the nature lovers. You have some great beaches at Vizag, Rushikonda, Bhimili. Antarvedi Beach, where the Godavari meets the sea. The limestone caves of Borra and Belum, with their breathtaking splendor. The lush green paddy fields of Konaseema, with it's canals, coconut groves, that reminds you of Kerala. The gorges at Papikondalu through which the Godavari flows majestically. And the gorge near the famous Gandikota fort, through which the Penna river flows. You also have Horsley Hills, a little known, hill station in Chittor district, best place to unwind, and its not as crowded as some well known ones. Check out the waterfalls at Kuntala in Adilabad district , Ettipotala( near Nagarjunsagar). Pulicat Lake, that lies on the border between Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, is the 2nd largest brackish water lagoon in India. Some more interesting facts about Andhra Pradesh. Vishakapatnam apart from it's natural harbor is also the Headquarters of the Eastern Naval Command, making it one of the most important places strategically. You must have been hearing of the Mars Mission, well it will be launched from Sriharikota, near Nellore. The Satish Dhawan Space Center here is the only other rocket launch center in India, apart from the one at Thumba, near Trivandrum. Vedre Ramchandra Reddy, a landlord at Pochampally in Nalgonda district, was the first to donate his land voluntarily, in response to Acharya Vinobha Bhave's call. This was the starting of the Bhoodan movement, and the village has been renamed as Bhoodan Pochampally as a tribute. The Khadi at Ponduru, in Srikakulam district, has been rated as one of the finest in India, done entirely by hand, no machines are used to date. Mahatma Gandhi is said to have used the Khadi made here, and it is exported to other nations too. Helium line in the sun was discovered at Guntur for the first time in August 18,1868, by a French astronomer, Jules Jansenn, during a total solar eclipse. There is a whole lot on Andhra Pradesh, that is not possible for me to cover in one post, I request other Quorans from there, to contribute whatever I have missed out. 