What are 10 or fewer good habits for a 24 year old that can make life better?
Abstain from Facebook and other social media It has been proven time and again, that unbridled daily usage of such portals induces feelings of envy, inferiority complex, depression, loneliness, unhappiness and a rather unsettling sensation of having wasted precious time. We can do without these unnecessary negativities, can't we? However notice how I have used the word 'abstain' and not 'avoid'. Facebook and other social websites have been developed to keep us connected in a delightful way. But anything done in excess can be malignant, remember. Be Biscuit ready Carry a sack of glucose biscuits in your car or a few packets in your bag wherever you go. To those in need or the ubiquitous street beggars, hand over a packet of biscuit instead of money. Food, unlike cash, can be consumed immediately and will not be exploited in illicit rackets. This, perhaps, is the cleanest and the healthiest way to help someone in need. Just REST! Reject stereotypes Empathize Stop gossipping Think positive The same old preachy exemplum, eh? This has been said time and over again and will continue to reverberate. It's this one habit that we all know we must possess, but fail to inculcate. No one is perfect. Everyone has a story, a battle of some sort, that no one else knows about. I vouch by this change. Believe me, start with yourself. Page on facebook.com 5 Media Campaigns That Challenge Gender Stereotypes Against Women http://www.fantista.com/40-pics-... Discover - I Owing to my itchy feet and need to be all by myself at times, once in every month, I make it a point to treat myself extravagantly. Go out, pamper yourself, stay in a sexy hotel, non-stop room service, learn something new, talk or don't talk, explore, dig out new plays or music gigs, socialize, stroll in an off beaten track, go to a spa, visit an old age home, photography, indulge in sumptuous meals, get comfortable with yourself.. This excursion gives me the much needed break and time to introspect. And I do this solely for myself. :) You don't need to replicate what I do. Just reserve one day ONLY for yourself and do whatever the hell makes you happy. Walk for 30 minutes + Meditate for 15 minutes + 2 Litres of water everyday If there ever was a pill which contained a combination of the benefits' of the above mentioned, its success (for good reasons, obviously) would be comparable to that of Friends Sitcom+ iPhone+Christopher Nolan+Coca Cola+London+...+Jaguar+Pizza.. You get the point. I'll stop. Prioritize, Plan and Visualize Every night before dozing off, mentally prioritize and list out a minimum of 3 most important tasks you must achieve the next day. Along with listing out, also visualize yourself doing it. This matter-of-fact planning process helps keep uncertainty at bay (and the next day goes much smoother!). Another pro of this quickie is that, having successfully achieved those tasks of the day, it arouses a feeling of self attainment and encouragement which further motivates one to proactively set and achieve more goals. Learn to Sell Sales – The one skill everyone needs to become successful. Sales is explaining the logic and benefits of an action or decision and conspicuously enough, every job requires solid sales skills– Whether its convincing peers that an idea or initiative makes sense or proving to a boss or customer that a particular project will generate a solid return, when you are a Lawyer - you sell your ability to understand the legal nuances, when you are a Doctor - you sell your skill to save lives, When you are a teacher - you sell your knowledge to your students. (quoting Rohit Srivastav). 'Sales' – a euphemism for making people believe in you or your idea so they can 'buy' it.   Sales Skills for Non-Salespeople: Pitching Your Idea or Product Who are you when no one's watching? Who are you...? The question is directly aimed at knowing who you are or what you aspire to become. ...when no one's watching? This questions the sheer honesty behind that identity you are carving for yourself. Is this really who you want to be or only feigning it to please the crowd around? You are at your truest self when no one is around to judge you. Those are the moments when you are defining yourself. Those moments when the only reward is choosing to do something for no other reason than to prove to yourself that you could do it – to prove that you can be extraordinary – to make yourself a better person. I wake up to this quote and sleep keeping it in mind. Simple, yet powerful. Single-tasking The opposite of multi-tasking — Why is it life-changing? A couple powerful reasons: You’ll be more effective with your tasks and get more done. It’s hard to achieve important things if you’re constantly switching tasks and distracted by other “urgent” things. Focus on one task at a time without compromising on the quality of the work. You’ll be less stressed overall and (in my experience) happier throughout your day.   10. I won't write the last point. Learn to leave some space for the unexpected. :) Cheers! Updated 13w ago • View Upvotes