India: What do people from Uttar Pradesh take pride in?
I'm glad you asked this question. Thanks to a lot of negative stereotyping of UP lately, most of my fellow UPites have resorted to blinding themselves to their own awesomeness! Uttar Pradesh includes a vast and diverse region, but the most noticeable cultural differences lie between the eastern and western parts of the state. Even though my family moved to Delhi over 60 years ago, I have been lucky enough to have frequently visited my ancestral village in Meerut and Baghpat districts of UP along with my grandmom, and I can't help but fall in love with the rustic nature of Western UP every time I visit! Here's a quick list: 1. Western UP (Meerut district) had been the epicenter of revolt against British during the Revolt of 1857. I wouldn't delve into the historical details right here, but the spirit of revolt and ruthlessness against subordination runs in our blood. Check this: Meet 80 year old Prakasho Devi Tomar and her 75 year old sister-in-law Chandro Tomar of Johri village near Baghpat. My grandparents still recall how everyone in the community had been awed when Prakasho Devi had taken up shooting as a sport, a rather 'un-womanly' sight for those days. The land-owners and farmers of this region used locally built 'kattas' or desi rifles to protect their crops from thieves, and she was fascinated by the power they weld. She went on to establish the Johri Rifle Association to train local women, that included her own daughter (Seema Tomar) and daughters-in-law, who went on to win medals at National and International levels. They are currently training more than 200 shooters, and more than that, empowering local women and giving them a new sense of purpose and direction in life. Pretty kickass Dadi, ain't she? 2. Simple People with a non-diplomatic approach: Most folks from Western UP you might come across will be rather simple beings with minimal fancies in life. We've been brought up to look at life with simplicity, live with limited materialist possessions and to not 'show-off' should we happen to be better off. Education, both for men and women, is valued big time (with some parental prejudice towards excelling in Mathematics) and most urban women are brought up to be strong and independent, vis-a-vis the men-folk.  Western UP ladies tend to be rustic and ruthless as well, so better beware of a strong volley of words sprouting off their tongues! 3. Which brings me to the local dialect, the 'Khari Boli', which is rather 'Khari' indeed. Simple, to-the-point, non-diplomatic to the extent of being called rude....and never politically correct. To a non-UPite, a Khari Boli speaker is symbolic of an illiterate farmer, or local goon, who in all unintended intentions, is invariably a Jat (thank you Bollywood). But to me, speaking in Khari Boli is a reflection of my ancestry, which I am trying hard to emulate till the point I sound like a pro! Will add more points as they occur to me! PS: Images courtesy: Multiple sources on the internet. 