India: What do people from Uttar Pradesh take pride in?
Glade to see this Question : History of Uttar Pradesh : Uttar Pradesh has a very enriching history to boast about. In fact history significantly defines the lifestyle of the present Uttar Pradesh. This land has been rules by many in the course of history. From the rule of Rama to the rule of British, Uttar Pradesh has seen it all. Ancient History of Uttar Pradesh The history of Uttar Pradesh starts with the advent of Aryans hordes from Central Asian region. Its tryst with the history started as early as 2000 B.C when Aryans started settling along the Doab of Ganges and Ghaghara. This settlement, which was predominantly rural in nature, was named "Madhyadesh" i.e. 'Central Country'. Various Vedic era kingdoms ruled Uttar Pradesh in turn. The most notable one was Kosala that was ruled by King Dasaratha and his successor Ram. They later became the protagonist of epic called Ramayana. Another epic, Mahabharata, also talks about kings who ruled in and around modern Uttar Pradesh and were participant in the war of succession between Kaurvas and Pandavas. The middle of 1st millennium B.C saw the advent of Lord Buddha and Buddhism. Sarnath near Varanasi has the pride of becoming the place where Lord Buddha gave his first sermon. In that period, Uttar Pradesh was ruled by Magadh dynasty. In due course it passed do Nanda dynasty and then to Mauryan who toppled Nanda. In the post-Christ era, Kannauj became the center of power. Various rulers ruled from this city but it was during the reign of Harshavardhana that the city raised to its pinnacle. Medieval History of Uttar Pradesh The advent of Muslim rule acted as the catalyst in the history of Uttar Pradesh. The era saw the downfall and humiliation of Rajput rule in Uttar Pradesh and their influence was largely confined to the pockets surrounding the Rajputana strongholds of Rajasthan. Uttar Pradesh came under the rule of almost all the emperors that ruled during the Sultanate era. The real high came during the reign of Mughal when Emperor Akbar chose the city of Agra and Fatehpur Sikri as his capital cities. The Mogul reign saw the construction of some of the most magnificent monuments in Uttar Pradesh. The era also witnessed irreversible trends towards the development and consolidation of administrative and land holding systems. The era also saw the development of unique art, crafts and culinary traditions of Uttar Pradesh. Modern History of Uttar Pradesh The era saw the advent and conquest of British in Uttar Pradesh. The Mogul rule started weakening and was later confined to the Doab region. Other martial tribes ruled the rest of the areas viz. Oudh was ruled by the Shiite Nawabs, Rohilkhand by Afghans, Bundelkhand by the Marathas and Benaras by its own king, while Nepal controlled Kumaon and Gadhwal. The 'Divani' of Eastern Uttar Pradesh and Oudh later passed to British. It happened in the year 1764 when the British East India Company forces, in the historic Battle of Buxar, trounced the combined army of Nawab Suja-ud-Daula, Mir Kasim and Mogul Emperor Shah Alam. The state was also the epicenter of the Sepoy revolt of 1857. Some of the major protagonist of that mutiny namely Nana Saheb, Tantya Tope, Rani of Jhansi, Maharaja of Benaras and Begum Hazrat Mahal were the resident of Uttar Pradesh. A Sepoy named Mangal Pandey is said to have initiated this revolt in Uttar Pradesh when he opened fired on a British Sergeant in the Merrut Cantonment. Tourism : The Culture of Uttar Pradesh is an Indian Culture which has its roots in the Hindi and Urdu literature, music, fine arts, drama and cinema. Lucknow, the capital of Uttar Pradesh, has several beautiful historical monuments such as Bada Imambara and Chhota Imambara. It has also preserved the damaged complex of the Oudh-period British Resident's quarters, which are being restored. Uttar Pradesh attracts large number of visitors, both national and international; with more than 71 million domestic tourists (in 2003) and almost 25% of the All-India foreign tourists visiting Uttar Pradesh, it is one of the top tourist destinations in India. There are two regions in the state where a majority of the tourists go, viz. the Agra circuit and the Hindu pilgrimage circuit. The pilgrimage circuit includes the holiest of the Hindu holy cities on the banks of sacred rivers Ganges and the Yamuna: Varanasi (also considered world's oldest city), Ayodhya (birthplace of Lord Rama), Mathura (birthplace of Lord Krishna), Vrindavan (the village where Lord Krishna spent his childhood), and Allahabad (the confluence or 'holy-sangam' of the sacred Ganges-Yamuna rivers). Agra : Taj Mahal The Taj Mahal is a white marble mausoleum located on the southern bank of Yamuna River in the Indian city of Agra. It was commissioned in 1632 by the Mughal emperor Shah Jahan (reigned 1628–1658) to house the tomb of his favorite wife of three, Mumtaz Mahal. Construction was completed in 1653 and employed around 20,000 artisans under the guidance of a board of architects led by Ustad Ahmad Lahauri. The domed marble tomb is part of an integrated complex consisting of gardens and two red-sandstone buildings surrounded by a crenellated wall on three sides. The Taj Mahal is regarded by many as the best example of Mughal architecture and is widely recognized as "the jewel of Muslim art in India". It is one of the world’s most celebrated structures and a symbol of India’s rich history. Designated a UNESCO World Heritage Site in 1983, the Taj Mahal attracts some 3 million visitors a year The beauty of the Taj Mahal is not limited to just the outside view but the art works and carvings inside the Taj Mahal are even more beautiful and fascinating. If one says that the works in Taj Mahal interiors are no less than jewellery, it is not exaggeration! The works and decorations inside the Taj Mahal are so exquisite that there is hardly any space for criticism. They epitomize perfection and beauty. As soon as one enters the monument, one can see an elevated central chamber below which is the burial chamber. Four octagonal rooms in each corner surround the crypt. There are two levels in the Taj Mahal that consist of eight rooms each. These rooms were to be used to bury other members of the royal family. The crypts of Shah Jahan and Mumtaz Mahal lie side by side with the heads facing in the direction of the holy city of Mecca. They are decorated beautifully with inscriptions from the holy book of Muslims. A masterpiece inside the Taj Mahal is the marble screen or "Jali" that surrounds the graves. It has been intricately carved by artisans and is a delight to look at. It is carved so finely that it seems as though the screen is made up of fine cloth. The walls are intricately decorated with drawings like vines, creepers with flowers and other beautiful designs. At one point of time, these decorations had semi-precious stones and gems studded in them. The city of Agra, gives access to three World Heritage Sites: Taj Mahal, Agra Fort and the nearby Fatehpur Sikri. And the Buland darwaza the entrance gate of fatehpur Sikri. Fatehpur Sikri Fort Fatehpur Sikri was commissioned by Emperor Akbar to act as his imperial capital along with the Red Fort of Agra. Fatehpur Sikri Fort was commissioned in the year 1570 and was completed in 5 years. While the Agra fort acted as a military base and garrison, Fatehpur Sikri fort was used for the residence purpose. Therefore it is but natural that the Sikri Fort has cluster of buildings that were used for different purposes as in case of Delhi and Agra's Red Forts. Following are some of the most important buildings of the Fatehpur Sikri Fort. Miriam Palace Miriam Palace is actually women's quarter also called Zanana or Harem in Hindustani. Miriam Palace lies east of the Male quarters. A small doorway joins the male quarter with the female one. The palace has been named after one Miriam of the then Goa who was one of the wives of Emperor Akbar. The interiors of the Miriam Palace were richly embellished with gold. Jodhabai' s Palace Jodhabai' s Palace is the largest of all the palaces in Fatehpur Sikri. This was named after Jodhabai, Akbar' s favorite wife and mother of his heir Salim. This palace was specially made to house his queens. The Architectural elements of Gujarat, Mandu and Gwalior have been blended with traditional Islamic designs to decorate this palace. Diwan-e-Aam Diwan-e-Aam is the first enclosure of the palace from the entrance. Divan-e-Aam is actually a vast courtyard that was used by Emperor Akbar for the daily public audience called 'Jharokha' in Hindustani. It was also used to dispense justice. Diwan-e-Khas Diwan-e-Aam gives access to the second enclosure that is called Divan-e-Khas. This is undoubtedly the finest building in the entire Fatehpur Sikri. The hall was used for the private audiences and other court activities. Divan-e-Khas is a magnificent chamber that is dominated by a massive carved pillar. It supports a capital that in turns support a balcony. Buland Darwaza Buland Darwaza pronounced, or the "Gate of Magnificence", was built in 1576 A.D. by Akbar to commemorate his victory over Gujarat. It is the main entrance to the palace at Fatehpur Sikri. Buland Darwaza is the highest gateway in the world and an astounding example of the Mughal architecture. It eloquently displays the grandeur of Akbar's massive empire. Fatehpur Sikri was the world famous 16th century capital city near Agra, built by the Mughal emperor Akbar the Great, whose mausoleum in Agra is also worth a visit. Dayal Bagh in Agra is a modern day temple and popular tourist sight. Its life like sculptures in marble are unique in India. Guru Ka Tal This historic structure dates back to the 17th century. Earlier it was a Taal (reservoir) in the area near Sikandra. It was built in 1610 AD to collect and conserve rainwater in Agra during Jehangir reign. The water of the reservoir was used for irrigation purposes during the dry season. The reservoir was ornamented with stone carvings. This is said to be the place where the Guru Tegh Bahadur laid down his arms to offer arrest to Aurangazeb. The Gurudwara called Guru Ka Taal was built in the 1970s due to the contributions and arduous efforts of Sant Baba Sadhu Singhji "Mauni".Several devotees gather every year to pay homage to the great Sikh guru in this Gurudwara.There were twelve towers in the Tal, but only eight towers have survived the test of time and have now been retrieved. This red stone structure bears similarity to many other magnificent structures of the Mughals like the Agra Fort, Fatehpur Sikri etc Chini ka Rauza Chini ka Rauza is a funerary monument, rauza in Agra, India, containing the tomb of Allama Afzal Khan Mullah, a scholar and poet who was the Prime Minister of the Mughal Emperor Shah Jahan. The tomb was built in 1635. Chini ka Rauza is situated just 1 kilometer north of Itmad-Ud-Daulah Tomb, on the eastern bank of Yamuna river in Agra. The facade of the monument is also known for one of finest examples of glazed tile work, called kashi or chini in Mughal era buildings. Also known as China Tomb. Khan died in Lahore in 1639 and was buried here at Agra. The tomb is built facing the city of Mecca. The Tomb of Mariam-uz-Zamani The Tomb of Mariam-uz-Zamani is the mausoleum of Mariam-uz-Zamani, the Hindu consort of the Mughal Emperor Akbar. The tomb was built by Jahangir, in memory of his mother Mariam-uz-Zamani.The tomb is located in Sikandra, a suburb of Agra. Heer Kunwari was born a Rajput princess and was also the eldest daughter of Raja Bharmal of Amer. She was married to Emperor Akbar in 1562 CE. She was honoured with the title Mariam-uz-Zamani ("Mary of the Age") after she gave birth to Jahangir. She died in Agra in 1623 and her son Jahangir built a tomb for her in between 1623 and 1627 CE.The tomb is only a kilometer away from the Tomb of Akbar the Great, which was built as per her wish, the nearest of all the tombs of his other wives. Varanasi : Variously known as Kashi and Banaras (Benares), this city of Shiva is one of the seven holiest centres of Hinduism. Varanasi is one of the oldest living cities in the world and has been a centre of learning and civilization for over 2000 years. The name probably derives from the two rivers that flank the city, the Varana to the north and the Asi to the south. Fascinated by the marvel and inviolability of Banaras, Mark Twain told the world that "Banaras is older than history, older than tradition, older even than legend, and looks twice as old as all of them put together." Varanasi's prominence in Hindu mythology is virtually unrivalled. For the devout Hindu the city has always been a special place. Besides being a pilgrim centre, it is considered auspicious to die here, insuring salvation and instant access to heaven. Varanasi is the religious centre of the world of Hindus, a city where the past and present, eternity and continuity co-exist. The city of Banaras is situated on the west bank of River Ganges. Life on the banks of the Ganges begins before dawn when thousands of pilgrims come down to the river to wait for the rising sun, when immersion in the sacred river will cleanse them and wash their sufferings and sins away. Ghats Many Indian cities are renowned for their temples. But only Varanasi has its celebrated ghats. Ghats are stone steps those lead down to the river. These ghats line the west bank of Ganges in a great curve for 7km. There are about 100 ghats in Varanasi. Each of the hundred ghats, big and small, is marked by a lingam, and occupies its own special place in the religious geography of the city. The ghats present a unique moving site, especially in the dawn hours when the river is bathed in a magical light and thousands of pilgrims come to bathe and offer puja to the rising sun. Most of the ghats are used for bathing but there are also several burning ghats where dead bodies are cremated. The city extends from Raj Ghat near the major road and railway bridge, to Asi Ghat, near the university. Asi Ghat is at the confluence of the Asi and the Ganges and pilgrims bathe prior to worshipping the huge lingam under a papal tree. It is one of the five special ghats where the pilgrims are supposed to bathe in sequence during Panchatirthi Yatra, the order being, Asi Ghat,Dasaswamedh Ghat, Adi Keshava Ghat, Panjaganga Ghat andManikarnika Ghat. Much of Tulsi Ghat renamed after the poet Tulsidas has crumbled. Named after the legendary king who lost almost everything in a fit of self-abnegation,Harishchandra Ghat, is one of the Varanasi’s two burning ghats. An enormous tree distinguishes Chauki Ghat that shelters small stones shrines to the nagas and in Dhobi Ghat clothes are still rhythmically pulverized in the pursuit of purity. Mansarovar Ghat, named after the holy lake in Tibet, Narada Ghat, honouring the divine musician and sage, Chaumsathi Ghat, where impressive stone steps lead up to the small temple of the Chaumsathi (64) Yoginis are smaller Ghats. Dashashwamedha Ghat is Varanasi’s most popular and accessible bathing ghat. Man Mandir Ghat is known primarily for its magnificent eighteenth-century observatory, equipped with ornate window casings, and built for the Maharajah of Jaipur. Immediately to the north is Lalita Ghat, renowned for its Ganga Keshava shrine to Vishnu and the Nepali Temple, a typical Kathmandu-style wooden temple. North of Lalita Ghat lies Varanasi’s pre-eminent cremation ground, Manikarnika Ghat one of the oldest and most sacred. Chunargarh Fort: Chunargarh is located just 45 odd kilometers from Varanasi and falls in Mirzapur district. The city has a very deep historical importance because of the Chunar Fort that stands just off the town. It is said that Maharaja Vikramaditya, the king of Ujjain established the fort of Chunar as back as 56 BC. King Sahdeo who also built a stone umbrella like cenotaph inside the fort in order to commemorate his victory over 52 different rulers later inhabited it. The Chunar fort also got famed because of its association with Mogul ruler Babur and Afghan Governor Sher Shah Suri. Sher Shah Suri got the possession of this fort after marrying the widow of Taj Khan who was the Governor of Ibrahim Lodhi. Emperor Humayun made an attempt in the year 1531 to capture the fort but was ruthlessly and convincingly vanquished by Sher Shah. It was later won by Akbar in the year 1574 but only after Sher Shah Suri died in an accident. It remained under the Moguls till 1772 AD after which, The East India Company annexed it. The fort is famous for its fusion architecture. Though the fort is not very impressive in itself, some parts will surely catch your eyeballs. For example there is a defunct sundial that was most probably commissioned by King Vikramaditya. There is a very huge and deep well too, which was probably the source of water for the residents of the fort. The west embankment of the fort offers a splendid view of the Ganga. The northernmost point of Kaimur Hills offers an impressive view of the invincible sandstone battlements of Chunar that overlook a bend in the Ganges. Vishwanatha Temple The Vishwanath Golden Temple is dedicated to Lord Shiva as Vishveswara - Lord of the universe. It is the most revered temple in Varanasi. This is the earthly abode of Shiva, whose symbol, a black stone lingam, is enshrined in the inner sanctum. Many times destroyed by invaders in the past, Queen Ahilya Bai of Indore rebuilt the current temple in 1776 on its original site. The 800kg of gold plating of its spires was undertaken by Maharaja Ranjit Singh of Lahore 50 years later. The temple is located in the old city. Non-Hindus are not permitted into the temple. The Gyanvapi Mosque raised by Aurangzeb is near the present Vishwanath Temple or the Golden Temple. Durga Temple Designed in north Indian Nagara style with multiple spires and stained red with ochre, this 18th century temple was built by a Bengali Maharani. The temple is located 2km south of the old city. Parvati, Shiva's consort, as Durga is the reigning deity. It is one of the best-known temples in Varanasi. During festivals, to please Durga, goats are often sacrificed. Because of the frisky monkey population in the temple, it has been locally known as the Monkey Temple. Non-Hindus are admitted to the courtyard, but not to the inner sanctum. Tulsi Manas Temple Not far from the Durga temple is the modern, marble Tulsi Manas temple. Built in the Shikhara style, this 1964 temple's two tier walls are engraved with verses and scenes from the Ram Charit Manas, the Hindi equivalent of the great Sanskrit epic Ramayana, written by poet Tulsi Das in 1623. Poet Tulsi Das lived here while writing it. On the second floor of the temple there are performing statues enacting scenes from Hindu mythology. New Vishwanatha Temple The temple situated in the premises of Banaras Hindu University, is a modern place of worship planned by Pundit Malviya and built by the Birlas. Open to all, irrespective of caste or religion, the temple's sanctum has a Shiva Lingam and verses from Hindu scriptures inscribed on the walls of the temple. The temple is supposed to be a replica of the Vishwanath Temple destroyed by Aurangaseb. Ram Nagar Fort & Museum Situated on the opposite bank of the river, this 17th century fort is the home of the former Maharaja of Benares. The view is most impressive from the other side of the river, which is reached by a pontoon bridge. During the monsoon the bridge is dismantled and replaced with a ferry. Personal collection of the Royal Family is exhibited in the Ramnagar Museum. The collection includes interesting vintage silver and brocade palanquins, howdahs, a replica of the royal bed, an astronomical clock, macabre elephant traps and an armoury of swords and old guns. Banaras Hindu University Since the earliest times, Varanasi has been a great centre of learning. Today the Banaras Hindu University, one of the largest in India, upholds that tradition. Built in 1917, it was founded as a centre for education in Indian arts, music, culture and philosophy, and as an institute for Sanskrit study. The Bharat Kala Bhavan in the university campus has a fine collection of Mughal miniature paintings, brocade textiles and a coin collection from 1st to 15th century that includes Kushan, Gupta and Mughal coins. Bharat Mata Temple Bharat Mata Mandir or Bharat Mata Temple is one of its kinds in Varanasi. Contrary to what most of the tourists believe, this temple is not dedicated to any God, Goddess or certain deity for that matter. It is dedicated to the human manifestation of India popularly called Mother India or Bharat Mata in Hindi. And this temple even not houses the statue or bust of Bharat Mata; instead it has a very big relief map of India carved out of marble. and inaugurated by Mahatma Gandhi.  In marble, of the Indian subcontinent and the Tibetan plateau, with mountains and rivers, all clearly visible. The map is said to be perfectly in scale, both vertically and horizontally. The temple was a gift by the nationalists Babu Shiv Prasad Gupta and Sri Durga Prasad Khatri. Varanasi is widely considered to be one of the oldest cities in the world. It is famous for its ghats (bathing steps along the river), full of pilgrims year round who come to bathe in the sacred Ganges River. A view of the Ghat of Varanasi from the River Ganges Mathura : Mathura is world-famous for its colourful celebrations of the Holi festival, which attracts many tourists also. Mathura is the land of Krishna. In fact, frankly, Krishna and Mathura are inseparable. The place has been the birthplace of Lord Krishna. It is also the place where he spent his childhood, adolescent hood and last years of his life. Therefore it is but natural that city seems to remind Krishna wherever you go. The most important tourist spot in Mathura is the Krishna Janambhoomi temple. The temple lies in the very heart of the city and is supposed to have been built on the site where Lord Krishna was born. The temple houses the stone slab that the exact site of his birth. Dwarkadhish temple that falls in the way to Yamuna is another important tourist spot. The temple remains brimming with tourists round the year. Kusum Sarovar, near the historical Radha Kunj, is a famous tank in the Braj region. It is the same tank where milkmaids used to flirt around with Krishna by giving him flowers. Another important tourist spot in Mathura is the famous Government Museum. The museum houses some of the best statues of Kushana period. Most of them belong to the Mathura School of Architecture that was parallel to the then famous Gandhara School. Apart from that there are some very interesting excursions also such as Nandgaon, Barsana and Vrindavan. They all are in a way or other attached to the life and times of Lord Krishna. It is next to impossible not talking about milk while discussing Mathura. Mathura offers the best 'Ghee' in the country. There are various sweetmeats too that one can taste. 'Peda' and 'Khurchan' are two of them. In the end, we are confident that you will cherish the moments forever in life. Thousands gather at Allahabad to take part in the Magh Mela festival, which is held on the banks of the Ganges. This festival is organised on a larger scale every 12th year and is called the Kumbha Mela, where over 10 million Hindu pilgrims congregate – proclaimed as one of the largest gathering of human beings in the world. Sri Krishna-Balaram Mandir Sri Krishna-Balaram Mandir is a Gaudiya Vaishnava temple in the holy city of Vrindavan. It is one of the main ISKCON temples in India and internationally. Spiritual seekers and particularly devotees of Krishna from all over the world are seen here year-round, adding new color and life to this ancient holy city.Sri Krishna-Balaram Mandir was built in 1975 on the orders of Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada, the founder-acharya of the International Society for Krishna Consciousness (ISKCON). Even today, it is regarded as one of the most popular temples in Vrindavan. In his book, Hinduism: A Short History, Klaus Klostermaier described it as, "a big and beautiful temple" and "one of the main sights of Vrindavan". Jhansi : Jhansi, the gateway to Bundelkhand, was a stronghold of the Chandela kings but lost its importance after the disintegration of the dynasty in the 11th century. It rose to prominence again in the 17th century under Raja Bir Singh Deo who was a close associate of the Mughal Emperor Jahangir. However, its greatest fame is its fiery queen Rani Laxmibai. Daughter of a Benares brahmin, she was married to Raja Gangadhar of Jhansi. She could not bear a heir apparent to the throne, a situation exploited by the British to force her and her adopted baby son into retirement in 1853. During the Uprising in 1857, she joined the rebellion and lead forces against the British in Jhansi. In the battle that followed, she captured Jhansi. But after one year, the British retook Jhansi and Rani with her adopted son, managed to escape and rejoin the main rebel army at Gwalior. In a gallant last stance, she rode out against the British, disguised as a man, holding her sword with both hands and the reins of her horse between her teeth, and became a martyr for the struggle for the independence of India. Jhansi Fort Raja Bir Singh Deo of Orchha built the fort in 1613 on top of a hill as an army stronghold. In 1858 the British ceded the fort to the Maharaja of Scindia and later exchanged it for Gwalior. The Karak Bijli tank is within the fort. There is also a museum, which has a collection of sculpture and provides an insight into the history of Bundelkhand. Government Museum Situated on the road to the fort, the large museum houses weapons, statues, dresses and photographs that represents the Chandela dynasty and a picture gallery of the Gupta period. There are collections of pre historic tools, terracotta from 400 BC, bronzes, manuscripts, paintings and coins. Rani Mahal The palace of Rani Laxmi Bai, built in the 18th century, has arched chambers around an open courtyard. The Durbar Hall on the second floor features an original painted wood panelled ceiling. The palace has now been converted into a museum. It has a collection of archaeological remains of the period between 9th and 12th centuries AD. Kanpur : Situated on the banks of river Ganges, Kanpur is the largest city in Uttar Pradesh and a major industrial centre. Till the middle of the 18th century, Kanpur known as Cawnpore was a quiet village. The British understood the strategic importance of Kanpur in the late 18th century. In 1801 Kanpur came under British as a result of a treaty with Nawab Saadat Ali Khan of Awadh. They turned it into a cantonment. It is in Kanpur that some of the most gruesome incidents of the Uprising in 1857 took place. Today besides being the most industrialized region of the state, Kanpur is also an important educational centre; institutions like Harcourt Butler Technological Institute, Agricultural College, Indian Institute of Technology, G.S.V.M. Medical College, National Sugar Institute and Government Textile Institute are located here. Jajmau Jajmau, known as Siddhapuri in ancient times, is supposed to have been the kingdom of Yayati, the Pauranic king. Excavations carried out on the hillock of Jajmau during 1957-58 unearthed antiquities from the period of 600 BC to 1600 AD. Today, Jajmau houses the Siddhnath and Siddha Devi temples and the mausoleum of Makhdum Shah Ala-ul-Haq, the famous Sufi saint, built by Firoz Shah Tughlaq in 1358. A mosque built by Kulich Khan in 1679 also located here. Jajmau is one of the oldest cities near the Ganges River. It is home to most of the biggest leather industries in India generating 15000cr of revenues every year and accounting for 30% of Indian Export. Moti Jheel Moti Jheel is a lake and drinking water reservoir in the Benajhabar area of Kanpur, which together with its adjoining gardens and children's park is an important tourist attraction. Built during the British Raj, today along with Kamala Retreat and Moti Park, it is an important recreational place in the bustling industrial city of Kanpur, once known as the "Manchester of the East". Moti means pearl and jheel means lake, thus giving its name pearl lake. Allen Forest Zoo The Kanpur Zoo was opened in 1971 and is one of the largest zoos in the country. The zoo is the habitat for a large variety of animals, birds and reptiles. Other places of interest are the J K Temple, the Jain Glass Temple, Phool Bagh etc. Nawabganj Bird Sanctuary 43 km from Lucknow, along the Lucknow-Kanpur highway near Unnao, is the Nawabganj Bird Sanctuary. The sanctuary attracts rare Siberian migratory birds during winters, the main bird species being Pigeon, Common teal, Coot, Purple Moorhen and others. The ideal season for bird watching is between December and March. Lucknow : Located along the banks of the River Gomti, Lucknow is the capital of Uttar Pradesh. Lucknow flourished and rose to prominence during the reign of the Nawabs of Awadh who controlled a region in the north-central India after the decline of the Mughals. Nawab Asaf-ud-Daula (1775-1797) shifted the capital of Awadh from Faizabad to Lucknow. The prominent architectural structures of Lucknow were built during the reign of the Nawabs. The city became known as a centre for Urdu poetry and courtly diction, and reached its epitome during the reign of Wajid Ali Shah (1847-1856) who was a connoisseur of music and poetry. In 1856 the British annexed Awadh after retiring the Nawab to Calcutta for a pension. Bara Imambara It is a complex of shrines, prayer halls and tombs built in the late 18th century by Nawab Asaf-ud-Daula as a famine relief 'food-for-work' project. Its 50m long and 15m high central hall is one of the largest vaulted galleries in the world. There is a mosque with two tall minarets in the courtyard. Asaf-ud-Daula also built Rumi Darwaza, the imposing replica of of the entrance gate in Istanbul, which is located beside the Imambara. Hussainabad Imambara Chota Imambara is the landmark of Lucknow. This monument is also known as Husseinabad Imambara in Lucknow as this place was the office of the erstwhile Husseinabad trust that owned the city once. Chota Imambara is an imposing monument located in the Old City area of Lucknow close to Chowk. The story of Imambara is no less interesting than the Imambara itself. It happened once in early 19th century that a persistent famine engulfed Oudh. That famine broke the backs of lower strata and agriculture labors. The then Nawab of Awadh named Muhammad Ali Shah commissioned Chota Imambara under 'Food for Work' program initiated to bring respite for the city populace. The monument that was erected in order to serve as the mausoleum for Muhammad Ali Shah got completed in the year 1837. Chota Imambara is also sometimes referred as 'The Palace of Light' in British History Chronicles because its decorations during festive season. The building has been designed on the Charbagh pattern with a stream running through the middle of the garden. The design pattern used in the monument is Indo-Islamic in nature but has rather a generous dose of Persian crafts. The interiors have some very good Arabic calligraphy and glassworks. The chandeliers used to decorate the interior of this building were brought from Belgium. Thousands of laborers worked on the project to gain famine relief. Chota Imambara has a gilded white dome and several turrets and minarets. The tombs of Muhammad Ali Shah and other members of his family are inside the Imambara itself. Outside the Imambara is the watchtower called Satkhanda or 'tower of seven stories'. It is interesting to know that though it is called so, it has only four stories as the construction of the tower was abandoned when Ali Shah died Shah Najaf Imambara This white-domed plain imambara is located on the right bank of River Gomti, opposite Carlton Hotel. It is the tomb Ghazi-ud-din Haider who died in 1827 and his wives. The entrance leads to a beautiful garden. The silver tomb of Ghazi-ud-din Haider is in the centre of the building flanked by the more imposing silver and gold tomb of Mubarak Mahal, his European wife. The interior is used to store chandeliers, tazias and other creations of wood those are taken out in procession during the Muharram Celebration. Residency Built in 1800 for the British Resident, this group of buildings was the stage for the dramatic events of 1857 Uprising known as the siege of Lucknow. The red brick ruins are maintained as it was at the time of relief surrounded by lawns and flowerbeds. Kukrail Reserve Forest It is a picnic spot developed by the Forest Department. It has a deer park and crocodile farm. A variety of birds and deer can be observed in their natural habitat. Mahoba : Mahoba is associated with the Chandela kings who ruled Bundelkhand between the 9th and the 11th centuries. They were the builders of the temples at Khajuraho. The impregnable hilltop fort and the tanks they constructed at Mahoba are considered engineering feats. Mahoba was also a great cultural centre. The Granite Kakramath Temple dedicated to Shiva at Madan Sagar, the 9thcentury granite Sun Temple at Rahila Sagar and Vijay Sagar bird sanctuary are the main places of interest in Mahoba. The temples of Mahoba are built in line with the temples of Khajuraho. There are also a number of Buddhist and Jain shrines at Mahoba. Aligarh Fort: Aligarh Fort one of the strongest forts in India, is located in the city of Aligarh (The city was earlier named as Kol or Koil), Uttar Pradesh. It is also called "Aligarh Qila". It is situated on the Grand Trunk road and consists of a regular polygon, surrounded by a very broad and deep ditch. It was built during the time of Ibrahim Lodi by Muhammad, son of Umar the governor of Kol, in 1524-25. Sabit Khan, who was the governor of this region during the time of Farrukh Siyar and Muhammad Shah, further rebuilt the fort.[2] It became a fortress of great importance under Madhavrao I Scindia in 1759, and was the depot where he drilled and organized his battalions in the European fashion with the aid of French soldier Benoît de Boigne. During the Battle of Ally Ghur, it was captured from the Marathas under the leadership of a French officer Perron by Lord Gerard Lake's British army, in September 1803, since which time it has been much strengthened and improved. In the rebellion of 1857 the troops stationed at Aligarh mutinied, but abstained from murdering their officers, who, with the other residents and ladies and children, succeeded in reaching Hathras. The fort is built on a hill, north of the Aligarh Muslim University at Barauli Marg. It has steep ravines, over 30 feet high, on every side, and bastions in every angle on the walls. Now Aligarh fort is in the control of Aligarh Muslim University. The university uses part of the internal area fort as location for its department of Botany. The fort has been the seat of many governors and other rulers of this land, including Sabit Khan, Surajmal Jat in 1753 and mentioned Madhavrao Scindia in 1759. The fort was expanded three times in 1753 by lieutenant Banasaur, commanding officer of contemporary ruler Surajmal Jat, to include a basement, an explosives warehouse and an air cooled kitchen. Aligarh fort, as it stands today, is the work of the French engineers under the control of de Boigne and Perron. Allahabad: Known as Prayag in the ancient times, Allahabad stands at the confluence of River Ganga and River Yamuna. Sangam, as the confluence is called, is the venue of many sacred fairs and rituals, and attracts thousands of pilgrims throughout the year. The mythical Saraswati River, believed to flow underground towards the Sangam, gives the confluence its name 'Triveni'. Emperor Akbar founded this city in 1575 and built a magnificent fort on the banks of the holy Sangam. The city was an important cantonment during the British rule. It has some beautiful remnants of colonial architecture. It was in Allahabad that the East India Company officially handed over control of India to the British Government in 1858, following the uprising. The city was a centre of Indian National Congress. It is here Gandhi proposed his program of non-violence in 1920. Sangam Sangam where the muddy Ganges meets the green and deeper Yamuna. Sangam is considered to have great soul cleansing powers and all pious Hindus hope to perform pilgrimage to Sangam and bathe in the confluence at least once in their lifetime. During the festival of Magh Mela in the month of Magha (Jan. - Feb.), pilgrims swarm the Sangam to bathe at this confluence. Pandas (priests) perch on small platforms to perform puja and assist the devout in their ritual ablutions in the shallow waters. Alfred Park Chandrasekhar Azad Park (British colonial era Alfred Park and informally Company Garden) is a public park in Allahabad. Built in 1870 to mark Prince Alfred's visit to the city, with an area of 133 acres, it is the biggest park in Allahabad. It was renamed after freedom fighter Chandra Shekhar Azad, who sacrificed his life here, during the Indian independence struggle in 1931. Originally and still famously the park is known as Alfred Park.Being the biggest park, it attracts a large amount of people. according to an estimate, approx 5000 people visit this park in duration of 4:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m Allahabad Fort Allahabad Fort that stands on the northern banks of Yamuna near the confluence is a must visit destination in Allahabad. Emperor Akbar himself commissioned this magnificently designed fort in the year 1583. There was a time when this fort was considered among the best garrisons in the entire Mughal Empire but little is left of that grandeur today. The fort has massive walls and three gateways that are flanked by high towers. The magnificent outer wall is still intact and rises above the water's edge. This masterpiece of craftsmanship has now been taken by the army and serves as a barrack now a days but a substantial part of the fort is still opened to the visitors. The most interesting structure in the fort is Ashoka Pillar that was earthed by the order of the Great Mauryan King, Ashoka in 232 BC. Its inscription eulogizes the victories of Samudragupta, the Napoleon of India. It also contains usual edicts that were there since the times of Ashoka. Apart from that, you have very famous but controversial Saraswati Kund that is supposed to be the source of mythical river Saraswati. Nevertheless, historians and geologists heavily contest these claims. Jodhabai Mahal is another attractive monument. This palace is bound to catch your fancy because of its subtle design that has been developed due to the fusion of Hindu as well as Islamic architecture pattern. The Patalpur temple and the much-revered Akshaya Vat (immortal Banyan tree) are also there to see. Patalpuri Temple Within this underground temple, inside the fort, lies the Akshaya Vat or the immortal tree. The tree stands in a deep niche above an underground shaft, which is said to lead to Triveni. It is believed that Lord Rama visited the temple. The famous Chinese traveller Hiuen Tsang mentioned about this the tree during his visit to this place.  Hanuman temple Located near Sangam, this temple is unique for its supine image of Hanuman. Here the big idol of Hanuman is seen in a reclining posture. When the Ganga is in spate, she rises to touch the feet of the sleeping Hanuman before receding. This popular temple is open to non-Hindus. Anand Bhawan Today the erstwhile ancestral home of the Nehru family has been turned into a fine museum. Here, many momentous decisions and events related to the freedom struggle took place. The main building houses a museum, which displays the memorabilia of the Nehru family. Around Allahabad Jhusi (Pratisthanpuri) For those people who are looking for mental peace and spiritual healing, this place of many ashrams and temples is an ideal haven. Situated just 9 km from Allahabad, across the Ganga, Jhusi is accessed by Taxis, Buses and Boats. Bhita Bhita is an archaeological site 20 km from Allahabad, with remains of an ancient fortified city dating back to 300 B.C. Layers of occupation dating to Gupta and Maurya periods or even earlier have been uncovered. Bhita has a museum that exhibits stones, metal seals, coins and terracotta. Shringverpur A famous kingdom of Nishadraj (King of Boatmen) situated 40 km from Allahabad. Excavations have revealed a temple of Shringi Rishi. On the banks of Ganga there’s a platform `Ramchaura’ said to be the place where Lord Rama stayed overnight while going to for 'Vanavas' and his feet were washed by Nishadraj, before steering Rama across the Ganga in his Boat. Kaushambi Situated at around 62 km from Allahabad the town was once a great Buddhist centre. Lord Buddha is believed to have visited Kaushambi twice to deliver discourses. There are ruins of an ancient fort and a monastery. The fort has the broken remains of an Ashoka Pillar. Jaunpur : Founded in the 14th century by Feroz Shah Tuglaq to perpetuate the memory of his cousin Sultan Mohammad (Jauna), Jaunpur became the centre of the independent Sharquie kingdom of Jaunpur in 1394. They were great patrons of art and architecture. Jaunpur was also an important centre of Islamic studies. Atala Masjid Construction of the masjid began in 1377 and completed in 1408. This mosque represents the earliest and finest example of Sharquie architecture, and conforms to the general plan of an orthodox mosque. Its most distinguishing feature is the original treatment of the facade of its prayer-hall composed of three large ornamental archways, the central one soaring to 23m. Jami Masjid The last and largest mosque of Jaunpur, the Jami Masjid was built by Hussain Shah in 1458-78. In plan and design it is a larger version of the Atala Mosque. The imposing structure, raised on a high plinth, encloses a courtyard 66m by 64.5m. A lofty dome tops the interior of the prayer hall. Lal Darwaza Masjid The construction of this mosque, said to have taken place around 1450, is attributed to Bibi Raji, the queen of Sultan Mahmud Shah. It is built on a much smaller area than the Atala Masjid. Shahi Bridge Constructed by Munim Khan in 1568, this picturesque old bridge spans the Gomti River. Ayodhya : Located 7 km from Faizabad, Ayodhya is one of the seven holiest pilgrim centres of Hinduism. The Atharva Veda described Ayodhya as a city built by gods and as prosperous as paradise. But today it is a small dusty town with a great number of temples. The Hanuman Garhi Situated in the centre of the town, a flight of 76 steps leads to the sanctum sanctorum of this temple. Legend says that Hanuman lived here in a cave and guarded the Janambhoomi. The main temple contains the statue of Maa Anjani, with young Hanuman seated on her lap. A massive structure in the shape of a four-sided fort with circular bastions at each corner encloses the temple. Kanak Bhawan Kanak Bhawan is one of the important temples in Ayodhya. The temple has images of Sri Ram and Sita wearing gold crowns. In the yard of the temple, there is a well popularly known as Sita-koop. It is also known as Sone-ke-Ghar. Nageshwarnath Temple The temple of Nageshwarnath was built by 'Kush' the son of Lord Rama. It is said that this was the only temple that survived till the time of Vikramaditya, while the rest of the city went into ruins and was covered by dense forests. It was by this temple Vikramaditya was able to locate Ayodhya and the sites of other shrines here. Budaun is also a city which attracts thousands of tourists annually. Its religious city with many historical monuments and tombs of many famous people. Sravasti : Sravasti, capital of the ancient Kosala kingdom, is where Lord Buddha performed the greatest of his miracles to confound the Tirthika heretics. Sitting on a 1000 petal lotus he multiplied himself thousands of times while fire and water came from his body. Sravasti was an active centre of Buddhism even during Buddha’s lifetime. Lord Buddha spent many summers here, and delivered important sermons. It was here Anathapindaka, a large monastery for the reception of the Buddha, was built in the garden of Prince Jeta. Later, several shrines and monasteries were added to Sravasti. Sravasti is situated on the banks of the River Rapti and can be reached from Gonda, 50 km northwest of Ayodhya. Sarnath : Situated 10 km from Varanasi, Sarnath is one of the four sacred places of Buddhism in India, others being Lumbini, Bodh Gaya and Kushinagar. sarnath is the first place where Buddha delivered his first sermon to his five disciples after attaining enlightenment. Realising the sanctity of the site, emperor Ashoka, in the 3rd century BC, built some of the finest monuments and legacies. Several Buddhist structures were raised at Sarnath between the 3rd century BC and the 11th century AD, and today it is the most expansive ruins of the Buddhist trail. For Buddhists from all over the world who visit India, Sarnath is one of their itineraries. Dhamek Stupa The most remarkable structure at Sarnath is the cylindrical Dhamek stupa, standing at a towering 34.6m with a base diameter of 28m. The stupa is built party with stone and partly with brick. The stone facing the lower part is adorned with delicate floral carvings of Gupta era. At the present form it dates back to 500 AD, but excavations has revealed brickworks belonging to the Mauryan era around 200 BC. Chaukhandi Stupa Believed to be built by Emperor Ashoka, Chaukhandi stupa is a lofty mound of brickwork whose square edifice is surrounded by an octagonal tower. One can have a good view of the stupa from the Mughal tower built by Emperor Akbar in 1555 AD. Mulagandha Kuti Vihar This modern temple has been erected by the Mahabodhi Society. Its interior is ornate with a series of frescoes by the Japanese artist Kosetsu Nosu. The temple is a rich repository of Buddhist literature. A group of statues in the temple shows Buddha giving his first sermon to his five desciples. The ancient Mulagandha Kuti Temple is among the brick ruins of Sarnath. A Bodhi tree growing on the campus is brought from Sri Lanka, from the offspring of the original Bodhi tree under which Buddha attained enlightenment. Ashoka Pillar at sarnath Ashoka Pillar at Sarnath is one of the most famous and most visited tourist spot in India. Emperor Ashoka erected this pillar like several others in other parts of his kingdom. The date of erection and commissioner of this pillar is also confirmed by the edicts of Ashoka that is engraved on it. The pillar also records the visit of Ashoka to Sarnath. The year of his visit is said to be around mid 3rd century BC. It is interesting to note that at one time, the Ashoka Pillar of Sarnath stood over 17 meters in height. Its capital with the four lions back to back that has been adopted as the official emblem of modern India can be seen in the museum at Sarnath. The pillar of Ashoka at Sarnath is famous for its edict. It bears one of the edicts of Ashoka. The edict has an inscription that is said to target schism within the Buddhist community. It reads, "No one shall cause division in the order of monks". The Ashoka Pillar at Sarnath is actually a column surmounted by a capital. Among others, it consists of a canopy representing an inverted bell-shaped lotus flower. A short cylindrical abacus assists it where four 24-spoked Dharma wheels with four animals (an elephant, a bull, a horse, a lion in this order), and four lions face the four cardinal directions. The four animals are believed to symbolize different steps of the Gautam Buddha's life. The Archaeological Museum The Archaeological museum has a rich collection of Buddhist sculptures comprising numerous Buddha and Bodhisattva images, finest specimens of Buddhist art, from Sarnath's Mauryan, Kushan and Gupta periods. The collections also include 9th to 12th century images of Hindu gods. Another main attraction in the museum is the capital of the Ashoka pillar of four back-to-back lions that has been adopted as the state emblem of India. Other interesting Places The Main Shrine: It is the building where Ashoka is said to have meditated. Only the foundations are to be seen now. Dharmarajika stupa: Remains of Dharmarajika stupa that was sacked and reduced into rubbles by treasure seekers in the 19th century. Monasteries: There are Buddhist temples in the Thai, Chinese, Tibetan, Burmese and Japanese monasteries. Visits to these modern temples are worthwhile. Deer Park: The deer park is located north of the Mulagandha Kuti Vihar. Apart from deer, the park has some birds of Indian origin and waterfowl. Kapilavastu : Identified today with ancient Kapilavastu, Piprahwa lies at a distance of 20 km from Siddharthnagar. Kapilavastu was the ancient capital of the Sakya clan whose ruler was the father of Buddha. The Sakya domain was one of the sixteen independent principalities of the 6th century BC. Today, Kapilavastu comprises of several villages, main among them being Piprahwa and Ganvaria. A large stupa stands at the ancient site, which is said to have housed the bone relics of Buddha. An ancient Brahmi inscription discovered at Piprahwa testifies the presence of these relics. Stupa This archaeological site was discovered during excavations in 1973-74. The seals and inscriptions over the lid of the pot discovered here, refers to Kanishka, a great patron of Buddhism who built the biggest Vihara at Kapilavastu and renovated the main stupa here. Below are the famous Buddha temple map. Kushinagar : Kushinagar is one of the principal Buddhist pilgrim centres in India. It is where Lord Buddha attained mahaparinirvana. The Buddhist monuments of Kushinagar are, the Nirvana Temple, Nirvana Stupa, the Mathakuar shrine, the Ramabhar Stupa and many monasteries. The Buddha Museum in Kushinagar houses finds from excavations at the site. Gorakhpur, 51km from Kushinagar, is the nearest railhead and airport. Situated on National Highway No. 28, Kushinagar has frequent bus services. Nirvana Stupa is a huge brickwork stupa that bore an inscription in ancient Brahmi, which states that Lord Buddha's remains had been deposited here. Nirvana Temple has a long statue of reclining Buddha that is over 6 meters in size. The statue was unearthed during the excavations in 1876. Carved from Chunar sandstone, the statue represents the dying Buddha reclining on his right side. Mathakuar Shrine is about 400 yards from the Parinirvana stupa. A black stone image of the Buddha in the 'bhumi sparsha mudra' was recovered here. The last sermon by Lord Buddha was given here. Ramabhar Stupa is a large stupa that rises to a height of 49 ft. It marks the site where Lord Buddha was cremated. In ancient Buddhist texts this stupa has been referred to as Mukut-Bandhan Vihar. The historically important towns of Sarnath and Kushinagar are located not far from Varanasi. Gautama Buddha gave his first sermon at Sarnath after his enlightenment and died at Kushinagar; both are important pilgrimage sites for Buddhists. Also at Sarnath are the Pillars of Ashoka and the Lion Capital of Ashoka, both important archaeological artefacts with national significance. At a distance of 80 km from Varanasi, Ghazipur is famous not only for its Ganges Ghats but also for the Tomb of British potentate Lord Cornwallis, maintained by the Archeological Survey of India The findings of the archaeological excavations in Banda, Mirzapur and Meerut, and the chalk drawings by primitive men extensively found in the Vindhyan ranges of Mirzapur districts, link Uttar Pradesh to the early Stone Age and Harappan era making it one of the ancient cradles of Indian culture. Blessed with a variety of geographical land and many cultural diversities, Uttar Pradesh, has been the area of activity of historical heroes like Rama, Krishna, Buddha, Mahavira, Ashoka, Harsha, Akbar. Dotted with various holy shrines, pilgrim centres, historical monuments and full of joyous festivals, its contributions to India in politics, culture, and society are outstanding. Cultural Aspects : Performing Arts & Music No state in India can boast off the range of music Uttar Pradesh have. The state has variety of Classical, semi-classical and Folk genres to enthrall the visitors. In addition to that the state is home to some of the most versatile and popular masters of this art form. Utter Pradesh is the citadel of 'Purbaiya Ang' of Hindustani Classical Music. The center of this unit has been Varanasi or Benaras for years. Starting with Eastern Uttar Pradesh one can easily conclude that this region has given birth to most of the folk music genres in the state. Birha is the most popular one among them. This is a mood-based genre where newly weds lament the separation from their husbands who travel to distant places to earn their livelihood. Chaiti is in contrast a month specific genre that is primarily sung in the month of Chait according to the Hindu calendar. The core theme of these songs is the amorous fight of a beloved with his lover. Kajari is also a season specific song genre that is mostly sung in monsoon. Here too, the theme is lament of separation but it is less sensuous in nature in comparison to Birha. In the Awadh region, none is more popular than the Ghazal. It is basically a system of uniting various verses in a prescribed format of meter and weight. Thumari are another popular genre of this region. Though for years this music form was confined to royal courts, but when it came amidst masses it became unsurpassable in popularity. Qauwwali, or the poems of Sufis, has a pan-world presence. It is mostly sung on the tombs of Sufi saints and has a loud vocal that culminates to Trance at its crescendo. Marsiya on the other hand is sad in content and recitation. Popular among the Shia Muslims in Uttar Pradesh, Marsiya are the poetic description of the martyrdom of Imam Hussein, the grandson of Prophet Muhammad, and his comrades. The state is home to a very old tradition dance and music. During the eras of guptas and harsh vardhan, Uttar pradesh was a major center for musical innovation. swami haridas was a great saint-musician who championed hindustani Classical Music. Tansen, the great musician in Mughal Emperor Akbar's court, was a disciple of Swami Haridas. Kathak, a classical dance form, involving gracefully coordinated movements of feet along with entire body, grew and flourished in Uttar Pradesh. Wajid Ali Shah, the last Nawab of Awadh, was a great patron and a passionate champion of Kathak. Today, the state is home to two prominent schools of this dance form, namely, Lucknow Gharana and Banaras Gharana. Well-known music personalities such as Naushad Ali, Talat Mehmood, Begum Akhtar, Anup Jalota, Baba Sehgal, Shubha Mudgal, Bismillah Khan, Ravi Shankar, Kishan Maharaj, Hari Prasad Chaurasia, Gopal Shankar Misra, Siddheshwari Devi, Girija Devi and Sir Cliff Richard were originally from Uttar Pradesh. The region's folk heritage includes songs called rasiya (known and especially popular in Braj), which celebrate the divine love of Radha and Krishna. These songs are accompanied by large drums known as bumb and are performed at many festivals. Other folk dances or folk theater forms include Raslila, Swang, Ramlila (a dramatic enactment of the entire Ramayana), Nautanki, Naqal (mimicry) and Qawwali. Gazal & Mushaira: Ghazal originated in Iran in the 10th century A.D. It grew from the Persian 'Qasida', which in verse form had come to Iran from Arabia. The Qasida was a panegyric written in praise of the emperor or his noblemen. Whereas the Qasida sometimes ran into as many as 100 couplets or more in mono-rhyme, the Ghazal seldom exceeded twelve and settled down to an average of seven. Because of its comparative brevity and concentration, its thematic variety and rich suggestiveness, the Ghazal soon eclipsed the Qasida and became the most popular form of poetry. The Ghazal came to India with the advent and extension of the Muslim influence from the 12th century onwards. The Moguls brought along with them Iranian culture and civilization, including Iranian poetry and literature. When Persian gave way to Urdu as the language of poetry and culture in India, the Ghazal found its opportunity to grow and develop. Although the Ghazal is said to have begun with Amir Khusrau in Northern India, Deccan in the South was its real home in the early stages. Md Quli Qutab Shah, Wajhi, Hashmi, Nusrati and Wali may be counted among its pioneers. In its form, the Ghazal is a short poem rarely of more than a dozen couplets in the same meter. It always opens with a rhyming couplet called 'Matla'. The rhyme of the opening couplet is repeated at the end of second line in each succeeding verse, so that the rhyming pattern may be represented as AA, BA, CA, DA, and so on. In addition to the restriction of rhyme, the Ghazal also observes the convention of 'Radif'. Radif demands that a portion of the first line comprising not more than two or three words immediately preceding the rhyme-word at the end, should rhyme with its counterpart in the second line of the opening couplet, and afterwards alternately throughout the poem. The opening couplet of the Ghazal is always a representative couplet: it sets the mood and tone of the poem and prepares us for its proper appreciation. The last couplet of the Ghazal called 'Maqta' often includes the pen name of the poet, and is more personal than general in its tone and intent. Here the poet may express his own state of mind, or describe his religious faith, or pray for his beloved, or indulge in poetic self-praise. The different couplets of the Ghazal are not bound by the unity and consistency of thought. Each couplet is a self-sufficient unit, detachable and quotable, generally containing the complete expression of an idea. In India, there were broadly 3 schools of Ghazal namely Delhi, Lucknow and Deccan schools. Among these, Lucknow school is very popular in Uttar Pradesh. Some of the greatest exponents of this school are Akbar Allahabadi, Mazaz Lucknowi, Firaq Gorakhpuri, Josh Malihabadi, Ali Sardar Jafri, Kaifi Azmi, Jan-nisar Akthar, Javed Akhtar and Bashir Badr The Bhatkhande Music Institute is situated in Lucknow. Madhya Desh was the land of the great sages and hermits and the singing of ancient hymns and mantras laid the basic tradition of music, which has blossomed into a musical tradition.  The medieval age saw the emergence of two distinct strands of music. One was the court music that found patronage in the Courts like Agra, Fatehpur-Sikri, Lucknow, Jaunpur, Varanasi, Ayodhya, Banda and Datiya. The second was the religious tradition emerging from the Bhakti Cult rooted and flowered in centres like Mathura, Vrindavan and Ayodhya. Rulers and musicians from Uttar Pradesh contributed to the prosperity of Hindustani music. Birha: Birha is another popular Folk song genre of Uttar Pradesh. This genre is mood based and the basic theme revolves around the separation of lover and his beloved. Actually 'Birha' in Hindi means separation. The history of this genre is not very old and the earliest reference goes back to 17th century. The possible origination of this folk genre is credited to the incidents where mostly men from small villages used to migrate to cities in search of livelihood. Often they had to leave their newly-weds behind in the village only. The lament of separation and carnal desire among the womenfolk of the village led to the birth of Birha. The genre is extremely popular among the farmers and laborers in eastern Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. There was an abrupt rise in its popularity in the mid-nineteenth century when thousands of laborers from eastern Uttar Pradesh and Bihar were taken to Caribbean as sugar plantation laborers. In fact, the laborers and their descendents who now constitute a sizable population in Caribbean still love this song genre. The best example of this is the growing popularity of Chutney Music, the Soca-Samba version of Birha, in west especially in Caribbean Islands. Chaiti : Chaiti is sung in the month of Chait that falls in March/April as per the Hindu calendar. This is certainly a season specific song. This season has a great importance in the largely agrarian society of Eastern Uttar Pradesh and Bihar for this is the season of harvest. And what is typical to all the festivals, song and dance are a must. The Hindu festival of color called Holi falls in this season only and that is why many of the Chaiti songs have references on Holi. The Chaiti songs like Kajari have a place in semi classical repertoire also. The Chaiti is a musical form derived from folk songs and its theme mostly revolves around the festivities of Holi and Ramnavmi. That is why; most of the songs have wordings like "Ho Rama" or "Are Rama". Chaiti evokes the aura of romanticism and the mood of love. The most common theme apart from Holi is the depiction of scene where a girl asks her husband for a new bridal dress. In many Chaiti songs you will find the newly married young bride expressing her shyness at meeting her beloved. Chaiti has created a place in the hearts of the masses of Uttar Pradesh. Some of the greatest exponents of music in India particularly Uttar Pradesh have tried their hands successfully in Chaiti Music. Some of the famous patrons of Chaiti in the state of UP are Girija Devi, Shobha Gutru and Pundit Chhanulal Misra. Kajari Music : Like Thumari and Chaiti, Kajari too has its roots in Uttar Pradesh. Kajari, a season based music, is one of the most popular folk music form in India and is sung often by classical and semi classical musicians. Even though Kajari is sung in a large region, Mirzapur in eastern Uttar Pradesh is considered to be the real home of the Kajari. As the legend goes in Mirzapur, there was woman named 'Kajali' whose husband was in a distant land. Monsoon arrived and the separation became unbearable, she started crying at the feet of the Goddess and these cries subsequently took the form of Kajari. Keeping legends at bay, the word Kajari is possibly a derivative of Kajal that mean Kohl or Black in Hindi. Uttar Pradesh is a land that experiences sizzling hot summers and the only respite in that season are the black monsoon clouds that bring with them rain drenched with relief and great joy. Therefore typical of every season in India, monsoon too has its share of songs and dance and that is what Kajari is. There are precisely two forms of Kajari singing in UP or Uttar Pradesh. The first is the one that is sung on a performance platform where as women sing the other one on monsoon evenings, while dancing in a semi-circle. The later is popularly called 'Dhunmuniya Kajri'. Uttar Pradesh has produced some of the greatest exponents of Kajari such as Pundit Chhanulal Misra, Shobha Gurtu, Girja Devi, Rajan and Sajan Mishra among others. Khayal Music: Khayal is a semi-classical genre of singing that originated from the courts of royals in Awadh. Khayal in Urdu means imagination. Khayal got this name because it is based on a lover's imagination of his/her beloved. This genre is different from the folk genres of Uttar Pradesh such as Kajari, Chaiti and Birha because of its delicate ornamentation of phrases that derives have more importance than the original text of the lyrics. Amir Khusrau, a great Sufi poet and father of Ghazal, developed the Khayal genre of Hindustani classical music in the thirteenth century. Khayal has various similarities with other genres. For example, typical of Indian classical music genres, Khayal too is modal with a single melodic line that has very little or no harmonic parts. The modes are called Raga, and each Raga is a complicated framework of melodic rules. Khayal is primarily based on a repertoire of short songs that usually varies between 2 to 16 lines depending upon theme and mood. Nevertheless contrary to Thumari and Dhrupad, a Thumri singer has more space for improvisation. A Thumri singer uses the lyrics as raw material for improvisation, accompanied by a set of 2 Hand-drums, a Tabla and usually a Harmonium or Bowed-String instrument such as the Sarangi. As the songs are short, and performances long, the lyrics lose much of their importance. The story of Khayal is inseparable with the system of Muslim family styles that is popularly called 'Gharanas'. About a dozen Khayal Gharanas are well known in India. Each Gharana has originated in a particular city or at a particular court, each developed their own techniques and style, based on what they came to emphasize their own take on raga. Two of the famous exponents of Khayal singers are Fahim-ud-Din Dagar and Waheed-ud-Din Dagar who are otherwise known for their Dhrupad singing. Apart from that Inayat Hussein Khan, Mahboob Hussein Khan and Rashid Khan are other well-known Khayal singers of Uttar Pradesh. Marsiya Music: Marsiya is basically an elegiac poem that is recited to commemorate the martyrdom of Hazrat Imam Hussein and his clan at Karbala in the then Iraq. Marsiya generally consists of six-line units, with a rhyming quatrain, and a couplet on a different rhyme. Actually Marsiya is an elegy on the death of a family member or close friend but in the course of history it has become synonymous with the martyrdom Imam Hussein. Marsiya has its roots in Arabic and Persian literature. By 1830 the genre had emerged in Lucknow, at the hands of Mir Babur Ali Anis and Mirza Salamat Ali Dabir, in a form distinct from its earlier literary antecedents. Marsiya is extremely popular all over the world but some of the best exponents of Marsiya reside in Lucknow, the citadel of Shia Islam and capital of Uttar Pradesh. Shia Muslims regarded it an act of piety and religious duty to eulogies and bemoan the martyrs of Karbala. The sub-parts of Marsiya are called Noah and Soz which means lamentation and burning of heart respectively. A Marsiya is characterized by six-line verses in an AA, AA and BB rhyme scheme. They are traditionally either recited by Marsiya-Khwans or sung by a Marsiya-Soz at Shia mourning assemblies held during the month of Mohharum. A classical Urdu Marsiya, usually includes most of the following sections: a prelude (Chehrah) of poems of praise, descriptions of the morning or night before the battle, or a general introduction to the hardships faced by Hussein; a description of the poem's hero - whether Hussein or one of his companions - and his virtues; the leave-taking or departure for the battlefield (Rukhsat); the entry onto the field (Aamad); a declaration of the hero's martial prowess (Rajaz); the battle (Jang); the martyrdom (Shahadat); and finally, the lament (Bain). To this one could add the topical focus (Maajrah) and the prayer (Dua). Though its language draws heavily on Arabic and Persian vocabulary, the Urdu Marsiya is imbued with the color and flavor of the Indian subcontinent. The best of verses are exquisite cameos composed of images of local flora and fauna, drawing on local custom and tradition. In terms of emotional range the Marsiya swings between heroic displays of martial skill and tender descriptions of affection and bereavement between the high moral virtue of the people of the House of the Prophet and their ultimate vulnerability in the face of death and loss. Some of the famous Marsiya writers of Uttar Pradesh are Mir Babur Ali Anis, Salamat Ali Dabir, Syed Muhammad Mirza Uns, Syed Sajjad Hussein, Shadeed Lucknavi, Dr. Syed Ali Imam Zaidi and Gauher Lucknavi. Qawwali Music : Qawwali is the traditional and mystical form of Islamic songs that are primarily found in India and Pakistan. The word Qawwali has possibly originated from the Arabic word Qaol that which means "axiom" or "dictum". A Qauwwal is one who sings Qauwwali, or the dictums of the prophets and praises of God. The Qawwali is closely linked to the spiritual and artistic life of northern India and Pakistan. Nevertheless Qawwali is not confined to these countries only. They are very popular in counties like Iran, Afghanistan, Turkmenistan, Turkey, Azerbaijan, Bangladesh and Lebanon. The Qauwwali is inextricably linked to the Sufi tradition and thus loathed by hardcore extremist sects in Islam such as Salafi and Wahhabi. They maintain that Quran prohibits any kind of music. In defense, the Sufi saints said that The Quran instructs man to remember God. This remembrance, known as dhikr, may be either silent of vocal. The Qawwali is an extension of the vocal form of this remembrance. The use of music as a spiritual force was discussed in great length by Al-Gazali (1085-1111) who is said to be one of the greatest intellectuals in Islam. The Qawwali follows a very delicate mystical process. It starts with the singing of the song where the song is received in a manner that is not unlike standard forms of musical expression. Later due to persistent repetition of these lines, the words cease to have a meaning. The motive behind this is to lead the listener and performer alike into a trance that might prove ideal for attaining spiritual enlightenment. The performance of a Qauwwali is strictly a group act. Within this group, there is one main vocalist or Qauwwal, and a group of supporting vocalist. The audience too is considered a participant in this event. The musical accompaniment varies according to situation and singers but Harmonium, Tabla, Dholak, Sarangi and Rabab are common instruments. Furthermore, a simple clapping of the hands is a ubiquitous rhythmic support. The greatest exponent of this art was Sufi singer and an academician par excellence named Amir Khusrau. He was also a legendary musician, statesman and philosopher. It is said that Amir Khusrau, the disciple of Hazrat Nizam-ud-Din Auliya, was the advisor to 11 rulers of Delhi particularly the rulers of the Khilji Dynasty. Recent years have seen the Qawwali thrust into the international arena by such musicians as Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan from Pakistan and Nizami brothers of Uttar Pradesh. Thumri Music: Thumri that is originated from Hindi word 'Thumakna' or 'Attractive Gait' is one of the most popular genres of semi classical Indian music in Uttar Pradesh. More often than none, the themes of Thumri are romantic and devotional in nature, and usually revolve around a girl's love for Lord Krishna. The language is a dialect of Hindi called Braj Bhasha. The content of sensuousness is the main emotive basis in Thumari. With keeping its unique character intact as a musical form Thumari has its own idiom, scholastic tradition, aesthetics and mannerisms, which are in many ways different than Khayal and Tappa that are very popular in Uttar Pradesh too. Thumri style of singing is marked by a greater flexibility with the Ragas in comparison with it other cousins such as Tappa and Khayal. The Ragas that are predominantly used in a Thumri are Pilu, Kafi, Khamaj, Tilak Kamod and Bhairavi among scores of others. Most of the Thumri compositions are usually based on 'Kaherava' of 8 beats, Ardh-taal of 16 beats, 'Dipchandi' of 14 beats or 'Jaat' of 16 beats. The popularity of Thumri in Uttar Pradesh precisely Awadh arose primarily during the 19th century. The greatest patron of this form was the then Nawab of Awadh, Nawab Wajid Ali Shah. It started its journey as a song sung by courtesans that was almost religiously accompanied by dance. This style, which was named 'Bandish ki Thumri', remained confined to Awadh Region only. Slowly, this style of Thumri was replaced by one ' Bol Banao ki Thumri' that originated and flourished around Benaras. This style of Thumri is still very popular and is sung strictly by the singers belonging to 'Purvaiya Ang' that comprises mostly singers from Eastern Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. Some of the most famous exponents of this style of singing are Rasoolan Bai, Siddheshwari Devi, Girija Devi, Gauhar Jan, Begum Akhtar, Shobha Gurtu and Noor Jehan. This style of Thumri has a very slow Tempo that is concluded by a faster phase where the percussionists have some freedom of improvisations. With Tabla and the Tanpura, other typical instruments in Thumri are Sarangi and Harmonium. Rasiya Music: Rasiya is another famous folk genre of Uttar Pradesh. Though Rasiya has slowly gained popularity all over the world due to organizations like ISKCON, its origin is basically confined to the Braj region of Uttar Pradesh. Braj region basically comprises towns like Mathura, Nandgaon, Barsane, Vrindavan and Govardhan. Braj is the land of Lord Krishna and his consort Radha. A remarkable feature of Braj region is its Holi celebration that is very unique in itself. Rasiya is the form of folk music that is mostly sung in this region on Holi. The themes of Rasiya songs are the conjugal love of Krishna with his consort Radha and other milkmaids of his village. Nevertheless the lyrics don't have sexual overtones as in the case of Chaiti and Kajari. An interesting event is the Rasiya competition. It is held between men dressed in pink and yellow turbans representing Radha-kund and Krishna-kund respectively. The Lathmar or 'Stick Beating' Holi of Braj is very famous for its numerous Rasiya. In this, after a musical question answer session, young men begin singing Rasiya and as soon as they reach the street they are showered with blows from women armed with sticks. The men try to defend themselves till sunset when one young man is caught by the women and made to pray to the well signifying the end of this part of Holi. Folk Arts : Kathak : Kathak is a refined classical dance form, one of the six foremost classical dances of India. Its name is derived from the word 'Katha' meaning story. Kathak dance form has originated in northern India during the 6th - 7th century AD. In ancient times, there was a class of professional storytellers who recited the epics and mythological stories with added element of abhinaya. They were called Kathakas who travelled around the country entertaining and educating the people with sacred legends, folklores and mythology. By the 13th century the style of singing by Kathakas had developed its own special features. The emphasis of the dance moved from the religious to the aesthetic. Abhinaya (the use of mime and gesture) became subtler, with emphasis placed on the performer's ability to express a theme in many different ways and with infinite nuances. Later it spread to Lucknow, Raipur and Jaipur. The style that flourished under patronage of Muslim rulers of Lucknow came to be known as Lucknow Gharana. Lucknow Gharana was greatly influenced by Muslim culture and traditions. The Lucknow Gharana developed a style of Kathak that is characterized by precise, finely detailed movements and an emphasis on the exposition of thumri, a semi-classical style of love song. The footwork is matched by the percussion instruments like tabala and pakhwaj. It has very intricate movements of the hands and feet along with facial expressions set to complex time cycles. The dance movements include numerous pirouettes executed at lightning speed and ending in statuesque pose. Braj Raslila : Raslila is a famous art form of the Braj region of Uttar Pradesh. The Braj region comprises areas in and around Mathura. It includes towns that are in someway or other attached to Lord Krishna and his times. Raslila, or Rasleela as it is written at times, is a dance form that is attached with the love of Lord Krishna with milkmaids of his village and his consort Radha. The dance form was originated during the amorous encounters of milkmaids with Lord Krishna. Legend goes that when all the milkmaids started demanding Krishna to be their dance partner, Krishna cast a spell so that each of those milkmaid thought Krishna was dancing with them. This marked the birth of Raslila. Raslila is generally performed by mobile troupes that roam around village to village. This dance is performed primarily on Rasia, a song form that is entirely based on the theme of Krishna-Radha love. Raslila is a folk tradition that has incorporated elements of Indian classical music, drama and dance. This presentation goes beyond professionalism. Though the dramas have basic scripts there is ample room for improvisation and extemporization, only to return to its formal delineation after the inspiration of the creative force is consumed. The emphasis is on 'seeing through sound' (darshan). The visual sense is to enhance, but the ultimate ingredient is the 'bhava', a particular mood or sentiment conveyed by the music and songs, which along with the action of the drama enable the actors and the audience to personally taste the different dramatic flavors, such as friendship, servitor ship, parental love, conjugal love, amazement, humor, chivalry, compassion, fury, fear and dread. Ramlila : Ramlila is a traditional art form that deals with the life of Lord Rama who is another incarnation of Lord Vishnu. Ramlila, Ramlila is nothing but a stage representation of Epic Ramayana. Epic Ramayana is based on the life and times of Lord Rama, the Maryada Purushottam or the 'The best among the dignified'. The story of Lord Rama and his entourage is so popular in India that it has become a part and parcel of Indian psyche. The story of Ramayana injects ethics to the Indian mainstream. Ramlila or Ram Lila as it is written some times, is the stage adaptation of that very Ramayana. This play is generally staged during the annual Dussehra festival in Uttar Pradesh that culminates to Vijayadashmi; the day Rama became victorious by annihilating Ravana, the symbol of evil. The play is staged in 10 segments where one segment is staged everyday. Most of the times, all the actors are mare even the one representing female protagonist. Ramlila of Uttar Pradesh has a charm of its own. There are as many as 4 different schools of Ramlila in Uttar Pradesh only. The first one is the pantomimic style with a predominance of jhankis - tableaux pageants. The second one is the dialogue - based style with multi - local staging. The third and the fourth one are the operatic style that draws its musical elements from the folk operas of the region and the stage - Ramlila of the professional troupes called "mandalis", respectively. Though Ramlila is staged all over the UP but the ones that are staged in cities like Varanasi, Ram Nagar and Chitrakoot have charms of their own.The Ramlila performance evokes a festive atmosphere and enables observance of religious rites. It is also rich in performance crafts such as costume jewellery, masks, headgear, make-up and decoration. Ramlila is performed during Dussehra that commemorates the victory of goodness represented by Rama over Ravan representing forces of evil. With the passage of time local variations of Ramlila have sprung up in different parts of the State with changes in dialogue and music. This art form is performed almost in all villages during the Dussehra festival. Nautanki : The Nautanki forms are based on the themes of mythology, historical and also folk stories; they also act on the grandiose epic. Within the act performance, they also use the songs to create more interest but the songs are majorly filmy style. To manage the whole drama or act, there is manager of stage, who handles the 10 to 12 performer. The performer of the act, go to many villages and towns to perform. Their dramas include comic dialogue and scene which makes the whole act exciting. Nautanki in Uttar Pradesh is staged in maidans and courtyards. The music is not precisely classical or even folk but boasts of a model of its own, which does not differ much from drama to drama. The poetry is penned in diverse metrical patterns and sung in accordance with a special convention. The prominent melodic instrument is the nagada (a kettle drum that's single-faced) which heralds a Nautanki performance. The harmonium and sarangi are also used. The beats of the dholak (drum) provides the rhythm. Some people believe that Nautanki originated in Punjab. However, there is no suggestion of the Punjabi language in Nautanki. Rather, this folk theatre uses Hindustani language. It is not easy to trace the history of a vibrant art form like Nautanki, which has expanded its sphere according to the varied requirements of the large masses of people who stay in the villages of north India. Ain-I-Akbari, the biography of Emperor Akbar written by Abul Fazl in the 16th century has some references to the Bhagativyas (which were quite similar to Nautanki). But it is almost sure that the art from of Nautanki has been entertaining the middle and lower classes for more than hundred years. Swang/ Naqal (Mimicry)/ Bahurupiya Swang is a popular folk dance drama or folk theatre form in Rajasthan, Haryana, Uttar Pradesh and Malwa region of Madhya Pradesh. Swang incorporates suitable theatrics and mimicry (or nakal) accompanied by song and dialogue. It is dialogue-oriented rather than movement-oriented. Religious stories and folk tales are enacted by a group of ten or twelve persons in an open area or an open-air theatre surrounded by the audience. Tradition credits Kishan Lal Bhaat for laying the foundation of the present style of Swang about two hundred years ago. Since women did not participate in the dance-drama form, men have traditionally enacted their roles. Naqal is usually presented by two men who, through a series of jokes, improvisations, and horseplay, make sharp, satirical comments on society and politics. One carries a leather strap in his hand. The strap is generally seen in the size of a folded newspaper, which he wields as a weapon to hit his partner to underscore the witty punch lines. The performers wear a costume of tehemat i.e. a wraparound lower garment, short kurta, and dunce cap. As jesters, they are the symbols of the common man who relates to issues of tradition, progress, and modernity in a light hearted, frivolous, yet incisive manner through the power of their repartee. By exposing the hypocrisy of old and new alike they do their art. Naqqals function as both social critic and popular psychiatrist through their verbal gymnastics on such topics as dowry or usury. Charkula : Charkula is a dance form that owes its birth to Krishna era. It is therefore not surprising that it is so popular in Braj region of Uttar Pradesh. The dance has many legends attached to it. One legend goes by that the mother of Radha, consort of Krishna, ran outside to deliver the news of her birth carrying Charkula or oil-lamps on her head. Since then this became a tradition to perform this dance on auspicious occasion but primarily on the third day after Holi, the day Radha was born. The other legend says that milkmaids of Mathura re-enacted the seen where Krishna held Govardhan hillock on his finger to save people from the rain. In the process of acting, girls started raising Charkula over their head in order to symbolize the hill. Women are dressed in long skirts that reach up to the toes. There is a colorful blouse and the dancer covers her body and face with the veil. These women carry a large multi-tiered circular wooden pyramid having 108 oil lamps on their heads while dancing. They perform their dances to the tunes of Rasia that is the song of Lord Krishna. The dance has synchronized steps to the beats of the drum. The movements of the dancers are limited due to the heavy load of stuff on their head. They cannot bend their body nor can they move their back. In spite of these limitations the dancers dance gliding, bending, and pirouetting to the tune of the song. Poetry In Uttar Pradesh : Uttar Pradesh has a very rich tradition of poetry. The poetry in Utter Pradesh is done in nearly all the languages but the torchbearers are Hindi and Urdu. Apart from that, Awadhi and Braj Bhasha also contribute a lot. The poetry recitation is an integral part of the poetry culture and that is why you will find these recitation functions happening in every other towns and cities of Uttar Pradesh. It is very heartening to see that younger generation is successfully carrying forward this rich tradition. Hindi Poetry in Uttar Pradesh Hindi being mother tongue of UP has quite a significant influence on society and its contemplation. The language through its poetry reflects the mood and aspiration of the masses. Uttar Pradesh has produced some of the well-known laureates of this art form. The significant names among them include Suryakant Tripathi Nirala, Sumitra Nandan Pant, Kavi Pradeep and Harivansh Rai Bacchhan. Among the historical figures Kabir and Ramanand rule the roost. The recitation ceremony is called 'Kavi Sammelan' or 'Kavi Sangosthi' in Hindi. Many a times separate recitation ceremonies are arranged for humorous poetry. The masters of this genre include names like Kaka Hathrasi, Ashok Chakradhar and Surendra Sharma. Urdu Poetry in Uttar Pradesh Urdu poetry has a tradition that cannot be matched by any language in India in terms of its spread, impact and rebellion. Uttar Pradesh feels pride in telling that Urdu was conceived and saw its zenith in this state only. The Urdu poetry that owes its birth to Royal courts came out of its influence gradually and became the lingua franka of freedom movement in India. Urdu poetry also became tool in the hands of those left leaning poets and activists who wanted to narrow the class divide in India. Uttar Pradesh has produced a majority of poets in the course of history. The classical list includes names like Mirza Dabir and Mir Aneesh. Even in the modern times names like Firaq Gorakhpuri, Josh Malihabadi, Akbar Allahabadi, Mazaz Lakhnavi, Kaifi Azmi, Ali Sardar Jafri, Shaqeel Badayuni, Wasim Barelvi, Munawwar Rana, and Nida Fazili have carried the flag of revolution. Most of the time, poems of these writers used to be based on themes like hunger, gender equality, class equality, secularism and poverty. That was quite a welcome change from the early phase where only love, wine and betrayal were considered the core issues. Poetry in Other Languages in Uttar Pradesh Apart from Hindi and Urdu, Awadhi and Braj Bhasha are the languages that have a rich poetry tradition. The former was the lingua franka of Sufi poets and saints in Oudh. That is why the language has a very impressive collection of Sufi poetry most of them written by poets such as Baba Farid and Amir Khusrau. While on other hand Braj Bhasha was the language of Lord Krishna. It is therefore very natural that almost entire collection of poetries in Braj Bhasha is based around the theme of Krishna and his love with Radha. WildLife in uttar pradesh : Uttar Pradesh has a very rich fauna and flora. Although the biggest chunk of wildlife sanctuaries and reserves went to Uttaranchal when it was carved out of Uttar Pradesh, few are still left with Uttar Pradesh. UP has a vivid climate and relief as it stretches from the Northern Indian plains towards the Ganges basin of East. Therefore national parks and wildlife sanctuaries that are scattered all over the Uttar Pradesh have vivid fauna and flora. The fauna of UP consists Tigers, Cats, Antelopes, Deer, Wild Boars, Elephants, Rhinos and other animals that are common in basin. In terms of birds, Uttar Pradesh is home to various species such as Painted Storks, Black and White-necked Storks, Saras Cranes, Great Indian Horned-owl, Jungle Owlet, Colorful woodpeckers, Barbets, Kingfishers, Minivans, Bee-eaters and Bulbuls. The largest wildlife reserve in Uttar Pradesh is Dudhwa National Park that is situated in the district of Lakhimpur Kheri. Stretched in an area of nearly 500 square Kilometers, Dudhwa National Park is close to the Tarai region of Nepal and boasts off a vivid fauna and flora. Tiger and Rhinos are the two animals that are worth seeing in this park. This is the only park in UP where you can see these two animals. Apart from Dudhwa, the other very important reserve is Chandra Prabha sanctuary that is situated in the district of Mughal Sarai. Though this park is devoid of any member of the Indian Cat families, it has various species of Deer and Antelopes. Stretched in less that 80 square Kilometers, the park boasts off Chinkara, Sambar and Chital. Stretched along the districts of Mirzapur in UP and Bhojpur in Bihar, Kaimoor wildlife sanctuary covers an area of around 500 square Kilometers. This sanctuary is famous for Tarai Panthers and Blackbuck. Equally popular if not more is Nawab Gunj bird sanctuary near Lucknow. This bird sanctuary boasts of some of the rare bird species in India. Among others, Pochard and Shoveller can be found in abundance in this park. Apart from these major wildlife reserves, there are some minor ones too such as Katarniaghat, Hastinapur and National Chambal wildlife sanctuary but they don't have any such species of fauna and flora that can be classified as unique or rare. Uttar Pradesh Cuisine : Cuisine of Uttar Pradesh No talk on any culture can be rounded off without mentioning cuisines. Uttar Pradesh, the melting pot of cultures, too has its own set of cuisines that it boasts off. These cuisines find their source to the courts of various emperors and rulers who have ruled the sugarcane fields of Oudh and around. The origin of some of the dishes goes as back as the life and times of Lord Krishna. Therefore it is very natural that the state has quite a generous platter to offer to the visitors. And this also ensures that UP is one of the very few regions in India that has a generous platter for both vegetarians and non-vegetarians. Delectable  delicacies like chaat, samosa and pakora, that top the most popular  street food charts in all of India, are native to this state. Broadly Uttar Pradesh is divided politically, geographically and by cuisines in to 3 distinct zones namely Western UP, Oudh and Eastern Utter Pradesh. The most illustrious region among these in terms of culture and cuisine is Oudh or Awadh as it is called sometimes. The Oudh region offers a range of option in terms of cuisines. Banarsi food Steeped in antiquity the city of Benares was home to a cultured citizenry used to sophisticated tastes in every field of life. Purity, simplicity and great refinement were the hallmark of Banarasi cuisine. Sweets are the real forte of Benaras. Delicious kachauris, jalebis, samosa and a range of street fare which of course includes offerings from the local chhatwallah will win the heart of every visitor. Awadhi food Awadh,the heart of the Nawabi culture, paid tribute to all tastes. The sumptuous and very sensual Awadhi gourmet cuisine, aimed primarily at feasting royalty, was an astonishingly rich tradition. Painstaking supervision, quality control and measured crafting went a long way in keeping the tables of the nawabs the most alluring in India. The Awadhi culinary heritage is marked by the elegance which goes into adorning the dastarkhwan (table), the expertise of its bawarchis (cooks) and their rakabdars (spice masters) who manned the bawarchikhana (kitchen). The most famous cuisines in Oudh are Kabobs, Biryani and Nihari. Due to Muslim dominance and influence on the culture and cuisine of this region, you will find that most of the items are meat based. Among the kabobs Shami and Galawati kabobs are the specialty of Lucknow and so are Kulcha-Nihari and Biryani. It should be kept in mind that the Biryani that is cooked in Oudh is quite different from its cousins of Hyderabad and Karachi in Pakistan. The Kanpur region brings Kakori and Boti kabobs. The most famous vegetarian dishes of this region are Tahri and Nargishi kofta. While the former is cooked with rice and lentils, the later has a generous dose of cheese, Khoya and saffron. Sweets Agra is renowned for its Petha Lucknow for its shahi tukde, Malai makkhan or nimish. With a sweet tooth Mathura rejoices in its khurchan and melting pedas Varanasi for its creamy winter delight Malaiyo Mughlai food The range of Mughlai food, refined to a great extent by the Nawabs and their cooks, has become the hallmark of Uttar Pradesh. Some dishes noted all over the world for their exquisite taste are: Kundan Kaliya Kaliya is a mutton preparation with gravy along with the compulsory inclusion of turmeric or saffron. Some variations have been devised by the cooks of Awadh, for instance Mahi Kaliya, Chandi Kaliya and the unbeatable Kundan Kaliya. The latter is a delicacy designed by the bawarchis and rakabdars to please their Nawabs. The use of gold leaf in this dish lends a touch of luxury to it. Shami Kabab Shami Kabab is a non-vegetarian dish made from mince meat. Kababs are round patties filled with spicy surprises. The texture of the kabab is extremely soft and simply melts in the mouth. Kakori Kabab The seekh kabab was introduced in Awadh region by the Mughals and was originally prepared from beef mince on skewers and cooked on charcoal fire. But later influences and innovations led to the use of lamb mince which was preferred for its soft texture. Kakori is a small hamlet on the outskirts of Lucknow, in the Lucknow-Malihabad mango belt. During British rule, it was customary in this region for the rich Rajas and Nawabs to entertain senior British officers. In mango season, a `mango dinner' was very much in order (dinner in a mango orchard, was followed by a variety of chilled mangoes served in great style). At one such party in Kakori, stung by the remark of a British officer regarding the coarse texture of Seekh Kabab, the host, the late Nawab Syed Mohammad Haider Kazmi summoned his rakabdars, hakims and attars the very next day and asked them to evolve a more refined variety of the Seekh Kabab. Ten days of incessant research and design efforts resulted in the now famous `Kakori Kababs' which were as far as perfection could go. The Nawab invited the same officer again and presented the new version of the Seekh Kabab and needless to say it met with great applause. Since then the Seekh Kababs of Kakori became famous by word of mouth and even today, though cooked elsewhere, are known as `Kakori Kababs'. Gulnaar Kababs The Gulnaar Kabab is a gourmet's delight. The blending of tomatoes with spices and chicken, with a garnish of red rose petals is one of the most aesthetic dishes of the bawarchis of Awadh. Nehari Khaas The Nehari is invariably cooked in mustard oil and is a hot favorite of all the princes and paupers, the high and low, the rich and poor. The word `Nehari' is derived from `Nehar' or fasting and is a popular breakfast item with the Muslim populace. Nehari originally, is beef, braised and then stewed overnight, further prepared in the morning and eaten with kulchas. The recipe for the Nehari, interestingly, is also derived from a Hakimi Nuskha and it is especially suited to the body constitution in the winter months as it keeps the body warm. Nargisi Kofta A very interesting aspect of Awadh cuisine is the inspiration it draws from a myriad sources - seasons and celebrations, flora and fauna, personalities, poetry and colour. The Nargisi Kofta is essentially a hard boiled egg, wrapped in mince and deep fried, when halved lengthwise it resembles the eye! Purists go to the length of selecting eggs which are more slim than round to get the perfect shape! Patili ke Kabab Awadh is home to a vast variety of kababs. They differ in shape and size, the kind of meat used in the method of cooking involved. Contrary to the general notion that kababs are either barbecued or griddle fried, in this region, even the patili or deep copper or brass vessel is used for making kababs. This kabab is served as one whole mass on the plate and no in several individual pieces. The cooking of mince on slow fire with ghee and spices infuses the meat with a subtle aroma, and the superbly soft texture of the kabab makes partaking of it a pleasurable experience! Pasanda Kababs The Pasanda Kabab is one such mouth watering preparation. The pasanda is a two inch square boneless cut flattened out by beating with the blunt side of knife. It can either be skewered or cooked in a vessel. The latter method is more common in Lucknow. Shab Deg Over two hundred years ago, in the early 18th century, Kashmiri families came down the mountain valley to seek fame and fortune in the rich plans below. Those were the days of the decline of the Mughal Empire, and it was not surprising that the glory of Awadh pulled them towards Lucknow. A number of Kashmiris came to settle in the capital of Awadh. They brought with them the scent of saffron, the cups of kahwa and their celestial cuisine. Truly, the cooking of "Shab Deg" in winter, for the Nawab in Awadh, became not only a celebration of winter, but a reminder of the bond with that land which is often referred to as heaven on earth. Shab Deg is a beautiful blend of whole turnips, Kashmiri ver, mutton balls and spices cooked in a `deg' through the night or "shub". The treatment of turnips with saffron, the special Kashmiri vers brought all the way from Kashmir with the distinctive aroma of saffron and Kashmiri onions, and the koftas, cooked on the slow fire in a sealed deg till the break of dawn, lend this dish its distinguished status. Zamin Doz An old recipe for cooking fish is the `Zamin Doz Machhli' wherein a whole fish is stuffed with spices, sealed in an earthenware case, buried in the ground and cooked by placing cow dung cake fire on the ground above. Though it takes 6-8 hours to cook, it is worth the wait! In the days of yore, special earthenware cases were made to order by the kumhars (potters) according to the size and shape of the fish to be cooked. The case would fit the fish like a glove and moisture would be absorbed by it. The final product would have an extraordinary earthy flavour. As such luxuries are rare these days we thought of substituting the fish-shaped case with the easily available roti-dish or the flat curd dish. Lucknowi Biryani Though the formal menu of Awadh did not have any place for the Biryani, it was and still is popular for the informal meals. The method of cooking the Biryani is the `Dum Pukht' method which imparts a typical Awadh flavour to this rice preparation. Biryani literally means fried or `bhuna', and in this preparation, the rice is lightly fried before being cooked in the mutton stock. Hence the name, differentiating it from the pulao where the rice is parboiled. Zarda (Sweet Rice) In the days of Nawab Wajid Ali Shah, who was a connoisseur of the fine arts, celebrations were done in style. A long procession of `Bajras' (barges) were taken out on the river Gomti. Dressed in yellow, to match the (color of nature) spring palette, men and women danced to the tune of Raga Vasant, and Raga Hindola. The river would be transformed to a rich yellow hue more aptly labeled as `Basanti'. The `Zarda' is a celebration of spring though its popularity transcends the seasons, even cooked during marriages or auspicious occasions, this sweet rice preparation is like a spring song! Mutton Kofta Arhaar Ki daal Nothing spells comfort like some steaming arhar dal drizzled on a  plateful of rice. A simple everyday classic recipe. Even a novice cook  can master it. Every household in the State is sure to have it's own  version.   This one's a winner on the dinner table. It can be served dried as  kebabs or with a thick gravy which goes well with basmati rice Bhindi Ka salan This recipe is native to the Mughlai cuisine. Marut Sikka tweaks the  authentic 'Mirch ka Salan' and uses lady fingers instead. Crispy fried  bhindi dipped in a zingy yogurt based gravy with a melange of spices. Aloo Rasedaar A quick and easy indulgent fare. Be it festive occasions or one of  those breezy afternoons, aloo-puri is an all-time favorite food. Bedmi An Indian flat bread known to have originated in Uttar Pradesh. Paired  with potato curry or chana (chole) its makes for a happy combination.  Crisp and fluffy, the puris are made with whole wheat flour and urad  dal. Allahabad Kei tehri A simple and speedy one pot meal for those lazy days. With the  goodness of basmati rice and a melange of veggies, this recipes makes  for a satisfying meal. Baingan Ke lonje This one's a specialty from Benaras. Brinjals stuffed with an onion and spice mix and shallow fried. Keema Dum Rustic, char grilled flavors dominate this recipe. Minced meat  marinated and cooked with a range of spices in mustard oil. Dum is a  style of slow cooking.   Roomali Roti The `Roomali Roti' is suggestive of the scarf or handkerchief like appearance of this bread. Shaped without rolling on a board and cooked on a convex iron griddle, this bread is very special to Awadh. The fine texture of the bread makes it an excellent accompaniment for delicate kebabs and kormas. Sheermal The `Sheermal', invented in Lucknow by an ace bread-maker by the name of Muhammadan, is a rich bread consisting mainly of flour, milk, fat and saffron. Though traditionally cooked in an iron tandoor, it can be cooked in a mahi tawa also by covering with a lid and applying heat from the top and bottom. Kulcha The Kulcha is a favorite accompaniment to the Nehari. The soft texture of this bread is good with curries. In the western Uttar Pradesh or Rampur region, the major delicacies are Rampuri Rohu and Zamindoz; both items of fish. The kabobs that are famous in Rampur region are Pasanda Kabob and Shab Deg. The most famous vegetarian dish of this region is Paneer Pasanda. In the eastern Uttar Pradesh Tahri and Reshmi kabobs are very famous. Besides, Murg Musallam is another favorite dish of this region. Among the sweets, Mathura and Agra zone has clearly an edge. The Khurchan and Peda are some of the favored sweet items in Mathura region. Petha in nearby Agra is very popular all over India. The Shahi Tukda of Oudh region is very popular too. Among the drinks Lassi and Ruh-afza are the most favored one in Uttar Pradesh. No talk on cuisines can be rounded off without mentioning Paan of Benaras. Banarsi Paan is famous all over India for its taste and ingredients. Crafts : Hand Printing: Hand Printing is an ancient craft in India. The major centers of this art form are confined in the state of Uttar Pradesh. Lucknow, Benaras, Pilakhua and Farrukhabad are some of the famous centers of this art. For years now, Farrukhabad has become synonymous to the art of Hand Printing. The city is often considered a veritable showroom of traditional patterns in Hand Printing. These designs and patterns range from the classical Butis (Polka dots) to the famous ' Tree of Life '. Both of them have their distinct influence and harmony. The 'Butis' are often done on a subdued background therefore it looks attractive and sparkling when tinted in solid colors. Mango, 'paisley' as it is known in the West, is made in a vast variety of shapes, and used in bold, medium and even fine designs. Due to the advent of machine based printing, this art form is under heavy financial pressure. Due to illiteracy, it becomes very difficult for the artisans to successfully evaluate their supply chain and market and that is precisely the reason why they don't match the competition from the bigger players. Chikankari Embroidery Works : Chikankari is the delicate and traditional embroidery practiced in Lucknow and it’s environs. Chikan is a unique craft involving delicate and artistic hand embroidery on a variety of textile fabric like muslin, silk, chiffon, organza, doriya and organdi. There are 36 types of stitches used in chikan work. Chikan's light and gossamer like quality makes it very suitable for the hot climate. The light chikan saris and chikan kurtas are perfect summer wear. The finely embroidered muslin came to be closely identified with the Nawabi culture and became an intrinsic part of it. The Chikankari tradition gradually spread among the common people. The source of most design motifs in Chikankari is Mughal. Though it originated as a court craft, today it is a practiced tradition and an important commercial activity. Besides chikan work, the Zardoji and Kamdani works of Lucknow are also popular. These hand embroidery works with gold and silver thread are done on sarees, dupattas, lehengas, cholis, caps, shoes etc. Zardoji Embroidery Works : Agra's Zardoji is very unique art of embroidery in three dimensions. The artist first makes free hand sketches of these subjects. Then he embroiders in cotton threads over and over till he gets the required thickness and movements. Finally the artist takes fibre from silk threads, twists then together in the shades required for and embroiders with them the particular piece. In the process he creates original unparallel work of art. Zari Works : Banaras is world famous for hand-made textiles. The ancient traditions of weaving is well preserved in Banaras. The main products are Zari and brocades. The zari thread known as 'kalabuttum', consists of finely drawn gold, silver or base metal threads wound round as silk thread. The deep red, golden zari saris are popular with almost all Indian brides. Kimkhabs, one of the best-known Varanasi brocades, have more zari work visible than silk. The design motifs of these brocades are intricate floral and foliage patterns. The brocades are woven in workshops known as 'karkhanas'. The weavers are mainly Muslim and are known as 'karigars' that means 'artist'. Metal Ware : Uttar Pradesh is the largest Brass and Copper producing state in India. In domestic-ware each of the 'lotas' (small water-pots) is known by the name of its origin, like Etawah, Banaras, Sitapur, etc. The ritual articles are largely in copper. Moradabad in U P is famous for art metalwork and known for it's coloured enamelling and intricate engravings. The art was handed down from the Mughal Era. They still continue to dominate the Indian market for engraved as well as utilitarian brass. Plates, cups, bowls, boxes and coffee pots are engraved with a range of floral and geometric patterns and these compositions are often inlaid with brightly coloured Lac or vegetable resin. The decorations may include scenes reminiscent of the style of Mughal painted miniatures, but also portray incidents from the Hindu Scriptures. Pottery : Glazed pottery with white background and blue and green patterns is developed in Khurja, Chunar and Rampur in Uttar Pradesh. UP produces some of the finest Chunar black clay pottery. This is inlaid with silver paint in intricate designs. The art that is perfected in Nizamabad, has high gloss and lustre derived from a powder called kabiz made from the mud of rice fields. Khurja is also well known for its cheap and tough tableware. Gorakhpur in Uttar Pradesh, has villages where clay figures of animals are done and is is famous for its ornately decorated terracotta horse. The potter creates the basic form by throwing separate pieces on the wheel and then joining them. Carpets and Floor Coverings : Carpet weaving is one of the crafts in Uttar Pradesh. UP produces about 90% of the country's carpets in and around Mirzapur, Bhadohi and Khamaria. These carpets are popular export items today. Agra in Uttar Pradesh is one of the old carpet centres of the Mughal days. It produces both the traditional as well as the new designs. In Shahjahapur, both cotton and woollen carpets are made. The designs are of the Old Persian style. Jewellery : Lucknow is well known for its jewellery and enamelling work. Exquisite silverware's with patterns of hunting scenes, snakes and roses are very popular. The Bidri and Zarbuland silver works of Lucknow find expression on excellent pieces of huqqa farshi, jewel boxes, trays, bowls, cufflinks, cigarette holders, etc. Renowned ivory and bone carvings with motifs of flowers, leaves, creepers, trees, birds and animals are widely produced in Lucknow. The master craftsmen create intricate items like knives, lampshades, shirt pins and small toys. Perfume : 'Attars' or perfumes are also produced in Lucknow from the 19th century. The Lucknow perfumers experimented and succeeded in making attar with delicate and lasting fragrances those are made from various aromatic herbs, spices, sandal oil, musk, essence of flowers, and leaves. The famous Lucknow fragrances are khus, keora, chameli, zafran and agar. Painting : The tradition of painting in Uttar Pradesh goes back to pre-historic times. The cave paintings of Sonbhadra and Chitrakoot depict scenes of hunting, war, festivals, dances, romantic life and animals. Mughal Era The golden period of Painting in UP was the Mughal Era. The art of painting attained its peak during the reign of Jahangir. The Mughal style of painting remains one of the greatest achievements of Asian culture and is unique in its concept, presentation and style. The art of painting reached the epitome of perfection in the area of Bundelkhand when the King of Orchha reconstructed the temple of Keshav Dev in Mathura. The walls of this temple are embellished with paintings depicting the life of Lord Krishna. The paintings of Mathura, Gokul, Vrindavan and Govardhan depict scenes from the life of Lord Krishna. Another major pre-modern painting tradition of UP is known as the Garhwal School which was patronized by the Kings of Garhwal. The 20th Century painting in UP has traditional and western influences. One of the most important events in the development of painting was the establishment of the Government College of Arts in Lucknow, which became the central point of Visual Arts in the State. Educational Institutions in Uttar Pradesh : Uttar Pradesh has always been on the educational radar of India. Utter Pradesh, the home to more than 160 million of the humanity, boasts off some of the best educational institutions in the country. The state has as many as 30 government-run universities apart from the several private ventures. The state boasts off various central universities but the major among them are Benaras Hindu University and Aligarh Muslim University. Both these universities have illustrious past that go back to the Indian freedom struggle movement. While the former was conceived by Pundit Madan Mohan Malaviya to absorb the students who left colleges to join the freedom struggle the later was started by Sir Sayyid Ahmad Khan to revolutionize the Muslim education system. Another university in the same league is Allahabad University. The university boasts of vibrant and prestigious alumni. Sampoornanand University in Varanasi is popular among the Europeans who want to learn about yoga, music and various other aspects of Indian culture. Equally important if not more is Dar-ul-Uloom at Deoband. The seminary is extremely popular among the Muslim students all over the world. In fact it is the most popular Islamic seminary in the world after Al-Azhar in Cairo, in terms of the diverse nationality of students. The state also has two premiere engineering institutes. These are known as Indian Institute of Technologies and are considered among the best in the world. Apart from that there are other engineering, information technology and medical colleges in the state. Indian Institute of Management too has one of its branches in the state. The worlds biggest school City Montessori School (CMS) is a private school that offers education up to the level of under-graduation, in Lucknow, India. The school was founded in 1959 by Bharti Gandhi and Jagdish Gandhi. In 2015 its enrollment has reached over 50,000 pupils, a world record. CMS is affiliated to the Council for the Indian School Certificate Examinations. The school has been ranked 6th in the "most respected secondary schools" in India list compiled by IMRB in 2007 and has received numerous awards. Ganges River Dolphin Scientific Name: Platanista Gangetica Habitat Ganges River Dolphins prefer deep waters, in and around the confluence of two or more rivers. They share their habitat with crocodiles, fresh water turtles and wetland birds. Distribution The distribution range of the Ganges River Dolphins in India covers seven states namely, Assam, Uttar Pradesh, Madhya Pradesh, Bihar, Jharkhand and West Bengal. The Upper Ganga River (in Uttar Pradesh), Chambal River (Madhya Pradesh and Uttar Pradesh), Ghaghra and Gandak Rivers (Bihar and Uttar Pradesh), Ganga River, from Varanasi to Patna (Uttar Pradesh and Bihar), Sone and Kosi rivers (Bihar), Brahmaputra from Sadia (foothills of Arunachal Pradesh) upto Dhubri (on the Bangladesh Border) and Kulsi River, a tributary of the Brahmaputra river, form ideal habitats for the Ganges River Dolphin. Festivals : Uttar Pradesh has traditional, religious and state festivals organized and celebrated throughout the state. These festivals are full of messages depicting one or more aspects of human life, relationships or ancient traditions. Many of these festivals such as Deepavali, Dasara, Mohurrum, Shivratri, etc. are celebrated nation wide. Deepavali Dasahra Shivratri Some of the popular festivals especially celebrated in U P with pomp are briefed below. Kumbh Mela (Jan. - Feb.) The Kumbh Mela is generally held every three years in rotation at Allahabad, Haridwar, Ujjain and Nasik. Kumbh Mela is organized in the month of Magh according to the traditional calendar, which when converted to Gregorian turns to be Feb-March. The most important among these is the one celebrated at Allahabad. Due to the rotation system, the Kumbha Mela comes to Allahabad every 12 Years. The Kumbh Mela that runs for over a month is not only the largest fair in the world but also the largest conglomeration in the human world. The Kumbh Mela that is also at times called Maha-Kumbh is held every 12 years on the confluence of river Ganges, Yamuna and Mythical Saraswati are attended by devotes from all over the world. In fact, the last addition of this fair saw 15 million people taking dip at the confluence in a single day. This is still held in the record books. The total number of people who took dip in the confluence on the 4 days reserved for general devotees, stands around staggering 40 million! There is a very interesting legend behind the Kumbh Mela. According to the Hindu mythology it started with the very creation. It is said that once Hindu deities asked for the help of Demons to churn the ocean. This was done to centrifuge the 'Amrit' or 'Nectar' that would have in turn made them immortal. Nevertheless when it came out, deities stole it and didn't share it with the demons. It was hidden at four places in the course of time and a drop of Nectar fell at all those places. These places now hold Kumbh Mela. The main Kumbh is the day of Mauni Amavasya. Other important bathing days are Makar Sankranti, Paush Purnima, Vasant Panchmi, Maghi Purnima and Maha Shivaratri. The Ardh Kumbh Mela at Allahabad is celebrated every 6th year in the month of Magh. Ardh Kumbh Mela (Jan. - Feb.) Held in the 6th year after Kumbh Mela, i.e. it falls between two Kumbh Melas. It has got the same religious value and attracts millions of people. It has the same main bathing days as in Kumbh Mela. Magh Mela (Jan. - Feb.) Magh Mela (The Annual Mini Kumbh) is held every year on the banks of Sangam. Magh Mela is held in the month of Magh (Jan-Feb); hence Magh Mela. During this period about two or three million of devotees throng here. Sangam  where the muddy Ganges meets the green and deeper Yamuna. Sangam is considered to have great soul cleansing powers and all pious Hindus hope to perform pilgrimage to Sangam and bathe in the confluence at least once in their lifetime. Kampil Fair (Mar.) It was the birthplace of the 13th tirthaiikar Brahlan Vimal Nath and was graced by the visit of Lord Mahavir. The neighbouring ruins and mounds contain the relics and sculptures of Jain period. Every year a Jain Mela is held for five days in the month of March thronged by devout Jains. Holi (March) Below one is from Braj ki holi Holi heralds the beginning of spring and is celebrated with great enthusiasm all over India. Holi thus signifies the triumph of good over evil and is marked by grand festivities all over India and particularly in the Braj area where it is celebrated with great gaiety and fervour. Holi celebrations last for more than a week and are marked by people sprinkling colour water & smearing colour powder on each other. The playful teasing of the Gopis by the Gopas (cowherd boys) is enacted by groups of men and women through special Holi songs and dances, called Rasiya. Specially Lath Maar Holi During spring, Holi, the festival of colors is celebrated all over India. Holi is a time to make merry. People smear each other with colored powdered and water colors. Singing and dancing add to the gaiety of the occasion. The Holi celebrations in Mathura, the birthplace of Lord Krishna is spectacular. The Rang Gulal Festival is celebrated for a week with exuberant processions, songs and music. Nevertheless the feature that makes it distinct is the famous 'Latthmar Holi' of Barsana and Nandgaon. Tradition has it that Krishna used to come to Barsana to play Holi with Radha along with his friends. The Gopis after merriment chased away the boys by beating them with "lathis". So it came to be known as the 'Latthmar Holi'. Even today women folk here beat the men with 'Lathis' or Bamboo poles while showering colored water on them with great rejoice and merriment. The playful teasing of the Gopis is enacted by groups of men and women through special Holi songs and dances, called Rasiya. Ramnavmi Mela (April) Ayodhya, the holy city of the sacred pilgrim centre of Hindus plays host to the Ramnavmi Festival in the month of April. Thousands of worshippers gather to venerate the Lord at Kanak Bhawan. Taj Mahotsava The Taj Mahotsava is another very popular festive in India. Taj Mahotsava that is held annually at Agra is a colorful display of the Arts, Crafts, Culture and Cuisine of the Braj area. Organized by UP Tourism and held as an annual event at the Shilpgram, Taj Mahotsava is a fitting tribute to the legendary skills of master craftsmen of Uttar Pradesh. The things that are on display include Marble work and Zardozi from Agra, Zari work from Benaras, hand printing from Farrukhabad, Chikankari from Lucknow, brassware from Moradabad and glassware from Firozabad among others. It is believed that no Indian festivities can ever be complete without the preparation of exotic cuisine. Some of the best and richest foods are available during this time. Try out various Kebobs platters that are on offer. The Oudh stall is the one to go for. The stall will offer you some of the most tasteful and aromatic cuisines from the Oudh region. Nevertheless, the odes to the beauty are the soul-stirring performances from folk artists of various states. The subtle performance will engulf you to the extent of casting a spell. Throughout the Taj Mahotsav, one can experience a profusion of folk music and dances of Bundelkhand, 'Nautanki' and Dadra performed just the way they used to be centuries ago. The experience is so enthralling that you would not stop yourself from joining with the folk dancers. Ganga Mahotsava Ganges has always been the not only the lifeline of India but also the felicitator and nourishment of the Indian Civilization. The river Ganges, though, considered a thing of reverence by the Hindus has in the course of history defined the psyche of the Indian society as a whole, irrespective of religion. It not only nourishes the population that lives by its kingdom but also give them a sense of separate identity and belonging. To mark this contribution of River Ganges, an annual festival is organized that has been christened 'Ganga Mahotsava' Ganga Mahotsava is a 5-day festive event held on the banks of Ganges in Varanasi. Ganga Mahotsava tends to promote Varanasi and Ganga as the cultural capital and lifeline of India respectively. The event gives stress on the promotion of the classical style of Indian music & dance. It provides opportunity to viewers, to witness performance of the great exponents of Indian classical dance and music. Some of these exponents of art reside in Uttar Pradesh itself. In the past editions, laureates like Ustad Bismillah Khan, Pundit Chhanulal Misra, Girija Devi, Bal Murli Krishnan, Bhimsen Joshi, Birju Maharaj, Amjad Ali Khan, Vilayat Khan, Zila Khan, Sujat Khan and Zakir Hussein have given their enthralling performances in this festival. This festival is a must attend for every tourists. The event also coincides with Dev-Dipawali the festival of lights at Varanasi. Sardhana Fair Sardhana is situated 20 kilometers from the Meerut Town. The place Houses a famous Catholic Church built in the year 1822 by Begum Samru. Tradition has it that Sarkat, a Raja, founded the place and remained in the possession of his descendants till the advent of the Muslims. In 1778 Walter Reinhardt was assigned the Jagir of Sardhana but on his death in the same year the estate passed into the hands of his widow, Begum Samru. Begum Samru also Called Begum Sombre and had nicknames such as Zebunissa, Farzana and Joanna, started her career as a Nautch girl in 18th century India. Later on, she played a very crucial role in the politics and power struggle in 18th and 19th century India. She was the head of a professionally trained mercenary army, inherited from her European mercenary husband, Walter Reinhardt. She is also regarded as the only Catholic Ruler in India. Every year on the 1st Sunday of the month of November a large feast is held in honor of Mother Mary. Devotes and history lovers gather in a large numbers to see not only the wonderful shrine but also the fine palaces built in Italian style around the church by Begum Samru. The festival is marked by an Indian style Carnival that has become very popular in recent years. There are lots of traditional performances too. Janmashtami (August) Janmashtmi is one of the most widely celebrated festivals in India as well as Uttar Pradesh. Although the festival is celebrated all over the Uttar Pradesh but it is the celebrations in the Mathura zone that has a special significance in this festival. The twin cities of Mathura and Vrindavan celebrate the festival of Janmashtmi with great pomp and show. Mathura being the birthplace of Lord Krishna and Vrindavan being his residence has a special place in the hearts of Krishna devout. The festival of Janmashtmi Temples is celebrated in Mathura with great enthusiasm. The main celebrations are performed at the Dwarkadhish temple in the form of Jhulanotsava and the Ghatas during the entire month of Monsoon called 'Shravan' in Hindi. The Ghatas are the most spectacular feature of the month long celebrations. During the Ghata of a particular color the whole temple including the clothes of deities are covered with decoration in the same color. Vrindavan has a distinct style of its own. The processions heavily decorated with 'Jhankis' or tableaus, depicting various episodes of Lord Krishna's life, are brought out in the city. The most spectacular displays during the period are the gold and silver 'Jhulas' or swings that are taken out on display only during the occasion. The Raslila enactments further add to the festive spirit. Apart from that Earthen-pots of curd and butter are hung up over the streets. Young men enacting an episode from Krishna's childhood form human pyramids by climbing on each other's shoulders and try to break these up. Rambarat (Sep. - Oct) The marriage procession of Sri Ram is held every year during Ramlila celebrations at Agra. Every year a new locale of the town is chosen as Janakpuri, which is elaborately decorated to perform the royal wedding. The Rambarat (marriage procession) starts from Lala Channomaiji Id Baradari for Janakpuri passing through different parts of the town. The barat is a large procession of Jhankis followed by the swaroops of Ram-Lakshman mounted on elephants. Deva Mela (October) The annual urs of Haji Waris Ali Shah is celebrated during Oct.-Nov. months at Deva 10 km. from Barabanki. This fair attracts pilgrims from as far as Pakistan and the Middle East countries. The shrine of the Sufi Saint is much revered by Muslim pilgrims all over the world. Bateshwar Fair (Oct. - Nov.) Situated at a distance of 70 km. from Agra on the banks of river Yamuna, Bateshwar is an important spiritual and cultural centre. The place is named after the presiding deity of the region, Bateshwar Mahadeo and has 108 temples dedicated to the gods and goddesses of the Hindu pantheon. During the months of Oct. & Nov. a large fair is organized from Shashthi of Kartik month to Panchami of Agrahayan month. Devotees congregate here in large numbers to worship Lord Shiva and take holy dips in river Yamuna. Krishna Leela (Oct. - Nov.) The Tulsi Ghat at Varanasi is the venue for the 20 daylong Krishna Leela celebrations. Nag- Nathaiya Leela, one of the episodes in the celebration is extremely famous. Lord Krishna enacted by an artist, jumps into the river as the play reaches its climax and emerges on the serpent hood of Shesh Nag. Lakhs of people gather on the ghats of Ganga to witness this special enactment. Kartik Poornima (November) Varanasi is the land of festivals. Kartik Poornima celebrated in the month of November, is the sacred day, when the ghats of Varanasi come alive with thousands of brightly lit earthen lamps. Visitors throng in large numbers to watch this spectacular event, famous as Dev Deepawali. Lolark Shasthi, Dala Chhath, Rang Bhari Ekadasi, Burhwa Mangal and Annakut are among the other important festive occasions for Varanasi. State Festivals Traditional Wear & Language: The costume of Uttar Pradesh is a very beautiful one where the women are clad in their saris adorned by the golden jewellery and Mangal Sutr (a chain with a pendulum gifted by groom to his bride)worn by married women while the men look clad in doti kurta or kurta pyjama. Toe rings is common all over the Uttar Pradesh among the married woman folks. The veil for Muslim women and Sherwani for Muslim men is the special thing to observe. The special Banarasi sari and the Lucknowi Sherwani are the two items to take with you as a souvenir. I love the languages of mine Uttar Pradesh Natural Resource : Uttar Pradesh has ample reserves of coal, dolomite and gems. Other Important minerals include diaspore, sulphur and magnesite, pyrophyllite, silica sand and limestone. It is of great use to the people of Uttar Pradesh as well as it supports the economy of the country and indirectly affects the economy of the world. Agriculture, livestock and fishing : Uttar Pradesh is a major contributor to the national food grain stock. Partly this is due to the fertile regions of the Indo-Gangetic plain and partly owing to irrigation measures such as the Ganges Canal and tube-wells. Lakhimpur Kheri is a densely populated sugar producing district in the country. It is also home to 78% of national livestock population. It has been the most common producer of food grains in India since the 1950s due to high-yielding varieties of seed, greater availability of fertilizers and increased use of irrigation. Uttar Pradesh is a place of vivid and abundant resources of fish, as, Its eastern part is a coastal region. It is affected by the ocean currents from the Bay of Bengal which create a warm and moderate temperature for the survival of fishes. Western Uttar Pradesh is more advanced in terms of agriculture as compared to the other regions in the state. Majority of the state population depends upon farming activities. Wheat, rice, pulses, oil seeds and potatoes are the major agricultural products. Sugarcane is the most important cash crop throughout the state. Uttar Pradesh is one of the most important state in India so far as horticulture is concerned. Apples and mangoes are also produced in the state. Uttar Pradesh supports about 15% of India's total livestock population. Of its livestock in 1961, 15% were cattle, 21% buffaloes, 13% goats and 8% other livestock. Between 1951 and 1956 there was an overall increase of 14% in the livestock population. There are about 8,000 km² of water area, including lakes, tanks, rivers, canals and streams. The fishing area in the state is over 2,000 km² and there are more than 175 varieties of fish. Services: Uttar Pradesh is the 'IT-Hub' of North India, with a share of software exports next to that of Karnataka. But, unlike South Indian states, IT enterprises are limited to particular areas only, like NOIDA, Greater NOIDA, Ghaziabad etc., which lie in National Capital Region (NCR), and in state capital Lucknow. Noida is also famous for TV News broadcasters almost all News channels such as Star News, Zee News, Ndtv, Mahua News and several other News channels are in Film City. Asia's first and the world's second human DNA bank has been set up in Lucknow. Rs 4-bn Discovery Park, for which an approval has been given by the Ministry of Science and Technology, is to be set up in the Rajiv Gandhi Institute of Information Technology (RGIIT), Amethi Industry : UP has also witnessed rapid industrialization in the recent past, particularly after the launch of policies of economic liberalization in the country. As of March 1996, there were 1,661 medium and large industrial undertakings and 296,338 small industrial units employing 1.83 million persons. The per capita state domestic product was estimated at Rs 7,263 in 1997–98 and there has been visible decline in poverty in the state. Yet, nearly 40 percent of the total population lives below the poverty line. There are numerous types of minerals and many industries have come up based upon these minerals. There are a number of cement plants in Mirzapur in the Vindhya region, a bauxite-based aluminium plant in the Banda region and Sonbhadra region. In the hilly regions of the state many non-metallic minerals are found which are used as industrial raw materials. Coal deposits are found in the Singrauli region. The state is poor in mineral resources. The only considerable deposits are of limestone in Mirzapur district. These are being extracted and are used largely in cement manufacture. Uttar Pradesh has booming electronics industries, especially in UP-Delhi-NCR and Lucknow-Kanpur Corridor. It produces almost all types of durables. Cottage industries, such as handloom and handicrafts, have traditionally provided livelihood to a large number of people in the state: - Varanasi is a world famous centre of handloom woven, embroidered textiles; the main products are Zari-embroidery and brocade-work on silk sarees. Lucknow is a centre of 'Chikan' embroidery, renowned for its grace and delicacy, a skill more than 200 years old. Uttar Pradesh produces about 15% of the total fabric production of the country, employs about 30% of the total workforce of artisans in India and is responsible for an annual production of about US$0,1 million in the state. The state has two major production centres of leather and leather products, with over 11,500 units; Agra and Kanpur are the key centres. About 200 tanneries are located in Kanpur. Moradabad is renowned for brass work and has carved a niche for itself in the handicraft industry throughout the world. Lately other products that are also produced here like iron sheet metalwares, aluminium artworks, wood works and glassware's have also become popular with the numerous foreign buyers and are therefore being exported in large quantities. On an average Moradabad exports goods worth Rs. 30–40 billion each year, which constitutes 40% of total exports from India under this category. Meerut is the biggest gold market of Asia. It is the biggest exporter of sports related items and music instruments of the country. List of people from Uttar Pradesh : Later 19th, and 20th, 21st centuries Raja Mahendra Pratap, King of Hathras Princely State known as 'Aryan Peshwa'. Chandra Shekhar Azad, Indian independence fighter, member of Hindustan Socialist Republican Association. Ganesh Shankar Vidyarthi, independence fighter, journalist Ram Prasad Bismil, Indian independence fighter and socialist. Govind Ballabh Pant, Indian independence fighter and politician, became Chief Minister of the United Provinces. Also Bharat Ratna[2] recipient. Munishwar Dutt Upadhyay of Pratapgarh, Indian Independence fighter and two time Member of Parliament. Ashfaqullah Khan of Kakori, Indian independence fighter, member of Hindustan Socialist Republican Association. He was close associate of Bhagat Singh and Chandrashekhar Azad. Rafi Ahmed Kidwai, Indian independence fighter and socialist. Acharya Narendra Dev, socialist Ram Manohar Lohia, socialist Hasrat Mohani, independence fighter and poet Asaf Ali, independence fighter Chittu Pandey, independence fighter Rajendra Lahiri, independence fighter Laxmi Raman Acharya, freedom fighter accused of the Agra Conspiracy case. Maulana Mohammad Ali, independence fighter Purushottam Das Tandon, independence fighter Mitthulal Agrahari, independence fighter Maulana Shaukat Ali, independence fighter Mukhtar Ahmed Ansari, independence fighter Ghazipur Mahavir Tyagi, independence fighter Swami Sahajanand Saraswati Freedom Fighter Poet-saints and religious figures Akhaṇḍānanda Sarasvatī, scholar of Vedanta, Bhakti and Bhagavata Purana in the 20th century, Varanasi Jagadguru Rāmabhadrācārya, Vaishnava scholar and Sanskrit commentator on the Prasthanatrayi, Jaunpur Rāmānanda, founder of the Rāmānandī sect, Prayag Sant Ravidas, poet and Saint, Varanasi Shiv Dayal Singh, Guru Maharaj of Radhasoamis, Agra Shriram Sharma Acharya, founder Gayatri Parivar, Anwal Kheda in the District of Agra Surdas was a blind Hindu poet, sant and musicianborn in Runkata near Agra Svāmīnārāyaṇa, founder of the Swaminarayan sect, Gonda Svāmī Karapātrī, teacher of Advaita popularly known as Dharma Samrat, Gorakhpur Tulasīdāsa, composer of the Ramcharitmanas, Bandabut it is also said to had born in Soron (Shukar kschetra) in the District of Etah Raskhan Malik Mohammad Jayasi Devraha Baba, Yogi Allahabad Award winners Param Vir Chakra Company Quarter Master Havildar Abdul Hamid, Ghazipur Captain Manoj Kumar Pandey Naik Jadu Nath Singh Yogendra Singh Yadav of Orangabad, Bulandshaher, the hero of Tiger Hill in Kargil war Maha Vir Chakra Brigadier Mohammad Usman Azamgarh Mahendra Nath Mulla Ashok Chakra Kamlesh Kumari Bharat Ratna Jawaharlal Nehru Bhagwan Das, philosopher and Freedom Fighter, Varanasi Rajrishi Purushottam Das Tandon, Freedom Fighter, Allahabad Lal Bahadur Shastri, Freedom Fighter, Former Prime Minister belonged to Varanasi & Allahabad Ravi Shankar, Sitar Maestro, Ghazipur Ustad Bismillah Khan, Shehnai Maestro, Varanasi Atal Bihari Vajpayee, eleventh Prime Minister of India Padma Vibhushan Kishan Maharaj Uday Shankar Amitabh Bachchan Padma Bhushan Prof Irfan Habib, historian Qurratulain Hyder, author Josh Malihabadi, poet Kishan Maharaj, Tabla Maestro Ram Kinkar Upadhyay, scholar Bhagwati Charan Varma, Hindi Author Obaid Siddiqui Science Rahul Sankrityayan Srilal Shukla, Hindi Writer Amitabh Bachchan, film actor Padma Shree Raj Bisaria, director, Actor and Educationist Hakim Syed Zillur Rahman, Scholar of Unani medicine Muzaffar Ali, Film Director K. P. Saxena, writer Kunwar Digvijay Singh Babu, Hockey Olympian Gopaldas Neeraj, Hindi poet and lyricist Yogiraj Bharat Bhushan, the only Padmashri awardee Yogi, founder Director of Mokshayatan International Yogashram at Saharanpur Mohammed Shahid Ex Captain Indian Hockey Team Varanasi Kapil Deva Dvivedi Prakash Singh Giriraj Kishore writer Vidya Niwas Mishra writer Hamid AnsariVice President Maj Gen sarda Nand Singh Civil Service Dada Saheb Phalke Award Naushad Ali, Music Composer Majrooh Sultanpuri Lyricist Jnanpith Awards Firaq Gorakhpuri, poet Mahadevi Verma, poet Qurratulain Hyder, writer Ali Sardar Jafri, writer and poet Amar Kant Sri Lal Sukla Shahryar Magasaysay Award Sandeep Pandey Rajendra Singh, water conservationist Arjuna Award Syed Modi, badminton Abhinn Shyam Gupta, badminton Moraad Ali Khan, shooter Jagbir Singh, Hockey Science and medicine Rajendra K. Pachauri, chairman of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change. Harish-Chandra, (Mehrotra), mathematician who did fundamental work in representation theory, especially Harmonic analysis on semisimple Lie groups. Ravindra Khattree, statistician who worked in statistical inference, multivariate analysis, experimental designs, biostatistics and quality control. Zahoor Qasim, oceanographer, leader of first Indian Expedition to Antarctica Prof. Prem Chand Pandey, scientist, physicist, meteorologist, oceanographer Syed Ziaur Rahman, medical pharmacologist P. K . Sethi, inventor of "Jaipur Foot" Kamla Kant Pandey, plant geneticist Lalji Singh, molecular biologist Dr.Hari Om Srivastava, Broadcast scientist Holders of high offices Vice President Gopal Swarup Pathak, former Vice President of India Hamid Ansari,Current Vice-President of India Prime ministers Jawaharlal Nehru, first Prime Minister of India and Bharat Ratna awardee. Lal Bahadur Shastri, third Prime Minister of India and Bharat Ratna awardee. Indira Gandhi, fourth Prime Minister of India and Bharat Ratna awardee. Choudhary Charan Singh, fifth Prime Minister of India Rajiv Gandhi, sixth prime minister of India and Bharat Ratna Vishwanath Pratap Singh, eighth Prime Minister of India Chandra Shekhar, ninth Prime Minister of India Atal Bihari Vajpayee. eleventh Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi. Fifteenth Prime Minister of India Governors Syed Sibtey Razi, Governor of Jharkhand Khurshid Alam Khan, former Governor of Karnataka Mohammad Yunus Saleem, former Governor of Bihar A R Kidwai, Governor of Haryana Mohammad Fazal, former Governor of Maharashtra Girish Chandra Saxena, former Governor of Jammu & Kashmir K.M. Seth, former Governor of Chhatisgarh Virendra Verma, former Governor of Punjab and Himachal Pradesh Ram Naresh Yadav, Governor of Madhya Pradesh Triloki Nath Chaturvedi, former CAG and former Governor of Karnataka Chief Justices[edit] Mohammad Hidayatullah, former Chief Justice of India Mirza Hameedullah Beg, former Chief Justice of India Union Ministers Kamalapati Tripathi Mahavir TYagi Murli Manohar Joshi Narayan Dutt Tiwari Laxmi Raman Acharya Mahaveer Prasad Shriprakash Jaiswal Akhilesh Das Santosh Gangwar Maneka Gandhi Mukhtar Abbas Naqvi Shriram Chauhan Kalpnath Rai Swami Chinmayanand Rajnath Singh Ashok Kumar Pradhan Satyapal Singh Yadav Raj Narain Salman Khursheed Jitin Prasada Mulayam Singh Yadav Beni Prasad Verma Ajit Singh Political figures Pre Independence Motilal Nehru, Indian National Congress leader Dr.Mukhtar Ahmed Ansari, former President of Indian National Congress Rai Rajeshwar Bali, education minister (1924–1928) Pandit Madan Mohan Malviya Jawaharlal Nehru Govind Ballabh Pant Sampurnanand Swami Sahajanand Saraswati Munishwar Dutt Upadhyay Post Independence Govind Ballabh Pant Deen Dayal Upadhyaya Ram Manohar Lohia Choudhary Charan Singh K.C. Tyagi Narayan Dutt Tiwari Laxmi Raman Acharya Hemvati Nandan Bahuguna Kamalapati Tripathi Indira Gandhi Pandit Prakashvir Shastri Feroze Gandhi Rafi Ahmed Kidwai Mohsina Kidwai Ram Naresh Yadav Sheila Kaul Shanti Swaroop Tyagi Raj Narain Mahendra Singh Tikait, Kisan leader Mulayam Singh Yadav, Rajeev Shukla, journalist and political leader Arif Mohammad Khan, political leader Chaudhary Ajit Singh, political leader Beni Prasad Verma, former minister and leader Shriprakash Jaiswal, Union Minister Akhilesh Das, Union Minister Raj Babbar, Member of Parliament Rajkumari Amrit Kaur, Gandhian, first lady Minister of India Kamal Nath, politician Prakash Vir Shastri, Member of Parliament and advocate of the Arya Samaj movement Kailash Nath Katju, Former Union Home Minister and lawyer Satyapal Singh Yadav former union minister Shyama Charan Gupta, politician, entrepreneur Rajendra Kumari Bajpai (1925–1999), Former cabinet minister[5] Om Prakash Singh Kalpnath Rai Manohar Lal (b. 1938), UP MLA, cabinet minister[6] Maharaj Sanjay Singh, King of Amethi Akhilesh Yadav Ram Govind Chaudhary Amar Mani Raja Bhaiya Satyaveer Munna Authors Hindi Vishnu Sarma, author of Panchtantra Ayodhya Prasad Upadhyay, Hindi writer Swami Sahajanand Saraswati books on sociology, religion, freedom struggle, peasant movement, autobiography etc. Malik Muhammad Jayasi, author of Padmavat Mahapandit Rahul Sankrityayan, polyglot Munshi Prem Chand, novelist Vibhuti Narain Rai Hindi writer Amitabh Thakur Hindi writer Bharatendu Harishchandra, Hindi writer Amritlal Nagar, Hindi writer Acharya Chatursen (1891–1960), Hindi writer Bhagwati Charan Verma, Hindi writer Sachchidananda Hirananda Vatsyayan Jaishankar Prasad, Hindi writer Babu Gulabrai, Hindi writer Dushyant Kumar Tyagi,Hindi Writer & Gazal Poet Yashpal, Hindi writer Hazari Prasad Dwivedi, Hindi novelist Rajendra Yadav, Hindi novelist Ravindra Prabhat,Hindi novelist Baldev Upadhyaya, Hindi scholar and writer Vidya Niwas Mishra, Hindi scholar Rahi Masoom Raza, author of 'Topi Shukla' and 'Adha Gaon' Vinod Kumar Shukla, writer Shrilal Shukla, writer of 'Raag Darbari' Acharya Ram Chandra Shukla, Hindi writer and historian Sri Krishna Rai Hridyesh Viveki Rai Acharya Kuber Nath Rai Ram Avatar Tyagi, Hindi Poet Urdu Ibne Safi, novelist of Jasoosi Duniya Qurratulain Hyder, writer of Aag Ka Darya Ismat Chugtai, writer Mirza Hadi Ruswa, author of Umrao Jaan Firaq Gorakhpuri Hakim Syed Zillur Rahman, author of books on Unani medicine Arif Mahmood, Urdu Short stories writer and author of ' Mein bhi hazir tha wahan '. English Nayantara Sahgal, novelist and writer Attia Hosain, English author and journalist Allan Sealy, Novelist and writer Vikas Swarup, Author of "Q&A" Poets Urdu Mir Taqi Mir Mirza Ghalib, classical Urdu and Persian poet Mir Anis, Urdu Marsiya poet Maulana Hali, Urdu poet, biographer of Ghalib's life, and a commentator of his poetry Firaq Gorakhpuri, Urdu poet, winner of Jnanpith[7] award Kaifi Azmi, Urdu and Hindi lyricist, poet and songwriter Safi Lakhnavi, Urdu poet Majrooh Sultanpuri, poet and lyricist Josh Malihabadi, Urdu poet Firaq Gorakhpuri, Urdu poet Jigar Moradabadi, Urdu poet Ali Sardar Jafri, Urdu poet Khumar Barabankvi, Urdu poet Daya Shankar Kaul Nasim, Urdu poet Brij Narayan Chakbast, Urdu poet Akbar Allahabadi, poet Majaz, Urdu poet Tahir Faraz Hindi Kedarnath Singh, major works are "baagh", "toota truck", tolstoy aur cycle", etc. Ayodhya Prasad Upadhyay, major works are "Hindi Bhasha Aur Uske Sahitya Ka Vikas", Karam Veer", Ek Boond", "Phool aur Kanta", "Vaidehi Vanvas", "Priy Pravas", "Parijat", "Kalplata", "Fool Patte" Jaishankar Prasad, one of four major pillars of the Chhayavaadi School of Hindi. Harivansh Rai Bachchan, writer and poet. Harikrishna Prasad Gupta Agrahari, poet Mahadevi Varma, a major poet of the Chhayavaadi generation, a period of romanticism in Modern Hindi poetry. She won the Jnanpith award in 1982. Sumitranandan Pant, one of four major pillars of the Chhayavaadi School of Hindi. Maithilisharan Gupt, modern Hindi poet Gopal Das Neeraj, Hindi poet Kaka Hathrasi, humorous Poet Shivmangal Singh Suman Suryakant Tripathi 'Nirala' Subhadra Kumari Chauhan Guru Bhakt Singh 'Bhakt' Acharya Kuber Nath Rai Lit Nibandh Bhojpuri Parichay Das Viveki Rai Founders of educational institutions Sir Syed Ahmad Khan, founder of Aligarh Muslim University Pandit Madan Mohan Malaviya, founder of Benaras Hindu University. Jagdish Gandhi, founder of the City Montessori School. Defence Services Army Lt. Gen K.M. Seth Yogendra Singh Yadav, 18th Grenadiers of the Indian Army, Param Vir Chakra' recipient Manoj Kumar Pandey, 11 Gorkha Rifles of the Indian Army, Param Vir Chakra recipient Brigadier Mohammad Usman, recipient of Maha Vir Chakra Abdul Hamid, 4 Grenadiers, Indian Army, Param Vir Chakra[8] recipient Lt. General Zameerud-din Shah Santosh Singh Chauhan --Added By Ompal Chauhan Launa Air Force S.K. Kaul, Air Chief Marshal (Retd) Trevor Keelor IAF, Vir Chakra winner in Indo-Pak war of 1965 Denzil Keelor IAF, Air Marshall (Retd), Vir Chakra winner and Kirti Chakra recipient. Norman Anil Kumar Browne Air Chief Marshal (Currant) S.P. Tyagi Air Chief Marshal (Retd) Civil Service / Diplomacy Indian Foreign Service Vijaya Lakshmi Pandit was an Indian diplomat and politician, sister of Jawaharlal Nehru, and the first female President of the United Nations General Assembly. Asaf Ali, first Indian Ambassador to US Girija Shankar Bajpai, First Secretary-General of Foreign Affairs Shilendra Kumar Singh, Former Foreign Sercretary of India and Former Governor of Rajasthan and Arunachal Pradesh Braj Kumar Nehru, a relative of Jawaharlal Nehru, served as a diplomat, as ambassador to several countries and was offered the post of United Nations Secretary-General in 1951, but declined. He was awarded the Padma Vibhushan award in 1999. Civil Services Dharma Vira, ICS, cabinet secretary and governor of West Bengal, Mysore. Isha Basant Joshi, first woman to be appointed IAS officer Sir Chandrika Prasad Srivastava, bureaucrat Wajahat Habibullah, Chief Information Commissioner of India Baleshwar Rai Vinod Rai, CAG Neera Tyagi Yadav, Chief Secretary,UP Shiromani Sharma, Home Secretary-India Music and dance Musicians Ashutosh Bhattacharya (1917–2004) Tabla player, music educator from Varanasi, Sangeet Natak Akademi Fellowship (1966) Begum Akhtar, Ghazal singer Dr. Gopal Shankar Misra, Vichitra Veena player Dr.Lalmani Misra was an Indian classical musician. Dean & Head, Faculty of Music and Fine Arts, Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi and his son Hari Prasad Chaurasia, bansuri player Kishan Maharaj, Tabla Maestro Naushad Ali, music director, was awarded the Dadasaheb Phalke Award for his contributions to Indian cinema. Pandit Ravi Shankar, classical Sitar player, awarded the Bharat Ratna in 1999. He has also won three Grammy awards Pandit Vishnu Narayan Bhatkhande, musician Sir Cliff Richard, the English singer Ustad Bismillah Khan, Shehnai maestro, awarded the Bharat Ratna,(2001) Singers Girija Devi, is an Indian singer and represents the Banaras Gharana of singers. Shubha Mudgal, singer Talat Mahmood, ghazal singer Purshottam Das Jalota (1925–2011), Bhajan singer, Padma Shri (2004) Anup Jalota, Ghazal and Bhajan singer Siddheshwari Devi, Hindustani singer from Benares, known as Maa (mother). Kailash Kher from Meerut Vinit Singh from Lucknow Abhijeet Bhattacharya from Kanpur Sharafat Hussain Khan from Atrauli Rappers Hard Kaur Baba Sehgal Dancers Birju Maharaj, Kathak exponent Lachhu Maharaj, Kathak exponent Kapila Vatsyayan, scholar of Indian classical dance Sitara Devi Uday Shankar Hina Added By Ompal Chauhan Sports Hockey Dhyan Chand, former international hockey player, awarded the Padma Bhushan Zafar Iqbal, former international captain of the Indian hockey team and Chief coach of Indian hockey team. K. D. Singh, former National Hockey player and Olympian Mohammed Shahid, former international hockey player, was member of the Indian team that won Gold Medal at the 1980 Olympic Games in Moscow. He was awarded Arjuna Award in 1980 and Padma Shri in 1986. Jagbir Singh, captain and member of National Hockey team in 1988 & 1992 Olympics, was awarded Arjuna Award in 1990. Baseball Rinku Singh, One of the first two Indians to sign a professional baseball contract in the United States. Dinesh Patel, One of the first two Indians to sign a professional baseball contract in the United States. Cricket Ashish Zaidi, cricketer Manoj Prabhakar, cricketer Arun Lal, former Test cricketer Mohammed Kaif, international cricketer Suresh Raina, international cricketer Bhuvneshwar Kumar, international cricketer R. P. Singh, international cricketer Chetan Chauhan, former Test cricketer Hemlata Kala, member Indian Women's Cricket team Gyanendra Pandey, cricketer Piyush Chawla Narendra Hirwani Surinder Amarnath Raman Lamba Surinder Amarnath Rohan Gavaskar Rajinder Hans Ravikant Shukla, U-19 captain Praveen Kumar Sudip Tyagi Umesh Yadav, Deoria (U.P)- Present Indian Cricketer Mohammed Shami, international cricketer Badminton Abhinn Shyam Gupta, former national badminton champion Syed Modi, former national badminton champion Other sports Annu Raj Singh, shooter Moraad Ali Khan, shooter Ghaus Mohammad, tennis player, the first Indian to reach quarterfinal of The Championships, Wimbledon Jaspal Rana, shooter Journalism Sahu Ramesh Chandra Jain, Times of India & Navbharat Times Manikonda Chalapathi Rau, Indian journalist and an authority on Nehruvian thought Feroze Gandhi, managing editor of National Herald Dharamvir Bharati, former editor of Dharamyug magazine Arun Nehru, former Minister and columnist Saeed Naqvi, journalist and TV producer Vinod Mehta, editor Narendra Mohan, Dainik Jagran Aniruddha Bahal, investigative journalist Pankaj Mishra, journalist Ram Bahadur Rai, magazine editor Parichay Das, former Editor, INDRAPRASTH BHARTI Hindi literary Magazine and former Editor, PARICHHAN MAITHILI-BHOJPURI MAGAZINE, Delhi Surendra Pratap Singh Editor Ravivar Raghuvir Sahay Editor Dinmaan Satire, comedy, cartoons[edit] Akbar Allahabadi, poet and satirist Kaka Hathrasi, satirist Tuntun, comedian Kaak (b. 1940, Harish Chandra Shukla), cartoonist K. P. Saxena Raju Srivastava, actor and stand up comedian Cinema and theatre Actors and actresses Amitabh Bachchan, Bollywood actor awarded the Padma Bhushan in 2001. Naseeruddin Shah, actor (He was born in barabanki district of Lucknow division U.P) Aditya Srivastava, actor and voiceover artist, (CID) Kadar Khan, actor Chandrachur Singh, actor Marc Zuber, actor Jaddanbai, actor Nargis, was an actress best known for her role in the Oscar-nominated film Mother India Nimmi, film actress in the 1950s K.N. Singh, actor Tuntun, comedy actress Sushant Singh, actor Ravi Kishan, Bhojpuri film actor Saurabh Shukla, Bollywood actor Sonal Chauhan, Bollywood actress Nawazuddin Siddiqui, actor, (Gangs of Wasseypur) Abhishek Bachchan Rajpal Yadav Vedita Pratap Singh, model & actress Surinder Pal, actor Zoya Afroz,Bollywood actress Shweta Tiwari,Indian famous Television Actres Ashutosh Rana,Indian famous Film Actor Zakir Hussain,Indian famous Film Actor Directors/producers K. Asif, film director, film producer and screenwriter who worked on the Hindi epic motion picture, Mughal-e-Azam Shaad Ali, film director Kamal Amrohi, director Prakash Mehra, director Prasoon Pandey, director Vishal Bhardwaj, Omkara director Anurag Kashyap, director Abhinav Kashyap, director Tigmanshu Dhulia, director Abhishek Chaubey, director Manto Pashupatinath, A DAUGHTER'S DREAM Film Director Singers Talat Mahmood Rajkumari Dubey Begum Akhtar Hemanta Kumar Mukhopadhyay Abhijeet Bhattacharya (Singer) Kabban Mirza Anup Jalota Baba Sehgal Sunidhi Chauhan Vidup Agrahari Lyricists Shakeel Badayuni Indeevar Shakeel Badayuni Majrooh Sultanpuri Khumar Barabankvi Kaifi Azmi Ali Sardar Jafri Anjaan Sameer Composers Naushad Ali Shantanu Moitra Anand Milind Theatre Raj Bisaria Arvind Gaur Nadira Babbar Sushil Kumar Singh Cinematographers Ravikant Nagaich Story/script/dialogue writers Wajahat Mirza S.Ali Raza Javed Siddiqi, film script writer K. P. Saxena, dialogue writer of Lagaan, Swades Himanshu Sharma, Story & dialogue writer of Tanu Weds Manu, Raanjhanaa Pt. Mukhram Sharma Story Writer- Poothi,Meerut Nawabs of Awadh Wajid Ali Shah Asaf-Ud-Dowlah, the fourth Nawab, founder of modern Lucknow Wajid Ali Shah, the poet, choreographer, the last King of Awadh Navratnas Raja Todar Mal, Finance Minister and one of the Navratnas of Akbar Abdul Rahim Khan-I-Khana, Hindi Poet and a Navratna of Akbar Television Rahi Masoom Raza, dialogue writer of TV serial 'Ramayan' Surendra Pal,famous for playing Dronacharaya in 'Mahabharat' Aditya Srivastava Raju Srivastav Environmentalists Billy Arjan Singh, conservationist Scholars Masud Husain Khan, Eminent linguist, the first Professor Emeritus in Social Sciences at Aligarh Muslim University and the 5th Vice-Chancellor of Jamia Millia Islamia, a Central University in New Delhi. Acharya Narendra Dev Mushirul Hasan, historian Ahmad Hasan Dani, archaeologist and historian Renu Khator, Chancellor of the University of Houston System, President of the University of Houston, the first Indian American to lead a major research university in the United States Fine arts Gogi Saroj Pal Ram Chandra Shukla, painter Business[edit] Subroto Roy, founder Sahara India Shyama Charan Gupta, founder of Shyam Group K.P. Singh, president of DLF Universal Group Vinod Gupta, former CEO and chairman of InfoUSA and founder of Vinod Gupta School of Management, Indian Institute of Technology Kharagpur Dhirendra Swarup, Expenditure Secretary Photographer Lala Deen Dayal, Indian photographer Tarun Khiwal (born 1967), Indian fashion and commercial photographer Others Abdul Karim, Munshi to Queen Victoria Begum Samru, historical figure Deep Tyagi, pioneer of Family Planning programme in India Jaichand of Kannauj, historical figure Rahul Mishra (born 1979), fashion designer[9] Sampat Pal Devi, activist listed as one of the 100 most powerful women in the world Amir Khusrow Qurratulain Hyder Ali Sardar Jafri Firaq Gorakhpuri Irfan Habib Valmiki Shyama Charan Gupta Rahul Sankrityayan Birju Maharaj Movies: Some of the movies were not be the best if they were Filmed at some other places. A Aakrosh (2010 film) Anahat (film) Anwar (2007 film) Around the World in 80 Days (2004 film) B Bahu Begum Banaras (2006 film) Bandook Black Friday (2004 film) Bullett Raja Bunty Aur Babli Brij Bhoomi Film( Brij Language) Brij Kau Birju (Brij Language ) C Chaudhvin Ka Chand D Dabangg Dedh Ishqiya Dharm (film) Dum laga ke haisha F Fly Away Solo Forest of Bliss Feast of Varanasi The Forgotten Women G Ganges: River to Heaven Gangs of Wasseypur – Part 1 Gangs of Wasseypur – Part 2 Garm Hava Gazal (1964 film) Gomti Ke Kinare Gulabi Gang (film) Ghoom ketu Guns Of Banaras Gadar: Ek Prem Katha H Haasil I Ishqiya Indra (2002) Film (Telugu) Ishqeria Ishq Bawandar J Joi Baba Felunath Jamuna Kinare Jaya Ganga Jaanisaar K Kaand: Black Scandal Katiyabaaz Kim (1950 film) (English) L Laaga Chunari Mein Daag M Maan Gaye Mughal-e-Azam Mangal Pandey: The Rising Mere Huzoor Mere Mehboob Mohalla Assi Masaan N Nadiya Ke Paar (1982 film) Nandu (film) Naan Kadavul (Tamil ) O Omkara (2006 film) P Pakeezah Pelli Kanuka Paa(Film) R Raanjhanaa Road to Sangam S Sara Akash Sehar Short Cut to Nirvana: Kumbh Mela Sunghursh Samurai (2002 film) (Tamill) T Taj Mahal (1963 film) Tanu Weds Manu Tanu Weds Manu Returns Tevar V Vaaranam Aayiram (Tamil Y Youth Without Youth (film) Ya Rab Z Zameer: The Awakening of a Soul Category:Films set in Uttar Pradesh Category:Films shot in Uttar Pradesh Politics: Uttar pradesh is an very important State with 80 Lok sabha seats in India. In Election, someone once said, is something that we Indians do rather well. And in the country, nowhere are elections as colourful and bizarre as they are in Uttar Pradesh. Writers & Poets : Munshi Premchand (July 31, 1880 - October 8, 1936) Munshi Premchand was one of the greatest literacy figures of modern Hindi and Urdu literature. He was born in Lamahi near Varanasi where his father was a clerk in the post office. Premchand has written about 300 short stories, several novels as well as many essays and letters. He has also written some plays. He also did some translations. Many of Premchand's stories have been translated into English and Russian. His Work Famous Stories:- Nashaa, Shatranj ke khiladi, Poos ki rat, Atmaram, Boodhi Kaki, Bade Bhaisahab, Kafan, Bade Ghar ki beti, Udhar ki Ghadi, Namak ka Daroga, Dikri ke Rupai. Famous Novels:- Godaan, Karmabhoomi, Kaayakalp, Manorma, Nirmala, Pratigya, Rangbhoomi, Sevasadan, Vardaan, Gaban, Premashram, Mangalsootra. Harivanshrai Bachchan (November 27, 1907 - January 18, 2003) Harivanshrai 'Bachchan' Srivastav was a distinguished Hindi Poet, perhaps best known for his early work "Madhushala". He is also the father of Bollywood film superstar, Amitabh Bachchan. He was born as Harivanshrai Srivastav at a small town near Allahabad in the Uttar Pradesh. He was called "Bachchan" (meaning 'child') at home. His Work Poems:- Madhushala, Tera haar, Madhubala, Madhukalash, Ekaant Sangeet, Satarangini, Halaahal, Khaadi ke Phool, Soot ki Mala, Milan Yamini, Bahut din beete, Jaal Sameta. Miscellaneous:- Sopaan, Jangeet, Othello, Naye purane Jharokhe, Chausath roosi kavitaayein, Markat dweep ka swar, Naagar Geet, Hamlet, Pravaas ki Diary, King Lear, So-ham hans. Nagarjun (1911 - November 5, 1998) Nagarjun (Baba Nagarjun, Vaidya Nath Mishra, Yatri) was a major Hindi and Maithili poet who has also penned a number of novels, short stories, literacy biographies and travelogues. He was born in a small village of Satlakha in Madhubani District of Bihar, India. He started his literacy career with Maithili poems by the pen name of Yatri in early 1930. By mid 1930s, he started writing poetry in Hindi. His Work Poems:- Yugdhara, Khichri, Satrange Pankhon wali, Purani Juliyon ka Course. Novels:- Balachnama, Rati Nath ki Chachi, Nai Paudh, Varun ke bete, Ugratara, Kumbhi Pak. Essay Collections:- Anan Hinam Kriyanam Mahadevi Verma (March 26, 1907 - September 11, 1987) Mahadevi Verma wasa a well-known poet of the Chhayavaad generation, a period of romanticism in Modern Hindi poetry. She was born in 1907 near Farrukhabad, Farrukhabad District, Uttar Pradesh of India in an enlightened family of lawyers. She was one of the four pillars of Chhayavaad in Hindi Literature alongwith Suryakant Tripathi 'Nirala', Jai Shankar Prasad and Sumitra Nandan Pant. Her Work Prose:- Ateet ke chalchitra, Shrinkhla ki kadiya, Kshanda, Sankalpita, Smriti ki Rekhayen, Mera Parivar, Sambhashan, Sahityakaar ki Asatha, Path ke Sathi. Poems:- Nihar, Rashmi, Neerja, Saandhya geet, Deepshikha, Saptaparna, Himalaya. Collections:- Yama, Sandhini, Geetparva, Parikrama, Smarika, Smritichitra, Mahadevi Sahitya Ramdhari Singh 'Dinkar' (September 23, 1908 - April 24, 1974) Ramdhari Singh 'Dinkar' was one of the most famous modern Hindi poets. He emerged as a rebellious poet with his nationalist poetry in pre-Independence days. His poetry exuded "Vira- Rasa". He was born at the Simariya village in Begusarai district of Bihar in a bhumihar family. His Work Poems:- Renuka , Hunkaar(epic poem), Dwandwageet, Saamdheni, Rasavanti, Baapu, Kurukshetra, Rashmirathi, Urvashi, Dhoop aur Chhah, Itihaas ke aansoo, Neel Kusum, Mirch ka Mazaa, Dilli, Neem ke Patte, Suraj ka Byaah, Kavishri. Maithili Sharan Gupt (August 3, 1886 - December 12, 1964) Maithilisharan Gupt was one of the most famous modern Hindi poets. He was designated as the National Poet by the first government of the independent India. Gupt was born in Chirgaon, Jhansi (UP). His father was Seth Ramcharan Gupta. He disliked school as a child , so his father arranged for his education at their home. His Work Poetry:- Rang mein Bhang, Bharat-Bharati, Jayadrath Vadh, Vikat Bhat, Plassey ka Yuddha, Gurukul, Kisan, Panchavati, Siddharaj, Saket, Yashodhara, Arjan Aur Visarjan, Kaaba-Karbala, Jayabharat, Dwapar, Jahush, Vaitalik, Kunal. Drama:- Tilottama(1916), Chandrahaas(1916), Anagh(1925), Vijay Parwa(1960) Jaishankar Prasad: Born on January 30, 1989, in Varanasi, Uttar Pradesh, Jaishankar Prasad was like a father-figure of modern Hindi literature. His mahakavya (epic poem) ‘Kamayani’, needs a special mention. Human love is beautifully depicted in the poem. The range of Jaishankar Prasad’s poetry varied from the romantic to the patriotic. Prasad was deeply influenced by the Vedas. He died on January 14, 1937. Jaishankar Prasad - Greatest Hindi Poets of India Kabir: Kabir was a spiritual poet born in 1440, in India (Varansi). His was popularly known as Sant Kabir, as his writings have majorly influenced the Bhakti movement, Sikhism, Sant Mat and Kabir Panth. His poetic works include Bijak, Kabir Garhwali, Sakhi Granth and Anurag Sagar. He was the first Indian saint to bring communal harmony among both Hindus and Muslims through his couplets. Kabir has advocated in his philosophy that life is interplay of two spiritual doctrines, the personal soul (Jivatma) and God (Parmatma). It is Kabir’s ideology that salvation is the process of bringing these two entities into union. Sant Kabir died in 1518. Authors of the great epics Valmiki, wrote Ramayan Vyasa, a central and much revered figure in the majority of Hindu traditions who authored Mahabharata Tulsidas, a Awadhi poet and philosopher, wrote Rāmacaritamānasa ("The Lake of the Deeds of Rama"), an epic devoted to Lord Rama. Surdas Bhrigu (Birth Place: Ballia) Yogis, Sufi poets and mystics Amir Khusro, Sufi mystic, one of the iconic figures in the cultural history of the Indian subcontinent. Bharat Bhushan, the only Padmashri recipient in Yoga, Founder President of Mokshayatan International Yogashram, Saharanpur Ghazi Saiyyad Salar Masud, Gazi Miya of Bahraich. Kabir, poet and saint Varanasi Nizamuddin Auliya, Sufi saint born in Budaun Paramhansa Yogananda, mystic who introduced Yoga in the west, Gorakhpur Salim Chishti, Sufi saint of Fatehpur Sikri, Agra Independence fighters Indian freedom fighter Kotwal Dhan Singh Gurjar from Meerut Chandra Shekar Azad  Indian Rebellion of 1857 Rani Lakshmibai, the Rani (Queen) of Jhansi Mangal Pandey, one of the earliest independence fighters of 1857, subject of Bollywood film Ballia Rao Kadam Singh, the freedom fighter who was elected by his Gurjar clansmen as their leader to fight against the British forces during the Indian Rebellion of 1857. Begum Hazrat Mahal, widow of the last Nawab of Awadh and Indian independence fighter in Indian Rebellion of 1857. Maulvi Liaquat Ali, Indian independence fighter of 1857 from Allahabad, who captured the Khusro Bagh in Allahabad and declared the independence of India. Bakht Khan, nominal commander-in-chief of Indian rebel forces in the Indian Rebellion of 1857 Maratha (Uttar Pradesh) The Maratha people in Uttar Pradesh are the descendants of the Marathi speaking immigrant soldiers and administrators settled in the state of Uttar Pradesh in India. They immigrated to and settled in the present day Uttar Pradesh during the period of Maratha rule in the region. Most of these families arrived as a part of the army sent by Baji Rao Peshwa. Today, they are found mainly in the districts of Jhansi, Jalaun, Banda, Lalitpur and Kanpur, Varanasi The Marathi people in Uttar Pradesh are mainly divided into three groups, the Koknastha Brahmins, Karhade Brahmins, and Deshastha Brahmins. These sub-groups are further divided into the clans, the main ones being the Nevalkars, Bhagwats, Borvankars, Moghes, Viledars, Bhaves, Sardesais, and Joshis. The Maratha now speak Bundelkhandi and Hindi, although historically spoke Marathi. Histotical Gurdwaras are In Uttar Pradesh SikhiWiki, free Sikh encyclopedia. Historical Gurudwaras In Uttar Pradesh Bangles & Glass Manufacturing : Firozabad is a city in India, in the state of Uttar Pradesh also known as City of Bangle. During ancient times, invaders brought many glass articles to India. These glass articles when rejected, were collected and melted in locally made furnaces called "Bhainsa Bhatti." In this furnace, wood was used as a fuel. These old traditional furnaces are still in use in Sasani near Aligarh and at Purdal Nagar and were originally used only for making smaller bottles and bangles. By current production standards, only one bangle at a time can be made using these furnaces. These bangles had no joints and were locally known as "Kadechhal Ki Chudi". Over time, production slowly became more widespread among the locals. This was the start of the glass industry in Firozabad. Since then Firozabad has been the home of India's glass industry. White and coloured glass pieces being manufactured for the purpose of assembling jhad and fanus (chandeliers) which were in demand by royal courts and nobles for decorating their assembling and drawing rooms. Later on phials for Itra, scents, and other cosmetic products were made. Gradually, Indian marriage items like bangles, kangans, kada, etc. too began to be produced in bulk for the general public. Today, there is area known as Suhag Nagar that sells bangles, kadas, kangans and other items of suhagins (married women). Since 1989, Firozabad has produced artistic glassware in different colours and shades used in chandeliers and other items. About four hundred glass industries are registered in Firozabad, making different types of glass products. They use natural gas instead of coal. Half of the production of these units is exported. Nowadays, blowing/modeling is done by the Pot Furnace & Regenerative tank furnace in the factories. Firozabad with the changing time has entered into new era of Glass Manufacturing, it has become a major hub of manufacturing different Glass based items and has registered its global presence, diversifying its industrial base and encouraging ancillary industries including Chemicals, Packaging and more of service sector based industries have flourished in a short span of time. All sorts of glass articles, including jars, candle stands, glasses, flower vases, and electric wares such as decorative lights, bulbs and every other sort of glass articles are prepared in this city. These articles are painted with vivid colours and innovative patterns. Etching is done on some products to enhance their beauty. Decoration work is also done on some products by fixing other material on them. The Labour Force : labour force from Uttar pradesh Contributing to build Beautiful India The First F1 Track in Country (Greater Noida, Uttar Pradesh) Buddh International Circuit The Most luxurious Trains of India Out of five, Four Luxurious Trains are Travelling from  Uttar Pradesh Maharaja Express Palace On wheels Royal Rajasthan On wheels Deccan Odyssey Updated 1d ago • View Upvotes