India: What do people from Uttar Pradesh take pride in?
I take pride in the literary heritage of Uttar Pradesh- Almost all famous Hindi Authors and Poets have been from Uttar Pradesh I originally wrote this answer here: Pranjal Srivastava's answer to What do you think every Indian should know about your state/union territory? but it perfectly fits the bill for this question too Take a look at the below never ending list... 1. Munshi Premchand: Probably the greatest Hindi Novellist of all time. Born in a villege near Varansi as Dhanpat Rai, Munshi Premchand's best known works are the Novels- Godaan and Gaban 2. Firaq Gorakhpuri: One of the most famous contemporary Urdu Poets of our country. He was born in Gorakhpur, Uttar Pradesh. 3. Mir Taqi Mir: One of the two most famous Urdu poets of our country, Meer was Born in Agra in 1723. His couplet "Ibtida e Ishq hai rota hai kya, Aage Aage Dekhiye Hota hai Kya" is a personal favourite :) 4. Mirza Ghalib: Second of the two most famous urdu Poets of our Country, Ghalib was also born in Agra in 1797. His Couplet "Umr bhar Ghalib, Yahi Bhool Karta Raha...Dhool Chehre Pe thi Aaina Saaf Karta Raha" is also a personal favourite. 5. Kaifi Azmi: Yet another famous Poet from UP, Kaifi Azmi was born in my hometown- the city of Azamgarh in 1917. He is widely regarded as the Poet who introduced bollywood to Urdu Poetry. 6. Majrooh Sultanpuri: Another urdu Poet who contributed heavily to Hindi Cinema, Mazrooh was born as Asrar hussain Khan in my hometown, Azamgarh in 1919. 7. Akbar Allahabadi: Born in 1846 in Allahabad, Akbar Allahabadi is most famous for the Ghazal Hungama hai kyun Barpa which was immortalized with voice by Ghulam Ali Sab. 8. Harivansh Rai Bachchan: The Legend. Widely Regarded as THE best hindi poet, Mr. Bachchan was born in 1909 in Pratapgarh. His most famous work is  "Madhushala" 9. Mahadevi Varma: Another Great Hindi Poet, Mahadevi Verma, was born in 1907 in Farrukhabad. 10. Sumitranandan Pant: Yet Another Great Poet, who was born in 1900 in Almora then in UP now in Uttarakhand. 11. Maithili Sharan Gupt: This poet who is credited with pioneering the use of khadi boli in hindi poetry in an era when braj was favored, was born in Jhansi in 1886. uff... will this list ever end, i'm starting to get tired. 12. Kaka Hathrasi: Kaka, whose name was Prabhu Lal Garg was born in  Hathras in 1906 was the most famous Satirist of Hindi Literature. 13. Shivmangal Singh Suman: Shivamangal Singh Suman- whose poems we all have read in our CBSE hindi curriculum was born in Unnao in 1905 14. Subhadra Kumari Chauhan: Subhadra Kumari Chauhan, a great poet is most famous for her veer ras poems- specially "Jhansi Ki Raani". She was born in Allahabad in 1904 but died young at the age of 44 in 1948 in a tragic car accident. 15. Rahul Sankrityayan: Father of Hindi Travel Literature, he was born as Kedarnath Pandey in my hometown, Azamgarh in 1893. He travelled to various parts of world including Nepal, Tibet, Sri Lanka, Iran, China, Soviet Union. Such was his cool quotient, that you name the genre and he had written in it- Travelogue, biography, Sociology, History, Philosophy, Religion, Fiction, Drama, Essay, Politics- just about anything and that too in five languages- Hindi, Sanskrit, Bhojpuri, Pali and Tibetan!! He was called Mahapandit and rightly so. Such was his awesomeness that the guy taught in university of Leningard (Russia) despite having very little formal education. You may judge by this description that I am a huge fan- yes I am :) I can go on and on and on with this list... but will conclude it with a more recent name which maybe we all can relate to: 16. Vikas Swarup: Mr Swaroop, who writes in English is most famous for his novel- Q&A, on which the award winning movie "Slumdog Millionaire" was based. He was born in 1963 in Allahabad. Edit: 17.  Dharamvir Bharati : Yet another famous novelist and play writer from Allahabad. Dharamveer Bharti was a Padm Shree and was also conferred with Sngeet Natak Aacademi award for playwriting. His Play "Andha Yug" and novels "Suraj ka Satvan Ghoda" and "Gunaho ka Devta" are considered classics. Thank You Sharad Srivastava for the suggestion. This list is in no way exhaustive- i'm sure there'd be many more people of brilliant literature who I have forgotten to add. Please suggest names if you remember any :) Updated 5w ago • View Upvotes