Why are there no startups solving the Real Estate problems?
Involved in the real estate industry since childhood through my mom's brokerage and then my own work. Tech Consultant, Start-up Founder. Don't fret! This trend is changing at fairly rapid pace compared to the pre-2012. Some of my favorite new companies in the real estate space: Closingtime is an app for agents to help their buyers navigate the process and help them "get their homework done". Lasso is a new search portal where you can share you search experience and results with your agent. Dotloop is a transaction management platform that has moved the real estate contract process online and is working to integrate the lending and title process as well. FiveStreet is the CRM that I think fits agents needs the best but there is an explosion of CRM and lead generation systems being developed for the industry. Reesio is even working to create a private, independant replacement for the MLSs. These 5 companies together would create a pretty excellent end-to-end experience for a real estate customer. That's just the tip of the iceberg as far as new startups that have popped up on the scene in the last 2 years. If you are concerned about websites, there are now hundreds of awesome-looking, customizable Wordpress and Joomla templates the come with plug-and-play IDX integration. Unfortunately, its not the tech that exists, but the industry permeation of that tech that really matters. For a lot of the reasons mentioned here -- industry protectionism, fractured markets, historically slow technology permeation -- its actually quite difficult to serve real estate agents and brokers in a scalable way. Traction Obstacles Particularly the fact that agents and brokers have to pay to get their own data back from the MLSs to use in marketing is a real killer to them being able to trying out alpha and beta stage products. It creates so much onboarding overhead that its difficult for startups to get the organic early traction they need to prove their concept and scale. Instead, like the solar industry, many startups still require millions in funding to even get their early product to market. Numbers Game It also means that to recoup those non-scalable onboarding costs, most real estate products have to be priced at a point that isn't financially feasible except in large urban markets with high prices. The average home cost is only $250,000 nationwide (meaning its much lower in some places when you consider the average is $1million here in San Francisco!). The average agent preforms 1 sale a month (2 per month is where agents about max out timewise). The average residential real estate brokerage has less than 10 agents, and commission splits have been trending in favor of the agent, usually between 25%-10% of the 6% commission on a house (these commission have also been dropping rapidly. If you can still charge 6% you are probably not in a very competitive market). So $250,000*5%=15000*25%=3750*10 agents=$37,500 in revenue for what is probably a 10-15 person business. You have to remember that their business expenses than have to come out of that including marketing, dues, office rent, admins, computers, travel, required ongoing education and technology. That's about how most brokerages would prioritize those expenses as well. Industry permeation for a product that runs $350/month per brokerage is going to be pretty low. Technology Obstacles The MLSs are the nucleus of Real Estate technology. Not only do they have all the market data, but they have all the business data on the entire industry since most brokerages don't track their sales data internally. Everything else in the industry, from the the tech the associations use to the integrations that are most valuable to the brokerage, revolves are the MLSs and the tech they are built on. Which basically sucks. Because the few MLS companies that exist have been around since the 70s and 80s and are basically set in stone, they have no incentive to actually be good at their job or provide value to their end customers, unfortunately. And that just drags the rest of the industry down with it. The rest of the tech industry gets to use standards like OAuth and RESTful APIs which make it super easy for startups to connect and securely share users and data with each other for maximum customer value. In real estate, the MLS created their own proprietary standard, which has been implemented differently by each MLS. It was only a couple years ago that the standard was updated to allow you to PUSH data to the MLSs so brokerages and third party providers could fully integrate systems, and the first MLSs will be implementing that updated standard NEXT year. There are a couple MLSs out there that just Rock It - like MRIS. They are so awesome. But when you need to build a national/international business that can scale to a million users in 2-5 years, one great regional partner just doesn't cut it. But there is even a start-up that just got bought by Zillow that is looking to overcome the MLS tech issue as well! There is definitely hope for the industry yet, and most of the problems specified are being attacked in some way. Once they all come together in the next couple of years, there's going to be a real explosion of opportunity for startups and customers in real estate tech. 