What are the changes that a student would like to see in the faculty at BITS Pilani?
Oh boy. This sparked off something deep inside me. Something primal. Now I have to write. I won't be able to stop until it's over... no matter how many pages, how many hours it takes. This is going to be long and ugly.  I am writing as an Anonymous poster so I don't have to sugarcoat my beliefs. Yes, I know this is the weasel's way of doing things, but I don't want to make it about me or seek 'publicity'. I want every student to find see their own experiences reflected in these words, and I want them to remember how idealistic they were when they walked onto campus for the first time, and the visceral emotions they felt when they were stripped of those beliefs. I want people to get mad. A lot of what I am about to write will seem offensive to someone or the other, and for that I apologize in advance. These are issues I have thought long and hard about, and my beliefs are strongly held. I will not go out of my way to be 'polite' because politeness and complacency on the part of the students is one of the factors why this rot has managed to set in. Any non-BITSian reading this answer may think that we have absolutely terrible teachers. This is not true, when taken relative to other Indian colleges, things are not that bad, and there were multiple exceptions to every fault I'm going to rant about. Most of the things I'm going to mention are endemic to the Indian system and not BITS Pilani in particular. There are many aspects in which BITS shines. For instance, the BITS Pilani examination review system is superior to most (all?) Indian colleges. I have never heard of any other college where every test paper can be sent for rechecks and results come out within a week (hell, one of my paper was checked and the results were uploaded on the day of the exam). This involves a lot of hard work by faculty members and helps make the system formidably efficient. I would like to acknowledge the hard work all faculty members do before I begin my deconstruction. I would urge faculty members do to not take what I'm going to say as a personal attack, but I'm sure some will (that's one of the flaws I'll talk about: always making things personal). Read on only if you have the stomach for it. First things first. Yes, the BITS system has lots of good things going for it when contrasted with Indian schools. But that is not enough for us. Faculty members walk into BITS carrying that same Indian-school mentality with them when they join. This is not satisfactory. Forgive the arrogance- we are not just some Indian school. This is BITS PILANI. This is the largest, densest concentration of brilliant, young, idealistic minds in India as of today. Our graduates compete with best in the world. Our alumni have scaled heights in fields scarcely imaginable- from the youngest prof ever at Wharton to the founder of the world's first commercial e-mail service to inventor of modern-day outsourcing to the first Indian to manage Manchester United. We are not an Indian college in this sense. Our competition is not with NITs and IITs. In terms of our internal systems and incorporation of technology in teaching, we are already far, far ahead of them. But we are not competing with the best in India.We are competing with the best in the world, and in that goal, we have fallen woefully short. The first step is in acknowledging this. The only thing holding us back is the state of our pedagogy. More technology is not going to solve this problem, we have awesome technology in the form of Onboard, Nalanda, BITSConnect etc. The parochial mindset of the faculty is responsible for this. SJM sir in this question talked about how students from BITS aim low: What are the changes that a faculty would like to see in our students at BITS Pilani? I think he's absolutely right. What he doesn't mention, is how the faculty aims low. They are fine with the status quo. They treat their classes like their personal fiefdoms with little regard for the lofty aims of education. This 'crab mentality' on campus- It's not caused by the students- we are only here for 3.5 or 4 years,  in our first year we only soak in the culture, in our final year we're too worried about admissions and placements to go around preaching to the kids. It's caused by the faculty, which remains even as batches of students graduate. I will not pull any punches here. I will admit this, by the time we reach our second year- all students become willing participants in this farce, and once we join it, we have no moral high-ground. However, I will put the blame for this 'fall'- from brilliant, idealistic, first year- to jaded, lazy second year squarely on the faculty. The faculty has this pet fantasy- that the reason for our studying style is because we joined clubs and departments,  organized events or because somehow our lazy seniors passed on their studying habits on to us. No. We don't learn to study from our seniors. We talk to them, we chill with them, we ask them about good and bad electives to take up. We do not learn to study from them.  We were all the toppers of our respective schools before we came here. We have far too much of an ego to trust our seniors with that stuff. This brings me to my first point. 1) Acknowledge the quality of the students. When students enter BITS in their first year, they are the top 2% of the 2 lakh students that write the BITSAT, and definitely deep within the top 1% of 12 lakh annual engineering aspirants in the country. All of them accomplished this feat while getting solid scores in their 12th grade board exams, and around 2 dozen of them topped their respective boards. We are studious by nature. We are competitive. We are ambitious. We are not here via some quota. Some of us abandoned plush seats that we'd have gotten through our castes. All of us gave up plush seats we would have got through regional quotas. We didn't do this because we enjoyed coasting along life and taking things for granted. If that was what we wanted we would have taken a seat at some good local college that we could top easily and not bothered to come to the desert. We were in love with this idea: the idea of pure merit. We loved the idea of fighting it out for 4 years- testing ourselves against the best in the nation. That's the sort of students we were when we got here. I went to a top US engineering school after BITS. And I can say this with certainty: Any engineering school in the world, the only exceptions being MIT, Stanford and Caltech, would have killed for the privilege of teaching the kind of first year batch I had at BITS. The raw material was amazing. Yes, the crowd didn't have too many of the absolute genius types that end up topping JEE. But the students were individuals, all multifaceted, exceptionally talented in fields beyond academics, and very ambitious. The average mental horsepower was of a kind I'd never seen before. I picked BITS because of this crowd. Not because of the infrastructure, which was appalling at that time (though I hear there's been a lot of improvement recently), not because of faculty, not because of reputation or anything else. What I saw in the next four years was one of the greatest wastes of human intellectual potential in the world. To say that the faculty took these brilliant students for granted would be the understatement of the century. The majority of professors treated students with something that can be described as disdain... no disdain is too passive. Too neutral. The right word for it is: Spite. Yes. Spite. Our instructors actually seemed to actively dislike us. I was shocked. In fact, I thought I was reading at all wrong, something wrong with my empathetic circuitry. It was something I had never seen before (and indeed, something I never saw again, once I went to the US). In my first month, I attended all my classes religiously. I was surprised by the fact that the teachers seemed to be far less interested in teaching us than the teachers I had in school (and my class there was much less motivated and talented, trust me). In perhaps the second week of college, I went to a teacher after class to ask her about some doubts I had about what was being taught. Suffice to say, she spoke to me as if I was asking her to give me her firstborn child and not for the damn answer to a physics question. She raised her voice to almost shouting levels, and basically told me to fuck off because I was not her responsibility. This was the first lesson I learnt on campus. I'm a quick learner, so I learnt it well. About 70% of the faculty I interacted with in the next 4 years fit this bucket of 'spite', some passively, some quite actively. I am very grateful for the minority that at least cared about making sure I understood my concepts. Don't believe me? Do I need to cite more experiences? There are plenty of those to go around. Don't worry about that. Every year, we were treated like vermin by ARCD. In my first year a guy with a PhD in Chemistry refused to believe that each p-orbital has 2 lobes, insisted it was 6, yelled at one student who tried to explain it to him and told us that "our English was terrible". I'm serious here- he didn't get that 'each orbital' meant taking them one at a time. There   is a reasonably well made feedback system. I don't know how effective it is, it never seems   to make any noticeable difference to faculty beyond angering them: and   after years of seeing this, most students have stopped taking it   seriously and give faculty far better scores than they deserve hoping to placate them. After  hearing stories (true or not, I don't know) about information about the  online anonymous feedback being 'leaked', they are afraid to send a strong message. They   don't want to anger a teacher who will be responsible for their grades   in the following semester. Even if he/she doesn't know which  individuals  wrote the feedback, he/she might decide to lower the  class's average  GPA by 0.5. If you want real feedback, don't restrict  yourself to that stupid piece of paper we fill out at the end of the  semester. It's too little, too late, too opaque. In our first month of first year we were yelled at for idiotic reasons like going out to eat at ANC, watching movies with friends in our hostel rooms or playing Uno during the Diwali holidays. "Did you come here to study or play games?!" It's my fucking free time, sir, after 8 hours of classes and 2 tests a day. I'll do what I want to, thank you very much. This sort of 'ragging' by wardens and such reduces greatly after the first month on campus and disappears by the end of 2nd year- but it begs the question: why does it happen in the first place?- and especially when we are in first year and making our impressions about faculty for the first time. Why do you think it's a good idea to make all the students think that all faculty members are unreasonable and hostile to them? Some faculty member almost ran me over with a scooter, and then tried to put the blame on me for that as well, confiscated my ID card and threatened to report me to the DC. For standing near the edge of the road in front of Vyas in our so called demotorized campus. I may have disliked my teachers in school, naively as a kid. But I never once doubted that they had my best interests at heart. The same with my teachers in the US. At BITS? People like these would be the exception. Not the rule. Which brings me to my next point. 2) Ask yourself if you truly derive satisfaction from our success. This is an extension of point one. I feel every faculty member needs to ask themselves this. I have never taught college kids, but I used to tutor schoolchildren from less privileged backgrounds. I used to teach them math, english, and art. These kids used to have pretty shitty teachers in school, so their concepts were pretty screwed up. I had a very hard time getting them to do anything right. It was infuriating at times. But when they did something right: like draw a cool motorcycle, multiply two 3 digit numbers together accurately or construct a near-perfect English paragraph. I used to overflow with pride. It's because of this feeling that I am considering going back to school for my PhD and possibly becoming a teacher  in the future. One of the major things that makes me have doubts about this path, is this fear that I might end up like the average BITS prof, to which being a corporate drone is preferable by far. Every educator needs to ask themselves this question. Do you derive pleasure from the success of others? All of the students you ever taught?  Including students whose study tactics or approach you didn't like? Including students that hated your class and were terrible at it, but had other talents? Including students that talked back to you in class and pointed out every mistake you ever made? Including students that only showed up only when there was a test? Including students that didn't give you personal bhav? For the majority of teachers at BITS- the answer would be a big fat 'No'. They don't. Most of the teachers will disagree with my statement vehemently here. But lets look at my experience- they spent all those 4 years trying to 'trick' us, 'outsmart' us, and catch us off guard, by whatever means necessary. By asking us to solve papers that they couldn't solve themselves (after having made it), by keeping tutorials on days with minimum class attendance, by teaching us one thing but testing us only on the parts that they skipped over after having called them 'unimportant', by making last minute changes to the exam syllabus, (and now I hear) by holding a quiz for one subject in a time slot meant for another, by declaring an exam 'open book' and not allowing the majority of the notes unless they were written by hand. ^This is not a Fluid Mechanics paper. This is a pissed off prof misusing his position to make his students feel worthless and powerless.  Perhaps he felt slighted because students didn't attend his class. Any self respecting Mechanical/Chemical/Civil engineer (student or prof) should feel ashamed after seeing that paper. Did any student go up to that prof and lodge a complaint against him? Probably not. They don't have the courage. Did any faculty member go tell him that this paper is a disgrace to every kind of academic excellence BITS stands for? I doubt that too. Their priority is to not get involved in these 'issues'. If you really do care about us- why the hell do you insist on treating your students like your enemies? When did we come to become your adversaries? I thought we were supposed to be partners, all actively in the pursuit of new knowledge. It really makes me lose faith in the system here- what's the point of being a teacher if you don't enjoy watching students do well? I'm not saying that all teachers are heartless people. They certainly care a lot about some students. The ones that have perfect attendance in class. 3) Stop kidding yourself about your 'awesome' teaching skills and the importance of attending your class. I can understand that it really hurts and can be demotivational when students refuse to attend your class. That does not make it acceptable to treat it like a personal insult and hold it against students. The faculty loves to think that all the problems in the world are caused by low attendance in class, rather than treating it as the symptom of a deeper malaise. Guess what, my school in the US had a zero attendance requirement too. I ended with over 90% attendance there just because I found the classes interesting, this included regularly staying till 10 o'clock at night in optional engineering labs, and occasionally pulling all-nighters there. When the majority of the student body stops attending your class. It means you're doing something very, very wrong. Stop waiting for end-sem feedback. Circulate a survey asking about what you're doing wrong. We do not exist to feed fuel to your ego and preserve your precious feelings. This is not personal. You do not feel guilt when you give us a 0 that we absolutely deserved. We don't go around pitying ourselves and blaming you for getting that zero, or that D or E or NC. We understand that we weren't up to the mark. We take the hit. It hurts. Then we move on and strive to do better next time. Treat this as the zero you deserved. Guess what, we didn't see any value proposition in you coming to class and regurgitating the exact words from the lecture slides/text-book, refusing to answer any conceptual questions, and dictating a bunch of drivel. We will not be impressed by the fact you're the HOD of the math department if you can't install Mathematica on your computer, let alone run some basic functions on it. We are all rational, self-interested adults here. We know what it takes to optimize our learning, and we act on that self-interest. Trust me. Whenever any teacher teaches a class with even a modicum of skill and flair- rave reviews about his or her teaching style spread across campus. We all try our best to go attend the classes of whoever is the best/second best teacher for a subject, even if they don't fit into our schedule. The solutions these amazing attendance egotists come up with always, ALWAYS, miss the wood for the trees. All their solutions strive to optimize attendance rather than optimize student learning, based on the fallacious belief that meaningful learning can only take place in the classroom. I cannot describe how I feel about this kind of thinking without writing in expletives. What are these brilliant ideas? 1) Only allow handwritten notes for open book exams. (Because REAL engineering is about copying down notes written in atrocious handwriting! Not grasping and applying new concepts based on pre-existing literature!) 2) Refuse to distribute lecture slides. (Because hiding essential knowledge is the best way to make the students learn! What an amazing idea!) 3) Give lecture slides to only a chosen few favourite students that attend class regularly. (After all, life isn't fair, what better place to learn this than in college?) 4) Rejecting recheck requests if the student has low attendance. "Why should I help you? You don't attend my class. You think you are too good, right? Well then you don't need recheck." (Sycophancy is also an important lesson, yum! Better learn it early!) This is an utter and complete travesty of education. The point of the course is for us to learn, not to attend your class. Instead of improving the quality of the instruction you provide, you're just limiting our learning outside of class. This is a decidedly mediocre mindset. I'm not saying the majority of teachers do this, but I met around a dozen who thought like this out of 42 courses on campus. With this we're close to the next point. 4) Stop the Favouritism and Sycophancy, show some respect for competence. Fine, it's India. I get it. But try to tone it down a little at least? The most blatant example of this was in a T1 where most people used a less accurate approach to solve a 15 mark problem and all got answers that differed slightly from the actual answer and got a big zero. We all applied for partial marks during recheck because our answers were so close. We all had more or less the same answer. Here are the marks we got: 9 pointer class topper - attends all classes - 12/15 8 pointer - attends often- 6/15 7 pointer - attends often- 4/15 6 pointer - never comes to class - 0/15 For practically doing the same thing. Favourite students tend to get 10-15 marks increased over the semester, the number is much lower for the average guy. There are dozens of papers where I got 10/20 in question: Why? Because my final answer was right, but my steps didn't match up with what was taught in class. Seriously? Is it that big of a deal if I used slightly different, but accurate mathematics to reach the same answer you did? This kind of grading only encourages memorization and not intellectual agility. If I had just memorized the exact solution from some notes- I'd have gotten 20/20. In my first year Prob & Stat class, we had a tutorial test. The teacher asked a fairly simple question. Sadly, 90% of the class got it wrong because they assumed the possible outcomes were equally likely (which was not mentioned anywhere). I got it right.  So this guy didn't want to be the jerk that gave everyone a zero, so he changed the question ex post facto, gave the 10% with the actually correct answers zeroes, and gave everyone else full points. I showed the question and my answer to 5 prob stat faculty members, all of them told me that a) My answer was correct. b) They would not say this to my tutor and spoil their relationship with him. It took 3 weeks of hard fighting and constant polite irritation to make the HOD write a letter saying my answer was correct and to get those 15 marks increased. My tutor was pissed that I went behind his back, he didn't give a damn about my answer. He tried his best to reduce my marks whenever he could in the later tutorials- but could only cut 2-3 over the remaining tests.   Too bad. 5) Stop making everything about Grades, Learn to recognize excellence in all its forms. Another convenient place where faculty blames students is 'obsession with grades'. Let me recount my experiences of the wide variety of responses I received from faculty members on a wide range of topics. When I go to talk about a SOP : "What's your CGPA?" When I was sent to discuss academics with a dean: "What's your CGPA?" When I go to apply for an informal project: "What's your CGPA?" When I go ask for a reco: "What's your Grade in my course?" When I asked for transcripts from ARCD dean to apply to colleges: "You're a 7 pointer, what makes you think you'll get any admits with your GPA?" After getting an intern at a great college: "WHAT? How can you get that at your CGPA?" When getting permissions to go represent India at an international competition: "How on earth did you manage to get selected with your CGPA?" Lovely isn't it? A friend of mine, went to the US and started working on cutting edge mechanical engineering patents without any intermediate education or work experience between that and BITS. His teachers in college always thought he was some delinquent idiot just because his GPA was under 7. By condensing our entire existence into one meaningless metric, you objectify us, commodify us in the most shameful of ways, every day. The average grade for most courses is a 6.5, yet 6.5 pointers are treated like trash by faculty. Is it really that surprising that these students don't like being treated like idiots and want to score more, even at the cost of real learning? It's hypocrisy to demand that we stop caring about grades and focus on learning, while you (faculty members) keep on judging us solely by those metrics! 6) Stop putting up notices in front of your office Put it on Onboard instead. So much more efficient. I used to go ask every prof I knew to put up notices on Onboard or Intrabits, very politely, I might add, nothing like I'm writing right now. What did they do? Yell at me, tell me it's the students' responsibility to follow the notices, even if that means spending 2 hours taking circles of the campus trying to find a notice board they've missed, even if the notice is put up at 6 AM regarding an exam that starts at 9 AM. Last and most important: 7) Make Engineering Cool. Add lots of small projects. Tackle cheating ruthlessly. Innovate! Engineering is a freaking cool subject, so why are we taught it in a way that makes it seem useless and boring. A lot of us aren't motivated by the idea of becoming process engineers, shop floor engineers etc. We want to work on cutting edge stuff. Sure, India doesn't have the resources to do cutting edge research- but we can certainly do a lot of excellent project work (in design, simulation, optimization, modelling, localization for e.g.) despite our material constraints. Why not expose us to these things using projects instead of just forcing us to solve equations over and over and over and over. The curriculum in its present state simply ignores the importance of hands on experience and actually enjoying the work you're doing. The curriculum is built for the lowest common denominator. We are not the lowest common denominator. All you have to do it copy projects from a good MOOC and adapt them for the course. The students here want a good education. We're paying a hefty sum for it. You complain about copying, but copying is a ridiculously easy problem to solve. Make the students submit more qualitative papers, have them be typed out on a computer, then run them through one of the hundreds of anti-cheating software packages available online. Even if the software itself is a complete dud, the fear of getting caught will keep students from cheating. If you find plagiarism- send them a mail giving them the link they copied from as proof, and give them zero. This is particularly easy for projects. In 4 years at Pilani, 42 courses, I only ever saw one case of plagiarism getting caught. And what happened to the students who got caught? Well, they lost a grade, got a C, and complained a lot. But the next time they got a course with a big project in it- they worked their asses off sincerely, did original work, and got an A. We learn from our environment. The teaching style needs to go beyond being the Read Evaluate Print Loop it is today. If in humility the faculty realizes its shortcomings, we can aim for greatness. We can combine BITSConnect 2.0 with Coursera, Udacity and EdX to deliver incredible quality lectures to students. We can make all the material available online and the faculty can focus on conducting papers and solving doubts. We can give students world class lectures and projects for no extra cost while simultaneously reducing workload on teachers. However, with the mindset that is present currently, even faculty members who have close to zero  communication skills will take this as a grave personal insult. Because it's perfectly legitimate for these guys to tell a student that he's a failure (at least in some specific areas) , but faculty members can't be expected to take the same assessment about themselves with humility. Updated 81w ago • View Upvotes