Is intuition a manifestation of rationality operating below consciousness?
I doubt you will find a definitive answer to this question but I have read some research and at least one book that I can think of off the top of my head that suggested that yes, this is the case. The theory is that there is no "sixth sense" but rather what people perceive as a "sixth sense" are actually tiny, minute cues sometimes extremely subtle ones that we are actually perceiving with our five senses. Some are so subtle that we don't really realize we are perceiving them. Sometimes these cues are even communicated on an unconscious level. The somewhat frightening but amazing book I read about this is called: Protecting the Gift by Gavin De Becker. This is a general summary of the book: Be warned: In many ways this is a terrifying book. It deals with a subject--violence against children--that most of us never want to consider. But, as Gavin de Becker stresses, such situations, though rare, can occur, so all parents must deal with the facts in order to protect their children properly. De Becker's aim is to create awareness of potential dangers and provide parents with the knowledge necessary for prevention and control. As he emphatically states in Protecting the Gift, much of this knowledge is already hard-wired in the form of intuition: "This natural ability is deep, brilliant, powerful. Nature's greatest accomplishment, the human brain, is stunningly efficient when its host is at risk, but when one's child is at risk, it moves to a whole new level, one we can justifiably call miraculous." The trick, he stresses, is trusting and acting on intuition. (emphasis mine) http://www.amazon.com/Protecting... One of the most stunning and entertaining portions of this book (to me) was the part where De Becker takes a situation: a woman is raped by a stranger in her apartment. He then breaks down the entire encounter: he gives a full account and analyzes each event and sub-event, each gesture, every word the rapist said, and each sign that the rapist was a dangerous and violent individual: that individual was providing subtle but definite clues. He even runs down the points at which the victim may very well have dismissed the warning bells going off in her own head and told herself: "I'm being paranoid, he's a perfectly nice, ordinary guy." It's a scary book that deals with infrequent and unlikely violence but a great one and while his explanation of intuition is really only a theory it is one that makes a lot of sense and he makes a very compelling argument for it. 