In layman's terms, what exactly was the discovery announced by the BICEP2 experiment on March 17, 2014?
(Note: This answer has been updated to reflect the analysis in [1502.00612] A Joint Analysis of BICEP2/Keck Array and Planck Data showing that the BICEP2 results cannot actually be interpreted as detection of primordial gravitational waves, as was initially claimed.) The purpose of the BICEP2 experiment is to measure the polarization of the cosmic microwave background (CMB). The CMB is considered to be "the oldest light in the universe". After the "big bang", the universe was so dense that any light that was produced (in the form of photons) was immediately absorbed by matter. It can be said that the universe was "opaque" during that time. However, the universe was constantly expanding, becoming less dense (and less hot). Around 380,000 years after the big bang, the universe finally became "transparent", and light could shine through. That light exists to this day, in the form of the CMB. It is all around us, in about the same amount in every direction, and we can detect it relatively easily. In fact, it was first detected in 1964. Now, since the CMB takes the form of electromagnetic radiation, it is made out of photons. Photons can have two polarization states - for example, horizontal and vertical. When you wear sunglasses, the amount of light that reaches your eyes is reduced but not blocked entirely because only one of the polarization states of the photons is absorbed by the polarizing sheets on the glasses. The discovery made by BICEP2 on March 17, 2014 was thought to be the detection of primordial gravitational waves. These gravitational waves would have created in the CMB a special polarization state called B-mode polarization. You can think of gravitational waves as similar to electromagnetic waves, or any other kind of wave such as water waves. However, while other types of waves are "ripples" in some kind of medium - such as the electromagnetic field or the ocean - that propagate in space and time, gravitational waves are ripples in spacetime itself. They were predicted as a consequence of the theory of general relativity almost 100 years ago. The gravitational waves that were thought to be detected by BICEP2 are not the "standard" kind of gravitational waves, that are supposed to be generated all the time throughout the universe; they are primordial, which means that are almost as old as the universe itself. So what BICEP2 is looking for is evidence of something that happened, not 380,000 years after the big bang like the CMB, but a fraction of a second after the big bang. This is something that we have never seen before, and studying these primordial waves could lead to new insights about what happened in the first few moments of our universe. Another very important part of the claimed discovery is, as I mentioned before, that these gravitational waves have created B-mode polarization in the CMB. I won't get into details about what this polarization is, since it's rather technical and unimportant (if you're interested in the details, see below). However, the important thing to know is that B-mode polarization is a prediction of the theory of cosmic inflation. Basically, cosmic inflation is the hypothesis that, immediately after the big bang, the universe expanded very, very, very rapidly - much faster than the speed of light. (However, this does not violate the "speed limit" imposed by special relativity, since space itself was expanding, and no physical object was actually travelling faster than light.) A fraction of a second later, this rapid expansion slowed, and the universe continued to expand, but at a much slower rate. This theory is thought to be needed in order to explain some properties of the universe, such as why it looks roughly the same in every direction, and why it appears to be flat rather than curved. It also explains how quantum fluctuations (random changes to the vacuum energy at random points in space) that happened immediately after the big bang were magnified and were eventually responsible for the formation of the galaxies, stars and planets in our universe. So, a future discovery of B-mode polarization in the CMB would confirm the prediction made by inflation theory, and thus would provide evidence that cosmic inflation in fact happened. Here is an image that illustrates everything I explained here: Time goes from left to right. It begins with the big bang. Immediately after that, inflation occurs, and you can see that the universe grows extremely fast based on its vertical width in the illustration. You can also see that after inflation stops, the universe continues to expand, but at a much slower rate. At the time of inflation, gravitational waves are created (seen at the top of the illustration). After 380,000 years, the CMB is created and the gravitational waves imprint it with their characteristic polarization. Appendix: An explanation about B-mode polarizations. Any polarization pattern in the CMB can be separated into two different polarization modes: E-mode and B-mode. The names were chosen because the E-mode is somewhat analogous to the electric field while the B-mode is analogous to the magnetic field, and in physics we usually describe the electric and magnetic fields using the letters E and B respectively. Light is an electromagnetic wave, which means that it is made of oscillating electric and magnetic fields. We arbitrarily define the polarization as the direction in which the electric field oscillates. So, when you draw a map of the CMB as the BICEP2 experiment did, you can draw the directions of oscillation of the light waves as line segments. When you do that, you find that these line segments create E-mode B-mode polarization patterns, as shown here: The difference between the two modes, as is clearly apparent from the illustration, is that B-modes have a "twist" or a "curl", while E-modes are what we describe in physics as "curl-free". Now, gravitational waves created during inflation are predicted to have imprinted both E-mode and B-mode polarization patterns. However, the catch is the E-modes can be created by other means, so detecting E-modes in the CMB (which has already been done in the past) cannot be considered evidence for primordial gravitational waves. What makes things even more complicated is that E-modes may sometimes be "distorted" to look like B-modes. These types of B-modes have also been detected previously. Nevertheless, B-modes that were created by primordial gravitational waves can be separated from the "fake" ones. Observe the following maps generated by BICEP2: The horizontal and vertical axes represent the position in the sky, so these are actual maps of the sky. The line segments show the direction of the polarization, as explained above. The colors represent the degree to which each patch of the sky can be considered to be polarized as having an E-mode (top figure) or B-mode (bottom figure) polarization. In the case of B-modes, the color scheme measures how much a particular patch of the map "twists": red if the twist is clockwise, blue if it is counterclockwise. Therefore, the map on the bottom was thought, before additional statistical analysis was performed, to provide evidence for primordial gravitational waves. Updated 44w ago • View Upvotes