Media Business in 2015: How credible are articles on vox.com?
Vox has a basic credibility problem, one resulting primarily from its boldly-stated mission to "explain the news."  Turns out that it's harder to do that than they thought. Vox represents an interesting journalistic concept, and it made a big splash in policy circles when it debuted in the spring of 2014.  Dedicated to "explanatory journalism" (but I repeat myself), Vox's reporters aim to add context to undercovered policy stories, discuss the biggest political stories of the day, and otherwise bring more data and details to discussions on any number of topics.  While I haven't seen specific numbers on their page views, I understand that Vox attracts significant traffic every day. But their first year was a rough one.  Vox's reporters don't claim journalistic objectivity - they're often commenting along with their explanations - and their broad portfolio has led them into some comically bad mistakes, ones documented in painful detail by Deadspin last December: Sometimes Vox gets the name of a grocery store or the year a bill was passed wrong, but errors like that—while unfortunate—are inevitable and excusable. What makes Vox unique is not their errors, but the magnitude of those errors. Whether being taken in by blatant hoaxes, showcasing a clear misunderstanding of a study in an article that has no purpose other than explaining that study, or making multiple mistakes in a post that consists of only a graph or a short paragraph, Vox repeatedly crapped the bed in 2014. From this vantage point, the problems seem systemic, not the kind that can be fixed simply by asking writers to slow down or hiring a few more editors. Vox has hired a number of Bright Young People—and is run by the Brightest Young People—and the house style seems to be, "Write as if you are an expert, in a tone assuming that everything one needs to know about a subject can be found in your article." These Bright Young People may well be near-experts on one or two subjects, or at least close enough to pass as such online, but Vox publishes at the same rapid pace as the rest of the internet, on an exceptional and ever-growing number of topics, and there's only so much authoritativeness to go around. It isn't merely that writers and editors have screwed up—though they have—but that the ingredients for disaster are hardwired into the site's design. Even when Vox doesn't technically make mistakes, their model ensures that, far from explaining the news, they actively misinform readers. Here is Vox's foreign policy guy laying out an article titled, "Here's the real reason North Korea hacked Sony. It has nothing to do with The Interview." Never mind the tone (and headline) of utter certainty in the face of numerous computer security experts who are extremely skeptical of the government's story that North Korea hacked Sony. (Even Vox's tech guy—who didn't understand the problem with investing in bitcoins while simultaneously writing usually positive articles about them—thinks we need to hear both sides here.) Vox's foreign policy guy thinks he can explain the reason the notoriously opaque North Korean regime conducted a hack they may well not have actually conducted!  (46 Times Vox Totally Fucked Up A Story) As you might surmise from its title, the Deadspin article then goes on to document 46 of the worst Vox mistakes, chronicled by the site's own corrections (!) and including a positively brutal first four: 1. Headline: 11 crucial facts to understand the Israel-Gaza crisis Correction: An earlier version of this post suggested there was a bridge connecting Gaza and the West Bank. Various plans to do this have been floated, but the bridge was never actually built. 2. Headline: Boulder's houses have more toilets than people Correction: The first chart in an earlier version of this post said it listed the number of toilets per capita, not per 100 people. Clearly that was wrong — 102 toilets for every 1 Boulder resident would be way too many. 3. Original Headline: Tonight will be the longest night in the history of Earth Corrected Headline: Correction: Tonight will not be the longest night in the history of Earth. It was in 1912. Correction: This article originally said that, due to the rotation of the Earth gradually slowing down over time, this winter solstice would feature the longest night ever. I got this wrong. The Earth's rotation is gradually slowing on an extremely long timescale, but on a shorter year-to-year basis, geologic factors can alter the speed as well. Data indicates that the rotation speed has actually sped up slightly over the past forty years, likely due to melting of ice at the poles and the resulting redistribution of the Earth's mass. So, as far as we know, the longest night in Earth's history likely occurred in 1912. I apologize for the error. Thanks to Steve Allen and Ryan Hardy for pointing it out. 4. Headline: Can the government claim copyright in a coin design? Correction: This article was totally wrong. While works of the federal government cannot be copyrighted, the federal government can acquire copyrights from private citizens. The obverse of the Sacagawea dollar was designed by Glenna Goodacre, who may have assigned her copyright to the US Mint. We regret the error. The original post appears below. That said, however, this isn't to say that Vox should never be referenced by anyone serious in any case whatsoever.  I've cited them in my Quora answers before, and I'm sure I'll do it again.  But they're not authoritative:  they're another source for information, and as with any other article you'd find on the Web, you'd do well to double-check their arguments and data.  And that's their strategic problem:  Vox aims to be more than just another source on the Internet!  I understand that they're widely read, and Klein and his team should be congratulated for their successes, but they simply can't understand everything.  Their concept assumes that they know - or can discover quickly - "everything" you might need to know about a given topic, and as Deadspin and others have noted, they fail at that mission relatively frequently.  (Given a start date in April 2014, 46 major errors is more than one a week during calendar year 2014). Deadspin's Kevin Draper is clearly of the opinion that Vox is making more (and bigger) journalistic errors than other publications, though I couldn't tell you for certain one way or another.  And they're certainly entitled to some growing pains, but if Draper is assembling a similar list of 2015 mistakes ten months from now, the Vox team will have some serious soul-searching to do. 