What are the strangest airplane accidents/incidents?
1. The spaceplane that was downed because the copilot flipped a switch at the wrong time: VSS Enterprise crash 2. The Messerschmidt BF-109 fighter that was downed by a Fairey Swordfish pilot early in WWII--despite the Fairey pilot never firing a bullet into the BF-109 I read about this in a memoir by a Swordfish pilot: To War in a Stringbag: Charles Lamb. Hard to believe, since the German fighter was 255mph faster, and at the time was a state of the art machine, albeit with a few kinks. Nonetheless, Lamb relates the story of a dogfight in which the Messerschmidt easily got on his tail but just blew holes in the Fairey's canvas wing and fuselage covering--very little of the Fairey is actually vulnerable to enemy fire. Lamb immediately hung a prop stall--aiming the Fairey straight up, which its low power ensured an immediate stall, fluttering downward while the faster Messerschmidt shot overhead. Its stall speed in combat configuration was just 31mph over the Fairey's top speed, remember. The Fairey's big wings made it easy to recover from a stall, while the Messerschmidt's small, high speed wings were the reverse--so it was very dicey at the Fairey's operating speeds. In this dogfight the Messerschmidt pilot turned as quickly as he could and came back in for the kill--a low closer to the deck at this point, however. Meanwhile Lamb hung another prop stall as soon as the enemy got within shooting range, with a similar result--the German pilot couldn't keep his fire aimed at the bigger but fluttering, falling torpedo bomber. Again Lamb easily recovered from the stall--right on the deck. Meanwhile the doubtless enraged and frustrated Messerschmidt pilot flew into the ground as he tried to keep his nose cannon aimed at the Fairey. Lamb had psyched him out, getting the German pilot into a state of target fixation coupled with testosterone poisoning. Too bad the Royal Navy refused to credit Lamb with the kill. I'd have given credit for  it to him. 