How can I join India's intelligence agency RAW?
You cannot volunteer to be a spy in the R&AW . Basically , The R&AW `contacts people to be spies .You can be a spy if you are in the right place at the right time  But to be an officer in RAW , or a SpyMaster :You have to clear the UPSC examination and get into the IFS or IPS cadres ,preferably , At the end of basic training at Lal Bahadur Shastri National Academy of Administration , The RAW conducts tests of psychological , Physical and mental nature . On the basis of this test , they hire you on a one year period for training at the RAW academy in Delhi near JNU campus .. At the end of this training you have an option of rejoining your parent cadre , and many people do leave RAW . The rest are inducted into The RAS cadre . The training is rigorous . It trains your mind and body to react to situations in very different ways which includes training in marshal arts like Krav Maga and training in India's foreign policy as well as crime investigation . In Addition you are given military training at IMA . It snatches away the last bit of ego and pride left inside you Except this , RAW hires people from IPS , IFS and IRS cadres later in their career on the basis of their performance as a beaureaucrat . For that you need to have a excellent  record and you should have shown values of honesty and accountability .  As a RAW agent , You maybe very powerful . But the only way you can use your power is for the benifit of your Country. Once you join RAW forget all the Glamour associated with a grade A UPSC job . You will hardly recieve any media attention . You will Serve the country more than anyone else , but what you will get in return is absolutely nothing , except the Grade A renumeration package .The RAW officer who basically go after power end up getting fired or betray their country by defecting to foreign organizations .  The life in RAW is very difficult and you will have to sacrifice a lot of things including a normal family life . So think before you just take decisions on the basis of emotions and Public opinion about R&AW or the imaging of RAW done by Movies .  Thanks . and best of luck . 