How can I join India's intelligence agency RAW?
The are four steps to becoming a spy for RAW Get Realistic Meet the Basic and Advanced Criteria Apply Go through vetting R&AW's Motto: The law protects when it is protected. The most important qualification to become a spy The first thing is you must realise if you are going to become a  spy is that the things you see spies doing in films and on television or  read about in novels are not even slightly realistic. You will not kill  people. You will not drive fast cars. You will not seduce attractive  foreigners. You will not defuse bombs with only seconds to spare. For  many intelligence roles you probably won't even get a gun. Most people realise that James Bond and Jason Bourne are not realistic, but even supposedly realistic spies, like the ones John Le Carré writes about, are not much like real spying. Here’s what Somerset Maugham, who was a spy for MI6, said about being a real spy in his novel Ashenden: The work of the agent in the Intelligence Department is on the whole extremely monotonous. A lot of it is uncommonly useless. One movie that was quite realistic (although about MI5 not R&AW) was  Complicit. It might be worth watching that. So, let’s summarise the most important lesson about becoming a spy:  there will be no guns, no fighting, no fast cars and no sexy foreign  agents. Instead there will be lots of normal, boring hard work, like any  job. Are you sure you want to do this?  Basic Criteria Still here? Right, let’s talk about how to become an intelligence officer for R&AW.   Remember   Intelligence agencies have lots of other roles besides intelligence  officer. Translators, analysts, and IT work are less glamorous, but just  as vital. Basic requirements to become a spy   Don’t get in trouble with the law.   Any criminal record is likely to end your application.   Don’t do drugs.   Drug tests are often given to applicants. Drug addiction is not tolerated.   Go to university.   Most intelligence  organisations including R&AW expect their officers to have a good education.   Be ready to travel.   Most spies have to travel to foreign countries. There are roles without travel but you will limit your chances.   Be a citizen.   You must be a citizen of your country and so must the rest of your close family. So those are the basic criteria. But getting a job in intelligence is  very competitive. So you need to do more to stand out. Here’s a few suggestions:  Advanced Criteria Learn a foreign language      Preferably the language of your country’s enemies. Even better, learn a  relatively obscure language – you will have less competition. Do some sport.   Being fit won't do any harm, and it looks good on your CV. Don’t tell your friends you’re applying.   Spying is about being discreet. If you can't keep your friends unaware, then you aren't going to make it. Show you can work long hours.   Get a job that demonstrates your discipline and commitment. Being a spy is not a 9-5  job. Often a case really is a matter of life and death and you won't be  able to go home until it is resolved. Show leadership.  Military service might be an advantage here or some other leadership position. Don't hide anything.   If you dabbled with drugs once or have a minor conviction they will find out, and if you try to hide it they will think you’re unreliable and untrustworthy. Keep out of debt.   Some debt is OK, but don't show any sign of financial irresponsibility, you could be vulnerable to pressure or bribery. Apply The Research and Analysis Wing doesn't have a website, so it’s harder to apply to become a spy for them. However, jobs advertised as  Deputy Field Officer, Cabinet Secretariat, Government of India are thought to be recruiting for R&AW. Otherwise entrance through the   National Academy of Administration may be possible. Vetting The application process for an intelligence officer position is much  like that for any job, with rounds of interviews and tests. There is  though one big difference: extensive checks into your character,  reliability and judgement. Some intelligence organisations call this a  background check, others call it positive vetting, national security  vetting or developed vetting. What is vetting? Vetting builds a complete a picture of you to make sure you won’t be a  security risk. This to make sure that nothing in your life will make  you vulnerable to bribery or blackmail. You will have to show and give  evidence of your: Family background Drug use and any other addictions (e.g. gambling) Mental health Finances Political views Travel to foreign countries All the information you offer will be double checked and you’ll need to show proof. For example, all the following documents: Identity Documents Marriage/partnership documents References for employment, education and character Bills Bank, savings, loans and other credit details accounts Referees Referees are people who have known you well for a major part of your  life. Bear in mind that the intelligence agency will interview all of  your referees, and the interviews are in-depth and interrogative. Make  sure your referees know you well enough to answer the questions. For details of how to join all the major English-speaking Intelligence Agencies and links to their websites see How to become a Spy on my website. To increase your understanding of the world of espionage follow my Quora blog Black Helicopters. Updated 72w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Prasanth Babu