Is corruption as prevalent in America, if not more so than in the so called "third world countries"?
Corruption in the United States is essentially corruption based on insider/outside networks of power and favor.  It's not the sort of marketplace corruption that exists among strangers in the third world. In the third world, corruption is an issue of the corrupt end of "baksheesh" -- tipping or bribery.  Officials are not paid crap, and supplement their income through often sliding-scale extortion of whoever uses the services in their sphere of influence.  This is jarring, but in a way, it is no more jarring than for some tourists who come to the US and are not used to the idea of paying a tip to a waiter or waitress in a restaurant -- by no means a universal custom, and if we do that why not the person who serves us in a deli or pumps our gas -- or takes our luggage at the ticket counter rather than at the taxi curb? We have many odd customs that we don't call corruption, we call custom. But we've come to call them corruption in the third world because in the third world, it's common to pay the bureaucracy a pittance just as in the US it's allowable to pay a waiter less than minimum wage because, of course, they will be making money off tips. So, I would say, that's a cultural problem that those countries need to address, but we might not call it corruption -- we might call it a wage and labor issue, in many ways. Here, I believe it is corruption. Behind closed doors, and reserving the information from the press and public, lawmakers are lobbied to favor one company or industry over another in various laws, and in exchange -- perhaps not openly tit-for-tat, those same companies make large donations to those same lawmaker's campaign chests.  Curious how that works out, isn't it? Even if it were not intentional corruption, it is seeming corruption, and the campaign laws here encourage it systemically.  Rootstrikers is a good source of information and so is sunlight.org, the Sunlight Foundation.  Both work toward both public education and reform on these issues. On a more general level you will find that groups in power do business with their peers and lock out persons not in their trusted networks.  I think this happens everywhere.  Women and minorities do not advance in business across the world due to this tendency for business people to associate with trusted peers who are "people like them" -- of the majority and male, who are the people in traditional power in their peer group.  (Note I say of the majority, which in China would be Han, for example, and in the US would be white, and in India some sort of Brahmin old money stock perhaps). This also leads to a sort of corruption of cronyism, and it happens all over the world.  The plots of Bollywood movies are not so different than Hollywood here, whether they are dealing with business or gangsters, international trafficking or international finance or corruption in the highest tiers of government. They are dealing with human nature. It is only in the marketplace and the houses of the legislatures that corruption differs. And there it also differs because of the attitudes of the citizenry as to their power to do anything about it.  Acceptance of the institution and the relationship to it varies widely here in the US year to year, and sometimes incident to incident. Right now we are outraged in social media regarding abuses of our privacy, for example, by the NSA, yet hardly anyone is organizing actions regarding it (I am working on this myself), because social media seems to have graduated to the status of "opiate of the masses" regarding political action. Since this is a communication between US citizens and foreign nationals, for example, it's being logged by the US military, legally.  I apologize.  I am working to fix this, and every US citizen should be also. 