People who've taken Scala into production: what has your experience been like?
I could talk about it for hours but the question is very open ended so I will rather keep it concise. From operations point of view, if you already have JVM experience, Scala will not change anything. It's no different than running Java in the production. Depending on the environment this can be a pain or a breeze. In our case we don't rely on application servers, servlet containers or humongous frameworks. This is not about Scala, things that enable us to run lightweight, high performance applications are Java libraries anyway (e.g.: Netty, Jackson, asynchbase, etc.) but the game changer for us was Finagle from Twitter (product) along with their `util` project which brings a lot of very useful libraries for building reliable, accountable, high performance applications with shockingly few lines of boiler plate code. (A special "thank you" goes to Marius Eriksen and Steve Jenson and every other Twitter employee who has code in util and finagle) From development point of view, it's the best thing happened within last 5 years at least in my experience. Regardless of their size, developing applications or even tiny gadgets in Scala is fun and doesn't cause you to lose your self-respect. It's a moving target and the minds around its ecosystem are so bright it is always a fulfilling experience to hack with Scala. Productivity increase is also very significant so it gives you time to polish your code or add more resilience features that you always intended in your past projects but never found some spare time. There's an important feedback loop between delivering quality output and engineering morale. Seeing rock solid creations from yourself and your team boosts productivity significantly. Happy hackers means happy operations. Ability to push things forward as a whole group/company increases your pace and overall product quality. If I write anything from scratch today, there's no doubt I will go with Scala. I can't imagine developing anything mission critical without having static type checking. I can't imagine taking on a large project without both static typing and functional constructs. Updated 208w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Michael O. Church