What will happen to Theranos?
Accepting as true reports that their core technology is less than advertised, and without speculating on how serious that is or the fallout, let's just look at what happens to a multi-billion dollar company facing a major event that calls into question the company's value, possible lawsuits and losses, and the honesty and capability of top management. On the bad side, if a company is corrupt throughout, the first revelation could be just the first of many problems — there could be fraudulent financials, criminal violations, licensing issues. A company could face a complete shutdown or implosion, bankruptcy, years of criminal and civil cases, and ripples that ensnare their shareholders, board members, investors, suppliers, partners, and so on. In turn a major, spectacular company implosion can be a triggering event that causes people to lose confidence in pre-IPO and technology markets, leading to a sector-wide private and possibly public market correction, even a recession. It probably won't trigger any natural disasters or the end of civilization, but it could feel like that in Silicon Valley. At the opposite extreme, with enough money, smart people, and market clout, a company that is just faking it can probably make it. There's definitely a huge market for reduced price home / field blood testing that draws little blood. It seems that the technology must be feasible, even if they don't have it or have overstated it. They are still in a leading position ahead of any competitors to dominate the field. Plenty of companies did this — fintech companies that were really just operating spreadsheets, Microsoft claiming it had an operating system to sell when it didn't have one, travel reservation sites (and many other consumer sites) that are just lead generation agencies masquerading as retailers, more recently Just Mayo claiming major food science breakthroughs when it was making a well-known product. I looked into that doctor appointment service company, ZocDoc, around the time of its Series B and decided it was more or less a joke, nothing there — not technology and no credible service — despite $15 million of funding. Guess what? They took the $15 million and built something formidable with it, so they get the last laugh. Somewhere in between, it could be that people at the company were misleading investors, misleading each other, and perhaps themselves. Nearly every CEO / hustler person I meet sometimes lets hype, promises, and expectations get ahead of a company's actual assets. A powerpoint slide or a "wouldn't it be nice if we could" becomes "we're working on it", a provisional patent application becomes "we have patents", a project at planning stage becomes "we have proven technology". That's just how they think. If they go too far and get caught, particularly if they can't follow through, this casts doubt on their integrity and management all the way to the top might be fired or demoted. The company regroups, retrenches, and soldiers on, perhaps to greater things, perhaps as a more modest enterprise with down rounds and a disappointing acquisition, and perhaps eventually goes out of business. It's a bad sign that Theranos is, reportedly, trying to raise $200 million now. That could mean it doesn't have enough money to weather this, just as investors are getting jittery. If the investors cut them off, they could fail. Knowing this, some investors might just extend a lifeline, possibly a bridge funding on very harsh terms. 