What’s wrong with OpenID?
It boggles my mind that this is apparently a big question for techies and, to me, is a perfect example of the Silicon Valley mindset that doesn't understand how to build products that real people want to use. The short answer is that OpenID is the worst possible "solution" I have ever seen in my entire life to a problem that most people don't really have.  That's what's "wrong" with it. To answer the most immediate question of "isn't having to register and log into many sites a big problem that everyone has?," I will say this: No, it's not.  Regular normal people have a number of solutions to this problem.  Here are some of them: use the same username/password for multiple sites use their browser's ability to remember their password (enabled by default) don't register for the new site don't ever log in to the site log in once, click "remember me" click the back button on their browser and never come back to the site maintain a list of user IDs and passwords in an offline documentThese are all perfectly valid solutions that a regular user finds acceptable.  A nerd will wrinkle up his nose at these solutions and grumble about the "security vulnerabilities" (and they'll be right, technically) but the truth is that these solutions get people into the site and doing what they want and no one really cares about security anyways.  On the security angle, no one is going to adopt a product to solve a problem they don't care about (or in many cases, even understand).  Perhaps you say that as a site operator, you don't want people leaving due to registration/login friction so you have an incentive to promote OpenID.  Well, no - the solution to that is not to implement or support a new and cumbersome different login system (how does anyone ever conclude this?  People find your login system a source of friction, so the solution is to install a weirder one??),  it's to restructure your site so that people don't have to log in to use it. The fact that anyone even expects that OpenID could possibly see any amount of adoption is mind-boggling to me.  Proponents are literally expecting people to sign up for yet another third-party service, in some cases log in by typing in a URL, and at best flip away to another branded service's page to log in and, in many cases, answer an obscurely-worded prompt about allowing third-party credentials, all in order to log in to a site.  This is the height of irony - in order to ease my too-many-registrations woes, you are asking me to register yet again somewhere else??  Or in order to ease my inconvenience of having to type in my username and password, you are having me log in to another site instead??  Not only that, but in the cases where OpenID has been implemented without the third-party proxy login, the technical complexity behind what is going on in terms of credential exchange and delegation is so opaque that even extremely sophisticated users cannot easily understand it (I have literally had some of Silicon Valley's best engineers tell me this).  At best, a re-directed third-party proxy login is used, which is the worst possible branding experience known on the web - discombobulating even for savvy internet users and utterly confusing for regular users.  Even Facebook Connect suffers from this problem - people think "Wait, I want to log into X, not Facebook..." and needs to overcome it by making the brand and purpose of what that "Connect with Facebook" button ubiquitous in order to overcome the confusion.  In return, OpenID offers the following purported benefits: Own your own identity.  Supposedly, OpenID makes it so that you can own your own registration/login information rather than submitting it to the ownership of websites.  It turns out that this is not a problem that any normal user cares about, as evidenced by the years of successful websites on the internet where people have willingly signed up and submitted their personal information to.  No one cares about this. Makes logins easier.  In this, OpenID already fails the "is it better than the second-best alternative" test for people who actually do want easier login experiences.  There is an existing alternative for people who want to optimize their login experience at the expense of security and everything else.  It's called "let your browser remember this password" or "click 'remember me.'"  Anyone who is willing to do that isn't going to find an OpenID login easier; it's harder.Both of these "advantages" then turn out to be non-existent for the vast majority of internet users and even for many sophisticated web users.  They are certainly non-existent for the addressable population that OpenID hopes to acquire as users. OpenID simply stands no chance.  It is like saying to people, "Hey, I notice you have a lot of keys on your keyring.  Wouldn't it be more convenient if you could unify them all so you wouldn't have to carry all those keys?  (sounding pretty okay here so far...)  All right, here, instead of using those keys, you should take this extremely convoluted and foreign-looking mobile phone, into which you have to insert all of your keys, type in a special password, and then oh, well, it works on most locks but not all of them, so you'll only be able to replace some of your keys with it, so now you should carry this new weird mobile phone on your keyring too.  Also, it doesn't work as a phone.  And it has other companies' brand names printed all over it.  And it calls one of those companies whenever you use it."  OpenID is not flawed in some minor product way that requires just a few tweaks, it is so massively flawed (perhaps in its very conception) that anyone in their right mind would immediately know that it could never possibly be successful, the very notion that there's merely "something wrong" with it is a Joseph Goebbels -"Big Lie"-style question wherein the nerds who came up with it have somehow been brainwashed into thinking that it could somehow ever be a viable thing that real people would want to adopt. OpenID is not taking over the world because it's pretty much the exact opposite of a good product. Updated 265w ago • View Upvotes