What makes people lose interest in Quora?
Quota doesn't converge to completion It's a collection of questions (many repetitive, some inane - as the other answerers have stated) and answers (quality varies), all roughly organized by one more topics. When is it "done"? Wikipedia, in contrast, seems to get closer and closer to "complete" every year - old subjects aren't touched (they are "done"), some are improved (they get closer to done), and new subjects are added. So the quality and breadth increases. Old ground isn't retread - instead, new ground is explored. Quora, in contrast, has the same question over and over - or banal or trolling questions. The same ground is tread over and over again. What to do? I think Quora could become more than a "wiki in Q/A format" if it built up knowledge graphs between the questions. Build the highways for knowledge exploration. To contrast, Wikipedia has the subject knowledge, but it doesn't guide you as to what order one should explore a subject (textbooks do that), or even interesting tangents to the subject. Quora could build those connections. If you ask Question 1, what should Question 2 be? What are other topics related to Q1 that you might find of interest? Build these connections. Q1 is the entrance question; after a while, these should stabilize (they are "done") -- the new work should be on the frontier. Consider, for example, the staple question of "what do men like in women?". This is the launchpad - the answer summarizes different ways that question is answered - say in anthropology, behavioral biology, psychology, neurobiology, "street advice," and more. What is the next question one could ask: What do studies in behavioral biology conclude about mate selection in humans? What about other species? How does mate selection vary across societies? How has it varied in these societies over time? Why do people feel compelled to mate? Why do people form social groups? How are members of the groups selected? How are members expelled? What is the neurological basis of love? Why does romantic love fade and what is it replaced by? Why doesn't it fade for some people? What are some ways I can dress better to be more attractive? In the United States? In the U.K.? In Japan? As as you can see, one question leads to many, many others - and I'm sure Quorans can add even more to my short list. Build the knowledge map. The old parts of the map reach "done" status and the work is on the edges. The map guides one from question to question, building knowledge along the way. 