How do retailers dispose/sell their season ending excess inventory ?
Brian Roemmele has great points! To add a little more color… Matthew Carroll sheds some light on this process within his A Startup Model NEEDED in Private Sales / Group Buying post from a brand's perspective. There are a few assumptions and items that I disagree with in this model (happy to share if anyone is interested), but overall he has some key insights and great experience (much more than I do) in the industry. A few additional points: Forecasting is never fully accurate. Because purchases happen more than 6mo. ahead of season, consumer trends, the economy, etc... can change drastically. If retailers are conservative , they can also forego potential sales, thus, there will always be excess inventory. Large retailers typically have plans around how much inventory they need to move during a certain period, their thresholds for discounts during certain periods of time, and their contingency plans when they need to clear the floor to make way for the new season. Small retailers have a tougher time with this because 1) they do not have the resources , tools, and insight for forecasting and managing inventory 2) they do not have the balance sheet to accommodate tough times (which is why you see high turnover with small retailers and a lot of brands getting burned by non-factored retailers). Sales We are all familiar with sales racks or seasonal sales, and this is the first line of defense for a retailer getting towards the end of the season. They may also have special limited time offers or short terms sales to move inventory mid season . Retailers have different policies on when and how often they mark down products as well as which products they mark down. This may be due to the retailer’s policy, the brand’s policy, and/or both. Many hurting retailers in 2009 temporarily compromised their policies due to the catastrophic down turn. Saks Fifth Avenue, which does not typically mark much down in their main stores (they move it to Off Fifth) ended up marking down items 70%.  I heard the CEO speak about this decision where luxury players at the time believed they were destroying the luxury market. It was highly controversial, but they ended up moving ~$700M worth of inventory versus holding onto it and ultimately writing it off. This was a financial decision that could have destroyed the retailer’s brand image. In retrospect, this was a great decision and perhaps had some small tarnishes to the overall brand and consumer expectation, but it was temporary. Now they are back on track with their forecasting as the economy is getting back to a stable level (not necessarily to the same level but at least a bit more predictable).There are some occasions where certain brands have strict markdown policies . If they are large and have a strong relationship with the retailer, they may be able to enforce their policies. However, if they have these strict policies for markdowns , they will typically take back the inventory from the retailer. Essentially, whoever holds the inventory is at risk and thus makes the decisions. The larger the company, typically , the more power the party has. Retailers’ Outlets Examples: Off Fifth Avenue, Nordstrom’s Rack Many retailers have their own outlet stores. In fact, you might not expect this, but many of them make more money off of their outlet stores than their main stores. For example, there are ~57 of Off Fifth stores than there are ~47 Saks Fifth Avenue stores , and in a presentation I saw recently from Steve Sadove, CEO of Saks, their planned expansion will be focused on Off Fifth . Retailer’s outlets are located in different geographies than their main stores, and they even try to merchandise them differently in order to avoid cannibalizing their full price customers. Thus, these have a mix of excess inventory that needs to be marked down or have products that are made specifically for that location. Lastly, as Brian mentions in his answer, the economics around destroying it might be a better alternative. Off Price Retailers Examples: Mashalls, TJ Max, DSW, Loehmann’s For most retailers and brands that do not have the ability to have their own outlets or buy back the inventory, off price, or cut-out shops, are a way to break even or minimize losses on the products. In these situations, brands are the price takers and these off price retailers will take the whole lot or only certain items for their stores depending upon the relationship with the brand and its power. This is the end of the line and typically the main option for brands. However, for smaller brands, this is really tough because it will either annihilate their brand equity, get slaughtered with the terms, or get flat out rejected because there is a lack of brand awareness. Designer Takes Back Inventory Examples: Most often luxury brands Brands that have concerns around their equity, especially, if they are couture or up market HATE discounting. I’ve heard from folk at Juice Couture that the company actually burned some of their excess inventory back in 2009 (not sure if it was total hearsay), but yes this is quite sad for those of us who would have loved to have been at that bonfire!While price point is a key component to establishing the brand image, the ‘mark down’ is even worse for consumer psychology. First, the mark down also signals that no one else bought the product, and consumers want to be trendy, so why we would want to buy stuff that no one else wanted (or at least at the original price point). So, when they discount the products, it gives the aspirational shoppers access to the luxury goods they never could actually buy. Thus, it makes the typical customers somewhat alienated because they are no longer in the elite group that’s able to purchase these higher end items because now the masses have access to their grove.  Alternatively, consumers will  become trained to ‘expect’ a discount and avoid purchasing the product at full price. That’s why you typically see outlets outside of cities in random towns –it does not cannibalize the customer base that buys full price. However, if a brand takes its inventory back, they still need to get rid of it. A few have special offers to their brick & mortar retailers or those that are in random places in the country or ideally internationally. Yet, because it is inventory that they will make a smaller margin on and it adds additional work, this can become a very painful process. Brand Outlet Examples: J. Crew, North Face, Ralph Lauren Larger brands that have a retail presence in addition to selling wholesale to retailers such as Ralph Lauren or North Face often also have outlet stores. These stores give the brand manufacturer control over the look and feel of the store and serve as a location to move the inventory. RL makes their outlets seem like a typical retail store where as the North Face outlet is actually just an extension to their warehouse. Thus, they serve slightly different roles, but they have the space and might as well utilize it. That said, in addition to receiving the excess inventory, RL actually produces products that are completely different just for their outlet stores and make them seem like they are discounted yet were especially made fro their store. Brand/Retailer Stores Examples: Abercrombie & Fitch, The Gap, LL Bean, Zara, H&M Many brands that own the whole supply chain such as Abercrombie & Fitch or The Gap that do not sell wholesale will either have an outlet store as mentioned above, reallocate their inventory, have longer inventory cycles, or have fewer sales due to better forecasting. There are exceptions to each of these points! While much of the aforementioned issues apply to these stores, these guys own the whole supply chain and thus typically want to control how and when its discounted. There are a bunch of different factors as to why certain brand/retailers have less excess inventory than others, which can be based on the supply chain and forecasting as is with Zara or based on consumer expectations as is for Gap. There are varying policies where you expect to find sales all the time at the Gap but rarely at A&F. This comes down to their forecasts and types of products that they are looking to move and how they allocate them. Reallocation: Allocation, meaning how much of which product goes to which location, is not a perfect science, but brands that own the retail channel have visibility into how to allocate. Allocation is otherwise up to retailers and brands do not push it unless there is the potential for over saturation in a certain geographies. Retailers with many locations have the option to move products between stores or sell items to online buyers. This practice is somewhat rare due to shipping costs , lack of economies of scale, and real time visibility into inventory across all stores. A retailer will not send one item from one location to another and matching inventory for online/offline stores is also challenging due to general lack of inventory visibility. Thus, while this is an ‘option’, its rarely leveraged due to transportation costs. Better forecasting : Because they own the whole supply chain , they can test out designs in certain stores to see how they’ll do and have some indication on its success. They have all the data in one place and understand the consumers; thus better predict how things are going to sell (hypothetically). Inventory cycles: If an item is a staple or a fashion item, will depend if they put the product on sale. Staples rarely go on sale because they don’t go ‘out of fashion’ thus has a longer run. The Gap has gotten stuck in the downward price cycle where you expect everything to go on sale at some point, thus, it is self-perpetuating . A&F on the other hand rarely has sales, but often has items that sit in the store for awhile perhaps moving to a sales rack.Jobbers Jobbers are middlemen who flip excess inventory. Retailers are under pressure to move the inventory to make room for the next season, and while they have some relationships with off-price stores, brands typically do not have relationships with off-price stores (since even beginning of season sales is not a brand’s core competency), they need people to do this job for them. Jobbers have relationships with off price stores and sell lots of inventory to their shops. It can often be a black box where an off price store buyer will take the whole lot versus picking and choosing the items within the group . There is an ongoing relationship with the jobbers and off price retailers, so they typically do not want to screw one another over. Thus, the off price retailer will take on product that might not move just to be able to get access to the good stuff when the jobber comes across it. While the wholesale market is pretty opaque and cagey, the off price market is even more so. You won’t find jobbers online because they move inventory pretty quickly, AND they don’t want to piss off the brand. Brands freak out about having discounts online more so than in the store (they are even fussy about which retailers they sell to at all both offline and especially online).   This is due to the ubiquitous nature of the web. Brands want to avoid over saturating the market or at least create the perception of scarcity ,and having discounts online is a scary business. Thus, jobbers are like ‘cleaners’ they dispose of the goods without anyone knowing what happened . However, not all brands and retailers have relationships with these folk and usually can get introduced through a referral, but to avoid getting screwed, this relationship takes time . Online Liquidation Ex: Liquidation.com/Overstock.com You won’t find too many high end brands on these sites (or at least that are happy about it), but if you are a retailer that needs to get rid of inventory this is a great resource. Again, high end brands do not like to show up on overstock, but retailers are happy to sell through this channel to get rid of their stuff. These sites have been around from the dot com boom and have become great resources to move inventory. Flash Sale Sites Ex: Gilt, RueLaLa, Ideeli, PLNDR The most recent innovation in inventory and liquidation is flash sales.The economy tanking in 2008/2009 catalyzed the success of Gilt Groupe , Ventee Privee, and RueLaLa among ~100 other players . Brands , especially, luxury brands who rarely show up online let alone in any discount option, were in dire straights, and these flash sales sites were able to balance maintaining brand equity due to the limited time of the sale (ie maintain a sense of scarcity) and moving inventory. This was a win-win for everyone at the time. Much has changed with better and more conservative forecasting to accommodate the economic times. However, these guys continue to be a great avenue for brands to move their product. International This is the ideal way to move inventory since this removes concerns around  the full price customer base or tarnishing retailers & brands' images. Usually, a discount or different season is different in each country. So, the brand can actually leverage the economic and cultural differences without compromising the brand integrity . That said, international distribution is extremely difficult and requires a lot of know how with trusted relationships . There is a lot of benefit for the hassle for a brand but a retailer just wants to move it as fast as possible with low distribution costs and get a decent price for the goods. [Sorced  Lastly, not to self-promote, but my company, Sorced (www.sorced.com) , will be facilitating liquidation as a use case but not the core focus within our overall business. We are an online showroom for beginning and end of season inventory that enables brand manufacturers and small retailers to easily discover and transact with one another . ] Updated 242w ago • View Upvotes