What makes people lose interest in Quora?
1.) Legal problems or other problems that ABSOLUTELY require professional advice allowed to be answered in terribly dangerous ways Ok so I'm a criminal defense attorney and I've seen (no joke not exaggerating) like two dozen people ask different variations of this question: "I'm 18 years or older and I'm screwing/sexing/being intimately involved in a romantic relationship with a 13/14 year old on the daily is that cool or no?" (Umm... Lewd act with a minor! Statutory rape!) Not good! Because the 18 year old (if the question is accurate and not a troll) has committed and is actively in the process of committing 10 different types of felonies and misdemeanor sex crimes by being with the 13/14 year old and is facing over 10 years in prison and people are responding with things like: "If you really love them love knows no age, why not?" Or "Tough question I'm not sure..." Or "When I was your age things were different but nowadays I guess is ok..." I tried to answer some of the questions, but I'm unable to get to each question and tell all of them they are facing imprisonment on felony and misdemeanor charges. If everyone wants to chime in on how they feel about: A.) someone's life threatening injury or illness that could kill them at any moment or B.) their active involvement in a criminal career and felony level offenses or C.) misguided and unintentional tax crimes I guess it's ok but... What Quora is doing right: providing a forum for young people to ask difficult questions and seek guidance where maybe they are scared to talk to their parents or the adults in their life. Solution: Maybe have some lawyers, doctors, or accountants on staff supervising to make sure legal, medical, or tax questions are answered correctly so no one dies of illness or goes to prison for crimes or tax evasion as a result of unqualified people sadly and unknowingly giving very dangerous and improper advice by trying to answer extremely serious questions that are outside of their field or purview. 2.) Profound number of questions from people with mental illness (kind of like #1) not being answered accurately or being dealt with inappropriately It's clear a lot of users need psychological help because they are suffering from suicidal thoughts, depression, bipolar or manic issues, anxiety, and other social/mental disorders which I suppose is to be expected because we are online and dealing with people who are withdrawn. Sadly we aren't really qualified to answer/diagnose a lot of the issues and people are trying anyway. What Quora is doing right: it's policy requires that people not be rude, mean-spirited or insulting to other users. Great! Good job, you made a safe environment to ask difficult personal questions... Solution: Maybe honestly have Quora send a private message to that user referring that user to a suicide prevention hotline, or a place to get free mental health services from a professional (?). 3.) Repetitive, vague, non-specific, and nonsensical questions Vague repetitive general superficial questions about relationships with an extreme lack of detail written in broken English or poor grammar that make the question impossible to read or understand. What Quora is doing right: Sometimes when Quora recognizes that a question is repetitive they group the answers to that question with another question or when it is unclear they mark it as needing clarification. Solution: Someone needs to be better monitoring or removing questions that make absolutely no sense and are filled with so many grammar, personal pronoun, and spelling errors so as to be nonsensical. Also they need to get better at consolidating all of the already exactly the same asked questions into one single question... 4.) Factual questions more easily Googled Factual questions being asked that require no expertise and are more easily answered by just searching Google... What Quora is doing right: Quora is allowing all types of questions, that is questions that require short factual responses and those that require opinion advice and explanation. Solution: Assign a category to a question as requiring either: 1.) a short and purely factual response (which cannot be made to disappear because it is short), or; 2.) expert knowledge, opinion, or advice. 5.) Stupid and naive or trolling questions People asking and I don't mean to be rude but kind of naive and silly/stupid questions that have really obvious answers like, "my boyfriend tried to shoot me in the head on three different occasions this week, should I still date him yes or no?" What Quora is doing right: It is great that Quora is being openminded and not banning certain questions or users based on how stupid their questions are because that would be rude and unfair and the people need answers. Solution: Assign questions a difficulty level of easy, average, or difficult and allow users the choice as to what level of difficulty they want to read and answer. 6.) People editing the question after you already answered it What Quora is doing right: I really don't know with this one because after someone asks a question and the question has been answered I don't think it makes sense to allow people to edit the question... Solution: After a question is asked and answered don't allow people to edit it because it is confusing as hell... Anyway these 6 are all I have right now may add more as further issues arise... Updated 5w ago • View Upvotes