What are the changes that a student would like to see in the faculty at BITS Pilani?
The anon user before me has written a very excellent answer, and I could not help but simply agree to the stark reality of certain situations he or she has mentioned which are very prevalent in our Bitsian academic setup. I will reiterate or add to some of the points already mentioned. 1. Giving recommendations Seriously, BITSian faculty,stop making such a big deal out of it. It should be your natural inclination to help your students apply successfully to a  university abroad, or an internship or during the placements with the help of your reco. Do not give ridiculous responses like "I do not know you at all because you have not done a SOP or COP under me". If a student has registered and completed any course under you and has performed well in it, it is your professional responsibility to give him or her a recommendation. If he has not done well in your course,you should be checking up on his background in other courses or technical skills and if good enough you should oblige. Learn to acknowledge aspiring talent. I have seen 9 pointers in the CSIS department being refused recommendations by the lecturers sometimes, so I can imagine how unfair and horrid it would have been for the rest. 2. Having a healthy teacher student relationship I would like to have a survey taken of the faculty to see how many of them are aware of even 5% of the students' names that they teach in a class. Agreed it is difficult to keep track of everyone given the student-teacher ratio but most of the times they could not be even bothered in the slightest. If you do not know even the promising students on some personal level,how do you expect to impart your experience and do justice to your role as a educator and personality moulder? 3. Comprehensive examinations Not for all courses perhaps,but for some, the purpose of making the comprehensive paper is to simply correct it fast. Giving highly objective fill in the blank box type questions which hardly test your intellect or grasp of the subject , but are nevertheless very quick and easy to correct and return it the next day. Please,ensure that you have enough time to evaluate these papers with patience,and enough consciousness to make a paper that aptly tests your students' concepts and not who for rewarding those who attended the last week of classes before the compres. 4. Projects, SOPs and COPs If you have a good project formulation for your student's research please go out all ahead and present the necessary details to him and make him actively involved as far as possible.If you do not have an idea, and you are expecting the student to come up with the topic and concept of the project entirely on his own then do not expect him to grace your office multiple times just for the sake of frivolous discussion, and then threaten him with a low grade on the grounds of inadequate communication. Do realize that sometimes students do not turn up simply because you do not have much to offer as an instructor. They are not doing it out of disrespect but because they choose to optimize their time otherwise. This holds true for class attendance as well. All observations made above have been made with the noblest of intentions,as being a Bitsian, I feel that our college as a whole can achieve so much more if we can tap our potential in the right places. And the Faculty can definitely play a big role to bring about this change. 