I want to know everything about high frequency trading and/or algorithmic trading, where do I start?
Definition: Algorithmic trading is a method of placing buy and sell orders using computer programs. This is done at the speed and accuracy that is not achievable by manual traders. Programs include mathematical models and/or statistical parameters to make the trading decisions. High frequency trading is a form of algorithmic trading that uses algorithms (computer programs) to send orders at much higher frequency than conventional trading. The assets that are traded are usually held for short periods of time typically in seconds or even less at times. Nearly 70% of the volume in US equities is generated by high frequency trading as of 2013. Algorithmic trading is instrumental in increasing the liquidity on the exchanges. The main objective of algorithmic trading is to reduce execution costs and market risk by making the execution more efficient. Majority of the volumes on the leading exchanges these days happens via algorithmic trading. Following are some of the leading brokers/vendors/algorithmic trading firms globally: Tethys Technology, Inc. Argo SE, Inc. Lexalytics Inc. Credit Suisse First Boston LLC Goldman Sachs Morgan Stanley Greentree Brokerage Services, Inc. Flash Crash: However the field isn’t without controversy. What is famously known as “flash” crash signified the importance of algorithmic trading. On 6 May 2010 Dow Jones dropped by 600 points in 5 minutes but regained most of the 600 points within next 20 minutes. To summarize the SEC report, this crash happened because of combined selling pressure from the algorithms of HFT firms.  In October 2013 a flash crash occurred on the Singapore Exchange which wiped out $6.9 billion in capitalization temporarily and saw some stocks lose up to 87 percent of their value. Technology: Algorithmic trading is a sophisticated area of quant finance. It needs significant amount of time to gain the necessary knowledge to construct your own trading strategies. You also need extensive programming expertise, at the very least in a language such as MATLAB, R or Python. However as the trading frequency of the strategy increases, the technological aspects become more and much more relevant. Thus being familiar with C/C++ becomes very important.   Algorithmic trading strategies: One can find ample algorithmic trading strategies available used in the industry. Some of them are statistical arbitrage, momentum trading, basket trading and market making. Here is a list of some of the places to look for strategies research/ideas on various trading strategies:   Social Science Research Network - Home :: SSRN arXiv Quantitative Finance - Quantitative Finance Seeking Alpha - Stock Market Insights | Seeking Alpha Elite Trader - elitetrader.com Nuclear Phynance - Nuclear Phynance Quantivity - Quantivity Quantipedia - Quantpedia.com GekkoQuant - Quantitative Trading, Statistical Arbitrage, Machine Learning and Binary Options Back -testing trading strategy:- The goal of back-testing is to provide evidence that the strategy identified via the above process is profitable when applied to both historical and out-of-sample data. This sets the expectation of how the strategy will perform in the "real world". It should be noted that back testing is not a guarantee of success but only an indication or estimate of how it might perform when you deploy it in the real market. Once a strategy has been identified, it is necessary to obtain the historical data through which to carry out testing and perhaps, refinement. There are a significant number of data vendors across all asset classes. The traditional starting point for beginning quant traders (at least at the retail level) is to use the free data set from Yahoo Finance. To back-test the trading strategy, it is necessary to use a software platform. QuantStrat is pretty decent package for back-testing if you are using R. Others like Matlab, , Python and C++ programming can be used as well for effective back-testing. If you are interested in creating your own algorithmic trading strategy, you should be good at programming. It is necessary to do significant ground work. There is a firm named Quantopian that invites trading strategies from individual participants in a competition and provides trading capital to the top performers. Quantopian also provides you platform for writing and back-testing your algorithm. Jobs in algorithmic trading/ HFT:- This domain offers many job opportunities with fat paycheck. Algorithmic trader job at a hedge fund is not the only opportunity you’ve but there are many other roles such as Quantitative Analyst, Quantitative Developer, Risk Analyst, etc depending on your skill set and interest. Age really isn’t a barrier in financial markets so now is the best time to start. Average salary can range from $ 70,000 to $200,000 depending on which geography you’d be joining in as well as on your skills, work experience, etc. This is a booming market and if you are proficient in programming and in quantitative finance you would be the candidate most sought after.   Online learning resources: There are many books written on high frequency trading as well as algorithmic trading and not to forget  the famous one by Dr. Ernest Chan that teaches independent traders how to implement algorithmic trading  and challenge institutional traders . However it begs you decent level of math knowledge and programming skill so you should polish them before taking the next step. You can have a look at the following websites for more resources: Quantitative Trading QuantInsti - Financial Trading Academy for Learning Algorithmic Trading Quantopian Algorithmic Trading, Quantitative Trading, Trading Strategies, Backtesting and Implementation 