What are the changes that a student would like to see in the faculty at BITS Pilani?
Some points for the teachers and the administration: Stop thinking about the Brand, start thinking about the Students. Teach and Inspire, there are better ways to develop a Photographic Memory otherwise. Write this down in your chamber, repeat it 100 times everyday before coming to the college and follow it, "My job is NOT to make the students suffer because they are my enemies, my job is to help them achieve what they are capable of because I'm their friend." Stop telling us we need to work informally with you for at-least 1 semester before you can decide on giving us a formal project. I won't turn into a slave just because I want to learn and you can exploit me into doing your Bitch Work. Stop tricking us with the surprise quizzes and assignments. If I wanted to test my luck, I would rather keep an Apple over my head and let a blind man take a shot at it. Attendance for this course is not mandatory. There is a 20% weight-age of attendance in this course. Stop with the hypocrisy. Be a better teacher and teach something worthwhile, I'll kill to attend your class. But not this way. Let me choose what I wish to pursue. Flexibility in-name doesn't serve the purpose. Don't hand over me a Major just because I could not get 2 more PCM questions correct in my BITSAT. The one who did, got the Major I am interested in and is in ACB since the last 3 semesters. I'm sure you spent bucket loads of our parents money to invite Rahul Gandhi to the Campus or make that Gold Mural, next time try for better Lab Equipment that we might get to use? The equipment in the Lab is to be operated and should act as a medium to facilitate learning. If you don't believe the same, please shift it to the Birla Museum. 100 bucks to watch that equipment won't hurt but 1 Lac rupees per semester does. Real Bad. Stop telling NVC applicants to shift focus from a technical start-up to a "Chai-ki-dukaan" (Some BITS Goa students might know which prof. I'm talking about here). I understand the Professors here are least interested in the Technical aspect of things (Obviously, we are a technical college just in name right?), but allow us to pursue what we wish to. Your teaching and curriculum can only get us a Call center job! Lets open a TBI (Technical and Business Incubation) Center, just because IIT has it. Promote an entrepreneurial culture first. For the last 4 years people have just been selling food here in name of entrepreneurship. What more? You actually took 2 of them into NVC! (Slow Claps!) Don't tell me during an Online Lab Exam, "If the compiler doesn't work, its not our concern." Treat me like a human, I could have gotten the same treatment after killing a few 100 people (Yes, if you are a faculty member reading this you better watch out.) Stop with the Practice School allotments. Remember when the last time a company told you during placements that the students in your college lack technical skills? You can probably blame it on this. Or your crappy teaching and the curriculum. We won't allow you to pursue a thesis outside even if you are getting one because you have a low CGPA. We won't give you one because "hey, why didn't you slave for us for the last 6 months". What we can and will definitely do is allot you PS in a Industrial Plant where you will be made to mop floors and scrub glue off machines with a screw. In the end all I can say is, BITS Pilani - It's magic. No one else could have ever convinced me to shell out 10 Lac Rupees, get a worthless Degree, waste 4 years of my life, be treated like shit and feel grateful about it! PS: This is not a compiled list of blunders of the BITS Pilani Faculty and the Administration (I'm sure, the Quora Database Servers will crash if someone actually set out to do that), these are just some of my experiences over the last 3 years (Yeah I know, FML.). 