Why are some Americans opposed to the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare)?
It's actually a pretty decent law on the benefits side - lots of good ideas about broadening coverage and handling it more equitably. It's a total mess on the revenue side. Probably the best way to fund universal health care is with broad-based taxes and a much larger role for government administration of health insurance. This is how most other OECD countries do it. But the U.S. didn't go that route. Instead Obamacare tries to raise many billions without using the government's explicit taxing authority. Bad choice! The result is a barrage of awkwardly written provisions that try to arm-twist targeted groups of healthy people, unions, big companies, young people, etc. into overpaying for their coverage -- in the name of subsidizing poorer and sicker people. Each of these provisions is an embarrassing blend of poor incentives, dubious penalties for noncompliance -- and pitiful vulnerability to evasive behavior. So we end up with big employers figuring out how to avoid the Obamacare mandate until 2015, other employers shunting workers into (non-covered) part-time status, unions demanding waivers from their surcharges, lots of states opting out of the Medicaid provisions, healthy young people perhaps not buying as much overpriced insurance as the government wants them to, etc., etc. Furthermore, the government's assertion that ObamaCare will save money is a dreamy delusion. Simple logic says that if the new law is all about providing more health coverage for America, that will cost more money. I got a blunt reminder of that this week. In the pre-ObamaCare market, I was able to buy individual insurance for relatively healthy people at pretty good prices. But ObamaCare orders insurers to offer coverage to everyone, and not to provide discounts to healthy people. So my rates are more than doubling. No kidding. Here are details:  .Thanks A Lot, Mr. President! My Health Premium Is Up 114%. I'd actually be OK with paying higher rates if I felt that all of society was pitching in to build better universal coverage. But right now, I'm feeling that any group with strong lobbyists can get itself exempted from the costly or annoying provisions of ObamaCare (i.e. members of Congress, big employers, etc.) Folks like me in the independent contractor/small business sector are being played for suckers. We get to pitch in a lot more money for an awkwardly  revamped system that's  financed in such rickety fashion that it still may fail. 