What is the difference between SAS and R languages?
First, I'm confining this to statistical aspects of SAS, which is where R competes.  SAS does much more than statistics and some people use SAS for decades without ever doing statistics.  I'll also try to discuss aspects of the languages themselves, at least as they are applicable to statistics. 1. R is free, SAS costs a lot of money (but not if you are an academic using it only for research). 2. R is open source, SAS is proprietary.  This is both good and bad for both languages. Because SAS is proprietary and costs money, they maintain standards and have excellent tech support.  Because R is open source and free, they do not.  It is true that 1) You  can see the code in R and 2) R has some tech support through Stack Overflow or R help or Quora etc. However:    1) For modern statistical methods, most users will be unable to understand, much less debug, the R code, and even for those who can, it would be a ton of work.      2) If you ask a question on Stack Overflow you may get told to go do your homework.  If you ask on R-Help you may get told that much more rudely.  If you call SAS Tech support, you will not get treated that way (in fact, their tech support is the best I've ever dealt with).   Also, you can ask questions of the SAS user community on SAS-L, Stack Overflow or SAS communities. 3. R has the newest statistics methods much more quickly than SAS.  That's also good and bad.  If the R package you need to do the latest and greatest statistics is well written and well debugged, then it's great. If the user manual is written comprehensibly, even better. But one reason SAS is slower is that they spend a lot of time checking code, writing error messages and writing documentation. 4.  The languages are utterly different.  R is object oriented. SAS is not.  It's not like English vs. Spanish.  It's like English vs. Mandarin. 5. R is better for "build your own" graphics; SAS used to be terrible at all graphics, but they are improving rapidly, especially for default graphs. 6. It's easier to output SAS output to Word.  You can save it as an RTF file and then open that in Word.  However R is probably easier to output to LaTeX.  (There are ways to do SAS to LaTeX and R to Word, but they aren't as easy). 7. The default output of text and tables in SAS is, to me anyway, much nicer than for R. 8.  SAS's error messages are usually more understandable than R's. 