How do retailers dispose/sell their season ending excess inventory ?
The fashion business is heartless to major retailers.  There is little sympathy from customers when the retailer misses the mark on fashion trends.  Or worse yet, the retailer does not estimate demand accurately and has far too much excess inventory. Fortunately large retailers have a number of options based on the type of retailer they are and the value of the excess inventory.  Here are the most popular options for inventory liquidation at large retailers: Retail's Outlet Store- Nordstroms Rack, "Basement Stores", etc.  This includes "Faux Outlet" products that were designed to be sold in outlet stores. Online Premium Sites: Gilt Groupe, Rue La La, Retail Me Not, Etc. Off-Price Retailers- T.J. Maxx, Ross Stores, Big Lots, Stein Mart, Burlington Coat Factory, etc. Off Shore Retailers- Primarily in South America and Asia Liquidators and Surplus Stores- There are 100s of companies, many supply 99¢ stores and swap meet/eBay merchants. Scrap/Recycle- Based on the fiber content some garments have higher value in the scrap recycle market. Outlet Stores Generally, a Retailer's own Outlet store will yield the best profit. Outlet centers and Outlet stores have had quite a bit of ups and downs.  There seems to be stability and more rapid sales growth at most upscale Outlet Centers. Off-Price Retailers There are many factors that will dictate how a retailer would liquidate inventory based on how well know the label is (eg: Designer brands) and if they have signed an agreement not to "down sell" the brand in to the Off-Price market with out removing the designer labels. Many very high profile brands do not want their product to easily show up in the wrong retail outlets. There is really little they can do other then try to hold the retailer responsible for the leaks to the non approved retail channels. A growing business: T.J. Maxx vs. Nordstrom Off-Price retailers have just about mastered the ability to buy the right products at the right price to allow for significant profits.  Over the last 10 years Off-Price retailers have seen great growth in market share and year over year profit growth. Based on the value of the goods, retailers generally sell at 30%-80% discounts to the Off-Price and liquidation markets. If positioned correctly the Off-Price retailer could yield a higher profit then the original retailer would have hope to have made. Tighter Inventories As the economy worsened, Retailers tightened inventory to the lowest levels in the history of tracking this data. This has had some impact on the market as a whole but clearly there is still a very lucrative and active Off-Price market as the growth at these outlets continue to climb consistently. The Future There will always be a rather large market for yesterday's popular fashions and thus there will always be an active discount channel to sell the merchandise effectively and profitably. 