Is a pure phonetic orthography desirable, at least for English?
The idea of spelling reform is certainly not new. Ben Franklin wanted to update English spelling in the newly formed United States of America and Noah Webster carried on with Franklin’s efforts with limited success when he put together USA’s first dictionary. It’s why Americans have color and the British have colour, after all. Later, Andrew Carnegie gave some of his fortune towards spelling reform, Alexander Graham Bell’s wife was a big proponent and even today organizations like the American Literacy Council and Australia’s recent, but failed, SR1 initiative and private organizations like SaypYu, the Universal Alphabet project, continue to work towards reforming the spelling of English. But through all that, we still have laugh and dough and through andnight, not to mention even simpler juxtapositions like size anddevise. An excerpt of Franklin's phonetic alphabet Why Reform Spelling? The reasons for spelling reform are obvious, particularly if you have a second grader struggling with her weekly word list. More seriously, rates of dyslexia among learners of English and French, languages with opaque, or challenging spelling systems, are significantly higher than those of learners of Spanish and German, with relatively transparent spelling systems. Even at the age of 12, English-speaking dyslexics will misspell uncommon words like sword over half the time, compared to German-speaking dyslexics who only make errors on one out of ten uncommon words, according to one study. Further still, those German with dyslexia will still read faster than their American compatriots. International spelling reform, which has the additional goal of establishing consistency across different languages’ alphabets, would also help foreigners to learn English and English speakers learn other languages. If English and Spanish used i for the same sound (in English, ih as in lick or ay as in like; always ee in Spanish as in street), then it would be far easier for an Englishman to read Spanish and for a Spaniard to read English. Challenges So what’s the hold up? Well, there are several challenging obstacles to spelling reform. The question we face today is how new technologies, including omnipresent computing and augmented reality in the guise of your smart phone or Google glass, can address some of these challenges and what ones remain. The first big hurdle is that language changes. The spelling we find so confusing now was actually pretty close to how things were pronounced when English spelling was codified hundreds of years ago. What are we going to do in another hundred years, when all our new spelling is again obsolete? And what are we going to do with all the books written in previous iterations of English? This is one place where technology can help, as discussed in Anne W Zahra's answer. Translation from one language to another is now as easy as clicking a button. Translating from one script to another would be even easier. With augmented reality apps – right now you can already hold your phone up to a street full of restaurants and find out which has the best reviews – translation can happen right before your eyes. Another objection is that phonetic spelling will lead to loss of information. Spell knight as nayt, and it will lose its connection to German knecht or even that it’s a Germanic word in the first place. At an even more basic level, eelektrik, eelektrisity and eelektrishanobscures the fact that these are all the same word. This would most certainly be one of the costs weighed against the benefits discussed above. Also worth noting is the fact the some word relationships would be restored, e.g., high and height could become something like hay and hayt.  Again, technology can help here, too, as language learners could uncover all these relationships through ubiquitous computers. Perhaps the biggest challenge, though, would be in figuring out just whose pronunciation to use. R-less dialects of English say far like it’s the fourth note of do-re-mi, and someone in the American South might say fire with one syllable and pit with two. Across dialects and countries there is incredible diversity to the way English is pronounced. Heck, my wife has pointed out that I myself pronounce the word orangetwo different ways, sometimes with a rounded initial vowel, sometimes unrounded. A solution here would necessarily involve one part cultural hegemony and one part experimentation and computation. In each country there is a prestige or standard dialect – American Standard English, Received Pronunciation or Metropolitan French,for example – that would be adopted. It’s rare for a person speaking a non-standard dialect to not know the prestige dialect of his or her own country. Furthermore, for languages spanning different countries, e.g., English, a combination of maximal information content, psycholinguistic experimentation and other quantifiable measures can be used to decide on the optimal spelling. The implementation details may become quite complex, but again, we can rely on the fact that Americans and the British can understand each other reasonably well to suggest that the problem is not insurmountable. Indeed, Wikipedia, among others, has had to make similar choices in deciding which pronunciation of a word to list first or mark as primary. Cross-Linguistic Challenges On a related note, attempts to codify a spelling system across languages would run into trouble with the cross-linguistic differences in how things are pronounced. For example, English b is pronounced more like French p. Which letter should be used for which sound? Vowel systems are even more of a mess – English long o and Spanish o are pronounced differently and the English a as in bat isn’t present in a lot of other languages and the French a isn’t present in English. These cross-linguistic differences currently exist, however, for anyone learning a new language, so this would not be a new problem. Hegemony might again have to apply wherein the pronunciation-orthography mapping of one language would have to trump others. Indeed, the push for International spelling reform is driven by an English-centric approach. Then there is the case of languages with far more sounds than a simplified orthography could handle. Mandarin, for example, has four alveolar fricatives - sounds made by forcing air through a small gap between the tongue and the front of the mouth, e.g., s, sh. That's why we see confusing spelling variants like Hsu, Xu, Zhu, Shyu and Shu. Any simplified orthography would result in a loss of information. In some cases drastic as with tonal languages or languages with vastly larger consonant inventories (e.g., Hindi). Here, progress, not perfection, may be a useful motto for reformers. Porchugez and Fraansey may be woefully mispronounced but that is surely better than a visitors attempt at pronouncingPortuguês and Français. Costs Finally, there is the practical challenge involved in an undertaking of this magnitude. People are hesitant and resistant to change and it's questionable whether they can be convinced otherwise. There is also the matter of cost -- Uzbekistan has spent $300 million so far on switching from Cyrillic to Roman letters for a population one tenth the size of the US. A Compromise?That was a complete overhaul, however. A reasonable compromise may be to introduce a second orthographic system, sort of like an Esperanto of the pen. It would facilitate cross-linguistic communication - hold up your smart phone to a French sign and it will tell you how to pronounce it in addition to what it means - and may help dyslexics so they can have a handy translation of how a word should be pronounced. All linguists know the International Phonetic Alphabet and I certainly wouldn't object to more people learning even a simplified version of it. There is precedent for people knowing two overlapping alphabets – again the example of Uzbekistan, where the population is fluent in both Cyrillic and Roman, is instructive. Perhaps the simplest analogy is the pronunciation guides used in some dictionaries and in language learning textbooks. The spelling for demure is described alternatively as dih-MYOOR, di-myu̇r or de-MYUUR  in different versions of Merriam Webster’s and English learning guides, for example; parsing these pronunciation descriptions can be excruciating even with a pronunciation key. A simplified version of the IPA standardized across all languages may provide a solution to this letter jumble. Ultimately, the problem may be solved for us. 