Why has there been an explosion of different data storage technologies in recent years?
It really all stemmed from the Internet explosion from 1995-present. SQL based technologies, originally designed in the 1970's, were generally locally deployed and more than sufficient for even large scale applications because audience/customer sizes were well known and growth rates completely predictable. When you have lots of time, you can devise many strategies to get around scalability concerns, if there were any. The idea of viral growth is new, as more people got on the Internet at home, more business adopted use of the Internet as standard, more websites were created, more Internet based applications were created, SaaS, and the explosion of online gaming, application requirements for scale and concurrency exploded with it. When you throw in 3G/4G/LTE mobile smartphones (which now outnumber "dumb" phones at least in the US), iPads, Nexus, etc. now applications are being accessed from multiple devices by each person. Throw in one more factor, the relative inexpensiveness of modern data storage. 20 years ago, a 200MB hard drive was around $500, now for $500 you get a 512GB SSD or 4TB spinning. This graph is illustrative: matt komorowski  So why is this important? Being conservative about how much space you use on disk changes your storage strategy considerably. If storage is cheap, you want to optimize for what is harder to come by in large quantities: bandwidth, cpu, and RAM. This has opened up new possibilities as far as distribution of data. It used to be an annual report was enough, then a monthly, then bi-weekly, weekly, daily, but now people expect real-time analysis of data. This adds an additional set of requirements on top of the application itself, is near real-time reactions to how applications are being used while they are being used. So, why the explosion of new data storage? Velocity, Volume, and Cost. In order to handle concurrency requirements, the ability to store and retrieve data quicker and quicker is vital. The second is the sheer amount of data and being able to warehouse the data. Combined Velocity and Volume is where most older data systems fail as they were never architected for that type of scenario. While numerous improvements have been made, it's the relational model that makes it difficult and dramatically increases cost as you scale as it isn't linear cost to maintain performance. The data storage explosion generally falls into categories addressing the new needs of modern applications:  more scalable, more easy to partition across cluster, new paradigms for thinking/modeling data, lower latencies, higher utilization of RAM and caching, handling of petabyte quantities of data, consistency, analysis/BI, etc. 