Big Data: What kind of data science could you do with the usage information of a ski resort?
A bit late to the question, but there hasn't been too much in the way of specific answers so here goes. I agree with the answer by Xavier that this may not be the right way to approach the application of data science. Nonetheless, these are the types of questions that are asked. Often. And this is understandable - to the vast majority of workers, big data is a buzzword, data science is opaque and spreadsheets are the tool of choice for analysis. So if anyone reads this, I encourage you to educate the consumers of your output as you go about your work. To the question. I suspect the question is not about doing data science for the sake of it, but taking the angle of 'how can I get value / save money / make money from ski resort data'. Without eyeballing the actual data sets and giving too much away from our team repertoire: 1)  Measure uplift from promotions. Aggregate seasonal visits up to the data prior to promotion. Project forward using time series forecasting. Measure revenue before and after. See if uplift in volume compensates lower margins. Tweak if not. Repeat if so. Imperfect. But usually much better than what marketing can usually do. 2) Optimise staff to special needs customers. Facet data by age category. Plot visit times and geo locations if possible. Overlay staff scheduling and deployment. Amend schedule as necessary. 3) Market basket analysis by attraction. Filter profitable customers by margin. Throw remainder into market basket algorithms. Filter by support and lift. Use resulting pairs as input into promotional strategy. 4) Elasticity analysis. Price and volume, instrumental variables to control for endogenous variables. Possibly logistic regression. This has two components, prices for individual attraction (price elasticity), and prices for competing attractions (cross elasticity). Raise/lower prices based on results. Note this is academically sound but in practice the model may still fail for a wide variety of reasons so use with a pinch of salt. 5) Customer satisfaction. Start with customer demographic data. Join with activity data if possible. Apply various approaches depending on the nature of data. Could be simple correlations, or machine learning approaches (clustering, labelled prediction) to identify unhappy demographic. Note interpretability is key. This isn't Kaggle. Fix. Pass to promotions and operations for action. I can think of many more. But the point is data science and analytics done right is a killer basis of competition. And data science is a team sport - all of these can be initiated by non-data science or analytics employees in collaboration with analytics. 10 PhDs in machine learning, computer science and statistics (I have actually encountered this) is neither necessary nor sufficient for building a successful data science team. And all these are useless unless the output is suitably consumed by real decision makers. All the best! 