What are the "lost arts" in your field?
In book publishing, there is the lost art of paste-up. We used to output type on special paper, back it with wax, and stick it onto layout paper within book page margins specially printed in non-photo blue, to help speed up alignment. Then all that would get sent to the printer to be shot with a camera. Today camera copy is scanned if it's not already in digital form. Instead of standing at an art table laying out a book, we're sitting in a chair staring at a computer screen.   Also, as a graphic designer, if you wanted to use more than one color in your production, you had to know how to designate color breaks and sometimes had to cut rubylith to mask areas out on an overlay on a "mechanical," which showed the printer how the image should be "built." In rare circumstances do we need to break out the X-ACTO knife to get from type to press anymore.   The next lost art in this process is using opaque fluid to paint out the scratches and skips on the film output from the camera.   And, finally, there is the lost art of stripping the film into flats, or specially gridded paper that helps the stripper arrange the film according to how the pages will print on a large sheet of paper. Now the files we give to the printer are sent to a software program that processes the type and images, and arranges the pages according to imposition and sends that file to a machine that transfers the information to a plate that goes on the press.   In art, the main thing I've noticed is that I don't have to have as much technical know-how to use tools like cameras, or materials. Other people can stretch high-quality canvasses for me at a less expensive rate than I can do for myself, for example, because there are many of them (the population has doubled since I was born) offering such a service, and they do it all day long -- I don't.   Before digital photography I struggled with remembering what f-stops and aperture related to and had to think about what I wanted to do before I could get a shot that I was only using to take notes for some other work. Now with my iPhone camera I can take amazing shots or extract a perfect photo from a video stream. 