What makes people lose interest in Quora?
I haven't lost interest in Quora, but I've had to deprioritize it. A couple months ago my work and housing situations were secure, and then neither of them were. I struggled trying to keep up on food, shelter, and medication, only to still see questions from people asking if I asked all these questions about myself, as if I'd have the fucking time, much less energy. Things are improving now, thanks in good part to many kind and generous Quorans having been there when I needed people to be there for me. Nevertheless, coming back and seeing people ask questions - some specifically directed at me - that I'd already answered, often more than once, was kind of a downer. I have, to some extent, restricted my reading and writing on Quora due to doubts about Quora's data retention, and how stored information might be used and monetized should Quora face bankruptcy. Obviously I hope that never happens, but there's precedent - Radio Shack's most valuable corporate asset turned out to be its customer data. More on this further down. I write on Quora because my ability to re-answer the same questions for strangers is finite, and I want to create an enduring resource for people interested in the things I happen to be good at or informed on. I try to be civil to people, no matter how much they strain my patience, but occasionally it's hard not to stop and straight-up ask the guy telling me how much he loves my work and wants to learn everything from me if he's made the basic effort of starting by reading what I already wrote for fucksakes.  Fortunately, these moments are rare (the desire to bite someone's head off, not the repetitive questions), and often another helpful Quoran will gently guide the querent to whatever I've already written that addresses exactly what they were asking. I'm very thankful to the people who take the time to do that. And I do hear from many people who've actually read and benefited from what I've contributed. The difficulty lies in keeping a balance between the two. I suspect that when people walk away from Quora, it's because they haven't been able to find that balance - between being happy at the simple gratitude of someone who learned something they wanted to know, and frustrated at the four other people upset that their nearly-identical questions got passed over because the first one got written. For me, the trick is (as I recently alluded to in another post) sticking to writing things that I enjoy writing, and just hoping that some people find them useful. When you find yourself writing to crowd-please, you're a short road from becoming regarded as an infinitely exploitable resource - as far as the crowd is concerned. My readers don't own me or my time. I don't owe them anything, and what I do give I give freely and because I like to help people. Angry messages in my inbox about what a loser I am for not answering someone's super-important question will never change that, but I understand that other people may be less willing to deal with being taken for granted. Who could blame them? Quora's own failure to communicate with its users and consult them about planned changes plays a role as well. While it's true that there will always be more biomass to replace the people driven away by being treated like conveniently dancing bears - attractive to the crowd, but rarely consulted on significant issues - there are only so many unique personalities out there that can draw a long-term following rather than a momentary interest in a particular question. Quora needs to do better by its Top Writers, and it needs to do better by its community at large. One symptom/example of this is inattention to user privacy. It's my understanding that it's possible to review user actions - including their reading habits - in great detail, and that these records are kept indefinitely. Users who create alternate accounts to firewall segments of their life they want to keep private can find themselves banned for "sockpuppeting" thanks to Quora's numerous opaquely hinted at ways of tracking users, including browser ID and flash session info (so don't think a mere proxy will help). Not only is this intrusive, but it's also fallible - if I wanted to implicate another user in some sort of wrongdoing, it'd be semi-trivial to do so. For that matter, how long are those drafts of answers you decided were too revealing kept? What'll become of those? I wouldn't care about any of this if I didn't care about Quora. I want to see it succeed, and I want to see its community prosper. To the extent that this means irritating Quora in the now for the sake of a better tomorrow, I'm fine with that. If I don't see responsiveness to these issues through channels, I'm happy to send polite postcards to investors and the board. But I'm rather uniquely situated to do so - someone else facing similar factors might just as easily walk away. I've vexed sitting U.S. attorneys general; I have a pretty high bar for dissuasion. Edit: See Adrián Lamo's answer to Quora: Do people realise it when they write an answer that will get a great number of upvotes? for commentary on popularity vs. quality when it comes to answers. 