What does it feel like to be an employee of a company that goes public?
It's extremely distracting. Following the decision to formally file your S-1 (roughly, your intention to IPO), your company enters a quiet period.  During this period, the press becomes intensely interested in your company and there is a lot of external speculation about how your company is doing.  Some of it will be negative and/or inaccurate.  The problem is, because the company is in its quiet period, no one in the company can basically say anything to the press, so inaccurate stories will largely go unanswered.  This might be okay to the executives, who have a firm grasp of the true fundamentals of the company, but it can be extremely distressing to rank-and-file employees to hear negative news stories about the company that don't get refuted. Next come the lawsuits.  Once a company files to go public, this signals to the world that it is a profitable business with healthy revenues (usually; if not, the S-1 contains exactly what the cash flow of the business looks like).  This means that all manner of frivolous lawsuits will come out of the woodwork (e.g. patent trolls).  The business press also eats this up, and tends to spin these stories out of proportion, lending unnecessary credence to the claims made by the litigants and subsequently casting doubt on the viability of the company that is filing.  Again, the company is not able to respond publicly to these reports and if you're an employee who doesn't know that this is business as usual - most healthy public companies typically have at least half a dozen lawsuits pending against them at any one time - it can be intimidating to see the company you've worked for so long and love suddenly be the target of a bunch of bizarre legal claims whose merits are opaque to you.  The executives usually have a better idea of what's going on, but they have to be very careful about what they can say (where the public can hear) and also to employees, because often when a lawsuit is pending the lawyers advise the principals to say as little as possible so all you typically get is "we believe the claims are without merit and intend to defend ourselves vigorously." The filing of the S-1 also signals to investment banks and wealth managers that a new group of people is about to become very wealthy, so they will dig up lists of employees (or even wardial their way through the company's phone number range) offering financial management services.  This gets annoying real fast. On the day of the IPO, everyone at the company is basically drunk (either for real or metaphorically).  There is no work getting done that day, as employees are basically just watching the stock price and shouting out new highs as it makes its first-day pop. On the day of PayPal's IPO, I think I was literally the only employee who didn't care and was kind of annoyed about all the noise going on that was preventing me from doing work.  I was a young engineer and didn't quite understand why I should be so excited (I had been there only a few months, and my primary impression of Valley IPOs was that they were just part and parcel of the dot-com bust - I hadn't hit my first-year cliff yet, so I had no immediate expectation of financial gain).  There is a picture somewhere of a bunch of us cheering except that I am just looking off distractedly at my Snapple drink.  I distinctly remember wondering how I could extract myself from that crowd and get back to my cube so that I could code. In the next couple weeks, very little work gets done.  People are obsessively looking at the stock price and calculating their net worth.  Everyone is still in the lock-up period so no one can sell, so there is a bit of suspense about how high the stock will stay until the lock-up expires.  Some people will already begin to buy things like expensive cars (they can e.g. put a collar on their holdings if company trading rules don't forbid buying derivatives).  New rules get put into place regarding who can see financial or user data (for a consumer internet company), or basically any other internal metrics that would materially affect that stock price.  People who have to be able to see them as part of their jobs get put onto a list that severely restricts the timing during which they can trade in the company's stock - these "blackout" periods are typically in the weeks around when the company reports its quarterly earnings. Once the lock-up period ends (90 or 180 days, usually), employees can sell their shares and many people do so, at least some portion.  This is usually when people start showing up with fancy cars, etc.  After that, things start going back to normal, except for two big things: 1) The company now has to focus on quarterly earnings reports and SOX compliance.  This is inevitable, no matter how much you declare beforehand that you won't be affected by quarterly earnings pressures.  There is a new, and very distinct pressure near the end of the quarter to do things you didn't have to do before because it might make the difference between beating, making, or missing your expected numbers.  SOX compliance places new restrictions on what employees can do - for engineers, it often involves restrictions on how well they can debug problems in production - and this generally makes "getting things done" harder in ways that aren't very meaningful. 2) The new employees you hire are distinctly less motivated and bought in to the company compared to the pre-IPO people - it's just a job to them.  Per Jamie Zawinski's old adage (see http://www.jwz.org/gruntle/nomo....) of the difference between "people who want to go to work for a company to make it successful" and "people who want to work for a successful company," most of your new employees (i.e. co-workers) now distinctly fall into the second category. ---- Edited to add the picture (thanks Moses Namkung): Updated 208w ago • View Upvotes