Are producers of wearable mobile devices on the right track?
No, not yet. The short answer - Smart Watches need to not be about doing what a phone can do but removing some things and making them smaller. It should be about creation of a personal device system where the smart watch has a distinct role and ads value. For example to include NFC and then become an mobile payment, mobile couponing, and mobile ticketing entiry. The longer context........ Some blurry time in the 20th Century we stopped being manufacturing lead society and became marketing led. We went from "companies making things people needed", to"making need for things people made". This is actually a pretty depressing and seismic shift and a shift thats probably responsible for an incredibly amount of economic growth but environmental damage. There is no greater display of need generation, that each and every year at CES. Right now, every electronics company worth knowing about is trying desperately to figure out how to get people to need a smart watch. It's hard. It's about the role of devices in our life. If you are a normal person, a computer of some sort and a smart phone pretty much allow you to live a blessed life, with no real compromise. Add to that mix a lightweight Laptop, or a iPad, and immediately you've created a space for a new optimized device to consume media on the go. But while we've solved for a specific need, we've really generated demand for something, we've sort of canibalized needs but sold a new thing. But there is a balance, make the tablet too good and small, and what use is the phone, we've lost a sale of a phone.   Make the tablet too powerful and we've lost the need to sell a Laptop. Here lies the problem with the Smart Watch. 1) We really don't need it at all, we've managed 30 years since the "smartish" watches of the 1980's. 2) If it does too much, it risks use usurping the need for something else. 3) If it does too little, it's rather pointless and can't be sold in large quantities or for much money. The solution it seems lies in two different approaches. Keep it simple. A pebble like approach, let's not try to make it do much. If watches in 1990 were about knowing the time- which was pretty much all you needed to know. Watches in 2014 should display the time and notification of what's happening. It's not a media consumption device, or a camera or a way to reply, it's simply a read only dashboard of what's happening. Be greater than the sum of it's parts. This is I expect how Apple will look at it. It won't be about carving out responsibilities between the watch and the iPad and the iPhone.  It will be about creating an entire ecosystem where the watch creates new value. Perhaps the watch will monitor heart rates and record locations, temperature, location. Perhaps the watch will contain NFC technology. Now we enter a world where the Smart Watch is not a Watch replacement, but an element of data recording and activation. Now you can pay for items with a swipe of your wrist, enter the London underground with a simple movement. Now your apps will be contextually aware based on a stream of perfect and continued information about where you are, what the temperature is, who you are near, what your heart rate is, how you slept. This will be a profound accomplishment and a sign Apple are back to what they should be doing, the creation of new product categories that create shifts in behavior. Not a new colour palette to a OS. 