Is corruption as prevalent in America, if not more so than in the so called "third world countries"?
I'm from a Third World country, where I currently live and work, but I also spent fifteen years in the US.  I can say with confidence that there's far more corruption in the Third World, at every single level of government and of the social structure in general. One of the distinguishing features of life in the Third World is that things are never what they purport to be.  Life in general is therefore opaque, because it's hard to understand what's really going on, unless you happen to be in the know about how some particular organization really operates, and even then you probably won't speak up or explain it to others, because it's not in your best interest to do so.  Corruption is both a cause and a consequence of this opaqueness. This is true at every level: elections, how Congress adopts new laws, the operation of the police and the law courts, state contracts for infrastructure, hiring schoolteachers, administering pension funds, paying your taxes, securing a bank credit, getting permission to build an extension to your house... The result is that public discourse has little power over how any business is conducted, because one never really knows (or can openly discuss) what's behind most business.  People therefore tend either to be cynically accommodating, or else to indulge in some kind of escapism (like religion or political extremism).  Personally, I've come to think of this as the key difference between "developing" and developed nations. Everybody in the world can chime in on the US's debate on how financial regulators have dealt with banks, compaign finance, gun violence, police brutality, healthcare, NSA surveillance, etc., etc., because the US system is unusually transparent.  In the Third World you'd have to start by finding information and statistics that don't exist or can't be trusted.  The debate can't even get started at any genuinely rational level. In fact, the US is the most self-critical society that I know of.  And, curiously, a central element of that self-criticism are constant accusations of conformism, jingoism, delusions of exceptionalism, etc., which intellectuals in other countries are more than happy to echo. One thing that often strikes people from other countries about Americans is that they seem naïve and relatively immune to irony.  I've come to suspect that this comes largely from having grown up in a society that for the most part works as it purports to.  The English novelist Graham Greene, who was actually quite anti-American in his politics, has the cynically sophisticated protagonist in The Comedians (1966) say essentially that, after encountering a married couple of vegetarian activists from the US who have come to Haiti during the height of the brutal Duvalier dictatorship: I felt a curious sense of shame.  Cynicism is cheap – you can buy it at any Monoprix store – it’s built into all poor-quality goods. For an entertaining illustration of what I'm on about, I suggest watching the VICE Guide to Karachi, from 2012. Updated 10w ago • View Upvotes