Why is there so little respect for designers in the tech industry?
Like others answering, I believe this is changing; the reasons behind the change are pretty well-known, not least of them being Apple's extraordinary and undeniable financial success. I remember in the late 1990s being told that superior UI and ease-of-use in software weren't as important as cost, distribution, "compatibility with what businesses use," etc. That is: Dell would always beat Apple because Apple wasted money on "design" while Dell focused on what mattered. (David Cole notes this in his article Applied Discovery, which also contains some definitional reflections relevant to the answer below. And as an observation: Apple became a lot like Dell operationally over time; efficiency and cost are important!). Despite the rise of design's stature —out here in the Bay Area, designers have loads of cachet— these problems remain: 1. "Design" isn't clearly defined. Non-designers in particular aren't sure what to look for in evaluating design/designers and often make a common mistake of people who don't know what to look for in a given evaluation: they assume there's not much there, that it's all hype, etc. Is a designer someone who makes great logos in Photoshop, using a combination of illustrative talents, brand thinking, and visual taste? someone who lays out UIs and delivers PSDs to developers who then instantiate the designs in code? someone who works with materials and sensors to create devices you hold, wear, run with, take photos with, etc.? someone who arranges tests of users, either via split testing or in-person or through surveys, to identify pain-points in a user flow and improve various metrics, like conversion or engagement, etc. Are we talking about visual design, UX design, industrial design, product design, UI design, or all of it? Or some combination of elements of them all? This kind of ambiguity makes it hard for people in organizations to (1) understand what we do or should do, (2) perceive how we add value, and (3) imagine how we work, and what makes our work hard. Note: this is true of many other roles; some of them get their place at the table by tradition, others by fiat (like HR in most cases). Nevertheless, it's a factor. 2. Designers often cannot "make things" on their own in software. I think this is important to recognize; some developers and more business people in tech view designers as "drawerers" (I worked at a company where we were literally called "drawerers"!) because of this. They're accustomed to measuring their peers and themselves on production, both of minutiae like documents and memos and so on and consequential production, outcomes. The further you are from being able to directly effect outcomes, the further you are from respect in their eyes; an operations employee will at least generate lots of busywork, but a designer might be wholly opaque to management! There are rebuttals to this view, of course; no one with any brains thinks less of an architect upon learning that, by herself in the woods, she couldn't build a skyscraper. But among people who view themselves as skyscraper-builders —perhaps vainly— someone who can only point to blueprints will always have an air of abstraction, and therefore of distance, reduced consequentiality, reduced impact. That without the blueprints the whole enterprise fails is lost on them. This is another good opportunity to refer to David's writing; his essay Designers Will Code notes many important reasons for designers to consider learning to code, to make what they envision, to envision it by making it. I think that the less we need to ask for respect, argue for respect, the better; we should earn it by doing, by making, by driving, wherever it's sensible to do so. 3. Design involves lots of things we don't understand well yet, phenomena like "taste" and intuition; while focusing on interaction design and UX and measurements of use can mitigate this, the plain fact is that many people will simply never respect design's creative processes, even if they themselves are creative in their field. There's a common and erroneous sense that what we cannot measure doesn't exist; this is why only those willing to be irrationally committed to artistic axioms have historically been able to preserve those elements of design in commercial enterprises. Hence the value of a Jobs, who will arbitrarily decide that typography is important because he likes it or because he values the aesthetic, etc. So while designers should indeed look to consequences to measure the value of their work —the dreaded "data"!— there's insufficient data on "the creative process," on how ideation works, on intuition, to rely only on measurements alone to defend every part of the design process. Unfortunately, there is an element of faith required here, although over time I expect us to learn and document more about the nature of creativity, taste, and intuition. I should emphasize that designers themselves often do not understand design systematically or deeply; we're especially prone to inherited or received wisdom, uninterrogated trends, and epistemological foolishness. And if we can't understand our field well —what can be known, what should be measured, why "novelty" and innovation are values, etc.— we can't expect others to fare better. 4. Last: lots of designers cannot or will not explain why they do what they do, lord their artistry over their relatively-more-prosaic peers, and truly have no system of reasoning behind their choices. The volume of imitative, shallow, incapable designers is a significant factor in how we're perceived. If you've ever attempted to hire a designer, the applications you receive are shocking! This is true of nearly any sort of role, of course, but with designers there's often a surprising combination of inexperience, incompetence, and cockiness. The trendiness of "design" is a problem here; the zeitgeist celebrates both art and wealth, and designers are among the only people who get to act like artists while still making big bucks at hot tech companies. Internal and external forces conspire to produce this: The identifiable, broadly-recognized "designer stereotype." Meditative ideation in minimalist environs; deep explorations into the navel hidden just underneath wrinkled boutique shirts; preposterous articles like "Design Fiction as Pedagogic Practice"; the poet's profundity without the ascetic's sacrifice; all the excesses and cliquishness any small, empowered trade is capable of. That is: there's disrespect for designers for the same reason there's disrespect for bankers. Some people think we add little value while they do the real making; we cost too much, think we're too great, pose too hard, are ostentatious (with our fancy notebooks and pens and glasses and…), are insular, are phony, etc. To be clear: I am a pretty well-described by all these points. I look exactly like the designer stereotype. I don't code. The folks in that photograph are definitely better designers, and almost definitely better people, than I am. My sense, however, is that lots of "anti-designer" sentiment reflects the points listed, fairly or not. A final note: one shouldn't worry more than one absolutely must about how much one is respected, or how much one's profession is respected. Pursue ends, not esteem; work towards achieving outcomes through design rather than achieving status for design. First: we can't control or even accurately assess what others think. Second: by driving change through design, we earn respect for design. Updated 97w ago • View Upvotes