What would VCs think if a startup buys early customers?
Well, PayPal bought a lot of its early customers... It also had viral growth but it was an important part of the strategy early on to pay about $20 per new user (I forget the exact mechanism, I think you got paid for an account and could also earn money for yourself and a friend by bringing them on). And a lot of top apps initially "buy" their traffic - in fact I don't have the data but I'd probably say that most do, at least at first. Those are on the consumer side - if you have virality then buying as a kick-start makes sense.  Or if your customer acquisition cost is a lot lower than their value, you may always end up buying customers. The other reason you buy customers is to get feedback early on.  On the enterprise side this makes a lot of sense - it's really hard to get great feedback in an opaque market sometimes or to be able to iterate to get your product to be good enough to actually sell it until a couple years in... that's normal.  If your founder really wants feedback and is going to give a grant to the city to get it to buy the product in order to iterate and make the product better, that makes a lot of sense to me as a possible strategy.  On top of that your first couple sales are always the hardest... you almost always need a special "in" with the initial customers - what I sometimes call an "unfair advantage".  This sounds like a smart advantage he is trying to create - and if he's quietly given a grant but now has a "real" customer as far as other cities are concerned and can iterate and show off that the technology really works in the wild, maybe that helps you with the next few actual sales.  If your product is a dumb idea, it will still be a dumb idea after you pay for a customer, but it's very possible it is a good idea and what he is doing is a helpful step. Another person commented this is illegal b/c it's a bribe or something, which I don't agree with from what I've read - he is giving a grant of money and getting them to use it to buy his technology... that sounds totally legal to me. Business is really hard, especially really early on - and as long as no laws or codes of ethics are broken, creating unfair advantages for your company is part of the job of the person running it.  It's kind of like hacking the world, to figure out how to overcome the odds and succeed... that's the CEO's job. As an aside - I've been looking a lot at city technology, I'm curious what you're working on... it's an area I spend a lot of time on, especially given our work at Government Financial Intelligence & Transparency | OpenGov with almost 1000 cities on the platform now and various grand ambitions to make governments function better, and with our friends' work at Neighborly on the financial side of the space. Relationships with others who are already on the inside are another possible way to get early customers to try something and give feedback and references. 