Why are there no startups solving the Real Estate problems?
Qualification: I am a former veteran of real estate start-ups with a range of product / business concepts mostly focused on lease management and the leasing process for tenants, landlords and brokers.  I spent 10 years working in this space.   Narrowing the question to commercial real estate leasing, the issue differs depending on scale.  Small leases, which make up the bulk of activity, can be tracked as terms become simplified -- and 42 Floors, LiquidSpace, LooseCubes and others are all keenly focused on that space. But it’s the large leases that garner more of the glory, fees and attention.  And large leases are complicated by their nature.   Large leases are essentially financing vehicles for the total capital cost of occupancy including base building and tenant improvements.  Rent rates (excluding operating expenses), free rent periods, tenant improvement allowances, and term length are the semi-transparent elements that go into the price.  The building's capital structure is more opaque.  But none of these elements are collected as a natural part of the business process the way residential sales data are.  And tenants, landlords and brokers are reticent to share this information.  Of those three it’s logical that landlords and brokers would withhold that data.  But tenants withholding makes less sense; nonetheless they do either due to a belief that their data is too sensitive to share, a concern that it will precipitate unsolicited sales calls, or that maybe they didn’t get a great deal.   CoStar (the 800 lb gorilla in commercial real estate market data) invests in lease comps aimed at this complexity, but it’s tough going and the data lacks the kind of statistical validity needed to improve market efficiency.  Smaller companies (e.g. REIS) take a deeper research-based approach to produce some interesting information – but none of it gets at the granular / rubber-meets-road question: “how much should I pay for that space?”   Small leases have been swept into the wake of this tradition.  But more recently (and I’m talking in terms of 5-10 year increments) more small spaces are coming to market in turn-key condition with flexible terms.  At the extreme, Carr Workplaces, Regus and others offer fully serviced spaces by the day, week or month. Some tenants are also offering slices of their space on the same basis (much of this represents the market for LiquidSpace, LooseCubes etc.) This is the smallest but fastest growing segment of the commercial real estate market. The trend eliminates several of the pricing complexities seen in larger leases.    Four evolutions are important to scaling this trend up-market to larger leases.  (These are “evolutions” because they won’t happen fast.)  First, tenants will need to become more flexible about their build-out standards and designs – understanding the cost / value trade-off of tricking out their space.  Second, tenants will need to become clearer about their planning time horizon, the flexibility they need and what it’s worth to pay for that (would you sign a 10 lease for a home??).  Third, landlords will need to become better capitalized to speculatively build out turn-key space.  Fourth lenders will need to become more creative (and perhaps better capitalized) to underwrite and finance buildings with a smaller mix of long-term bondable leases.  (Personally, I suspect none of these evolutions will happen quickly enough to afford the career interest and capital needed to build businesses around them.  But this opinion is based largely on my personal experience with real estate start-ups.  There may well be some hidden tipping point out there.)   Lastly, the real estate industry is notoriously cheap when it comes to technology.  Successful start-ups will need to find organic business models somewhere within the ecosystem described above – ones that do not depend on large license fees. 