People who've taken Scala into production: what has your experience been like?
I'm a software engineer at TheLadders. It took us about a year to go from a few lines of Scala test code to using it in production exclusively.  Stories like the Guardian's (here http://www.infoq.com/articles/gu...) helped sell the idea.  I'd been personally programming in the language for a couple of years before we started writing test source with it.  I do think having someone around who knows the language fairly well helps because some of the early hurdles can be frustrating.  We also had a few core enthusiastic team members willing to dive in.  Though it probably goes without saying:  You need people like that I think, people willing to take their own time to learn. We used a test framework called ScalaTest which could execute our existing JUnit tests in addition to the new Scala ones.  This helped support a mixed code base.  It was lacking in it's integration with our IDEs and build tool (Maven).  We ended up having to write our own Maven test running plugin to get ScalaTest playing nicely with it.  I was at a meetup with Bill Venners a couple of weeks ago who wrote ScalaTest and they are actively developing some nice IDE integration (for intellij) and an official Maven test runner. After 7-8 months enough of us were convinced we could write Scala (even if it was Scala in a Java style) that my boss gave the go ahead to start putting Scala on our production services.  This meant initially a shared code base.  New features were implemented in Scala.  Existing Java source was converted to Scala if developers found a reason to "touch" it, meaning it made sense because it was part of your current task.  We didn't (and probably never will) migrate the entire source tree of all our services to Scala.  Instead we have older completed services in pure Java.  A few services written during the the last 4 months in both Java and Scala.  And now all new services and libraries are being written in Scala.  We have examples of all 3 types in production now. Besides the languages itself, I'd say one of the harder things was writing mixed Java and Scala projects.  Not all constructs play nicely with each other.  I think I'd recommend starting pure Scala instead of doing that.  Though once you go through all the pains of mixing the source it is something you can work with. If I had one main piece of advice it is to KNOW YOUR COLLECTIONS.  Scala can very happily use any collection library be it Java Collections, Google Guava, etc.  Scala's collection library is great and you can use it most of the time but make sure you do your homework if your collections are concurrently accessed or holding large amounts of data.  Make sure your team studies the performance characteristics of the various Scala collection types and understands the implications of using immutable collections. 