Are producers of wearable mobile devices on the right track?
Some yes, some no. Tracking devices I think, for one, the fitness / sleep tracker target is being hit fairly close to spot on. Whether it's the Fitbit, the Nike Fuelband or similar products from Jawbone, Basis, et al., the idea of a basic, small, easy to wear or carry device that lets you know whether you've been active enough for the day is about right. To nail these products, they need to be: Cheap: Ideally below $100 Durable: Able to withstand activity but also to go through the daily on-off cycles of any wristband or clip-type device Waterproof: In a perfect would, you could accidentally send it through the washer; at minimum, it needs to survive doing the dishes Simple: Virtually no buttons. We need to be clear, though, these are limited function devices. They cannot be smartwatches even if, like the Fitbit Force, they will eventually do things like display CallerID info from your phone. In a more perfect world, the price would be $49 or so, but I suspect we'll get there. Smartwatches These, so far at least, seem to miss the mark in terms of having chasm crossing potential. The Pebble, for example, gets right the "smartphone companion" piece but fails at aesthetics. It mostly gets the hardware tradeoffs right (decent battery, acceptable screen), but lacks killer features like smartphone unlocking/security. It's a very solid first effort, however, that is perhaps one great industrial / product designer away from defining the category. Of course, compared to the overwrought Galaxy Gear, Pebble is pure genius. This goes back to the original question. What are we buying? A phone clone on our wrist or something that works alongside the phone? Sony showed at CES a Fitbit knockoff that works alongside their smartphone to act as a life "journaling" tool, but when the phone isn't with you, it's a less capable Fitbit. They did some decent things to the wristband but overall it's an unimaginative piece of hardware coupled with a very smartphone-centric view of wearable tech that presumes your smartphone is always there and the wearable is basically just a sensor. That, to me, undershoots the opportunity but for some it might be spot on. I have a Fitbit with a display, others are content to have a fitness tracker that is opaque until the smartphone app tells them more than the crudest of information. Conclusion I think at the inception of the wearables era, we are seeing a lot of potential energy spun into far too many products that look like everyone else's with incremental changes. This is very common in tech products and 90% of the clones will fail. Somewhere out there, though, a worthy Fitbit/Fuelband competitor is going to emerge. In the meantime, the Pebble as constituted never goes past early adopters, but it sets the stage for Apple, Google or someone to produce a smartwatch that truly nails the combination of features and UX that make it something that works with my phone rather than trying to be my phone. I don't believe that something has a grid of icons that mimics your home screen any more than I think Robert Scoble is correct in his believe that Google Glass needs thousands of apps to flourish (an Uber app? really?)[1] In short, more Fitbit, less Sony Smartwatch 2. [1] Scoble says Google Glass is doomed First, I love headlines… 