Why are some Americans opposed to the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare)?
Obamacare isn't disliked by "some" Americans. It's disliked by most Americans...still after 3+ years. And let's not forget that the onerous employer mandate and "Cadillac Tax" was put off by Presidential executive order to the end of 2016 so that the ire of voters would be blunted. The large majority of people gained their medical care through expansion of Medicaid, America's medical insurance for the poor. Let's look at how inefficient this bill is.  The CBO estimates that over the next 5 years, the number of uninsured Americans will barely be nudged downward. And we are seeing that happening. More than half of the state exchanges are closing by end of year and as predicted, the healthy young Americans are disinclined to enroll because their penalty ("tax") is lower than their premium and they can sign on when sick if insurance is needed. California is touted as a successful exchange. 2 million enrolled and now 700,000 have dropped out. CBO Says ACA Will Insure Fewer People Than Predicted It will cost the federal government – taxpayers, that is – $50,000 for every person who gets health insurance under the Obamacare law, the Congressional Budget Office revealed on Monday. The number comes from figures buried in a 15-page section of the nonpartisan organization's new ten-year budget outlook. The best-case scenario described by the CBO would result in 'between 24 million and 27 million' fewer Americans being uninsured in 2025, compared to the year before the Affordable Care Act took effect. Pulling that off will cost Uncle Sam about $1.35 trillion – or $50,000 per head. Federal budget price tag for every new Obamacare enrollee: $50,000 What about the working Americans who had insurance that they were happy with? They have higher premiums, higher copays and higher deductibles. I’m an Obama supporter. But Obamacare has hurt my family. Many Say High Deductibles Make Their Health Law Insurance All but Useless Americans don't like Obamacare because it's a giant and expensive government program that delivers little bang for the buck. And unlike promised, Americans who liked their doctor and their hospital are often not getting to keep them. Updated 9w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Ntungiyehe Luyagaza