In layman's terms, what exactly was the discovery announced by the BICEP2 experiment on March 17, 2014?
The biggest take away from this is that we have for the first time overcome the hurdle the weakness of gravitational waves posed to us. We have never been able to measure or see gravitational waves (map) directly due to the weak nature of gravity. But at the largest of scales, the imprint of these waves have now been confirmed. Gravitational waves were indirectly observed in the past through loss of energy in binary star systems and in pulsars, but no direct evidence was ever produced. There are two ways to look at this data. Experimental Physicists would be elated mainly due to the detection of gravitational waves. This was a big hurdle and still remains a big hurdle in the smaller scales. The ability to measure or "see" the universe through something that is not  electromagnetic is simply golden. Theoretical Physicists would excited to prove Inflation was real. Also, they will be able to reject a few Inflation models hopefully. Most notably, Andrei Linde would be over the moon, cause his life's work has been proven to be critical to our understanding of our universe (I guess it gave meaning to his whole life in one day). Here's a touching video of Andre Linde being told about BICEP2 findings. Please refer directly to the paper published by the BICEP2 team here Page on bicepkeck.org Or make sure you only read articles by Harvard Smithsonian to avoid any misinterpretation. First Direct Evidence of Cosmic Inflation  I've looked everywhere for the conference video. It was broadcast live but I couldn't find a link to it anywhere after that. Here's a video  on YouTube posted by one of the BICEP2 team members themselves. Part 2 can be found there as well. The BICEP2 was specifically looking for something called a B-Mode polarization in the Cosmic Microwave Background. Light/Radiation is polarized by a medium. For example, the suns light is polarized by the earth's atmosphere. They were looking for certain type of polarization caused by the curvature of space time by ripples in the early universe (many trillionth's of a second after the big bang). So what they were looking for is "curved radiation" so to speak. What they found had perfectly agreed with theory - 5.9 sigma I'm told. This somewhat validates cosmic inflation. The polarization was found in the pattern below. The data is yet to be peer reviewed, confirmed and validated. 