People who've taken Scala into production: what has your experience been like?
I switched from Java to Scala about 3 years ago and have 3 Play/Scala apps in production. Deployment on Heroku is a no-brainer (git push), I haven't seen any downtimes and the performance is amazing (saves hosting costs :) But the most important is the development part: in particular when projects grow over the years the type safety is a lifesaver. Refactoring feels so safe, it seems impossible to break things by accident. Let me address some of the issues other people complain about: Backwards compatibility It's true that Scala doesn't have Java's backwards compatibility. It's a trade-off to enable innovation, fix flaws and not carry around deprecated APIs like Java does. Apparently this was a big problem with early versions, but since version 2.10 this has improved. I migrated several Play apps from 2.10 to 2.11 without any problems. With SBT you can cross build your libraries for multiple versions. When you reference lib dependencies in your application sbt file you can use  %% to automatically use the correct version for your project. Here is an example: sief/play-guard Learning curve I wouldn't say it's a steep learning curve, it's actually quite smooth but very long. The good news is: you don't have to go it all the way to be productive with Scala. Coming  from Java, you can program very productively in Scala on a level which you should be able to pick up in a couple of days. Here is an overview of the Scala learning path: Scala levels: beginner to expert, application programmer to library designer Not foolproof Scala doesn't stop you from doing it wrong, it gives you a lot of freedom in programming style. As a developer I like this, but this might be a concern for managers. Compile time This has already improved a lot and has never been a problem for me. There are some tricks to speed it up. One way is to use explicit types to avoid type inference, sometimes this also improves the readability of your code. Scala is definitely the most expressive, productive and robust language I have ever worked with. For the next project I'd definitely choose Scala again. 