What makes people lose interest in Quora?
People lose interest in many things once the "newness" fades away. Surely happens to many Quorans. A few things that have helped dismantle my interest as of late include: No more credits. I decided long ago I would save up my Quira credits until they improved on the credit economy and/or there was a particularly stellar answer to promote. Well over 100,000 credits saved over a year+ and then one day.... poof. How lame. Intolerance. There is little tolerance for opinions that stray from the wholesome PC view held by most Quorans. There is a bubble effect where everyone pats one another on the back, disagreeing on minutia, while radical/alternative/un-PC opinions are removed, shamed or down voted out of existence. Even if I disagree with these views, they should be welcomed and discussed with respect. Unevolving. Is that even a word? Quora continues to make constant tweaks and changes but still doesn't evolve as a whole. Constant lateral changes. Let's rethink the marginally effective Q&A format and move past the voting mechanism to something that truly shines a light on the best answers. The current formula shows preferential treatment to short, punchy answers and Quora superstars. I want to see actual debate, where leading arguments with strong citation and evidence move to the front of the pack. TOO MANY QUESTION CHANGES AND EDITS. This one might bother me the most. I'm sick of questions being edited to be less offensive or more generic, and at the same time completely changing the question. Just. Stop. Same goes for merges. I still continue to read Quora semi-regularly, but I'm far less engaged and less inclined to give an in-depth answer, because 9/10 good answers disappear into the fog while the short ones with an emotional hook prevail. In short, I feel Quora has disengaged from serious conversation and debate, and is becoming a big interactive self-help book. I would go on, but nobody would notice. ;) Also, the editor is still buggy on iPhone 6 and emojis crash/mangle my answer. 