What’s wrong with OpenID?
It's a tech-approached solution to a tech-self-imposed problem: the identification of the user. Because identification isn't something I usually do. When I walk around, when I enter into a store, when I buy something, when I... live, nobody explicitly stops me for a few minutes asking my identity... with the exception of - wonder! - our self-imposed tech "solutions". Exactly like logins. Think that OpenID in the first years was "borrowing ideas" from how the passports are handled. Who thinks that the current passport system is a fantastic way to manage identities please raise a hand. ;) Back to us. While I agree on everything else in his comment, to me, this statement is bold, interesting... but wrong: a problem that most people don't really have. - Yishan Wong The problem *exists*. And it's huge. It's huge both for all the problems it triggers, for all the things it blocks and for all the implementation hurdles it hides. Think about this: you can't build ANY service that needs identity if the service usefulness is smaller than the cost (mind and time) of the login process. We are just seeing a glimpse of it with the one-click logins created by Facebook and similar. The solution? We need to step back and understand why we are trying to do that, and that's about identification, not anything else. And identification happens between me and someone else, not through a mediating party (that is needed to provide security and safety, not for the identification process itself!). I've been thinking a lot about this and that's one of the reasons I'd like to join the Mozilla team: the login system should be an API provided by the browser itself, with the possibility of choosing personal or work profiles (due to different usages of the same services) and even anonymous if you'd like to browse in safety. Because the browser is my "API" to interact with the web. 1password and similar tools are trying to take a status-quo approach to this problem, but they aren't making the next step (probably just due to sheer share numbers). The identification logic - logins, OpenID, certificates, etc - should move from the website to the browser. With this solution, you will be able to just browse and use every service without - almost - even noticing that you've been authenticated. Of course, it needs to be designed and tested thoroughly, it's not as simple as saying it, but who if not Mozilla would be able to push out a feature like this? I think it's game changing. (see the part above in italic for the reason why) I think that a group with this vision and the correct focus on technical issues, user experience, privacy and security is going to appear somewhere. Maybe inside the Chromium dev team, maybe inside the WebKit dev team, maybe inside the Firefox dev team, maybe inside the Microsoft dev team, maybe inside the Opera web team. Who knows. ~ This is the follow-up of this answer, if you'd like to get more in depth: http://intenseminimalism.com/201... Updated 207w ago • View Upvotes