What will happen to Theranos?
Clearly a lot of the focus has been on Theranos' technology, and its validity. While I read the WSJ article with great interest, since I had previously studied Theranos and the hype, to me the real question is something different for the long term outcomes. In a way, I want people to step back from the argument about microfluidics and nanocontainers filled with a finger prick of blood and focus on the business aspect instead. Theranos is a company that needs to make money, like all other companies. The question to me is can Theranos sustain a business model that charges a lot less for tests than their main competitors, LabCorp and Quest. Right now, Theranos appears to bill 10X less or more compared to its competitors. If they are using the same machines as LabCorp and Quest, and don't have a new technology to make it cheaper, I would assume their low price point isn't sustainable. Perhaps investor money is fueling the low cost right now. But maybe they do have some logistics process that helps shaves costs with the same machines. Let's say they don't though. At that point, Theranos likely moves toward becoming the same as their arch enemies, LabCorp and Quest. They have plenty of financing to continue similar operations to those companies, and maybe they can grow a little more. Theranos wouldn't be changing medicine, but they still would be able to make some money. Perhaps they can do some research on the side. People forget, but Theranos isn't quite a startup anymore, and regularly processes patient samples right now. Even if not using any of their tech, they are already growing and can continue to grow with Siemens machines and veinous blood draws. My only question is whether their charges are artificially low to fuel the hype, or whether they are actually making margin on them. To me, that's the future of Theranos right there, particularly for their investors. Who cares what the backend technology is. Just produce reliable services for patients, and make money off that transaction. Economics 101. 