Why are some Americans opposed to the Affordable Care Act (Obamacare)?
In the question's description, the questioner wonders aloud about lack of popular support for the ACA, somehow assuming that it is nothing-but-beneficial and downside-free. The truth is that at its core, the Affordable Care Act (ACA) is a wealth redistribution and reform plan targeting the health insurance market. And as such, there are clear winners and clear losers. The ACA is, and pretty much always has been, majority-unpopular. So at this writing, it's not just some but most Americans that have a negative view of it. Gallup: Americans Tilt More Negative Toward Affordable Care Act. This majority-disapproval is remarkable not just for its strength and duration, but also because an eye-popping 70% of current enrollees are on Medicaid, which is 100% subsidized. That is, 70% of enrollees essentially pay nothing for the benefits they receive, and a decent percentage of the remaining 30% also get subsidy. So why all the hate? This dislike has many drivers. Most opponents express some combination of these concerns: Higher out-of-pocket costs than prior coverage Displeasure with being repeatedly, deliberately lied-to during the selling phase Concern about its long-term actuarial implosion Frustration with the partisan manner in which it was passed Anger with the incompetent, wasteful manner in which it was rolled out Being forced to participate in a market Being forced to pay for undesired benefits Narrowing of choice, options and freedom to forgo participation Cancellations of plans, limitations on doctor networks, in some cases lowering of care and/or preventing access to desired, previously-available facilities Concern that the way it's been modified on the fly isn't Constitutional Additional complexity added to people's lives Reduced payouts to doctors Failure of healthcare co-ops and waste of billions of dollars Disagreement about the proper level of government involvement in our lives Political displeasure with the administration on other matters, which rubs off on its signature program It's far more expensive than alternative ways to cover the uninsured Negative associations with existing health-insurance problems (complexity, denial of some types of coverage, long wait times, etc.) which carry over (from the left) Falling far short of a more ideal single-payer solution The Affordable Care Act, if honestly represented, is a redistribution-of-wealth program that significantly altered the private health insurance market with a primary goal of providing greater subsidized coverage for lower-income individuals. As with all wealth redistribution plans, there are clear winners and there are clear losers. Is the average American a clear winner or a clear loser? While valid arguments could be made either way, I think the balance of data suggests to me that middle-class Americans – average US household income is around $51,000 – are hurt through much higher out-of-pocket costs, much narrower choices and disruption, plan cancellations, extra tax forms, being forced to pay for unwanted services in some cases, and high downstream unfunded costs. And for those not on it (which is likely for the average American, given only 12 of 350 million citizens are), it explodes state Medicaid budgets and fiscal liabilities at the federal level, so they are hurt by it too. This negative view is bolstered by the fact that it has never been majority-popular by any significant margin, and more people disapprove than approve of it, several years in. One middle-class American explained it this way: “Unless I’m catastrophically ill, I’m now required to spend $12,000 for the privilege of spending another $10,000 per year out of pocket on medical care.” That sums it up for our family too – though $12,000 per year is cheaper than what we're paying. Most important, perhaps: the entire program is at high risk of actuarial failure in the next ten years if nothing is done. Secretary Clinton confidently asserts that the ACA is “clearly working.” It seems to me we first need to understand how she defines “working.” When I pay for a refrigerator, computer, or service, I decide whether it's working based not solely upon what these products happen to do when I get them –the unexpected new features and whatnot – I also compare what I got to the representations that were repeatedly and earnestly made by their salespeople. A noisy refrigerator with a broken freezer compartment isn’t “working” if I was repeatedly sold it on with promises of it being quiet and ice cream-ready. In essence, I ask myself, “Was the advertising honest?” We all do. To that end, these promises were repeatedly made about the ACA: “If you like your healthcare plan, you can keep your plan, period.” “If you like your doctor, you can keep your doctor, period.” “The typical family of 4 will save about $2500/year.” “We can do all this without adding one dime to the deficit.” “A site as easy to use as Amazon.” “We predict 21 million people insured by the ACA in 2016.” “23 government-sponsored healthcare co-ops will help deliver better access to care.” “This is not a tax.” These are not minor representations about how the ACA would work. They were, and are, important commitments that were repeatedly made. They were repeated so often because they resonated. They mattered to people. People who dared raise questions about any one of them were scoffed at, even mocked. The president even said before both houses of Congress, “If you misrepresent what's in this plan, we will call you out.” No doubt these repeated, forceful assurances caused some of us to go from opposition to support – though it remained highly divisive and still never earned significant-majority popular support. Some of us likely reasoned that surely, the biggest representations, many made after the details of the ACA were known, couldn't possibly be so blatantly lied about. After all, in many instances when these assurances were made, the ACA was either in final statute form or even already law. It's January 2016. Here's the tally: Broken. Called “Lie of the Year”, in fact. Broken. Broken. Broken. Nope. It's a year away, so we don't yet know, but enrollment predictions have just been halved to 10-11 million. 12 of the 23 have already declared bankruptcy, taking with them billions of dollars in taxpayer-funded loan guarantees. Broken (see Supreme Court.) On each of these important representations, the ACA is most definitely not working. In fact, has there ever been a social program of such scale or impact in US history that has been so blatantly misrepresented in its sales phase? I cannot think of one. Not Medicare. Not Medicaid. Not Social Security. Not Civil Rights. Not the EPA. Not the Clean Water Act.  Given how it was passed in the narrowest of votes, through a "budget reconciliation" process deliberately to avoid a sure-to-lose final vote in the Senate, one might ask: "What if the ACA were honestly represented in its sales phase? Would it still have passed?" Yes, there are several laudable goals and even accomplishments of the ACA. And even if you subtract out the millions of people who involuntarily had their healthcare insurance cancelled on them (including my family of five), it does look like it has net-expanded the number of people that have gotten insurance, at a price. On the flip side, about 70% of new ACA enrollees are under Medicaid, which is 100% subsidized; they essentially pay nothing to support it. Many of the remaining 30% also get some form of subsidy. A 2015 McKinsey study indicates that insurers are currently taking $2.5 billion in annual losses through the program. UnitedHealth, the largest participant in the ACA marketplace has said their losses are about half a billion dollars and are unsustainable, indicating they will likely exit the market next year. Cigna, another large insurer, also confirmed that they are taking losses with the program. Two significant sources of revenue – the “Cadillac Tax” and the Medical Device Tax – are likely going to be repealed soon, primarily at Democrats' urging. So, given the above, can you help me understand the math that still makes this program work, while also adhering to promise #4 above? I realize it’s complex – Professor Gruber might even say it’s opaque, or remind me that I’m stupid – but even I just can’t grasp the basic math that keeps this program afloat in the long term  without continued massive increases in deductibles, out-of-pocket costs, narrowing of choices, or expansion of the federal debt. Yes, the ACA has removed the legality of plan cancellations based upon pre-existing conditions, a huge and largely positive change in isolation. As mentioned above, the ACA, if honestly represented, is a redistribution of wealth law that reshapes the health insurance market. There are winners and losers. Many of those of us in the latter camp do support the notion of improving America's healthcare, but we also wish we weren’t so blatantly and repeatedly lied to, inconvenienced, price-hiked and insulted. We’re footing the bill for much of this, and at a minimum deserve a little respect – which starts with honesty. And then maybe even if any ACA fans are so inclined, a bit of gratitude. If you're a reader and some of my thoughts above resonate with you, and you aren’t too busy figuring out where to spend your $2500 savings this year, I’d be honored if you added your voice by clicking the “Upvote” button. Related reading: Obamacare Is Now on Life Support Obamacare Enrollees Are Reeling from High Deductibles The Biggest Threat To Obamacare Is Already 