Is there any theorem that relates the number of perfect matching in a non bipartite graph with its permanent?
Non bipartite graphs do not have biadjacency matrices. All graphs have adjacency matrices. The adjacency matrix of a bipartite graph is special in that it can be divided into four quadrants with the two quadrants along the main diagonal being full of zeros. The upper right quadrant is a sub-matrix, which we call the biadjacency matrix. The lower left quadrant is its transpose. We can construct the entire adjacency matrix from just the biadjacency matrix, so all the information about the bipartite graph is contained inside of the biadjacency matrix. An m,n-bipartite graph will have an mXn biadjacency matrix. Each of the m rows and n columns will correspond to a vertex. Unlike in the full adjacency matrix, each vertex is represented by either a row or a column, not both. Now ask yourself "why does the permanent of a biadjacency matrix of a bipartite graph equal the number of perfect matchings in a bipartite graph?" The permanent of a 0-1 matrix is just the number of ways to select a subset of the 1's such that each row and column contains only a single element of the subset. On a biadjacency matrix, each of these subsets represent a perfect matching. Each '1' represents an edge, which means every vertex (row and column) has one and only one edge.   Now what would the permanent of a full adjacency matrix represent? Well, what would a single subset of 1's covering each row and column exactly once represent? The answer to the second question would be what the permanent would count. Assuming we are dealing with simple graphs, so that no vertex can have an edge to itself, each '1' in the adjacency graph would have a row number different from its column number. For example, let's say there is a '1' at row 3 col 5. Then we haven't yet covered row 5, so we need another '1', say at row 5, col 4. Notice that the two edges we have just represented meet at vertex 5, because row 5 and col 5 both represent vertex 5. If we complete the covering of rows and columns, we'll find that we've generated a set of cycles which cover all of the vertices. So that's what the permanent of the full adjacency matrix counts - number of ways to cover a graphs vertices with one or more cycles, such that each vertex belongs to only one cycle. That's very different than counting perfect matchings. You might be thinking, what about creating a sub matrix of the adjacency matrix for non bipartite graphs similar to the biadjacency matrix for bipartite graphs. That won't work because you cannot divide the vertices of a non bipartite graph into two sets, such that each set has no edges. If you represent vertex A with a row, and no column, and vertex B with a row and no column, then how do you represent an edge from A to B? You can't. That's why only bipartite graphs can have biadjacency matrices. 