Which courses does Prof. Zhao think every computer science student should take?
My answer is of course biased by my own experiences: Discrete math. I won’t list something like computational complexity or finite automata here, but discrete math is absolutely critical to basic numerical thinking and analysis. Even if you’re a total hacker, you still need discrete math to understand probability, computational time for algorithms, graph theory (because graphs are everywhere), and basics of analysis and proofs. Security. I think computer/network/system security is one of the biggest problems we have today, and it’s never going to be solved. Vulnerabilities are inherent in complex systems, and the more complex computing systems become, the more critical security will be. It’s also cross-area, in that there are security problems and challenges in just about every subfield of CS, including theory, architecture, networking/OS (of course), programming languages, scientific computing, data mining … etc. OS. Taught the right way, operating systems is not a course about what today’s operating systems looks like, or what the pieces are. OS as a class should teach you how to think about tradeoffs in systems design, modularity, isolation vs transparency, concurrency and atomicity, etc. Those higher level lessons are directly applicable to anything systems related (OS, networking, security, PL, architecture, mobile/wireless etc). Networking or Databases or PL. It’s easy to make a case that Networks are everywhere today, and our daily lives depend on a number of networks that have become largely invisible and ubiquitous. The security and availability of computer networks affects everything we do. Similarly, one can argue that databases are fundamental to managing data. And while much of big data is about data mining, key/value stores, and machine learning, understanding databases provides critical background for those topics. Finally, programming languages are the basic tool with which we build computing systems. Their ease of use, correctness, security, all directly impact how we interact with computers everywhere. I won’t even discuss machine learning in detail. I’m going to assume that everyone will take some sort of ML/AI class. 34.7k Views · 548 Upvotes · Answer requested by Anna Sharudenko, Kshitij Nayar, and 15 more