★Information Theory: How do you calculate the capacity of a channel at a new bit error rate, given its current capacity at a higher bit error rate?Lets say I currently have a channel with a capacity of 100 bits and a BER of 0.1. I wish to reduce the BER (i.e. using forward error correction) to 0.01. What is the theoretical capacity of the new channel?
I think your understanding of the meaning of terms like "capacity" or "channel" is not solid. Capacity is the rate that can be achieved for however small error probability (or BER) you desire. Changing the BER you are operating at does not change the channel. If the channel you have has a capacity of 100 (in whatever unit is appropriate), then you can communicate at rate 100 no matter what the BER. The only thing is that for a smaller BER, you might have to increase the blocklength. However, I don't think this is what you have in mind. Assuming that the SNR of the channel is fixed, there is a fixed capacity of the channel, let's denote it by . As I said above, communication at any rate below can be achieved for arbitrarily small BER by choosing a good channel coding scheme at an appropriate blocklength. Now let's say you don't desire an arbitrarily small BER, but some fixed BER, say , and you want to find the rate at which you can communicate. Then you can introduce lossy source coding for the message bits with Hamming distortion equal to , and use good channel coding on the output of the source encoder. Then the overall BER is . The highest rate at which you can communicate now is . The denominator comes from the theory of source coding: it is the smallest rate at which an i.i.d. Ber(0.5) source can be compressed at Hamming distortion no larger than . Assuming that you are doing the best job when you get a rate 100 at BER 0.1, by the above explanation, 100 would be equal to . Similarly you can calculate the highest possible rate of communication at any BER . I have skipped the explanation of many things, so here is one reference I would recommend: Chapter 1 in "Channel Codes: Classical and Modern" by Ryan and Lin.