★Is there any relationship between audio file compression (i.e. bit-rate reduction, etc.) and DSP compression (i.e. dynamic operation often done to fatten sound, etc.)?
It is true that both operations are called compression - and not one but many articles will use both words. The DSP Compression that is used to fatten the sound works by making sure that the output level is lowered with respect to the input level, when the input crosses a certain level. The amount that is to be lowered is also usually definable. Applying Level Compression would lower the average output volume if no compensation gain is applied. At this stage it is important to define that Dynamic Range is merely the difference between loudest and softest sounds. If a system peaks at 0, but never falls below -3 dBFS, the dynamic range is merely 3dB. When it comes to bit rate of an LPCM wave (.wav or .aiff), every bit indicates an additional range of 6dB. So 16 bit recordings can have a maximum of 96dB, and 24 bit can have 144dB of dynamic range.. i.e. difference between loudest and softest volume. In theory, when you convert a 24 bit to 16 bit, the extra bits on the LSB end are truncated and then it is requantized - and so there shouldn't be any change to the level as such. Although, now at 16 bits, the system can only handle 96dB - the amount of headroom available is now much lesser. So the final result can be said to have a max of only  96dB dynamic range - this is also regarded as compression of Dynamic Range, but not necessarily a result of DSP Compression. This might be what the article is referring to. It should be noted that this is a Lossless Wave file. There has been no encoding, or use of codecs in the process. Another point at this stage is that some dynamic ranges include the noise floor. A 16bit system would have much less than 96dB if the noise floor were taken into consideration. Changing 16bit would theoretically retain the same dynamic range as the original 24 bit version, but 16 bit would have a higher inherent quantization noise - that becomes a part of the noise floor. In contrast to all this, Bit Rate Compression derives its name from the software terminology for lowering file size. Like Zip, and Rar compression. This compression uses techniques like Variable length encoding and encodes the bitstream to a new bitstream. To retrieve the information in this encoded stream , a decoder is required - which is often what a Codec (Coder - Decoder) is. Encoding the bitstream might cause spectral losses, but the dynamics are usually left intact - unless the encoding also encodes loudness information. If this is the case, there might be a loss in dynamics when the stream is decoded. Apart from that change, Bit Rate Compression is in no way related to manipulating the dynamic range like the DSP does. The lack of properly distinguishing these types in articles completely un-nerves me, but I guess we'll have to just deal with it. Hope this was helpful.