★How can bit rate affect video quality?Note 4 can record at 45 mbps and iphone 6 (vizzywig 8xhd app) at 120mbps. Doesn't  that makes iphone a lot better if that mattered . Isn't bit rate just about video size. Can any body explain?
Imagine these extremes of bitrates for a 1080p video: 1 bps, and infinite bps. At 1 bps, you couldn't build up a picture. A single bit per second would only be enough to signal a player to show one of two colors in the frame once a second -- effectively just flashing the screen once a second. At the other end of the spectrum, infinite bps will give you a perfect picture, but you don't need infinite bits to draw a picture. At 1080p, there are 1920x1080 pixels x 24 bits per pixel (in fact for video, you usually use fewer, but for still images 24 is common) - or about 48 million bits per video frame. Anything more would be wasted since you can perfectly redraw the picture as captured by the camera. In practice, of course, video compression techniques are used to shrink how many bits are required to represent the video frame - often taking advantage of the fact that many times subsequent video frames are very similar, so you need only record the changes - and sometimes adjacent pixels that are similar colors could be treated as one color. There's other techniques as well. The combination of techniques makes the number of bits required to represent the video frames smaller, but also, you can adjust the tolerances for error to make the data even smaller (for example, changing the threshold for similarity between pixel colors before it decides they are close enough to be treated as the same). As yo decrease the bitrate, the more tolerant the compressor is of errors and the more artifacts appear in the video. you can also increase the bitrate, but higher rates have diminishing returns because the differences in the video become so subtle you can't perceive them (and ultimately you hit a bitrate so high that you are effectively storing a series of uncompressed snapshots and you simply can't don better). Two different compression methods may differ in their efficiency, so the quality at the same bitrate may not be comparable. The general strategy is to start at higher bitrates and then encode at progressively lower rates until the quality loss is noticeable. Experienced video encoders will even be able to tell you good target bitrates for different algorithms and resolutions based on the type of video and personal experience.