★Why does low-bit rate audio sound tinny?Anything below 64kbps sounds tinny, but I'm not sure how that translates in terms of signal processing terminology.
You need to first understand a little bit about how MP3 works. The terms 'lossy encoder' and perceptual encoder mean the same thing. MP3s and other lossy formats toss away some of the information in the audio file and so the quality is reduced as a result. However, the way they do this takes advantage of the way human hearing works, to minimize the quality reduction. As others mentioned bit-depth is the number of amplitude levels used to encode the audio. CDs use a a bit-depth of 16 bits. Higher quality audio might use 24 bit instead.16 bits means there are 65536 (2^16) amplitude levels (positive and negative ie from -32767 to +32768). So bit-depth really does mean the resolution of the amplitude level (sample rate could be considered the resolution of frequency for the other factor that affects audio quality). A common way of thinking about bit-depth is that greater bit-depth means a greater Signal-To-Noise Ratio. With more bits, you can more accurately recreate quieter sounds without the noise overpowering the audio you want to record. If there are not enough bits to capture the audio, you get what is called quantization noise. When a piece of audio is captured at a sample rate of 48kHz, the audio waveform is sampled once every 1/48000th of a second and assigned the closest amplitude level available (based on our bit-depth). If you think about this, if at the exact moment we're sampling the audio waveform, the signal level is actually in between two of our amplitude levels, you get a slight error.This is known as quantization error. So fewer bits, means that there are fewer levels available and you are more likely to have quantization errors, which result in noise. Now the human hearing system is incredibly sensitive, and even if we only have a single bit available, that is on or off, we can still recognize a signal with that noise - even if it sounds awful. See the second audio link on my post (Understandability at 1 Bit) where I demonstrate this. There are clever ways to make quantization noise less annoying. This is a process known as dither, which effectively adds random noise to the signal, so the noise sounds more natural. The first audio link is dithered audio. The signal is still recognizable but the noise sounds more natural instead of that horrible electronic noise. Of course low quality MP3s don't sound like low-bit depth wavs. You mentioned they sound tinny, which is often correct. So we all know MP3s are lossy formats and as mentioned they throw away audio information because they have less bits so the file size can be compressed. You would expect MP3s to have lots of quantization noise instead of sounding like some of the frequencies are missing. (This video shows you what missing frequencies sound like). But MP3s still have the same sample rate as the source file. That doesn't change (otherwise the player wouldn't know how to play the file and the audio might speed up or slow down as the sample rate changes, if the player doesn't also change with it) The way MP3s work is a very clever way to minimize the quantization noise cause by reducing the number of bits. They take advantage of how humans hear audio to determine the most effective way to distribute the bits, so we don't notice as much of the changes. A 128kbps MP3 is about 7 times smaller than a lossless wav, but it's hard to tell the difference. If you were to change a 16 bit wav to a 4 bit wav (4 times smaller) you would definitely notice that. Instead of bit-depth (number of bits per sample), MP3s use a bit-rate (number of bits per second). So any given sample may have more or less bits available depending on the content it is encoding. Human ears can hear up to about 20kHz, but in reality we hear frequencies around 1k - 4k much more easilty than higher frequencies (above 10k). You can see for yourself by watching this video. MP3s also take advantage of the fact that if two sounds have almost the same frequency, the louder sound will completely mask the quieter sound. Taking advantage of this knowledge it makes for MP3s to distribute bits to the frequencies we are more likely to hear first, and then if there are any leftover at the end to redistribute them to sounds we're less likely to hear. Based on the fact that we're less likely to hear very high frequency  or very low frequency sounds, if an MP3 encoder has a limited bitrate, it will tend to not encode those frequencies. You can see in this post (Neil Young Still Hates Digital Music) what it looks like when a low quality MP3 is encoded, and which frequencies are missing. If there is missing low frequency information it will sound tinny. Missing high frequency information, cause a loss of detail. So a low quality MP3 has both problems - missing frequencies and quantization noise. As you reduce the bitrate, listen for sounds that have a lot of frequencies that are harder to encode. Cymbals and drums in particular are harder to encode because they are short signals with a lot of frequencies. .