What is your best description of pass by value vs. pass by reference?
Imagine a restaurant.  Back in the kitchen, a cook makes the orders.  Out in the main room, a waiter takes the orders from the customers. Between the kitchen and the main room, there is a small opening through which the waiter tells the cook what the orders are, and through which the cook passes the prepared food back to the waiter. 1. Pass by value: After taking the order from the customer (let's say he writes it on a slip of paper), the waiter calls back orders to the cook, like "ONE CHEESEBURGER WITH FRIES!".  The waiter retains the slip of paper on which he's written the order.  The cook hears the information (the order), and makes it, and passes it through the opening when it's done. If the cook made a pizza by mistake, the waiter will know it's wrong, because he still has the paper on which he wrote "1 cheeseburger with fries". When passing orders back to the cook, only the VALUE of the order is being passed. 2. Pass by reference. Rather than merely calling back orders, the waiter passes the slip of paper back to the cook, on which the order is written.  The cook makes the order and passes the food, as well as the slip of paper, back to the waiter. In this scenario, since the cook has not only the information (what the order is), but also the REFERENCE to the information (the slip of paper on which the waiter wrote the order), he could, if he wished, change the order.  He could erase "1 cheeseburger with fries" and write "1 pepperoni pizza".  The he could make a pizza and pass it, along with the slip of paper, back to the waiter.  The waiter would then check the order against the paper and conclude that everything was correct. Or maybe more realistically, suppose there was an option on the menu called "cook's special".  When the customer ordered that, the waiter could just LEAVE THE SLIP OF PAPER BLANK and pass it back to the cook.  Seeing that, the cook could then write on the paper anything he wanted to make, make it, and pass the food and the paper back to the waiter. Does that help to illustrate the difference between pass by reference, and pass by value? 