What is your best description of pass by value vs. pass by reference?
Passing by reference is like telling somebody your street address. You give your address to a builder, and they come around and renovate your bathroom. You can then give your address to the painter, and they'll come around and paint your house. Everything that happens is happening to the one house. If you sell your house, you tell the new buyer address, hand them the keys, and walk away. Passing by value is like delivering a house that's exactly the same as yours to people. The builder can renovate the bathroom in that house, but it's not your bathroom, it's a bathroom on a different house that just happens to look the same. The painter can then paint a house, but it's not the same house the builder renovated the bathroom in, but it's not your house either: it's a third house that's identical to yours except now for the paint job. If you want the painter to paint a house with a renovated bathroom you would then need to copy the house the builder renovated and deliver it to the painter, and if you want that to be your house, you'd then have to copy the painted, renovated house and deliver back to yourself. When you sell your house, you would build a whole new house that's exactly the same and then deliver it to the buyer, retaining your old house. Any changes you make to your old house afterwards won't be reflected on the buyer's house. There are advantages to both methods. Obviously passing by value means that you're using a lot more resources, which is wasteful. Every object uses up memory (building materials) and takes time to copy, so if you simply want the object modified and don't need to keep the original, passing by reference is the way to go. But sometimes you don't want to do that. For example, in Objective-C you pass string objects by reference. That's often a bad idea when setting up objects because it means the string may be modified by something else after the object has already been created. So you need to specifically say that you want a copy of the string (passing by value, effectively) and not a reference to the original string. 