★What is an intuitive explanation of a stationary distribution on a Markov Chain?
So, you decided to join a vocational training school and wanted to improve on an array of skills. You picked up the following skills as targets to improve on by the time you finish your school : [Driving, Cooking, Car Repair, Stitching, Carpentry] But it's not like you want to spend equal time on every skill, maybe because you want to spend more time on skills you think would be more valuable in the market, or you want to spend more time on skills that you think you're weak at. We'll quantify how you want to distribute your time over different skills on a scale of 0 to 1. [Driving, Cooking, Car Repair, Stitching, Carpentry] = [0.1, 0.2, 0.3, 0.2, 0.2] The school allows you to only learn one skill at a time, so you can't be learning more than one skill at the same time. You're allowed however to choose a different skill each day for improving on it. Based on your own preferences and restrictions of the school, you also know how likely it is for you to go for Cooking on a day, given that you went for Car Repair the previous day. P (Today's skill =  Cooking | Yesterday's skill = Car Repair) = 0.3 Similarly, the likelihood of switching between each pair of activities on consecutive days is known. The likelihood values take into account both your personal preferences and the restrictions of the school. The likelihood values would solely decide if you'll be able to actually obey the distribution of time over skills you really wanted. Okay, so what's happening here? In the Markov Chain terminology, the likelihood values define the transition matrix , and the way you want to distribute your time over different skills defines the initial distribution . A stationary distribution for a markov chain with transition matrix has the following property: In the context of our example, this means that your choice of the combination of likelihood values , and the distribution of time over different skills actually allows you to keep up with the time distribution over skills you wanted. So looks like you've made a good choice for your school.    Embed Quote