★What are Markov Chain Monte Carlo methods in layman's terms?
It's a mathematical method.  I'll describe how it's usually practiced (this is the layman's answer), but the answer is still going to be mathematical.  The good news is, this is mathematics and modeling that you can do in a spreadsheet (e.g., Excel) and with the mathematical functions that probably come with the spreadsheet program. At the highest level, Monte Carlo is a method of predicting the probabilities that various events are likely to occur in the future.  Markov chains are the most common way to build the future states from some present state. 1)  A Markov chain is a sequence (chain) of events arranged in a time sequence (like today's price for Xerox stock, tomorrow's price, the next day's price, ...) and characterized by probability rules for how each step in the sequence depends on the previous step.  So the rule for Xerox stock prices might be where = the stock price on the ith day = the stock price on the day (the previous day) is that day's % change in stock price.  p is a random variable and part of a Markov chain model for Xerox stock would specify a probability distribution for p.  You might get this distribution by fitting daily percent changes in Xerox stock over the previous 1000 trading days, or some other period that you think is representative.  The right probability distribution is the most important part of the method and the hardest to get right.  Past variations in a company's stock are a better predictor of that stock's future price than, say, sun spots.  But if, for example, a company is now getting out of the printing business and into the service business, its future may be very different (better or worse) than its past.  So a Markov chain of possible future Xerox stock prices would start with today's price and a probability distribution for daily changes and it would construct a sequence of possible future prices, perhaps for the next year.  Of course if you did this again, with different random numbers from the same distribution, you'd get different future prices, maybe very different. 2) The Monte Carlo method calculates thousands (or, even better, millions) of these Markov chains and analyzes the results.  In a spreadsheet, each Markov chain might be one row with maybe 200 columns for the next 200 trading days.  In Excel it's easy to build a spreadsheet with 1000 rows, each containing the same formulas generating independent random numbers from the same distribution. The analysis is usually in percentages.  E.g., in what percent of the cases does the stock price double some time during the period?  In what percent of the cases does the stock price drop by more than 1/3 during the period?  What is the distribution of final prices?  For as many possibilities as you can think of, you can count outcomes and calculate probabilities.  The great advantage of this method is that it doesn't just give you a best estimate or probable average result.  It shows you how widely the results may vary.  The great danger is that you might be using an unrealistic probability distribution.  In particular, models of stock prices and of the whole stock market usually underestimate the probability of extreme events.  See             The Black Swan: The Impact of the Highly Improbable        by Nassim Nicholas Taleb This is actually a lot of fun.  I recommend it as a learning exercise.  And I caution that I've lost money by investing in stocks whose future looked good because their last few years were good.    Embed Quote