★Markov Chain Monte Carlo: What are some real-world applications of MCMC?
One interesting use of MCMC is the Nested Sampling Algorithm, which compares models using a Bayesian approach. It estimates the posterior of two competing models for a given data set. Analitically, this involves integrals over the parameter space for each model, which can quickly get very complicated to do "by hand". This algorithm was designed by John Skilling and presented in the paper "Nested Sampling for General Bayesian Computation", in the 2006 journal of Bayesian analysis. Abstract: Nested sampling estimates directly how the likelihood function relates to prior mass. The evidence (alternatively the marginal likelihood, marginal density of the data, or the prior predictive) is immediately obtained by summation. It is the prime result of the computation, and is accompanied by an estimate of numerical uncertainty. Samples from the posterior distribution are an optional byproduct, obtainable for any temperature. The method relies on sampling within a hard constraint on likelihood value, as opposed to the softened likelihood of annealing methods. Progress depends only on the shape of the “nested” contours of likelihood, and not on the likelihood values. This invariance (over monotonic relabelling) allows the method to deal with a class of phase-change problems which effectively defeat thermal annealing. Reference: Page on cmu.edu It also is featured in D. Sivia and Skilling's book Data Analysis. The method used Metropolis-Hastings MCMC to sample the likelihood distribution. This sampling can also be used to estimate the best-fit values to the data set. I know there is a free code to this algorithm, but I can't remember its name. And my NS code is way too messy and crude to be distributed yet.... EDIT: I remembered two public codes for MCMC parameter fitting. The first, CosmoMC, focuses on cosmological parameters http://cosmologist.info/cosmomc/, but I think it can be editted to work with other data sets. The second, emcee, has many other uses (inclusing astrophysical ones) http://dan.iel.fm/emcee/current/ There are also MCMC applications to statistical mechanics, but as I'm not skilled in the area, I prefer not discussing it here.    Embed Quote