★How can I configure static DHCP on a Netgear WNDR3400v3?
Your question is contradicting, but from what I can tell you are trying to achieve one of the two things here. I am not familiar with this specific router's config but i will do my best to try and explain this. 1) You are trying to create static IP for your WAN(internet) connection. This is something that can only be done by your service provider and depending on who they are they might charge you for it. This is only needed if you are planning to run a dedicated server, and if it's not a private server it may be against your ISP's policies unless you're subscribed to a "business" plan. 2) [Most likely] You are trying to open/forward ports for a specific application on a specific machine. I think it helps to know the bare basics behind the concept to understand how to execute it, so I will include my best explanation of how it's done, and why it's done in the first place [You may skip this part]. Why is this needed in the first place? basically your router, besides providing you with wifi and extra ethernet ports - acts as a very dumb, yet highly configurable hardware firewall. By default, for your safety, only certain ports are open such as port 80 which used for HTTP [website hosting]. Routers usually work on the "block unless specifically asked not to"  Since the router doesn't know any better it will try to block or restrict packets coming in through closed ports. So, considering all this, you installed a new program that uses internet connection, whether its for gaming, or file transfer purposes, or a VPN, whatever. It might be some obscure program nobody's ever heard of that uses some obscure port (lets say 6664) that hardly anybody else uses. Your router will by default block it. In order for you to Unblock it you need to open port 6664 to allow data transfer through it, OR if possible you may tell the app to use a different port that you already know is open. Few ways of doing it. One is you globally open the port on your router (forward port 6664 on your router's IP address). What this does is it tells router "Allow ALL connections through port 6664 on me (which consecutively means all devices connected to the router)" Two is open DMZ on your router (ALL ports are open. Extremely un secure, not recommended). Last is forward 6664 to individual or single computers where you will need to provide IP addresses for those computers. THIS is where Static IP comes in handy. You may find out your computers IP address through IPconfig and just open the port on that IP address.  It will work, but since your router is setup to use DHCP by default you may run into a problem after your restart your computer - it may be given a different IP address by DHCP server and your port forwarding that you set up earlier will not be valid anymore. This is why you assign static IP to a computer. What your'e doing is basically telling your network "From now on I want a device named a:123:b to be known as 192.168.1.3 and allow ALL packets coming through port 6664 to be sent to 192.168.1.3 until further notice."  (a) You are trying to have your router assign same IP to certain devices at all times. There are two ways of doing this. One is on the router's side (global), and the other one is on the client's PC. This is called LAN static IP setup. You may do this on your router in your DHCP config where you will be able to assign an IP within DHCP's range to a specific mac address. [Example - imagine your PC's mac is a:123:b. You may assign IP address 192.168.1.3 to mac a:123:b and every time your router will recognize a device with above MAC it will assign 192.168.1.3 to it]. This is probably the most reliable way of doing this because your devices MAC address will always stay the same no matter what OS you're running or how many times you decide to re install. Try to find your router's manual in PDF form online and you should be able to get instructions on how to assign IP addresses. (b) Second way would be to assign a static IP on a client side. Basically you're telling your computer "If you connect to this network I want you to ask the router to assign 192.168.1.3 for your LAN IP". This is the easiest way to do it, and it works just as well as the first method, but there are a few issues with this particular way of assigning static IP. First you may get address conflict if multiple machines try to request the same address from DHCP server. Whether you configured 2 clients to pick same address by accident, or because you already assigned this address via DHCP settings directly, OR because there's already an automatically assigned DHCP client with such address. Either way, if there are more than one device with same IP on the network - neither will work. Another minor issue with this method is if for whatever reason you revert your network settings to default, or re-install your OS you will lose the settings. Read how to assign static LAN IP in Windows here - http://www.howtogeek.com/howto/1... Though not as reliable as first method for advanced applications this is definitely the best way of setting up static IPs on a small home or office network. It's quick, easy and reliable enough for such use.