★How can I change my public IP from static to dynamic (DHCP)?My ISP give my a static IP and I want to change it to a dynamic IP, how can I do that? I tried with the CMD commands but it's not possible. There are other options?
Your public IP address is likely provided to you through the ISP's DHCP.  You don't have very much control of that, but it's unlikely that you have a static IP.  It may be that the license is set for a very long period of time. Whenever you get an IP through a DHCP, there is a period of time that IP is assigned to you.  Windows usually defaults this to 2 weeks, but the length of time can be easily changed by the server administrator When you start your modem, it makes a DHCP request to the ISP, which has a pool of public IP addresses.  Most homes and businesses only require one public address, which is an address that can be used to access the Internet.  The ISP's DHCP assigns an IP, and starts a license timer.  I've gone at least a year with a single IP before it changed. DHCP was created to deal with the problem of too many devices, not enough IP addresses.  With most ISP's, DHCP is beneficial to organize the assignment of IP's, but since most customers leave their MODEM on all the time, the ISP is required to have at least enough IP's to assign to all its customers. In some cases, a business may wish to have a static IP, which usually costs a bit more for "business class access".  This is advantageous if the business has a website that can be accessed using an IP address as well as a URL.  This is still treated using a DHCP call, but the DHCP server is set to give that particular device the same IP all the time. Most MODEMs have a utility to release and renew their IP, but the ISP's DHCP will likely renew with the same IP address as before.  Your only recourse at this point is to request a release/renew by calling your ISP's tech support. Just a quick note:  If your intention is to "hide" using a new IP address, your ISP maintains logs which identify which IP has been assigned to which MODEM.  If your intention is to prevent hacks, most hackers have a "bot" that scans IP addresses for possible targets.  Changing you IP does not prevent this, and if you have a vulnerable system at home, it will still be vulnerable. IP (Internet Protocol, often used as a term for your IP address) ISP (Internet Service Provider, the company that you get Internet from) DHCP (Dynamic Host Control Protocol, provides important information about the network to a network capable device). MODEM (MOdulator DEModulator, the device that converts the Internet to a home network)