★What is the difference between a URL and a URI?
All the previous answers cover different aspects of the difference. My answer is something I wrote for my own benefit, trying to explain the difference from a layman's perspective. A URI (Uniform Resource Identifier) is a label that can be used to name or to locate a resource on the The Internet. [1] An analogy in the real world could be a person's contact information. This information includes a person's name, as well as different forms to get in touch with that person: their phone number(s), street address, e-mail, etc. Following that analogy, a URL (Uniform Resource Locator) is one of those ways to get in touch with that person. The URL also specifies which way (a scheme or protocol) to communicate when contacting that person. Examples of schemes are http, ftp, file, mailto. Following that definition, a URL is a class of URI, which is in line with what Jeff Hammerbacher says in his answer. As mentioned above, the name is also a part of someone's contact information. Its URI counterpart is aptly called URN (Uniform Resource Name), and just like a person's name, it does not include information about how to contact that resource, only its name. URNs define namespaces, which in my analogy are like aliases. A person may have different names in different contexts, so the URN specifies the context with a namespace identifier. Examples of these identifiers are isbn, isan, mpeg. As Eric Kow describes, there is a difference between W3C's originally intended definition and what people actually use today. URIs were originally intended to have many more possible classes under them, but today only URL, URI and URC (Uniform Resource Characteristics) exist [2]. There was never support for other additional classes and regular use did not really call for their creation. Additional reading, although already included in the other answers above: [1] Wikipedia Article on URIs: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Uni... [2] W3C's RFC3305 on URIs: http://www.ietf.org/rfc/rfc3305    Embed Quote