★What is a URL?Where do I find it?
URL stands for Universal Resource Locator. But few people know it by that name these days. Better to think of it as what you might put into your browser's address bar. Think of it as a web address or a link. Anything that begins with http:// or https:// or ftp:// or even mailto:// qualifies as a URL. There are a few other "Network protocols" but these are the most common. Here are some URL's http://www.quora.com/What-is-a-URL http://www.quora.com/ http://www.quora.com/index.php mailto://someone@example.com Three parts of a URL: the Network protocol (the front part that tells the browser how to process it. http:// or https:// or others), the Domain or host name (like quora.com or www.quora.com), and the file or directory path (like index.html or /products) A whole string of other strange characters may follow that, as a way to send tracking information to the server. For example, when you search for a book on Amazon.com, it has a longer URL than is required. You can often cut off the part following the question mark and get the same page, if for example, you want to copy and save it in a file or send the link (URL) to a friend by email. I cut off the end of such long URL's and test them, before I copy and paste them to a text file for safe keeping. Rules of a URL A URL can have no spaces, quotes or Backslashes. All slashes are forward slashes. The trailing slash, at the end of a URL, is usually optional, unless it follows a filename. In that case, it's just wrong and prohibited. When you type in a URL wrong into your browser, you usually get a "404 File Not Found" error. Check your typing for typos.  Add or take out the leading www. Or cut off the end of the URL, back to the domain name, to see if the site is still active. If so, do a search for the title of the page you were looking for. They may have installed a new CMS, and the original post may be in a new location, or no longer there at all. While most browsers will get you to the address even if you leave out the URL protocol (the front part), there are a few places where it is required. For example, making a link in an answer clickable on a site like Quora often requires the full address, not just the name of the site. Where quora.com may or may not show up as clickable,  http://www.quora.com/ does show up. (Update: Quora allows for either form. Many forums do not.) The "www" in a URL Domain Name may be optional, required or prohibited to get to the site. It depends on how completely the site owner filled out the DSN record. In other words, you can sometimes leave it out and get the same result. It should be optional in all cases where the DNS record was filled out correctly. By tradition, the www is left off when you have a subdomain, like Page on example.com. Glossary of Terms DNS (Domain Naming Service) is how the Internet knows what server your website is located on. It's like a phone directory connecting the names of sites to the number or IP address of the site. Server: A computer (or set of computers) that offers (or serves) a particular service to a network, depending on what software is running. So an Internet server can host websites and serve webpages to browsers. An email server can host email. The same computer may have several server programs running, say a Database server and a web server. Or a single web server might be spread across several machines, to better distribute the workload of a busy website. Subdomain: If you own the domain example.com then you can create other, unique domains by prepending a name and dot to the front. For example, you might choose to put your blog in:  blog.example.com and your FTP files in: ftp.example.com. When creating a blog on Quora, you're asked to fill in the URL, but what it then creates is a subdomain of Quora. In this example, we have a Quora blog or subdomain (deepakmehta), and the particular post or directory (Getting-started-on-Quora). https://deepakmehta.quora.com/Getting-started-on-Quora    Embed Quote