★Information Theory: Is there a theoretical limit to data transfer rates?
The key question to ask before answering is what does one mean to transfer information. The (unbelievably successful) Shannon notion of information transfer was motivated presumably by Shannon by observing his colleagues work on communication technology problems of importance to AT&T/Bell Labs. It is fun to revisit that notion. Notwithstanding the undisputed generality of the idea of channel capacity, Shannon seems to have been motivated by electrons (moving in physical conductors) or electromagnetic waves as the mechanism for conveying information. But what if we thought of matter in motion instead? Suppose that I have a hard drive with 5TB worth of data. I give it to you by placing it in your hand. Did I transfer information? It would seem so! And how quickly did the transfer take place? It seems almost instantaneous. You might complain: hey, that is not real information transfer! My counterargument is: imagine that the hard drive has the password to your savings account and that the person receiving it is a notorious thief. Would you be concerned? Why would you be concerned if there was no information transfer? You might argue: you should be counting time from the moment you start moving your arm to transfer the hard drive to the moment the physical transfer takes place. And this does seem reasonable. Still, if (say) it takes 1 second to physically hand off the hard drive then it appears we have here a mechanism that transfers information at a rate of 5 TB/sec at a distance of say 1/2 meter. Not bad! Since we should normalize for the size of the hard drive, information transfer here may then be measured in bits/volume/second at a given distance. Here the volume refers to the physical attribute of the matter that is being moved to transfer the bits.  And while 5 TB/sec sounds impressive, this only scratches the surface of the possible since we are essentially bound so far by the density of storage. Silicon has an atomic density of 5*10^28 atoms/m3 and one could use as example a hypothetical  atomic memory that stores 1 bit every 100 atoms (an example that Feynman considered in "There is plenty of room at the bottom"). This gives us 5*10^26 bits / m3. The 5 TB hard disk is say 100cm3 in volume (10^-4 m3) so the same volume could store 5 * 10^22 bits and thus presumably we can transfer that many bits per second as per the earlier example. But wait, why stop there? Moving matter at human speeds is pre-industrial revolution! We can't go above the speed of light, but we could move fast, particularly important if we need to transfer at long distances. When matter moves in this thought experiment, it needs to accelerate and decelerate, which can cause the physical medium conveying the bits to deform and hence lose its information. That will put further limits to the speed of transfer of information however semiconductor memories are remarkably sturdy against this sort of problem, so it will probably be a while before this becomes a gating issue. Incidentally we finally see connections to Shannon's notion of channel capacity: the deformations in matter due to acceleration could be characterized statistically in the way Shannon defined a channel. This may all seem silly, however there are some very real implications. If I have a rack of storage containing say 1000 TB which I need transferred to a building nearby, I may very well be better off physically shipping the rack than copying its data through a network. Say it takes 2 hours to transfer the rack, then this is about 138 GB/sec, a transfer rate that we would be hard pressed to find in most networking setups.