★Apple Watch in 2015: In what form does Apple Watch return heart rate data to the apps? What is the frequency and precision of data points?
It's important to note that we won't see native Watch apps until developers are issued the necessary SDK, expected to arrive later this year. Native apps could permit the heart rate sensor to directly supply Watch apps with data, but we won't know until the SDK. With that in mind, for now, third-party apps will receive heart rate data from iOS's Health app. HealthKit api's allow developers to integrate their apps with Health app, leaving a final step up to the end-user who approves read/write permissions between the Health app and third-party apps. The Watch will record heart rate data, sent to and stored in the Health app, where third-party apps may read from. Frequency of writes from the Watch to Health app will depend on which mode a user has selected. Active tracking is constant, tracking every pulse. Other tracking records as often as once every 10 minutes. Precision of the technology used is as accurate as any consumer wireless heart rate monitor meant to detect binary pulse data; Pulse/rest. This includes most of the popular chest straps which have been around for over 25 years. (Polar, Garmin, Suunto) There are more sophisticated wearable sensors and accessories which are FDA-approved for recording full EKG, but aren't more precise for basic heart beat detection. Many variables affect recording heart rate accurately. The optical sensors of the Watch are scientifically sound. However, all consumer heart rate monitors are prone to error under certain conditions. For chest-strap monitors, too wet or too dry skin leads to bad data samples. For optical-based sensors, they need to stay in place throughout an activity. From my experience, the Watch worn sung, not tight, stays in place and records as  accurately or better than my Polar and Garmin chest straps. Again, technologically equal but environmental variables, like extreme heat/cold, can leave chest-straps too wet/dry and prone to movement which affect accuracy.