★Does Orthogonal Frequency Division Multiplexing provide high data rates compared to the single carrier modulation?If yes, please elaborate. my second question is, How would IFFT/FFT blocks in OFDM implementation create signals that are ORTHOGONAL to each other?
Okay... this is going to be tricky. First there was FDMA (frequency division multiplex). FDMA used FM carrier modulation. To avoid interference, there was a guard band between each subcarrier, so the bandwidth efficiency was not what it could be. Then ADSL OFDM came along to improve the bandwidth of wired lines and people quickly adapted OFDM for wireless transmission. Each subcarrier is modulated using a modulation like QAM and the sub channels can be abutted against one another using the strong resistance to intersymbol interference afforded by OFDM. Straight OFDM can exhibit what is known as high "peak to average power ratio" or PAPR. This is terrible for a power amplifier since the dynamic range must be very high and linear and the power efficiency of such power amplifiers is awful. Since cell phones want to have long battery life, using a 25% efficient power amplifier is a major battery killer. SC-FDMA (single carrier OFDM based FDMA) has a better PAPR and is used/proposed for the uplink or cell phone to base station in cellular systems. This enables more efficient power amplifier architectures such as Class F. An IFFT is used to generate the signal in both OFDM systems. In one, a less capable IFFT is needed to generate the subcarrier OFDM signal and in the SC-FDMA case a single, more powerful, IFFT (usually a DFT) is used to generate the transmit signal. I will punt on describing how the signals are orthogonal to each other. This is beyond the scope of a Quora post. But to point you in the right direction, look into Walsh codes as used in CDMA cell phones or even better look at how GPS enables each satellite to share the same channel. These are orthogonal codes and the cell phone signals are orthogonal to each other by virtue of using orthogonal codes to spread the digitized audio/data signal. UPDATE:Orthogonal Codes Orthogonal codes are codes that have the properties of random sequences when compared to another sequence (a different sequence or even the same sequence out of phase). Orthogonal codes have a correlation of one only when compared to itself with the same starting bit. A well known sequence is the maximal length pseudorandom (PRN) bit sequence. These sequences are easilyby a series of flip flops arranged as a shift register. A common maximal length sequence is generated by a ten 'D' flip flop shift register where the third bit and tenth bit are fed back into the first flip flop through an OR gate. When initialized with a single bit, this shift register will generate a bit sequence 1023 bits long before it will begin to repeat. Although the bit sequence is deterministic, it has several properties that are comparable to a truly random sequence including: The number of zeros is approximately equal to the number of ones. The number of "runs" (of consecutive zeros or ones) of length 'n' is about twice the number of runs of length n+1 (e.g. one half the runs are of length one, one fourth are of length two, etc). The autocorrelation of the sequence against itself is highest when the two sequences are aligned at the origin and decreases rapidly the further one moves from the origin. There are many maximal length seqeunces, some of which are very very very long. The mathematics of maximal length sequences are covered in Solomb Golumb's book, "Shift Register Sequences" Using this property of pseudorandom sequences, a second, information bearing bit stream is modulo 2 added to the first. Usually the first bit stream is clocked at a much higher rate, 10x or greater. Taking advantage of the orthgonality, several different signals can be overlaid on top of one another. The difference in orthogonallity will allow each signal to be recovered when collapsed down by correlating the bit stream against the original PRN code. GPS works this way. The short code or C/A (coarse aquisition) code is 1023 bits long at approximately 1.023 MHz (or 1 microsecond per bit). The C/A code is used to help acquire the P code (precise or long code). The long code is very long, at 10.23 MHz, the P is 266 days long at 102.3 nanoseconds per bit. Only 7 days of the P code are used. The result is that several satellites can share the same bandwidth and they accrue a signal processing gain that is used to isolate one satellite's channnel from another. This technique is called code division multiple access (CDMA). This is also why it takes so long to acquire a GPS satellite... it is searching through all of those codes and trying to align to one. Different orthogonal codes are used for just about every modern digital modulation scheme. They are the basis for WiFi, Bluetooth, ZigBee, and cell phones. CDMA cell phones in particular use a different orthogonal code called Walsh codes. These codes are shorter than the codes used in GPS, but the principle of how they operate is essentially the same. One problem is that by using a shorter length code, the "signal processing gain" is not as great. A cell phone may only be able to achieve 10-12 dB of isolation. While this may be good enough for two cell phone users sitting side by side, a caller closer to the cell phone tower may be received at the tower with much higher energy, overwhelming the two callers further away. This is called the "near far problem." The base station handles this by controller the amount of power your cell phone transmits. It does this 800x per second. If you are closer to the tower, it will adjust the cell phones power amplifer to be lower. If you are at the edge of the cell, it may turn your transmit power gain to its highest level. This ensures that all cell phone callers arrive at the tower with essentially the same signal level. Then the orthogonal code is used to isolate one user from another. WiFi implements the same orthogonal codes in a different fashion. Rather than mix the data stream and the orthogonal code, it uses two fixed length codes about 11x longer than the data bit. It has one for zero and different one for a 'one'. Each bit then transmit the 11 bit 'symbol' at the 11x higher rate. This technique is not as robust, but it is very simple to implement and still accrues much of the benefit. Orthogonal codes are the basis of OFDM. In addition to isolating signal channels, the orthogonality is used to improve intersymbol interference and stack multiple signal channels against each other in the frequency domain. The same technique is used with multiple antennas to implement MIMO.