★What is the data rate for the Voyagers now?Voyager program The data rate at Jupiter was 115kb, half that at Saturn.
Normally, 160 bits per second, but 1.4 kbps for plasma wave data. According to NASA/JPL (Voyager - The Interstellar Mission): Uplink communications is via S-band (16-bits/sec command rate) while an X-band transmitter provides downlink telemetry at 160 bits/sec normally and 1.4 kbps for playback of high-rate plasma wave data. All data are transmitted from and received at the spacecraft via the 3.7 meter high-gain antenna (HGA). On the Wikipedia page of the Voyager program: Because of the inverse-square law in radio communications, the digital data rates used in the downlinks from the Voyagers have been continually decreasing the farther that they get from the Earth. For example, the data rate used from Jupiter was about 115,000 bits per second. That was halved at the distance of Saturn, and it has gone down continually since then. The Wikipedia article doesn't cite any sources for that particular paragraph, but Ben Brown found this Page on nasa.gov with the achieved downlink data rates (after ground antenna improvements): As an exercise, let's see how the inverse-square law affects the data rate. The inverse-square law states that the intensity of the electromagnetic waves is proportional to the inverse of the distance squared. Meaning: going twice as far gives you four times less intensity. The relation between the data rate and the intensity of the received signal is formalized in the Shannon–Hartley theorem, which states that the theoretical capacity is limited by the signal-to-noise ratio: Here, is the bandwidth of the channel, and not really of interest right now; assume it is constant. Note that this is a theoretical upper limit. In practice, you're not going to make that, since you are going to need error correcting codes to ensure you receive the data correctly. This is formalized in the Noisy-channel coding theorem. This theorem states that your effective data rate is strictly less than , and and limited further by the acceptable error probability. Let's use Jupiter as reference and set the signal-to-noise ratio to 1.0.  Jupiter is on average 5.26 AU away from us. Saturn is, on average, 9.58 AU from us (I didn't check for  the actual distance at the time of the flyby's). Applying the inverse-square law, the intensity would be: Assuming that the noise power hasn't changed, the signal-to-noise ration is now 0.3. Plugging this in the capacity formula above we get that the capacity is now reduced by a factor of . We get a data rate of bps (compare with the table above). Voyager 1 is, in July 2014, 128.6 AU from us. Using the same equation as above: This yields a capacity reduction of . Plugging bps yields that the current data rate would be about 115 bps, which is indeed the case. (So, there is a bit more to the data rate calculations than just the inverse-square law; you cannot just apply it to the data rate as Wikipedia is implying.) Updated after Andy McFarland pointed out that I cut some corners because I forgot about the Shannon-Hartley theorem. Updated again when Ben Brown found a reliable source for the communication capabilities of Voyager, showing that my initial skepticism was not entirely justified.