Why didn't the Russian Winter impact the Soviet Union the same way it affected Nazi Germany?
So many people think that Russians were more tolerant to cold weather and that's why they survived. Or countries that fought with Russians and lost often blame their winter for their loss. Or others say that Russians were prepared, but not Germans. Any of them is not really true. Both Russians and Germans weren't prepared for the winters during WW2 for different reasons. The winters were cold to everyone, including Russians themselves! So how Russians survived? They were receiving large sum of aids from countries such as USA, BRITAIN and MONGOLIA. Especially, Mongolians who live in colder temperatures than Russians started sending large pile of warm clothes, blankets made of sheep, goat, and camel wools until the end of the war. It was a huge advantage that Russians had. Russian historian V. Suvorov wrote that Mongolian aid during the Soviet–German War was important like the United States assistance because warm clothes often decided victory in battles on the Eastern Front. These Russian soldiers are shown, wearing sheep wool coats that came from Mongolia as a war aid. Mongolians were sending wool and fur clothes, boots and gloves to the Soviet soldiers. The Soviet WWII veterans recalled wearing these coats as "not only extremely warm and cozy but also light." As you can see they look much more resistant to cold than their enemies. Mongolians weren't only sending warm clothes, but also foods and horses. Russians received over 500,000 horses from Mongolia during WWII. Mongolian horses are notorious for their survivability in extreme conditions despite their relatively small sizes. Issa Alexandrovich Pliyev, a Soviet military commander, later wrote "Among many horses we had, only our unpretentious Mongolian horses fought all the way to Berlin next to our tanks." A Mongolian horse in the ruins of Stalingrad. Mongolian horses didn't require much care, foods or shelters like other breeds as they were semi-wild breed. They can travel a long distance just by grazing even in the winter. Sometimes, in extremely cold temperatures, when all the cars and tanks were not functional, Russians were still able to be mobile thanks to their horses. In conclusion, Russians had an access to much more abundant and better resources than their enemies. Updated 47w ago • View Upvotes