What are the things that every Kannadiga should know about his/her state?
Every region in India has it's own specialty. These are the few things everyone should know about Karnataka. 1. 'Kannada' language we speak,is one of the oldest spoken languages of India. Which ranks 33rd highest spoken language in the world.It has a history of almost 2000 years. Ref: Kannada 2. Clean cities and best place to live:   4 cities of Karnataka stands in top 15 clean cities of India. Ref : Cleanest cities in India 3. Bangalore stands first in the world for best outsourcing destinations. 6 Indian cities among top outsourcing hubs - The Times of India 4. Karnataka contributes approximately 40% of Indian software exports. Ref: Karnataka to account for 44% of country 5. Karnataka is  India’s largest bio-cluster, with 158 of the country’s 320 biotechnology firms being based here. 6.  Karnataka has highest gold, iron and manganese reserves in India. 7. State of Tigers: Almost 13% tiger population of the world can found at Karnataka!! 8. Karnataka tourist paradise i. Ihole : Cradle of Indian temple architecture ii.Chennakesava Temple: Somanathapure iii. Patadakal iv. Hampi : UNSCO heritage site v. Mysore palace vi. Jog: Highest water fall of India vii. Unchalli falls. There are many more falls like Shivana samudra, Magodu falls etc. in Karnataka. 9. Second highest Jnapita awards Kannada literature is one of the best in India. Kannagigas won 8 Jnapita awards which is more than any other languages except Hindi. (It's not only about awards, Kannada literature is exceptionally good) 10. Karnataka produces almost half of the silk production of India. Karnataka is very famous for Sandal. 11. Bangalore: capital of Indian Start-ups      30% of Indian start-ups are from Bangalore. IT city is the best place to starups. 12. Karnataka contributes almost 1/8 th of Indian exports.( Note: Karnataka has less than 1/17 th geographical area of India.) Very few things are told, many left-out. It's my pleasure to add more if you specify the topic! Updated 20w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Anonymous