What are the things that every Kannadiga should know about his/her state?
Others have given wonderful answers containing interesting facts about Karnataka, let me concentrate on the fundamental things that every Kannadiga should know about Karnataka 1) The story of Karnataka Unification Movement Karnataka was not formed just by President and Prime Minister signing a piece of paper on which was written 'The princely state of Mysuru which contains all the Kannada speaking people of India will become the Indian state of Mysuru'. Karnataka Unification was as a result of 100 years of intent and 50 years of struggle by dozens of organizations, hundreds of leaders and lakhs of Kannadigas who not just lived in the princely state of Mysuru, but were scattered across as many as 20 administrative units, in most of which Kannadigas and Kannada were being neglected at the cost of languages like Marathi, Tamil and Urdu and the people speaking those languages. Every move, every decision, every struggle, every incident will give you goosebumps and the way in which they inspired lakhs of people to stand up and fight for the cause of our community, in an era where there was no television, no social media, is something from which we all have a lot to learn. Refer: The Internet / books / elders etc. 2) Karnataka is not just about Kannada The state of Karnataka was formed in 1956 as a result of the efforts of all the entities mentioned above in order to unify all the Kannada speaking people spread across as many as 20 different administrative units, and that is the reason why we often call Karnataka Rajyotsava as Kannada Rajyotsava. We also know that Kannada is the pre-dominant language of Karnataka. But, Karnataka is not just about Kannada and the Kannada speaking people. There are other indigenous languages in Karnataka and lakhs of people who speak those languages as their primary languages, a vast, vast majority of whom have gladly accepted Kannada as their second language. Even before any of these nation, state concepts came about in India, these linguistic communities have enriched Kannada art, literature, administration and culture in a magnificent way. Even during the Karnataka Unification Movement which was about unifying the Kannada speaking people, these linguistic communities and many of their leaders stood with us and gladly accepted Karnataka as their state. But I have observed a lot of ignorant fellows who don't know shit about Karnataka and the contributions of these linguistic groups towards our state, and keep blabbering crap about how these communities should give up their languages and identify themselves with Kannada, lest Kannada will face trouble from them. Son, Kannada will not face any problems from these linguistic groups. Kannada has gained, and will continue to gain from them. I have also observed how a lot of them who belong to these linguistic groups do not approve of being identified as Kannadigas, and feel they have always been denied their actual identities. The problem with this is - the definition of Kannadiga is subjective. While some take this to mean the person who speaks Kannada, some others take this to mean the person who is from Karnataka. There has to be a solution to this. According to me, we have to use a new 'cool' word to describe ourselves, the people of Karnataka. We may be Kannadigas, we may be Tuluvas, we may be Konkanis, we may be Bearys - but we are from the state of Karnataka. We may all gladly learn, know to read and write, and understand Kannada, but our diversities and identities should be respected, informally, formally and officially. Many might not have a problem to identify themselves as Kannadigas, but there will also be some who would want to identify themselves with their own language. We have to respect that. Hence, I request you all to suggest some cool names to identify ourselves, the people of Karnataka. I also humbly request you all to stop spewing venom and bad blood between Karnataka's own, awesome linguistic communities. All the indigenous languages of Karnataka and the people who speak them, have made Kannada and Karnataka what it is today. And it is time for Kannadigas and Karnataka to reciprocate the same and acknowledge their identities and the state's rich diversity.  Interesting fact: Krishnadevaraya, whom most of us brag to be the greatest emperor from perhaps the greatest empire to have ruled over our land, and one of the greatest emperors of Indian subcontinent, was a Tuluva originally from the Tuluva dynasty. Not just the Kannadigas, even the Telugus consider him to be their own, for such was his contribution in patronizing both Kannada and Telugu, apart from his own native language Tulu, and also Sanskrit. While he is affectionately called the Kannada Rajya Rama Ramana - the emperor of the Kannada State by Kannadigas, the Telugus consider his period to be the Golden Period for Telugu Literature.  Ladies and gentlemen, this is how historic and old, the cordial relationship between Karnataka's different linguistic communities are. When you have time, google 'List of Tuluva people', 'List of Kodava people', 'List of Konkani people' etc., and you'll be shocked to see the quantity and the quality of contributions many of the personalities you'll find there, would have made to our land, our language and our culture. You'd probably be surprised to find many names there, for you'd have taken for granted that they are primary native speakers of Kannada language. Many might not mind being identified as Kannadigas, but many might. One more reason why we can introduce a new name to identify the people of our state. Just like how we started calling our state Karnataka, and not Mysuru. All our linguistic communities have inseparable relationships with each other. We have to celebrate this and put our combined efforts to enrich our relationships further, instead of ignorantly distancing ourselves from other languages, and stop acknowledging their presence and identities. Kannada was of course the basis for the formation of our state, and it is going to continue to be the pre-dominant language of Karnataka, but Karnataka is not all about Kannada. We have to take all the linguistic communities together along with us, for they are all our treasure.  3) Kannada is not struggling / endangered in Karnataka I have recently started to come across this trend, that of how a lot of hyper-enthusiastic November Kannadigas from Bengaluru who suddenly start posting stuff like 'Kannada Belasi. Kannada Balasi. Kannada Ulisi. Kannada is struggling to survive in Karnataka itself. So please do Kannada a favour, and use it!' No! Kannada is not struggling in Karnataka. Kannadigas are struggling. They are not struggling in Karnataka, but in Bengaluru; and this is not because of some sudden alien invasion, but because of Bengaluru Kannadigas' own apathy. Everywhere else, maybe except in Belagavi where there is a presence of externally, politically supported trouble-mongering groups and again the same old apathy of Kannada speaking people towards their own status and their language over a prolonged period of time, Kannada is alright everywhere. What is indeed hopeless is our state politics who have stopped being representatives of the people of our state and are being mere sycophant subordinates of their leaders in Delhi, our film chamber of commerce which is filled with hypocrites who have kept their own interests above the interests of Kannada and Kannada people, the apathy of Kannadigas towards creating a huge market for our own art, literature, business transactions in Kannada, etc. Kannada is not in trouble, Kannadigas are in trouble. You are in trouble, not your language. If you don't use your language, you will not get anything in your language, gradually. Those who are firm about what they want, will get them, and so Kannada will stay on. But because your concern for Kannada is limited to November 1st, and rest of the days, you are more than willing to put that fake 'Kannadigas are broad minded and accommodating. They accept us (read: tolerate all the apathy, abuse we throw at them) with open arms (read: without standing up for themselves and their language, even once)' over your own interests and the interests of your linguistic community, you will suffer. Your future generations will suffer from identity crisis. A lot of kids already are. They will be unsure about their own roots, have an inferiority complex, will be apprehensive about how they are treated even if this is exactly where they belong, all this because you were willing to put fake appreciation over your own interests. There is a stereotypical term called 'American Born Confused Desis' which refers to the kids of NRIs/Indian Americans. There will soon be a similar term, called 'Bengaluru Born Confused Kannadigas', and that will be your contribution.  Now or twenty years down the line, I will continue to get what I want in Kannada, and if I don't, I will demand and get what I rightfully deserve - service in Kannada. All this along with others who think like me, and I know for sure there are lakhs of them in Bengaluru, and crores in Karnataka. We shall make sure Kannada will go forward, the same way it has for thousands of years. Kannada will survive. I will get what I want in Kannada, and so will those who will stand up for themselves. If you don't use Kannada and don't stand up when your own self-respect is hurt, you will be in trouble. Not the language. Kannadigas are in trouble in Bengaluru, not in Karnataka. Kannadigas are in trouble, not Kannada. If you want to help reduce the trouble, use Kannada and expect the same of other 'residents' when they interact with you, and all this because you are in trouble, not because the language is in trouble and is pleading you to use it so as to prolong its existence. Puhleez! 4) Festivals that Kannadigas celebrate                i) We celebrate Dasara, not Dussehra It is our state festival, which we affectionately call our NaaDahabba. We don't celebrate Dussehra, or Dusshera, or the other variants that people in other parts of India celebrate. But the open-hearted, broad-minded souls that we always love to brag we are, we have started to accept every other culture's names as our own. As a result, every one, including our own state ministers and state organizations, have started to wish us by an alien festival name, and have conveniently started to forget the name with which we call our festival. I had to remind the Karnataka State Minister for Energy, Mr. D K Shivakumar that the people of Karnataka celebrate Dasara and not Dusshera, before he rectified it, removed the poster and added a new one with Dasara on it. But you get what I am trying to say, right?                  ii) We celebrate Deepawali, not Diwali We celebrate Deepawali as the festival of lights. We don't celebrate Diwali. In our language, Diwali means going bankrupt/broke. All of us know what that means, but still, we have happily let everyone wish us Diwali, even though it means they are wishing us terrible times ahead. Every organization, every institution, every company, every business outlets, the people - they have all started to use Diwali, while conveniently forgetting Deepawali.                   iii) We celebrate Sankranti. Kodavas celebrate                                             Putthari. None of us celebrate Pongal. The same story here. But not that rampant as the other two. That's because most of us consider that our competition for prestige and self-respect is with the languages and cultures of neighbouring states, and not with the far mightier Northern Indian and western languages and cultures. How Macaulean! Many might consider this silly, and if looked at face value, it might actually look silly, but at the end of the day, all these subtle little things contribute to the bigger thing, that of how in every damn aspect, everything that is our own is slowly fading away, and it is WE who are responsible for it. We are actually going Diwali with our own indigenous culture, and we seem to be happy about it. If looked at in that sense, then it makes sense. Happy Diwali Kannadigas, time is not far when the indigenous culture you have retained will go Diwali. Don't be apologetic. Don't be on the defensive. Don't plead anyone to use Kannada or be proud about Kannada. Don't beg on behalf of our language in front of those who don't deserve such a high pedestal. Stop expecting others to help you out when you and your language are being insulted. Stop being helpless! Be positive. Be affirmative in your action and your demands. Be confident. Demand the status you and your language deserves. Your language should command respect, not request it. Fight righteously to get what you deserve. We have not done anything to request, plead and beg others to give us the status and service we deserve. Stand up for yourselves. Stand up, or don't care at all! But don't be an apologetic, defensive, helpless bugger and plead for Kannada's case. Our own people will laugh at us along with others, they will make fun of us, consider us as jokers who have nothing better to do, but it's alright. Our cause is greater than what mortals have to think about us. Remember this - 'First they ignore you, then they laugh at you, then they fight you, and then you will win'  Baarisu Kannada DinDimava! Oh Karnataka Hrudaya Shiva! 