Why didn't the Russian Winter impact the Soviet Union the same way it affected Nazi Germany?
There are so many great answers here that I am not sure what I can add, except to highly recommend James Lucas' book "War on the Eastern Front" which discusses at great length all aspects of the cold in warfare. The Germans were essentially fighting with one, if not both hands, tied behind their backs.  Anyone who thinks the Germans weren't thoughtful or or careful or methodical doesn't know Germans very well. But the High Command believed the war would be quick when it started and that it would be over before things got too cold. Then reality set in. It's typically called "The Friction of War", as the saying goes, the best plan goes out the window with the first contact with the enemy. The High Command dictated that the war would be over before the cold, so to even prepare for the cold was seen as Defeatism and Defensive Warfare and both were severely punished. Nevertheless, there were many units that DID in fact prepare for the cold. An army, especially the German Army, marches on its feet, and the Germans had the best leather boots available. They travelled with cobblers and could repair or make boots in the field. But leather is a terrible material for the cold and many Germans lost their feet when they couldn't keep them warm. Warfare often involves getting wet, and feet in particular  must be kept clean and warm on a regular basis. In cold weather this is not always possible. Trench foot was common. If you have ever seen what happens with trench foot, then you know a soldier who has it is no longer marching. The Russians not only had overly big boots, they also had felt inserts that kept their feet directly off the cold earth. The Germans would steal these boots from the dead whenever possible, or from prisoners. To lose your boots was a death sentence. The Russians also dressed in layers and had quilted jackets and hats that protected them. Even when the Germans had greatcoats, it was more of a single layer item than a multi-layer uniform. In "The Forgotten Soldier" Guy Sajer relates stories of two sentries being used where one was needed, so that they could beat each other with sticks to keep their blood from freezing. Men would stand around and piss on each other's hands just to feel a moment of warmth. Soldiers were issued a little stove, called an "Esbit" that could burn a fuel tablet and under a tent square could heat themselves, but fires were not allowed because the smoke would be a target for Russian artillery. Nevertheless, the Germans burned everything they could find, using grenades to fell trees. When it was really, really cold, the Germans and Russians ignored each other as they went about searching for things to burn and stay warm. Cold effects everything. German vehicles were susceptible; anti-freeze and gasoline would freeze in the vehicles. In some units, one vehicle had to be kept running all the time to parcel out warm antifreeze to the others. Fires were lit under the gas tank to warm the gas and unfreeze gas lines. In some cases pure alcohol was used as anti-freeze, but this reduced the rubber gaskets and hoses lifespan dramatically. Many vehicles had hand crank starters because the batteries were useless. Many vehicles had to be abandoned, in perfectly good shape, because they were frozen. Aircraft were also suceptible to the cold and would lose fuel pressure when fuel froze in the lines from the gas tank, and crash. German weapons were built to exact tolerances and could not take the cold well. Firing pins would snap off after firing the first round, or not fire at all if even a hint of moisture made it's way into the firing pin. Machine guns had to be covered at all times to prevent frost build up, or hit with a blow-torch to get them to start firing. Sometime machine guns with frozen parts would tear themselves to pieces after firing the first 3 rounds. The fingers of soldiers would freeze to the metal and the skin would tear off in strips leaving a bloody wound which would freeze solid in seconds. A soldier in Stalingrad writes his wife that he self-amputates his fingers one at a time as they freeze and now can only shoot his rifle with his baby finger. Artillery pieces would be discovered to be unusable because the actions would not open, or sometimes would blow themselves to pieces because the hydraulic fluid used in the hydropneumatic recoil systems no longer acted as a brake. In lots of cases, the cold fluid resulted in a very slow return to battery, reducing artillery barrages to ineffectiveness. Tank tracks would freeze to the ground and the tanks would become immobile. At night, smart commanders would park the tank up on wooden blocks to prevent this. On more than one occassion commanders would have to threaten the men with their pistols beccause the freezing men wanted to burn the supply sleds or wooden truck bodies for warmth. One soldier tells how he survive the cold by liberating a small acetylene torch from a damaged half track and using it to heat whatever area he occupied. But to say the Russians were not impacted is wrong also. Entire major battles were often fought to occupy the few standing buildings in the area, just to get out of the cold. Lucas relates a story of a German unit, completely surrounded in a small village and vastly outnumbered. They put up a valiant fight and hold off the Russians for the night, who they know were only fighting for the buildings, but if the Germans retreated, they would die in the cold, so they fought like madmen. The next day the sentries moved towards the Russian soldiers surrounding the village, an entire brigade of infantry. They never moved but followed the Germans with their eyes. They had stood outside all night waiting the order to attack and were unable to move any longer. In full view of the frozen Russians, the Germans limbered their guns and drove away. The Russians didn't fire a shot. They were unable to move. And even after the Germans were gone, they didn't move to occupy the warm buildings. They were no longer capable of movement and most likely hundreds died where they were standing. Russian truck designs were more in line with cold weather fighting as well. If you look at a Panzer 4 from 1940 you will notice the tracks are narrow, designed for hard packed roads or asphalt, while the T-34 has very wide tracks. Once the snow gets deep, narrow tracked tanks were immobile, doing  nothing more than cutting grooves in the snow, while the T-34 rumbled along. Even when the Germans went to wide tracks with the Tiger they used overlapping road wheels which would allow snow to freeze to ice and lock them up. Oftentimes, the wheels, unable to turn would tear themselves to pieces, or start a friction fire or freeze right to the ground. The Americans provided something like 500,000 lend-lease trucks and vehicles, almost all of which were 4 wheel drive. Only a fraction of German vehicles were 4 wheel drive and those that were, were worked beyond useful life out of desperation and were worn out. But after 1941 the Germans wised up to the cold and began to produce effective cold weather strategies and clothing for thier men, just as the Russians did. They spent a great deal of effort on cold weather survival tactics and the field manual they wrote on cold weather survival is STILL the same one used by NATO today, and much of it has been copied for the US Army.  In the book the engineering abilities of ice and it's plastic nature are shown to be useful. At one point, the Germans build a railroad bridge completely out of ice, 50 or 60 feet tall, where only the rails and ties are wood and steel, spanning wide rivers, using ice blocks to form the trestle and pouring water on the joints like it was cement. It took hundreds of tons of locomotives and freight cars and never buckled and operated until the spring thaws, saving a German army group from disaster. The Germans were unprepared for the cold when the war started, and the Russians were. But such is the nature of war, there is always going to be something you didn't anticipate or can't easily overcome. Both the Germans and the Russians engaged in scorched earth policies that destroyed buildings and left nothing to the enemy, and this effected both sides. But the Russians, after years of living with the weather, were more able to accept it pyschologically and acclimate to it physically. The war of 1941 was a disaster for the Germans, and when returning home on leave, German soldiers had to be relieved of all their captured Russian  clothing for fear of scaring civilians, and there were depots just for this purpose, the re-integration of the soldier into society, but after 1941, both sides began to fight knowing the rules and the consequences for not being prepared. 