How does one determine the number of clusters that are hidden in a given data set?
Possible duplicate of What are the most practical ways to select the "right" number of clusters? It would be beneficial if you had domain knowledge of the data at hand, and then use it to estimate the possible number of clusters. Otherwise you can use a different algorithm altogether, which doesn't require the number of clusters as a parameter. One such method is Density-based clustering. To really understand the number of clusters, you need to define what you mean by clustering in your context. For the sake of completeness, I'm repeating my answer to the question mentioned previously. Since visual data inspection is not a feasible option in your case, a stability analysis of the clustering algorithm may help. A good clustering of your data is one which remains stable. What this means is that if you repeatedly apply your clustering algorithm on different data-sets (but obtained from the same source), your clustering should remain the same. To avoid paraphrasing, I'm directly quoting a portion and image from the paper "Clustering stability: an overview" by Ulrike von Luxburg: "Shown is a data distribution with four underlying clusters (depicted by the black circles), and different samples from this distribution (depicted by red diamonds). If we cluster this data set into K = 2 clusters, there are two reasonable solutions: a horizontal and a vertical split. If a clustering algorithm is applied repeatedly to different samples from this distribution, it might sometimes construct the horizontal and sometimes the vertical solution. Obviously, these two solutions are very different from each other, hence the clustering results are instable (sic). Similar effects take place if we start with K = 5. In this case, we necessarily have to split an existing cluster into two clusters, and depending on the sample this could happen to any of the four clusters. Again the clustering solution is instable (sic). Finally, if we apply the algorithm with the correct number K = 4, we observe stable results (not shown in the figure): the clustering algorithm always discovers the correct clusters (maybe up to a few outlier points). In this example, the stability principle detects the correct number of clusters." Reference: [1007.1075] Clustering Stability: An Overview 