What are the things that every Kannadiga should know about his/her state?
Karnataka has the highest number of GI tags in India with Ilkal Sarees, Dharwad Peda, Bidriware, Channapatna toys, Mysore Silk being some among them ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Karnataka has the highest number of tigers in the country. Karunadu=Hulinadu. ​ ​ ​ One of the most glorious empires of India, the Vijayanagara empire had Hampi as its capital. The empire lasted for more centuries than even the Mughals. ​ ​ ​ The first CM of Karnataka was KC Reddy and not Kengal Hanumanthaiah as most believe. ​ ​ ​ Karnataka has the largest number of medical colleges in the country. ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Karnataka Ranji team is the 2nd most successful team in the history of Ranji trophy, having won the title 8 times. ​ ​ ​ Karnataka is the only state where all the three acharyas who have written the commentary on the Brahmasutras, have had a significant influence. Adi Shankaracharya established his southern mutt at Sringeri. Madhvacharya was from Udupi and Ramanujacharya lived in Melkote for a considerable period of time. Even Basavanna, the founder of Veerashaivism was from Karnataka. He was not only a great social reformer, but also a great proponent of Vachana Sahitya. ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Purandara Dasaru is called as the Grandfather of Carnatic music, ie "Pitamaha" of Carnatic music. Some claim that this title belongs to Thyagaraja but no it is Purandara Dasaru. ​ ​ ​ Kannada is the only language to have "ragale sahitya". Coffee came to India through Karnataka when Baba Budan, an arabic saint came to Chikkamagalur. ​ ​ ​ Gol Gumbaz, located in Vijapur is the largest whispering gallery in the world and also has one of the largest domes in the world. ​ ​ ​ The ancient Kishikandha, where Lord Hanuman, Sugreeva and other vanaras lived is nothing but modern day Hampi. In terms of area, Karnataka is the largest state in south India. Overall it is ranked 7th in terms of area and 8th in terms of population. There are only 3 profit making state owned bus corporations out of which 2 are from Karnataka, namely BMTC and KSRTC. ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Sir M Visvesvaraya, Pandit Bhimsen Joshi and Professor C N R Rao are the three Kannadigas to have been awarded with the Bharat Ratna. ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Seven of India's banks, Canara Bank, Syndicate Bank, Corporation Bank, Vijaya Bank, Karnataka Bank, Vysya Bank and the State Bank of Mysore originated in Karnataka. ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ ​ Karnataka also leads the nation in biotechnology. It is home to India's largest biocluster, with 158 of the country's 320 biotechnology firms being based here. The state accounts for 75% of India's floriculture, an upcoming industry which supplies flowers and ornamental plants worldwide. ​ ​ ​ Karnataka's smallest district, Kodagu, is a major contributor to Indian field hockey, producing numerous players who have represented India at the international level. The annual Kodava Hockey Festival is the largest hockey tournament in the world. ​ ​ ​ Karnataka has a rich diversity of flora and fauna. It has a recorded forest area of 38,720 km2(14,950 sq mi) which constitutes 20.19% of the total geographical area of the state. These forests support 25% of the elephant and 10% of the tiger population of India. ​ ​ ​ Karnataka has emerged as a hot spot for health care tourism. Karnataka has the highest number of approved health systems and alternative therapies in India. Along with some ISO certified government-owned hospitals, private institutions which provide international-quality services have caused the health care industry to grow by 30% during 2004-05. Hospitals in Karnataka treat around 8,000 health tourists every year. ​ ​ ​ There are 30 districts in Karnataka: Bagalkote Bengaluru Rural Bengaluru Urban Belagavi Ballari Bidar Vijayapura Chamarajanagar Chikkaballapur Chikkamagaluru Chitradurga Dakshina Kannada Davanagere Dharwad Gadag Kalaburagi Hassan Haveri Kodagu Kolar Koppal Mandya Mysuru Raichur Ramanagara Shimoga Tumkur Udupi Uttara Kannada Yadgir There are many more things that a Kannadiga should know. The more we know about our state, the better. The quest for knowledge is never ending. Jai Karnataka! Jai Hind!Edit- On Venkatesh Agnihotri's suggestion, I have included suitable pictures. Updated 37w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Anonymous