★HTTP Streaming: Which method is better , HTTP Downloading or RTMP Streaming?For my video sharing website, I am using Amazon Cloudfront(CDN) service , Here there is two option for video delivery HTTP Downloading and RTMP Streaming . So which method I have to use for video delivery to make video to run smoothly and to load faster even on heavy traffic ??? And what are the advantages & disadvantages of using these mathods ???
Luis gave a good (albeit lengthy) response to your question, but I'd like to point out a few inefficiencies with RTMP client delivery. In my opinion, it's on it's way out for two key reasons: 1. Dynamic Ad Insertion With segmented HTTP protocols like HLS, HDS, and DASH dynamically splicing in an ad is relatively simple at the stream level (analytics, user targeting, etc is still complex). Simply remove the segments that contain the ad pod and insert new segments that contain the advertisement. With RTMP this is traditionally done by switching to a new RTMP connection which normally results in a terrible buffering experience. 2. Caching and Cost RTMP is a persistent protocol that requires a constant connection with an AMS. This requirement increases the operational costs greatly as Adobe charges a license per server instance. This also means that every client needs to main state with the origin server all the time, which is a terrible burden to bear for your own CDN or a CDN like Akamai who will indeed charge you for it. With HTTP protocols these problems are lessened because CDN's were originally designed to serve HTTP web pages. This allows them to maximize preexisting origin/edge infrastructure instead of designing/maintaining new systems just for video delivery. This will bring down costs for them and hopefully the end user. What does RTMP do well? RTMP still makes a great internet "backhaul" protocol. It's a great way to move video from your Live encoder to a CDN or origin that can then package to the HTTP client side formats and neither does Adobe. With the advent and momentum towards their HDS format, I think it's safe to say that RTMP for end-user consumption will be a thing of the past within the next few years due to the issues above.