★What is Breather? (http://www.breather.com)
Thanks for the A2A Imagine you are a busy businessman/women arriving with the morning plane (only connection), but you still have about 6 hours to kill until your meeting begins. Personal shopping only take 1,5 hour, eating takes 1 hour and the rest of the time you need to work.  Starbucks is a bit noisy, the Lobby at the Hilton Hotel that you used so many times before waiting for your meeting while trying to plugin your laptop does not do it anymore for you. You want to work in peace, rest, recharge your batteries and take a Breather before your meeting starts. After your meeting, you preferably would like to send your reports to Head office until you take that evening plane were you got an SMS during the day that your standby booking came through. Everything in a day's work, without the extra hassle and cost for a hotel night, you will be able to meet your spouse and children thanks to efficient information logistics and a mobile App called Breather.  This could be a wish dream scenario for future Breather customers. Breather is a take on AirBNB business model by utilizing vacant commercial office space on demand at a price that is more competitive then the meeting rooms offered by Hotels or  Business centers. Breather for sure fulfills a need between home, public place and work. However there are some factors to consider. Although both Uber and ZipCar also work on P2P models and accessibility, they are fulfilling more pressing needs for a larger population of people on a day to day basis. Uber has in many places become a very competitive alternative to a weak Taxi/transportation Industry where the customer is King again with Uber. Uber has simply become a necessity app for many Americans who use Taxis to get from A to B. ZiPCar has filled the space between owning a car and renting a car. In these times when the Gas prices are Sky High, who wants to make a huge investment in a new car when the person can have variable costs and access to a car almost everywhere in the city. Zip Car will grow even more, because it is both an alternative and a necessity. For Breather, the supply side in the future might have a problem to get access to nice space if the local economy picks up and office spaces get rented again. Breathers model is also dependent on that the company can offer "value for money". At 20 dollars per hour nobody thinks twice, but what happens if you have to double the price? Suddenly Breathers market becomes smaller if the price is not right. Also, with supply changing in relation to important meeting points or buildings for an individual customers need (oh, is the Breather place that far away?) could create a difficult matching situation if Breathers target customers are a fuzzy group. On the demand side, business people are most likely the prime customer group for the company. There are some other segments as well, but price will there always be an issue, unless Breather can offer several payment models depending on customer group were a subscription model could be advantageous. This would create a fixed revenue stream to Breather and work regarding their differentiation strategy. Something for every customer group. I see also the necessity besides volume to offer variety e.g sleeping arrangements as well. For example combining Breather with offering also sleeping pods as they have in Japan. Working with business people all over the country and showing accessibility for foreigners, require efficient target marketing to individuals information logistics, becoming known to airlines, trains, busses and "Uber" so that Breather can be part of the transportation chain. This requires great flexibility, no hassle and  instant on demand gratification. So the Breather organization has its work cut out in terms of marketing and logistics to make everything work smoothly. Hotels have standardized processes from monitoring a room and keeping it in ship shape.  Inspection and maintaining the Breather rooms can either be left to the owner, or needs to be outsourced. As soons as too many people are involved in this process, you risk to have differences in quality. Breather is or should be targeting both business and the impulse market .It will take some time for Breather to take off in turnover, because people need to adjust accordingly and have in their minds that the Breather app exist and can become a necessity for many. Key is accessibility, differentiation in offers, volume and efficient marketing towards the business community. It will take more time then Uber or Zip Car, but once the App is established Breather should have all the customers they can handle since we are talking about a mass market with additional revenue streams.  Breather needs to handle everything perfectly, so it becomes an institution in itself. Breathers competitors will not sleep forever, were the Hotel industry will think of something as well. For myself, it would not be a prime investment opportunity, since Breather offers in some sense an impulse item and not a necessity as Uber does. However landscape and cities can change. Breather is a natural response in fulfilling a gap in the market. How efficient, remains to be seen. Hope it helps!