★How does an infrared thermometer work?
Infrared thermometers are a pretty simple tool, not to mention inexpensive (accept if you have certain needs then there are more complex and expensive ones out there from companies like Fluke and Klein Tools).  IR thermometers are non-contact measuring devices that can detect either very cold or very hot surface temperatures.  You may see them called also laser thermometers but this can cause some confusion.  Yes, when you point and shoot the temp gun in the area you want to measure, a laser will emit from the thermometer.  However, the laser is not what is capturing the temp.  The laser is merely used to indicate the exact point of measurement.  The infrared thermometer itself is what is measuring the temperature of the surface of whatever object you want.  It does this by measuring the infrared energy being emitted from the object.  However, in order to get this measurement more accurately, one needs to have the thermometer set to correct emissivity (some thermometers have an adjustable emissivity like the Amprobe models or a fixed emissivity like the Klein Tools IR1000) of the object.  You can find out the emissivity of the object your our measuring through reference tables you can find online.  Emissivity is measured 0-100. Once you know this, and have your thermometer set then you can accurately get your measurement.  Another factor to consider when buying a temp gun is it's distance to spot ratio which basically means how far you can be from the object to ensure an accurate measure.  Once you are out of this range then you may not come up with the correct reading.  Most I have found have about 12:1 but more expensive ones can be a large as 30:1.  So in conclusion, know your needs because that will dictate what kind of thermometer will be right for you.  You may find that the right infrared thermometer for you is less than $20!  After that, make sure to read the manual so you can find out all the specifics on settings.  There are many can help you to make the right decision, just Google it! Here is one right here that is great http://www.gunandcamera.com/ulti...    Embed Quote