★Why haven't most animals (including humans) evolved infrared vision to see in the dark?
The problem with infrared light is that the entire world emits it.  Everything that's warm shows up on infrared.  Some animals are warmer than their surroundings (birds and mammals), but only just.  It would take a fairly fine discrimination to use infrared vision effectively. For non-warm-blooded animals, the differences are even smaller.  Cold-blooded animals will still have metabolic hot spots, but they're not that much warmer than the background.  Fruits and vegetables are at exactly the background temperature, and don't stand out in IR at all.  So even if an animal did develop an extra set of infrared-sensing pigments, it wouldn't do it all that much good.  If you're a warm-blooded animal, the IR sensors are going to pick up your own body heat as well.  You could, say, put them on stalks, but that's a lot of extra mechanism.  On earth (at least in nature), only one thing emits light, the sun; as long as you don't look at it, you're OK.  Any hot thing will emit IR, and if you've got something very hot around, you risk oversaturating your IR sensor, rendering you blind until the pigments reset. Some snakes have a very rudimentary set of IR sensors, at the tip of the nose, away from the eyes.  They don't need the kind of focus that the eyes have; they just need a rough idea of where a warm mammal snack is.  They can then use their other senses to narrow down precisely where it is. Ultraviolet, on the other hand, is easily distinguishable from background radiation.  Many species can see in UV, including some birds and insects.  Mammals, however, evolved nocturnally, when there's very little UV light around.  Mammals don't see blue very well, either; it's the least sensitive part of your vision.  Reds and yellows are much easier to pick out in dim light. IR might have come in handy then, when the world is coolest, but insects (the primary source of early mammal food) don't show up in IR, and neither do vegetables.  Other mammals show up great, but they're not all that attractive as a source of food, since they're not easy prey.    Embed Quote