★At what temperature does water absorb the most infrared radiation?
Absorption spectra of water depends on multiple factors. The first thing to remember is that Infrared itself is a wide spectrum. Absorption of radiation of different frequencies is different. A typical absorption spectra for water can be somewhat like this. There are three peaks at which absorption is maximum. Hence there can be no specific answer for your question, since it is incomplete. However here is a result by JR Collins in 1925. There is a shift toward shorter wave-lengths as the temperature  increases and also a marked increase in magnitude of the maximum  absorption for the bands at.77,.98 and 1.21μ.  These changes are qualitatively explained by Roentgen's hypothesis that  water is a mixture of at least two kinds of molecules, presumably (H2O)2 and (H2O)3, whose relative amounts change with a change of temperature.source: Change in the Infra-Red Absorption Spectrum of Water with Temperature I believe you may be asking this question to try to summarize as to what role it plays in Global warming. When natural water comes into question, we must take into consideration the various salts and minerals dissolved in the oceans. One may conjecture that as the polar ice caps melt, the salinity of water decreases, and this may affect the absorption spectrum again. However temperature plays much more of a key role in absorption, rather than salinity. The literature says, We looked at the influence of temperature and salinity on the absorption coefficient of water with emphasis on the red and near-IR portions of the spectrum. The absorption coefficient of pure water was found to have a strong dependence on temperature and little dependence on salinity near the harmonics of the O-H bond-stretching frequency. We found an increase in the absorption coefficient of 0.009 m-l “C-l at 750 nm and 0.0015 m-l “C-l at 600 nm.source: Page on oregonstate.edu So that is how you define a maximum value in science. You need to define the exact constraints of wavelength, concentration, temperature, pressure, and any other physical entities that may vary in practice.    Embed Quote