★What would we see ultraviolet or infrared light as?if an object reflects only ultraviolet light and absorbs every other what  would it look like? what about of it only reflected infrared light? how would a normal person see those objects?
The human eye can only detect light that falls within the visible spectrum (about 400 to 700 nm). Though ultraviolet light (about 10 nm to 400 nm) and infrared light (about 750 nm to 10E6 nm) can't be seen with the naked eye for the most part, scientists (astronomers in particular) often use devices to detect light emitted by an object by counting the number of photons of various frequencies incident on the device per pixel. They can then use programs to convert the data into an image we can see by assigning colors to photons of different wavelengths, even though those wavelengths might not correspond to wavelengths of visible light. It's useful to look at an image generated from radio wave light from a galaxy, for example, because radio waves are long enough that they aren't obscured by dust in space to the degree that shorter wavelength light is. To look at radio wave light emitted from an object, you would have the computer output a specified spectrum of colors for light falling within the range of radio wave light, and disregard photons of other wavelengths. A similar process could be used to "see" the UV or infrared light an object emits. Without using a device to detect photons and convert light that's not visible to a visible image, either object you described would be black since neither emits light in the visible spectrum. If you went out into space, for instance, and directed your eyes to a region in which there was no visible light (or at least none intense enough to be detected), you would register blackness. Disclaimer: since there is some variability to the range of light the human eye can detect, light in the ultraviolet range that's close enough to the visible range of light might be visible. See Eric Pepke's awesome answer.    Embed Quote