★What allows animals to see in different light spectrums, like infrared?
Light is detected by a class of proteins called opsins.  The way these work is that they transmit a signal when they absorb a photon (a "packet" of light).   However, for any given molecule, there are a discrete number of wavelengths which they can absorb.  The quality which determines what wavelengths can be absorbed is the size of the electronic orbitals*.  For general absorption of light, the orbital must be approximately the same size as the wavelength of light it absorbs.   Since we're made mostly of things like carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen, and since these things are in the air around us in great abundance, most of the bonds they create are transparent to the wavelengths of light that we can see.  Yet we, and other animals, are not transparent or translucent (in general).  Why is this?  It's due generally to two types of molecules.   The first is molecules with metal atoms, like iron or zinc.  These atoms are much larger than H, C, N, and O, and therefore they have larger orbitals that can grab light from the visible spectrum.  The most obvious example of this is in your blood.  Blood is red due to the iron in your hemoglobin.  In fact, a type of ore is called hematite due to the resemblance between the rusted ore and blood--both are red for the same reason.   The other manner in which biological materials tend to absorb light is by the presence of conjugated orbitals.  This is a matter complicated to explain, but it is seen when a molecule has alternating single and double bonds.  This is shown in the picture of retinoic acid here:   The result of these alternating single- and double-bonds is that they hybridize into a single, long orbital.   The nice thing about this is that you can create these molecules of just about any length, and consequently make pigments that can absorb just about any wavelength of light.  This is why biological organisms can have such a vast array of different colors.   Opsins contain a portion of a retinoic acid-derived molecule that absorbs light, and the opsin transduces a signal when this happens.  In the cone cells of your retina, a given cell will express a single type of opsin, being one of the three that humans have.  Given which cell fires off a potential--or which combination of cells for light that's somewhere between the peak absorption points for different opsins--you brain can determine what color the light was which the retina detected.   Different animals have different opsins from humans.  We can determine the range of colors a particular animal can see by assaying which opsins their eyes contain, and measuring the absorption spectrum of those opsins.  This is how we can determine what range of colors an animal can see.   If a particular person has a gene defective at producing a particular opsin on both of their sets of chromosomes, then that person is colorblind, and they lack the ability to determine a difference in hue for colors that others can discriminate easily.   *That is to say, a given electron in a molecule is bound to a region called an orbital, and while no one can predict with any accuracy where a given electron will be at a certain time, one can define the region in relation to an atom/molecule where it's most likely to be found.  That region is called its electronic orbital.    Embed Quote