★Are people worried about the growth of a closed network like Facebook vs. the open world wide web?
People are worried about it, yes — well, many can't really imagine things this way, but it is a widespread concern among those who can, with many articulated point of views, mostly concerned, from Free Software who rightfully argue that Cloud is a way around open-code for control, to people with a grudge against specific design decisions. “Should they be?” is another question. Because Facebook is made of competent coders, very well managed and want a pleasant experience, specific grudges generally either are rapidly corrected (or come from people who don't understand how hard it it to please half-a-billion active users). Among those seeing the larger picture, many want, and most problems should find a reasonable solution with a widely adopted, rich, innovative, distributed social network protocol (not unlike e-mail) — but nothing as well in tune with most internet users' understanding as Facebook is nearing completion: OAuth Wrap, Salmon, PusSubHubHub are bricks to a larger wall. How do we reach that? Two ways out of that trend are possible, both are likely. Like with all major innovation controlled by time-constrainted patents, especially generic drugs, or more recently the iPhone ‘inspiring’ Android, the closed innovation is a great way for a coherent mind to show the way, benefit from it and be massively copied soon after. With many languages, Facebook explores the possibilities and benefits of having a “Friends_list” command to resolve trust issues through social in computing. Once people agree on what works best (and on what makes Facebook bad) they'll be able to develop a working solution, where Facebook might be excluded, or a large, but not controlling player (see AOL and messaging for an example). The second option, rather likely in spite of what people say, is that Zuckerberg himself trust this model to be preferable, and considers an actual, massive, opening of the social graph in the coming years. It would be financially preferable for Facebook under specific conditions, and preferable to most, at some point, in most cases (remember that those in charge have more money than they can spend, and still seem to care about their karma). It would be too soon now, but by going from Pages to Apps, Apps to Likes and beyond, he clearly has a pattern of opening at every F8; from his experience with WireHog, he knows about what makes distributed system hard; from his (surprising to some) support of Diaspora, his commitment to distributed social network should at least be considered. I've tried to draw a simpler, graphic explanation of that on my blog: http://twocroissants.wordpress.c... If you want more on this, this possible opening is the punch-line of my PhD, so feel free to ask more.    Embed Quote