★What are the features that are still lacking in the World Wide Web?
From the question, it is not clear whether you're talking about features in terms of the underlying TCP/IP infrastructure or in terms of the services that can run over the internet and the web. I will try to answer from both perspectives. In terms of the underlying infrastructure, there are two major features that I think are lacking. 1. Address space - Majority of the internet traffic today is IPv4 which has an address space of 2^32 unique addresses (excluding some multicast, reserved and private IPs). With the expansion of internet, we have ran out of IPs to allocate. The designers of the early internet never thought it would be a global phenomenon and that it would run out of addressable IPs. Though techniques like NAT are used to overcome this problem, it is not a complete solution. Another more complete solution, IPv6 is currently being deployed which will provide a much much larger address space. 2. Security - In the current implementation of TCP/IP, there is no provision of security in transport and lower layers. Security aspects of connections is exclusively handled by application, presentation and session layers. Again, the early internet was limited to private usage of some educational and defense organizations and security was not really a top priority. There are some alternatives like using IPSec, but not everyone uses it. The new IPv6 has security related features. This additional layer of security at network layer can really take some burden off from upper layers. In terms of services provided over internet, there is big one. Internet of things. Being able to control physical electrical and electronic devices that you use through internet. It also involves these devices talking to each other through internet to be able to work more intelligently. Internet of things is a big revolution coming up. The number of applications where it can be useful is virtually infinite. This is a very recent idea and not many consumer products leveraging this idea have hit the market. It will come pretty soon and I am very excited to see its impact - similar to what smartphone wave did, or perhaps more. And there is one last but not the least, Hope I answered your question. Thanks for A2A, Aditya Randive !    Embed Quote