★Are people worried about the growth of a closed network like Facebook vs. the open world wide web?
I think the response the Diaspora project (http://www.joindiaspora.com/) received on Kickstarter is a good example of people being worried. The project goal was $10k and they received $200k (http://www.kickstarter.com/proje...) in contributions. Along with a ton of media coverage to help promote the project since it was during the time when the initial backlash on privacy hit Facebook. I would like to see Facebook show more good faith by adding export tools to allow people to grab all their content if they wish to move to another site. At the time as Bertil Hatt mentions that Zuckerberg donated to the Diaspora project it seems more a publicity stunt than wanting to support their ideals of openness. Being that as soon as he donated every tech blog and mainstream news site made mention of it during the time when people were referring to invasions of privacy as getting "Zuckered". A good analogy I can say for being locked into Facebook is much like clients I have had in the past who built their applications and server infrastructure on Windows products. They see the potential for moving to Linux and more open source languages but by the time they have built their business it is still cheaper to just keep paying licensing fees to MS instead of making the switch. This is what people are doing by putting all their video, photo, comments, and thoughts on Facebook without a means of even exporting it effectively. Advertising and marketing are another issue since Facebook and anyone you give access to your account (FarmVille/Zynga and other games/app providers) can data mine most everything about you. Down to the level of knowing your emotive responses to things based upon your "likes" and status messages. Now including your check-ins with Places. Seems like a self imposed Orwellian lifestyle when you think of the level of insight we give a company who is in the business of making money off our information. As opposed to a non-profit and open-sourced alternative that has tight privacy controls. I have built data mining and predictive modeling solutions in the past and perhaps I just know too much for my own comfort. Being that anyone can buy access to enormous databases and use tools like OpenGraph to gather information on people with such ease and use inexpensive cloud solutions to mine it makes the world a much more scary place.    Embed Quote