★What percentage of the global human knowledge is already accessible on the internet? Is there a measure for the amount of knowledge uploaded to the world wide web?If all the scientists and gurus disappear all of a sudden, how much of the human knowledge would be accessible for the rest of the human race to start again?
I don't know how one would calculate the percentage of human knowledge on the Internet. But there are ways of calculating the size of it in bytes. That's one measure of information (don't know if you consider that the same as knowledge). For the second part of your question, fortunately scientists are quite prolific and detailed in documenting their knowledge. In fact, if all scientists were to disappear suddenly I think society would be up and running again pretty quickly. They not only document the new knowledge, but the procedure they used to obtain it. That "how to" is very important. But there's plenty of knowledge that is difficult to encode and store on the Internet. Dancers, musicians, and other artists possess knowledge on how to create stirring visuals and sounds that is hard to document. The visuals and sounds themselves can be documented; it's the "how to" that's hard to capture. So culture would take a hell of a blow. Other fields of human endeavor consist of even more elusive knowledge. I don't want to start a debate, but some would classify spirituality and religion as knowledge. Again, not the product of religion (e.g., The Bible), but spirituality itself. If the "gurus" disappear, that will be hard to replace. The key is this: any knowledge that is the result of reasoning could be recouped quickly. Using the information on the web as axioms, the missing knowledge could be easily recovered through inductive, deductive, or intercausal reasoning. Knowledge that is not the result of a logical process -- such as the examples above -- will take much longer. Now, if our memory of all the languages of the world gets wiped out with the scientists and gurus, we have a real fly in the ointment. In fact, there are scientists who struggle to come up with warning signs at radioactive dumping grounds. In 10,000 years, that stuff will still be dangerous and whoever or whatever is around then sure as hell won't be speaking English. Imagine trying to design a sign warning dolphins about radioactivity. If we stumble upon some kind of Rosetta Stone, we'll be saved. If not, all the stuff on the Internet will be useless and mankind will have to start from scratch.    Embed Quote