★How has the World Wide Web changed society?
Better question is how hasn't it? Its the underlying fabric of so much of what we do today, it's hard to imagine a life without it at this point. Think about it, instant information, opinions, imagery, entertainment, whenever you want it... that's huge! For anyone that wants to learn just about anything there is an endless pool of resource, much of it free, available to them whenever they like. Layer mobile devices on top of this and information is more accessible than ever. You can buy just about anything online and have it shipped to your door. You can send messages to people across the world instantly which took months only a hundred years ago (if it was feasible at all), now you can video chat with that same person in real time from the other side of the world. Its created all new industries and millions of new jobs for so man The list goes on and on and thats just some of the stuff I'd put in the "good" category. The bad, well there's certainly a lot of that too. In the teachings of the great Spider-Man we have learned... or perhaps are still learning... that "With great power comes great responsibility" With every new benefit there will always be those out there looking to exploit it: There are certainly those out there who take advantage of others, phishing, spamming, etc. Those that post info thats illegal or at the very least most would be better off not having access to: Anarchists Cookbook, child porn, drugs, weapons sales, dark web etc. A whole new category of criminal has sprouted up as a result (cybercrime) and a whole new means of wreaking havoc has come about (cyberterrorism). Governments invest billions in new forms of cyber-espionage and defending against it. People don't know how to limit themselves when it comes to ingesting content. We've all seen, or been, the people that are buried in their computer, laptop, tablet, phone for hours on end sitting on our ass and not using our brains and muscles as much as we probably should. It may not be entirely fair to blame the WWW for this but I think it certainly contributes to the rise in obesity and lethargy in our society today.Whats craziest to me is it's only really been around since I've been in high school. My kids will have never known life without it. This truly is the information age and hopefully far more good than bad continues to come from it.    Embed Quote