★World Wide Web: How has the average page load time changed over time?This is in reference to how increasingly dynamic the web is getting. Presumably an answer to this should be normalized appropriately. Is the "web" getting slower? Is it increasingly so? By how much?
Let me add some parameters to your question based on what I think your intent is and then try to answer it. Page load time is how fast the user experiences the page appearing to be done The population we shall 'average' are high volume business and consumer websites, not the full long tail of pages out there. It's amazing how much information there is out there about how to measure your site, or speed it up, or why it's important that it be fast.  An example: http://radar.oreilly.com/2009/07... But there is a dearth of historical data like you ask for.  Likely Google has some of this information, based on presentations like the next one, currently the average is 4.9 seconds per slide 3. http://assets.en.oreilly.com/1/e... But even they don't share a historical time trend or even how they arrived at the 4.9 number, at least not in a public location. So instead let me offer a logical argument for why you should think it has steadily decreased from about 8-10 seconds to 2 seconds.  Psychologically it is believed that user expectation for page load time is caused by historical experience, with faster up to a point (<<100ms) always being better.  Stated simply, how fast I experience the web drives how fast I expect it to perform. This trend has been tracked by companies, like Akamai.  They found that user expectation of page load time has steadily decreased overtime. http://www.akamai.com/html/about... This research study references 2 seconds in 2009 versus 4 seconds in 2006.  Before that, 8 or 10 seconds were considered the goal largely based on old research done by IBM. So page load time expectation has decreased, thus we should think that page load time is also decreasing.  Note that is is a logically fallacy unless we accept the premise that past experience is the prime cause of user expectations.  Otherwise something else might explain the shift in perception. So how do I explain Pat Meenan's data, presented by Jonathan, given that I think Pat is a person of integrity having met him previously? http://calendar.perfplanet.com/2... Well we must consider timescale and methodology. I'm arguing about the trend over the past 10 years versus his analysis of two years.  Maybe speed didn't keep pace with new complexity from 2008 to 2010.  But I think this conclusion is premature. As Pat admits in his opener, this is not a scientific study with a controlled data set.  Since his tool is used by developers and people trying to improve page speeds they are likely to run it interatively until their work is done, skewing samples towards poor performing tests.  Since page weight and complexity has increased overtime it's plausible that first attempts could be slower in 2010 than in 2008.  Usually developers make something work functionally and then optimize it last. So to wrap up I think it's logical to provisionally accept that average page load time is decreasing over the long haul until someone, perhaps here, presents comprehensive and rigorous data. (Which I looked for in vain)    Embed Quote