★How long will it be before a new system such as Netflix or Apple TV makes traditional cable, broadcast networks and Blu-ray distribution obsolete?
The biggest disruption facing the cable industry from the internet is not cord-cutting, but the expectation of choice and personalization that Internet culture has created among cable's customers.  Specifically, the increasing demand for a-la carte services threatens to disrupt the economics of channel bundling which make the whole ecosystem work. "Cable" = Connectivity + Bundled Programming Tim Carmody made a great observation on the Epicenter blog at Wired (http://www.wired.com/epicenter/2... consumers who "hate cable" typically fail to distinguish between the logistics of getting cable service (usually very bad user experience) and the stand-alone value of the bundle of programming that a cable subscription provides (arguably excellent value for money). In this, sense "Cord-cutting" is a misleading concept.  While a cord-cutter may not pay Cablevision, Verizon, Time Warner for TV programming, he still pays them for the physical infrastructure that allows him to access his OTT services. In effect, the cord is the one thing he hasn't cut. Cable Programming is Not Bad Value for Money If you compare a $150/month FiOS bill to a $9/month Netflix subscription, the value proposition doesn't look great. If, however, you strip out premium channels, bundled services, taxes, and the - admittedly dubious - rental fees for your cable box and remote control, the core cost that a subscriber pays for basic cable programming is quite reasonable. Seen in this light, the cost of Netflix is more comparable to the cost of a premium channel, like HBO, Showtime or Epix. "Why then," asks the cord-cutter, "can't I pay $9/month for HBO Go?" The answer is that without the price support that cable's scale provides, a standalone HBO Go subscription would be much more expensive than Netflix. Fragmentation is Real, But A-La Carte Doesn't work Just as basic cable created new audiences that were more niche than broadcast (e.g. Food Network vs. CBS), digital cable and the internet have further fragmented viewing audiences to the point that many of these nice channels are not self-sustaining. Google's recent investment in original programming on YouTube has been an interesting attempt to jump start an ecosystem of quality niche programming that is self-sustaining on advertising alone. However, recent announcements around the launch of subscription features on the YouTube platform suggest that Google may be heading in a more cable-like direction. I would argue that Google and Apple may be more of a threat to existing cable incumbents than they are to the cable model itself. The future is More, Smaller Bundles, At Lower Prices, but Still "Cable" While the pure a-la carte cable model is unsustainable both for content distributors and content creators, consumer pressure will drive the industry in the direction of more targeted flexible channel bundles. This will both help consumers to manage costs, and alleviate consumers' resentment that they are paying for channels they don't watch.  While the cost per channel might go up in this scenario, the bundle would still make up the difference between the channel's cost to create the content, and the "right price" that the consumer is willing to pay. One Final Disruption The distinction between the delivery infrastructure to consumers for television and for the internet is gradually eroding/has largely eroded, but it remains a convenient and profitable fiction for the Cable MSOs. I would love to see an OTT-type service from one of the existing Cable incumbents which could be viewed over a competitor's physical network.  This would create real competition for programming services on targeting, price and quality, which would be a real boon to both consumers and to content creators, and would put the cable companies in a much better position to fight back against pure-digital competitors. UPDATE: DISH just announced DISH World, an OTT subscription TV service of international channels that they will roll out to Roku Users. http://techcrunch.com/2012/05/23...