★How long will it be before a new system such as Netflix or Apple TV makes traditional cable, broadcast networks and Blu-ray distribution obsolete?
ComputerWorld recently published an article entitled "How Apple will kill cable TV" that I think captures the perspective of the computer execs, Internet entrepreneurs, pundits and bloggers that David S. Rose was referring to in his answer. http://www.computerworld.com/s/a... Mike Elgan, the author of the article, points to the growing number of people who watch television content on their Apple devices and concludes that if Apple is able to continue growing these numbers, it will gain enough leverage with the cable networks to persuade them to provide it with the rights to stream its content live.  The key assumption here is that, at some point, the amount of money that Apple generates for cable networks will exceed the amount that the cable distributors  generate for the networks.  This is a chicken and egg scenario.  I believe that Apple will never be able to generate enough interest in their platforms without first having the rights to stream content live, which cable networks would never give without Apple first having the leverage to demand it. In my experience, a common response to this is "Look at the music industry.  Apple has done it before."  But what did Apple really do to the music industry?  Did they convince the music producers to allow them to unbundle their $13 CDs so that consumers could finally buy just the songs that they wanted for $1 each?  Well, yes, but, at the time, the music industry was being decimated by rampant piracy and therefore Apple had all the leverage because they were offering an opportunity to monetize what was currently being given away for free. The cable industry is in a different situation than the music industry because cable networks still have all the leverage and are not in a position where they have to unbundle their content in order to salvage their business model.  Until that leverage is compromised, traditional cable distribution will not be made obsolete, which, to answer the question, is unlikely to happen in the foreseeable future.