★Are the miracles performed by great evangelists like Benny Hinn, pastor Chris, and others on TBN gospel broadcast network proof that God exists? Are these true biblical miracles?
Actually, if the miracles are true, then they should happen to anyone who asks for healing. If they are real but don't happen to everyone, then we are left questioning why God heals some and not others. If the miracles are real, then the little man in white should be able to do the miracles for all who ask. If he can perform the miracles at will, then he should put this to good use. He should get himself a white Cadillac, to match his white suit. then he can drive around to hospitals all day, lay on those hands, and heal everyone in the hospital. He wouldn't even need to ask what the ailment is, as he could heal them all. The healed could put on their clothes and go home. Granted, this wouldn't be good for hospital business, as the hospital would be empty. However, administrators shouldn't fret, there will be plenty more sick people coming along, the hospital would fill up again quickly. He could do this hospital after hospital, day after day, week after week, with a vacation every so often, as it would be a tiring task. He could ask for a small offering, say $10 per healing, or maybe he could bill insurance for services performed. Either way, he would have performed miracles no one could question. Word would get around, and TV crews would follow him to document the miracles. it would be obvious that they were being performed, though I agree that all would not believe. After a while, this would become like the Apollo missions. It would be on TV everywhere to begin with, but be routine quickly. No need to rent an auditorium or stadium, as they would probably be volunteered by the owners as a public service. No need to purchase air time or sell tapes for a small offering. People would gladly donate without asking. He would be better known than the President (and surely more respected). Finally, we wouldn't need Heaven, as we would have utopia here on Earth. Since none of this has happened, I guess the answer to your question would be that miracles are not really being performed, by Benny Hinn or anyone else.