★How long will it be before a new system such as Netflix or Apple TV makes traditional cable, broadcast networks and Blu-ray distribution obsolete?
Not until they can deliver the Superbowl, which they can't. This question has been asked a million times on Quora. What it boils down to is that that the internet / tech folks are probably right that there are 'better' ways to distribute media, in the sense that these new channels might be more efficient, convenient, and elegant. But so what? Content is King, and the Digerati constantly mistakes themselves for the unwashed masses. Your grandma is not going to use a Boxee to watch Price is Right, nor is AppleTV informing the illiterate that they should evacuate because fo the coming storm. The content owners, the ones that David S. Rose mentions as unanimously believing the current system is very strong, seem to be the ones who are actually in the business, and in control of the actual product that is being discussed. They are right. Here's my quick list as to why: Your Cable TV company is your ISP. No 3rd party will ever be able to distribute more efficiently then they will. Who wins if a broadcast is moved from a Comcast cable head end to justin.tv? How is this better? Cable TV's affiliate fee system insulates content producers from financially devastating flops and has created an extremely vibrant, and creative space for the medium to mature. The current system is not only not broken, it's delivering the highest quality product in the medium's history. Internet folks wholly underestimate the complexity and immense risk in developing entertainment products, and failed to articulate a business model for their 'revolutionary' distributions schemes that distributes risk. They want to sell ads against the hits and ignore the losses they producers have taken on products that don't work out as well. So, it's no viable business model but some cool, easy tech, versus a complicated, massive, profitable, ingrained system that is delivering an exceptional product. Move along, there is nothing to see here.