★Why aren't Canadian TV series broadcast on US networks?
What?  We get the insidious Canadian TV shows, machiavellianly sneaked into our pure and pristine American airwaves all the time!!! HGTV/DIY is positively littered with their "eh's" and "aboot's" all manifesting from people avec unattached crania!  Love It or Fist It (err, I mean "list it"), Sarah's House (LOVE!!!), Property Brothers, Buying & Selling, Income Property, Holmes on Homes and much much more  -- Oh, you don't think we can tell when it's in Canadia . . . but we know. . . we know! Bio has a slew of Canadian shows like You've Gotta Eat Here Food and Factory ("XYZ has over 500 litres of horse piss and pure Canadian maple syrup!"  Gotcha -- I knew it was Canadian from the "Litres"!).  SyFy (the joke that it is) has Continuum (which takes place in a dystopian Canada . . . which is just redundant isn't it?), The Lost Girl, Haven, and Bitten.  Defiance -- while taking place here -- is shot in Canadia.  BBCA (which is a fucking conspiracy to get the USA to join the British Empire if you asked me, CECIL RHODES, DAMN YOU!) has Orphan Black.  HISTORY (of "Ancient Aliens" fame) has Vikings! We also get Flashpoint on major network TV here which -- amusingly -- seems to fall all over itself in avoiding admitting that it takes place in Toronto.  I almost have turned it into a game to see/hear them drop ANY evidence that they are in Canadia. Motive and Rookie Blue are also on ABC here now.  Fun Facts: There are significantly MORE Canadian TV shows on US television than ever before.  You couldn't find anything beyond DeGrassi High and Kids in the Hall (Brain Candy!!!) before the 2000's.  Americans -- sadly -- will watch a Canadian TV series and just assume it's American which may prompt this question.  Let's face it, French Canadian programs are never going to succeed here (do they even exist, or do they just import them from France?).  Our accents, humor, diction and general attitudes are more alike than different and -- worse still -- our synonymously named currencies will make most Canadian TV programs (not "programmes" as the evil Canadians will try to spell) nearly indistinguishable.  Also, pretty much every show on a budget is shot in Vancouver.  So there's that.  I'd call it "Hollywood Lite" but it's more like, "Hollywood Improved!" In fact, many popular "American" shows (very, especially scifi which the Brits and Canadians dominate) were/are produced (in full or partially) in Canada: Battlestar Galactica Fringe Almost Human (which is SO obviously produced there, except for the addition of the London Shard to the skyline -- I know my fucking skylines motherfuckers!!!) Stargate (all of 'em SG1, Atlantis, Universe, etc.) X-Files MacGyver Highlander Falling Skies Dark Angel Once Upon A Time & Once Upon A Time in Neverland Psych Smallville