★How long will it be before a new system such as Netflix or Apple TV makes traditional cable, broadcast networks and Blu-ray distribution obsolete?
Disclaimer: I really know absolutely nothing about the television industry. My question is there any feasible way for Apple, Netflix or Google or whoever to deliver content that gets around the cable companies? After reading Brian Hayashi's answer it hit me that not only is content bundled but so too are Internet and phone. The cable company is your ISP. That may not be the case everywhere, but I think it's the case for the majority of users. It costs me $4.99 to add basic cable to my Internet connection and since I don't have a land line I can't say what the phone cost would be. To my mind it looks like the pricing is setup so that you would be stupid not to take the television service. And yes, I know that my Internet connection is probably overpriced and my television connection underpriced, so the bundle deal looks good. Netflix alone uses 32% of the nation's bandwidth during peak hours. http://www.pcmag.com/article2/0,... Add in YouTube and it goes well over 50%. As an electrical engineer, I see this as the biggest problem for anyone trying to break the cable monopolies. You need to build out not just a great content company you also need to become a content delivery company. You either need to find a lot of dark fiber or start laying some serious fiber yourself. Otherwise, Comcast, COX, Verizon still have the upper hand. I say this because they can make your content experience miserable. Watching, one channel will be great but at two channels, all of a sudden you will see the dreaded buffering symbol come up. So, you order a premium Internet connection to get the bandwidth you need. And you realize, hey this Apple/Netflix/Hulu/YouTube deal is breaking the bank.Its cheaper to buy cable TV than pay for premium Internet and content through Apple/Netflix/Hulu/YouTube. So my answer is that cable is still in the cat bird seat, since they own the pipes that any content provider must go through.