★What is the purpose of regression analysis?
In addition to the excellent answers already given to the question, I'd like to add that regression allows you to estimate the relationship between variables in a way which allows you to get a vector or scalar for the way they effect each other. For instance, if you happen to have a normal distribution which doesn't violate the assumptions for OLS regression, you can get a parameter called beta (β) which can be a vector or scalar, and which allows you to actually put a number (within a confidence interval, of course) on the relationship between those variables. It can greatly simplify the weighing of various models in that fashion, as well as greatly simplifying an examination of the effect of various independent variables on the dependent variables. Once one has the beta parameter (usually calculated for the whole model as well as independently for each independent variable and the dependent variable), as well as the confidence interval, the statistical significance and data on whether or not the independent variables have any co-linearity, you have enough information to make fairly informed decisions about the relationship between the independent and dependent variables. There is something of an issue that classical regression assumes that the error (always present in some form) is random and not systematic (no Type 1 errors), that the error is not correlated (errors don't effect each other), that the variance on the error is constant (think of the error like a background hum, without sudden leaps in pitch and volume), and that there is no measurement error in collecting the data on the independent variables. However, recent updates to the methods in regression allow for specific techniques to handle violations of any of these assumptions, making regression fairly flexible. The tl;dr version: regression allows you to put numbers on relationships, to decide whether or not the relationships are significant, to see whether or not the relationships are complicated by interference between your independent variables and to see your error (most regression analyses run a variance/co-variance matrix on the error.) It's a one-stop shop for understanding the relationship between variables. Unfortunately, it's been my experience that when regression is taught, its flexibility and total awesomeness is not really a part of the lesson plan, so if you're in a class where regression is being taught, please know that it's way more interesting than it's presented to be.    Embed Quote