Why Did X Succeed?: How did Anirudh Raja bag an offer from TinyOwl being in Civil Engineering?
TL; DR; A2A Suraj Rajan wrote an extensive answer about how Anirudh Raja got a job at TinyOwl. There is not much to write now but still I feel the answer would remain incomplete if I chose not to answer . I am one of the "trustworthy friends in Computer Science" of Anirudh's as mentioned in Suraj's answer (atleast that's what I think :P Suraj confirm it :P). I was his ACM-ICPC and IEEE Xtreme Programming Contest teammate. So here's the story of a Raja who became the real Raja. Presenting (500) Days of Raja. A : Refers to Anirudh Raja T : Refers to Tushar Makkar (me) Day 408: A : Dude why did they reject me ? My interviews went awesome only T : It happens man .. Everything happens for a reason. A : What man ? I wasted my final sem for these interviews and it's like they don't care . T : I am pretty sure your hardwork won't go in vain . Maybe TinyOwl is the best company for you . Anirudh was depressed since he was unable to crack Google's interview. He worked his a*s off during the time when all other people were chilling out. While other people were enjoying DJ Night in Incident , he was giving interviews. He sacrificed a lot for it . I believe a story can't have a sad ending and hence I was like : Day 1 This is a story of how a boy fulfills his dream . He grew up believing that he can achieve anything with his hardwork .  He happens to join mining engineering (which he upgraded to civil  by securing good CGPA) at NITK Surathkal due to some f**ked up AIEEE. But he was interested in only 2 things :  Computer Science Tamil Movies (Hardcore Ajith fan)I came to know about him through codeforces . He was the only one except me (in our year during 3rd semester) who was active on those judges . I tried finding more about him (wanted someone as a teammate for ACM ICPC) and one fine day I thought of asking him whether he is interested in joining the team . (T knocks on the door) A : Hey T : Hi ! Umm.. I am Tushar, second year comps. I found out that you are active in competitive programming. Would you like to be my teammate ? A : Yeah fine.. T : I am also into competitive programming . I solve SPOJ (bragging :P) . A : Which language do you code in ? T : Python A : It is not allowed in ACM ICPC. T : Ohh.. A : Don't worry . I will help you out with C++ :) T : Thanks a lot man ! It is said that first impression is the last one and he succeeded in putting an amazing impression on me . Humble , Shy , Interested , Knowledgeable and Helpful . What all do you expect from a teammate ? He was a perfect teammate for me. Day 154: Time : 3 am Venue : C-001 (Anirudh's room) A : Dude this question is difficult .. Don't you think we need to use segment tree ? T : Segment Tree is difficult to code . I think BIT should just do it. A : Let's code it then. These were the days when Anirudh (and me) practiced a lot. We wrote a lot of code during that time . We solved 200+ questions together and learnt a lot of concepts during these days. We even made a spreadsheet which classified questions on the basis of concepts. As a result our team got selected ACM ICPC Amritapuri and ACM ICPC Kharagpur onsite round. We also got AIR - 3 rank in IEEE Xtreme Programming competition. He also managed to secure an internship at BrowserStack due to the hardwork we did together . Day 290: Time : 8 pm Venue : C-001 (Anirudh's room) A : Why are they not opening up companies for civil ? T :  I don't know man.. Belive me man , you have talent you will get a good job. A : They don't even look up at my resume because of civil engineering T : I think you should remove off civil engineering from your resume and apply off-campus. A : That seems like a good idea. Let me try Anirudh was unhappy since companies were not even considering his resume despite being better than a lot of CSE engineers . He knew he can easily crack interviews if given an opportunity . So now Anirudh went on applying for companies off campus. As expected he got a lot of job offers (precisely 4) and the best among them was TinyOwl . Even Google HR's approached him for scheduling interviews. Day 488 Time : 1 pm Venue : C-012 (another room in Anirudh's wing) T : What are you doing man? A : Don't you see it. Playing cards :P T : That I also know -_- I mean you were tensed and all after getting rejected by Google. A : Yeah I was. But then I thought that I can't change their decision so let's just enjoy in the last few days of college. T : So you play cards full day ? A : No, I watch Tamil movies 85% of my time and cards the rest of it. T : Lol Enjoy man.. Anirudh knows how to enjoy life and live it to the fulllest. He works hard and enjoy harder . He is also a master of PJ's (dirty ones) and a great stalker. He admires people who have beauty more than brains :P (I know he is going to kill me after reading this) . But that's Anirudh for you guys. Day 500: Time : 7 pm Venue : C-001 (Anirudh's room) A : I got a call from Ajay Kumar, brother of Ajith Thala the superstar. He wants me to work as a part time for his startup. T : How did he find out your profile ? A : Twitter man.. I randomly followed him and he followed me back . T : Great man .. A : I can do anything to meet Ajith . I think the day is not too far when I will be meeting Ajith . T :  Amazing man .. I think you are finally going to fulfill your dreams together .. meeting Ajith and becoming an awesome Software Engineer. Congrats! I think this dialogue of movie Om Shanti Om describes how Anirudh got multiple job offers and fulfilled his dreams properly : Who knows what in store for future ? Hope this answer was helpful and was fun to read ! Updated 43w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Anonymous