Computer Programming: What's the funniest piece of code you've seen a student submit?
**Thanks for the 200 Upvotes Guys!** I did that once, we had to make a Software System in my Software Classes, where in we had to design a Question paper system which gives a new Paper when a new student registers for the exam. Now we were a group of 5 doing this thing and I was kind of the Visual GUI guy doing the Web Forms part and also the Presenter in the examination. The others had to do the backend , the random question generator etc. Due to some issues (drinking, partying and fighting in the group) we did not get to complete the code on time, it was D-1 and the guys were still coding and testing. I also joined them to code the final bits. I knew what we were doing is a bad software which is not going to work as expected. My job was to present the software so it appears normal and works as much as its asked to. On the D day I got to know the code behind the sampler is not working and the set of questions in the paper do not change the paper and the same paper comes out each time you register a new ID. This is 2 hours before the presentation before the Code Guru who was going to check the Software. What I did was write a small code which makes the Hourglass icon and displayed  after a Splash Screen "Generating New Question Paper" with the Date Time Printed on the Question Paper. The questions were all the same!!! Just the Date time updated! I presented the software and told him we had implemented the random question logic for exam. The examiner asked me to show it and I clicked on the Submit button, Viola! A new Question paper appeared! Crossing my fingers I hoped he did not notice the error! He did not! He even congratulated and said good presentation but suggested multiple improvements in the back-end code. Not a mention of this random logic! We did fix the code before submitting it for Code Review. I learned that if you present yourself well. no one notices you are the Devil! Updated 5w ago • View Upvotes