Why Did X Succeed?: How did Anirudh Raja bag an offer from TinyOwl being in Civil Engineering?
Knowing Anirudh V Raja quite closely and for nearly 2 years that too, I feel that I'm qualified enough to answer the question. Every year there are millions writing entrance examinations in the country to get admission into reputed institutions. Around 50% of those aim for a Computer Science seat. Anirudh was one of them. Out of those 50% maybe around a fifth actually get a CS seat. Anirudh, fortunately or unfortunately, this time, wasn't one of them. Infact, he actually got one of the least sought after branches, "Mining" at NITK Surathkal. But did he give up..?, NO..!! He made up his mind that he'll work very hard and try to get a CS seat during branch sliding in 2nd year. Yes.. he did work very hard, and even slid to a different branch. However, the branch unfortunately wasn't CS but Civil. But again, did he give up..?, NO..!! He told himself that whatever happens, he'll continue with his passion towards Computer Science. As is the fad among Indian College youth these days, competitive programming became his heart and soul. He practised really hard on programming sites such as Codechef, SPOJ and Codeforces during his second year. In only 8 months, he became a sensation in Competitive Programming in our college.   Students in branches such as CS and IT used to envy his amazing algorithmic skills but at the same time respected his temperament and dedication. Soon enough he made good trustworthy friends in Computer Science  who also were competitive programmers and decided to team up with them and take part in the olympics of programming, the ACM-ICPC in the beginning of his 3rd year.   One very impressive story of his that comes to mind was during Facebook's On-campus 1 hr Internship Test. Facebook kept the test open only for circuit-branch students and unfortunately Anirudh was left out. But you can't leave a guy like this from a huge event like that, can you..? He had a close friend in CS who was attending the test and couldn't solve the coding problem they had given. And guess what, that guy secretly mails Anirudh the given problem statement so that he could solve it and send him the code. Anirudh, with all his coding skills, coded the solution as correct and fast as possible and replied to that guy. But unfortunately he couldn't submit as he was a few minutes late. If he had mailed him the problem earlier, he definitely would have qualified. This was his status in our college, a guy in CS with all his theoretical algorithmic knowledge needed a Civil guy's help to crack a coding problem for a CS company. *FYI the problem was a graph problem which required an allpath search using dfs and memoization to clear the time limit*. Inspite of all these misfortunes, he still continued with his passion. He took part in the ACM-ICPC Kharagpur regionals and secured the 24th position all over India during the onsite round, the best rank NITK had ever produced at that time. He also secured 3rd position in India at the IEEE Xtreme Programming Contest. But his misfortunes still stuck around with him. Companies didn't want to recruit a guy from Civil for an internship. And yet again, did he give up. Again the answer's ..NO..!! He tried and tried, failed a lot of times but still kept trying. Finally after months of search, he gets an internship offer from BrowserStack , a startup which hires only the best of the best. He soon figured out that competitive programming is not enough and that he must try out different fields that are suitable for industry application. He attained a lot of new skills in Web-Dev, Software Testing etc. These skills further empowered him so as to finally get a full-time job offer from TinyOwl. *applauds* .   Ok now enough of his technical skills .. it would be a shame if his quality as a person is not given enough credit. He is an active member of NITK's Web Club, Computer Society of India as well as NITK Codechef Campus Chapter. He is also the Hackerrank campus ambassador for our college. He devotes a lot of time so as to improve the programming culture in our college, which was very poor before his admission. He gives numerous talks and tutorials on programming for freshers so that they could start early and become a force in the field of competitive programming. Apart from this, he is also a very kind and approachable person and would spend more than ample time giving advice to anyone and everyone who approaches him for queries. 