If you could pick a song for each letter of the English Alphabet, which ones would you choose?
What a fun and difficult question! The most challenging aspect of this question is that taste in music is directly affected by mood and activity (one interesting study that hits on this topic among many: Mood as a Determinant of Postconsumption Product Evaluations: Mood Effects and Their Dependency on the Affective Intensity of the Consumption Experience), so my favorite song at one moment will be supplanted by a different type of tune at another time. Thus, to fully answer this question, one would have to create multiple lists for each mood and activity. However, for the purpose of keeping this answer concise, I'm making the assumption that the question is targeting one very specific mood/activity combination: what songs are on the list when the music I'm listening to is my primary focus (i.e. not background for hanging out, not a relaxing/sleep mix, etc). Andy's Last Beer (12/30/2005, The Aragon Ballroom) - Umphrey's McGee Birds Of A Feather (Live Phish, Vol. 08) - Phish Chicken Strut (12/01/2000) - The Derek Trucks Band Date Rape - Sublime Electric Relaxation - A Tribe Called Quest Frankenstein - The Edgar Winter Group Going Back To Cali - Notorious B.I.G. Harry Hood (Live Phish, Vol. 02) - Phish I'll Be Around - Cee-Lo feat. Timbaland Joyful Noise - The Derek Trucks Band Kyle's Song - Moe. Lovers' Carvings - Bibio My Pen and Pad - Blackalicious N.O.T.O.R.I.O.U.S. - Notorious B.I.G. Ocean - John Butler Trio Poor Man's Prayer - John Brown's Body Quiet Town - Josh Rouse Round the Wheel - String Cheese Incident Sand (12/31/2010, Madison Square Garden) - Phish Tube (12/29/1997, Madison Square Garden) - Phish Use Me - Bill Withers Villified - Galactic Warning - Notoriuos B.I.G. Xxplosive - Dr. Dre Ya Mar (10/31/1995, Rosemont Ballroom) - Phish Zeplike - Slightly Stoopid And just for good measure, numbers 1 through 6: 102% - The New Mastersounds 2001 (08/17/1997, The Great Went) - Phish* 32 Things - Moe. 40 Oz. to Freedom - Sublime 5446 That's My Number/Ball and Chain - Sublime 616 - Cunninlynguists *For the Phish purists, I acknowledge the title is technically Also Sprach Zarathustra, but I'd argue it's not too much of a stretch to list it here... 