What was it like to be at Amazon's announcement event on June 18, 2014?
Better than I was expecting. I attended as a customer. It was the biggest press event I've ever attended, so I spent the whole experience feeling like a kid in a candy store. The tech blogs did a great job of capturing the play-by-play so I won't recreate all of it with cell phone pics, but some things stood out to me. Amazon secrecy was in full play, so we weren't told where the event was going to be held. We met on the Amazon campus and were shuttled to a new location. We headed toward Fremont where Adobe, Google, and Tableau have offices, which set off some speculation ("could the event be at Google? No, that makes no sense...does it?"). We eventually got to the venue, which was not at some other company's offices but at an event space decked out in Amazon orange. By the time we got there, the press were already lined up for their own entrance, but the rest of us got to mill around, eat things, etc. We took the time to people watch and that's when I got my first big surprise: judging from the badges, it looked like almost half of the 300 people attending were Amazon customers like me, not affiliated with the press or an Amazon partner. The people I chatted with had actually clicked this ad on Amazon's homepage, applied, and were selected: That's pretty cool. The event started by embodying Amazon's typical customer focus: Jeff's presentation started with customer quotes, brand survey metrics, and even shared videos from customer invite requests. When the video below started playing, the star shouted from two rows behind me, "THAT'S ME!!" to much laughter. Great move: all the warm, fuzzy feelings I have about Amazon bubbled to the surface, and I was reminded yet again why I've been a customer for 15 years. Then Jeff started trotting out Bezosisms and I remembered how well he translates critical UX & management concepts into pithy sayings, like: Recipe for trust: 1) Do hard things well. 2) Repeat. A great reminder that anybody can get the basics right—companies earn customer trust by solving hard problems, and keep it by continuing to solve hard problems. Firefighting is not progress and customers know it. You can fill a bucket with an eyedropper if the bucket doesn't leak. Customer acquisition doesn't need to be fast if you're patient and your customers shop with you again and again. Products like Amazon Instant Video and Kindle Lending Library didn't significantly accelerate Prime membership growth, but they're small parts of every customer's decision to renew Prime. Amazon seeks to be renewal worthy. Reputation is a trailing indicator of excellence...as it should be. Brand reputation has inertia; changing it requires concerted, long-term effort. As we see shifts in how customers perceive our brands, we should remember that those shifts reflect the sum total of our actions over a long period of time; correction also requires many actions over a long period of time. For all the mixed press Amazon gets over employee life, as a former employee I still feel permanently connected to Jeff's customer-first business philosophy. Big audience-cheering moments Harris poll year-over-year comparisons, showing Amazon going from #9 in 2010 to #1 in 2013. While referring to a book his mother read to him hundreds of times, Jeff points out that his mom is in the audience. ("Awwwwwwwwwww!") Unlimited free photo storage with Cloud Drive Mayday—especially upon hearing that AT&T customer support will be integrated into Mayday, i.e. no more terrible AT&T phone tree...! Firefly demo. In particular, we were blown away by the speed (<1 second to recognize anything via camera, <5 seconds to recognize music or TV audio), and the third-party ideas possible with a multi-million SKU product catalog with exposed text/audio/visual identifiers and in-context actions. Taking photos of your food and having an app track your nutrient & caloric consumption? Dynamic Perspective's impact on UI design. Specifically, Dynamic Perspective lets you see "around" UI elements to see the content underneath, if the UI elements are on their own layer, and Perspective-enabled gestures let you shift sections of the UI around the screen temporarily. This has some seriously cool implications for interface design. Fire OS changes. They've kept the Android app grid and supplemented it with the Fire-style carousel, but expanded the carousel to include preview widgets. Really interesting combination of Android & Windows Phone; I didn't get to try it hands-on, but I expect this to be polarizing. Developer interviews about the Dynamic Perspective API & SDK and how easy they are to use Free year of Prime with contract. This is a bigger deal than it seems at first glance: Fire Phone customers will likely be current Prime customers, so a free year of Prime effectively discounts the phone by $99. LowlightsIt seemed like Jeff was expecting a more enthusiastic response to: Dynamic Perspective demos in maps, games, and in-app gestures Phone price and base 32GB storage Overall phone aesthetic—Jeff tried to emphasize the care taken by the industrial design team, but at the end of the day the Fire Phone looks a nondescript black bar. All of the background on the complexity behind Dynamic Perspective. I can appreciate the engineering challenges, but the output seems a lot like competitors' features. SummaryOverall I was excited to see lots of hardware & software innovations beyond the rumored 3D gimmick. I had low expectations for the hardware, given the lackluster gen 1 Kindle Fire, and was pleasantly surprised. I was a little disappointed in the AT&T plan offering. I was expecting something new and different, like Amazon subsidizing all Amazon-related data, but the coolness of AT&T-linked-to-Mayday helped offset the disappointment. I hope Amazon continues to include customers in these events. You could tell that each and every customer felt lucky to be there; many were liveblogging using 2-3 screens, through different outlets like forums. 