How do you keep up with a smart toddler?
How do you keep up with a smart toddler? Be guided by your child's interests and natural curiosity; keep giving your child exposure to the things that he or she takes great interest in, and introduce them to new things through a range of activities. Read to him voraciously, and with a steady flow of different books. Keep counting and alphabet books nearby; show him the pictures, read the numbers/letters to him and let him take an interest in those aspects in his own time (it sounds like he is doing this already). If he wants to draw, let him draw. If he wants to look at books, let him do that. If he wants to build with blocks (and then knock them down again), encourage that. Try new ways: draw with chalk outside on the path, paint on the path with water, read books at the library, stack flat stones on top of each other, show him how a house of cards is built, dig tunnels or channels in the dirt outside and show him what happens when a pebble is rolled down the tunnel or channel. Take him out into the world and show him examples of the letters and numbers he is taking an interest in: price tags at the supermarket, street signs and shop signs, bus stop numbers, interesting objects that you can point out and practice those consonant and vowel sounds ('t-t-t-tree ... s-s-s-swing'). Sing songs to him about everyday things. Actually, I can't emphasise this suggestion enough. Make up songs about stuff. My eldest would ask us to sing him the song about wrinkly fingers in the bath, about mud, about the cabbages on sale at the grocer. Those songs didn't exist until he asked for them. It's not just your child's brain that's being exercised here! As he starts to use more words, he will become better at asking you questions. Be guided by those questions and listen out for them. Why are clouds sometimes dark? What are these things that are holding up the house? (bricks). What's this little wiggly thing in the grass? (a worm). What does that sign say? 