★When is it philosophically legitimate to regard parameters of probability distributions as random variables?That is, when using probability distributions to model processes in the real world, rather than purely mathematically.
You are asking about a big controversy in the foundations of statistics. I don't have a definitive answer for you, but here are some comments. If the parameters arise from some sort of "sampling process", no one would have a problem with modeling them as random variables. If we have some other sort of prior information about the parameter values which is representable as a probability distribution, the usual Bayesian calculation gives us an apparently reasonable way to combine this information with sampled data in order to draw inferences about the parameter values. Why do I say the Bayesian calculation is "apparently reasonable?" Without being too formal, we can argue (by analogy) that the Bayesian calculations are reasonable because they would be if the prior distribution arose from a sampling process, and it would be odd to do the calculations a different way because the prior information arises differently.  There is nothing rigorous about that argument, but I find it somewhat convincing. If we decide that it is philosophically illegitimate to regard parameters of probability distributions as random variables, that leaves us no way (that I know of) to incorporate prior information about parameters into inference. This might tempt us to be Bayesians for practical reasons. In most cases it will be hard to come up with a prior distribution that accurately represents the prior information we have. If it were easy to find such distributions just by introspection, then there would be no need for the Bayesian calculation - you could obtain posterior probabilities by simply looking at the data and introspecting. Even in the common case where we have no prior information about the parameter (except the possible values it might take), the choice of prior can be confusing. If the set of possible values is, say, the real line, a uniform prior does not exist. In the case where the parameter is chosen from the unit interval, it might seem obvious that "no prior information" corresponds to a uniform prior. However, since squaring is 1:1 on the unit interval, "no information about " is equivalent to "no information about ". And if has a uniform distribution, then does not. One can choose a prior distribution in a way that avoids this apparent paradox  (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jef...), but it is not clear that such priors are really "noninformative" in the way that we care about. The warm feeling of comprehensiveness you get from carrying out the Bayesian calculation is usually misleading. In reality, you picked the form of the prior and model for mathematical convenience, and the actual (great) uncertainty about these forms is missing from your posterior probabilities.    Embed Quote