★Give some real world examples where the following probability distributions show themselves?laplace, rayleigh, exponential, poisson, chi square, gamma, log normal, weibull.  we usually model random processes as gaussian, which is the next most popular option?
Yes, we do often model many processes as Gaussian, because the Central Limit Theorem implies that for "most" other distributions, However, sometimes the Gaussian distribution just won't do the trick. Two particular situations that come to mind are: If the situation you're trying to model is discrete and small (eg: how many aircraft carriers is the USA likely to build this year), the continuous approximation provided by the Gaussian distribution may be unacceptably innacurate. If the random variable you're trying to model has a natural bound (in particular, if it must be positive), the Gaussian distribution may not be so hot, because its support is unbounded (it can take values from minus infinity to infinity). Here are some real-world examples of applications of the distributions you mentioned (obviously, there are many more in each case): Laplace: Most regression models assume that errors are normally distributed. This is problematic, however, in that outliers are given undue importance (so if your values are 1, 0, 1, 2, 3, 2, 10000, 3, 2, the value of 10000 will affect your result much more than any other value). Using a model with Laplace distributed errors instead mitigates this issue by giving equal importance to every point regardless of its magnitude. Rayleigh: "Suppose that the x and y components of wind speed in my area are normally distributed and independent. What will the distribution of wind speed magnitude be?" Exponential: "I'm standing at a bus stop - how long till the next bus arrives?" Poisson: "How many emails will I receive today?" (it can be shown that the Poisson distribution is the limit of the Binomial distribution when n gets very large and p very small). Chi-square: "What's the distribution of the variance of a normal random variable?" Gamma: "k people are waiting in line at Duane Reade. How long till they've all been served?" Log-normal: If X is a normal random variable than exp(X) is a log-normal random variable. In the Black-Scholes framework, stock prices at any given time are assumed to be lognormal. Weibull: "how long till this piece of machinery I have fails, assuming that the failure rate is proportional to a power of time?"    Embed Quote