★What is the tail of a probability distribution?
The tail of a distribution isn't a precisely defined term.  In other words, there is not some specific place where you stop being in the middle of the distribution and start being in the tail.  With that said, it is a very important concept nevertheless.  The tail basically refers to the part of the distribution that is really far away from the mean.  Distributions like the normal have very "skinny" tails because the density decreases like exp(-x^2) for |x| much greater than the mean.  Other distributions like the Cauchy distribution have very "fat" tails because they decrease much more slowly.  The Cauchy decreases like x^(-2). A distribution with a fat tail has the property that there is a (relatively) high probability of something "unusual" happening (i.e.  the random variable takes on a value that is very large in magnitude.)  In fact, the Cauchy has tails that are so fat that it doesn't even have a well-defined mean (only a median).  It's an interesting exercise to see the law of large numbers fail for this distribution by repeated sampling from the distribution and plotting a running sample average after each sample.  It fails because no matter how large n is, in about n samples, you have a high probability of observing a value with magnitude of about n.  So after 10 million samples, maybe you have a sample mean of about 1 for example.  Sometime in the next 10 million samples, you're likely to get a sample with a value of about 10 million.  This sample alone would cause the sample mean to jump up by between 0.5 and 1.  Then, during the next 20 million samples, you're likely to get a sample of something like -20 million.  That would cause the sample mean to abruptly decrease by between 0.5 and 1 (for example).  So when you repeat this process you see that no matter what scale you look at (i.e. no matter how large you let n become), the sample mean keeps jumping up and down by significant amounts at random places.  The sample average never settles down (i.e. converges) to any number.    Embed Quote