★What are some of the most interesting probability distributions?
I stumbled onto a lot of probability distributions during my graduate school courses in Machine learning, Pattern recognition and Information retrieval. However, there are some which are applicable in real world cases and come back to you in many areas of research. These are the ones which I found interesting to say the least. I have tried to find intuitive explanations for each of them. 1. Exponential distribution   A Curve of much interest. The exponential distribution is given by Now, interesting things come up. The  conjugate of the exponential distribution is the gamma distribution,  which we had touched upon in the beta distribution below. That is useful  if we want to take it as a prior sometimes in our analyses. Secondly,  we had seen that the poisson distribution also has an exponential term.  It is because it comes from the exponential family of distributions.  Thirdly, something which I cannot get my head around yet, although very  useful is the property of Memorylessness. When the exponential random variable, say T, is interpreted as the waiting time for an event to occur relative to some initial time, if T is conditioned on a failure to observe the event over some initial period of time s,  the distribution of the remaining waiting time is the same as the  original unconditional distribution. For example, if an event has not  occurred after 30 seconds, the conditional probability that occurrence  will take at least 10 more seconds is equal to the unconditioned  probability of observing the event more than 10 seconds relative to the  initial time. The exponential distributions and the geometric  distributions are the only memoryless probability distributions. The  exponential distribution is consequently also necessarily the only  continuous probability distribution that has a constant failure rate. Playing Half life   2. Laplace   The Laplace distribution (given after the name of Pierre-Laplace) is a  distribution which again like the t-distribution can be used for  robustness to outliers due to fatter tails. It is also called double  exponential distribution due to being made up from 2 exponential  functions. What is interesting about it is that it is quite similar to  the Gaussian. Instead of mean (μ) and standard deviation (σ), Laplace has location (also μ) and diversity (b).   It is given by: Playing pinball (If only it was I.I.D.)   3. Student-t   It is like the Gaussian distribution. Easy to remember - think 't'  for fatter tails; a Gaussian with fatter tails. It is a probability  distribution that is used to estimate population parameters when the  sample size is small and/or when the population variance is unknown.  Plus, it keeps outliers in mind too. Thereby, is more robust than the  Gaussian distribution. The t-distribution's properties start to resemble  the Gaussian when the degrees of freedom are high.   Student t by Alpha dawg   4. Poisson   Poisson distribution is the most widely underrated cousin in the  family of distributions based on the binomial theorem. Why do I say  that? It is of immense importance when we need to get an idea about rare  events. This article gives a very intuitive understanding of how randomness looks like for rare events such as bombings.   It is given by : Poisson Distribution by Cueball 5. Beta   Beta distribution is a very useful distribution as it can be used as a conjugate prior, plus it has 2 parameters to tune - α,β. It can transform into a uniform distribution ~ U(0,θ) and normal distribution  ~ N(μ,σ).   I found this very clear intuitive definition of a beta distribution  with a fun baseball example.   Beta distribution by David Robinson    Embed Quote