★What is the least predictable probability distribution?I assume "predictability" is based on some measure of dispersion, such as the variance or perhaps better yet the coefficient of variation. However it is based, the deterministic distribution is clearly the most predictable. The least predictable distribution seems to me to depend on your definition of "predictable" so include that in your answer.
I like the other two answers (by Michael Hochster and William Chen), but I'd like to propose another complementary answer. A distribution is more unpredictable if you have a harder time figuring it out from observations of it.  For example, a Gaussian distribution with a large variance would require more measurements to try to estimate its mean to the same level of accuracy because each measurement has that much more error in it.  This view largely agrees with the idea of entropy. However, there are distributions that are even harder to estimate.  For example, the Cauchy Distribution does not have a mean.  This happens because there is always a significant chance that an unexpectedly large deviation will throw off the estimate of the mean.  There are other ways to estimate the distribution, but just taking the average of the observed values doesn't really work. This gives you a different answer than using entropy because the Cauchy distribution has entropy log() + log() for the parameter used in the Cauchy distribution.  This means that any fixed Cauchy distribution has less entropy than normal distributions with sufficiently large variance. This may seem like a mathematical oddity or just a counterexample, but the idea of not being able to estimate the mean has received a lot of attention in finance.  See for example, N. N. Taleb's Black Swan or B. Mandelbrot's (Mis)Behaviour of Markets.  The failure of the Gaussian assumption has been pointed to (by Taleb) as one of the causes of financial meltdowns.  I think that suggests an unpredictability of a more profound type than just entropy.    Embed Quote