The face was automatically detected by special software.
Within medical science, pattern recognition is the basis for computer-aided diagnosis (CAD) systems. CAD describes a procedure that supports the doctor's interpretations and findings.
Other typical applications of pattern recognition techniques are automatic speech recognition, classification of text into several categories (e.g. spam/non-spam email messages), the automatic recognition of handwritten postal codes on postal envelopes, automatic recognition of images of human faces, or handwriting image extraction from medical forms.[2] The last two examples form the subtopic image analysis of pattern recognition that deals with digital images as input to pattern recognition systems.[3][4]
Optical character recognition is a classic example of the application of a pattern classifier, see OCR-example. The method of signing one's name was captured with stylus and overlay starting in 1990.[citation needed] The strokes, speed, relative min, relative max, acceleration and pressure is used to uniquely identify and confirm identity. Banks were first offered this technology, but were content to collect from the FDIC for any bank fraud and did not want to inconvenience customers..[citation needed]
Neural networks (neural net classifiers) have many real-world applications in image processing, a few examples:
identification and authentication: e.g., license plate recognition,[5] fingerprint analysis and face detection/verification;[6] medical diagnosis: e.g., screening for cervical cancer (Papnet)[7] or breast tumors; defence: various navigation and guidance systems, target recognition systems, etc.
For a discussion of the aforementioned applications of neural networks in image processing, see e.g.[8]
In psychology, pattern recognition, making sense of and identifying the objects we see is closely related to perception, which explains how the sensory inputs we receive are made meaningful. Pattern recognition can be thought of in two different ways: the first being template matching and the second being feature detection. A template is a pattern used to produce items of the same proportions. The template-matching hypothesis suggests that incoming stimuli are compared with templates in the long term memory. If there is a match, the stimulus is identified. Feature detection models, such as the Pandemonium system for classifying letters (Selfridge, 1959), suggest that the stimuli are broken down into their component parts for identification. For example, an E has three horizontal lines and one vertical line.[9]
This section is empty. You can help by adding to it. (October 2010)
Classification problems has many applications. In some of these it is employed as a data mining procedure, while in others more detailed statistical modeling is undertaken.
Computer vision Medical imaging and medical image analysis Optical character recognition Video tracking Drug discovery and development Toxicogenomics Quantitative structure-activity relationship Geostatistics Speech recognition Handwriting recognition Biometric identification Biological classification Statistical natural language processing Document classification Internet search engines Credit scoring Pattern recognition
This article includes a list of references, but its sources remain unclear because it has insufficient inline citations. Please help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. (January 2010)
