Hash functions are mostly used to accelerate table lookup or data comparison tasks such as finding items in a database, detecting duplicated or similar records in a large file, finding similar stretches in DNA sequences, and so on.
A hash function should be referentially transparent (stable), i.e., if called twice on input that is "equal" (for example, strings that consist of the same sequence of characters), it should give the same result. This is a contract in many programming languages that allow the user to override equality and hash functions for an object: if two objects are equal, their hash codes must be the same. This is crucial to finding an element in a hash table quickly, because two of the same element would both hash to the same slot.
Some hash functions may map two or more keys to the same hash value, causing a collision. Such hash functions try to map the keys to the hash values as evenly as possible because collisions become more frequent as hash tables fill up. Thus, single-digit hash values are frequently restricted to 80% of the size of the table. Depending on the algorithm used, other properties may be required as well, such as double hashing and linear probing. Although the idea was conceived in the 1950s, the design of good hash functions is still a topic of active research.[1]
Hash functions are related to (and often confused with) checksums, check digits, fingerprints, randomization functions, error correcting codes, and cryptographic hash functions. Although these concepts overlap to some extent, each has its own uses and requirements and is designed and optimized differently. The HashKeeper database maintained by the American National Drug Intelligence Center, for instance, is more aptly described as a catalog of file fingerprints than of hash values.
Good hash functions, in the original sense of the term, are usually required to satisfy certain properties listed below. Note that different requirements apply to the other related concepts (cryptographic hash functions, checksums, etc.).
A perfect hash function for a specific set S that can be evaluated in constant time, and with values in a small range, can be found by a randomized algorithm in a number of operations that is proportional to the size of S[citation needed]. The minimal size of the description of a perfect hash function depends on the range of its function values: The smaller the range, the more space is required[citation needed]. Any perfect hash functions suitable for use with a hash table require at least a number of bits that is proportional to the size of S.
A perfect hash function with values in a limited range can be used for efficient lookup operations, by placing keys from S (or other associated values) in a table indexed by the output of the function. Using a perfect hash function is best in situations where there is a frequently queried large set, S, which is seldom updated. Efficient solutions to performing updates are known as dynamic perfect hashing, but these methods are relatively complicated to implement. A simple alternative to perfect hashing, which also allows dynamic updates, is cuckoo hashing.
