Are humans really causing global warming?
Joshua Engel's answer shows the evidence that increasing CO2 in the atmosphere has been produced by humans burning fossil fuels.  Here's the physics and chemistry connecting that to global warming. First (physics), the earth receives energy from the sun, primarily in the form of visible and ultraviolet (UV) light.  The earth emits infrared (IR) light and not much visible or UV.  Both facts are directly measurable, for example by using optical filters to isolate separate wavelengths and photodetectors to measure the energy carried by the different wavelengths.  And there's a well established theory in physics ("black body radiation") that agrees with the measurements, explains them, and is supported by broader theories in thermodynamics and quantum mechanics. Second (physics), CO2 is mostly transparent to visible and UV light but absorbs and re-emits infrared radiation.  This is directly measurable, for example by putting some gas in a quartz optical cell and measuring the absorption and reflection of light of different wavelengths.  It's also supported by quantum mechanical calculations of CO2 properties.  What this means is that (1) CO2 doesn't reduce warming of the earth by visible and UV light from the sun.  And (2) CO2 does reduce cooling of the earth by radiation of IR out into space.  The net effect is warming that increases as atmospheric CO2 increases. Third (chemistry), burning fossil fuels (coal, oil, gasoline, and even natural gas) consumes oxygen and produces CO2.  This also is measurable.  For example a mass spectrograph can can measure the composition of air going into a combustion chamber and the composition of air coming out of a combustion chamber.  Or you could try breathing the air coming out -not recommended! You combine these three well established facts and you see that burning fossil fuels is putting something into the air that, if it's not removed, will cause warming of the earth.  Now you can go on to measurements of CO2 in the atmosphere, and to measurements of land, water, and air temperatures, and to correlations between them, and to computer models that include other effects (yes, there are other effects) and predict the results of possible future changes. None of this is politics. 