How often does Robert Frost get to interact with Indians at NASA?
I don't know what the politically correct definition of Indian is.  Is it someone born in India?  A citizen of India?  Someone whose parents or grandparents were from India? I work, every day, with people that are certainly of Indian heritage and have Indian names, but in most cases, I don't really know if they were born in India and moved to the US as a child or if they were born in the US.  I do know that every person of Indian heritage that I work with is a citizen of the United States.  It's required for the kind of work we do. I don't know where the number you read (35%) came from.  Here are the actual NASA demographics: Indians are grouped in with other Asian ethnicities and you can see that they total to about 6.8%.  I would say that that's close to my experience, but a bit higher.  But, then again, at my location, US citizenship is required.  There may certainly be higher amounts of Indians working on NASA projects that don't have security restrictions that require US citizenship.  It's also possible that the number you cite (35%) includes employees at off-site contractors. The above image represents NASA as a whole, but the population varies at each center not just for security but for geographic reasons.  For example, in Houston, the NASA center certainly has a much higher hispanic representation than the 3.9% shown in the graph.  While there are many people that travel great distances from home to get to work at NASA, there are also many people that work at NASA largely because it's a good place to work in their home town.  Houston's hispanic population is around 37%. NASA works very hard to try to represent the diversity of America in its employee population.  That can be challenging when almost all of the jobs require advanced education and the educational institutions are not yet at those desired demographics. I work with people of Indian heritage every day.  There is one person of Indian heritage in my group.  He is possibly the most knowledgeable person in the group.  One of my favorite astronauts to work with is Sunita Williams.  She was born in Ohio, but is of Indian heritage. One of the great things about working on the International Space Station (ISS) program is that not only do we get to work with the diverse population of the United States, but we get to work with the International Partners.  I work regularly with Russians, Japanese, Canadians, Germans, and Italians - not just people with heritage in those countries, but people deeply embedded in the cultures of those countries. It's challenging.  Sometimes we talk past each other because our reference frames are so different.  But the opportunities to learn about each other are wonderful.  We get to learn about how our counterparts work and how the live.  Often when it seems like we are so very different, a connection will appear.  I'll never forget the time when a long day of passionate arguing with a Russian counterpart (a lieutenant colonel in the Russian Air Force) turned into a long night of drinking and after probably 15 shots of vodka that Russian opening up to me and telling me how much he loved his favorite television character - Peter Griffin of the American cartoon series Family Guy.  Here was this intimidating tough guy that once trained to kill Americans, and he loved Peter Griffin.  His English was not particularly strong, but he could do a perfect impression of Peter Griffin. I'll never forget a night in Koln, Germany, spent arguing about world politics at a table of 11 people from 11 different countries. Working with people of very different backgrounds is a great thing.  Again, it can be challenging, but in learning about the other person, one often learns about oneself.  One starts to question why one believes something is true, when time is spent with someone that believes otherwise. A diversity of backgrounds brings a diversity of ideas.  At NASA, ideas are our business, so it's a good thing. 