History of Europe: Why did Germany fare so much better than Great Britain economically in the past 50 years?
I've answered similar questions on French productivity, and British economic problems already. The reasons don't change much. But here they are: 1. British industry had always been spectacularly inefficient, and German industry more efficient. British businesses often focused  on very low-margin goods (like cotton fabric, and coal extraction),  which were easy for third-world countries to make with a low-skilled,  low-paid workforce. And when British firms focused on high margin goods -  like automobile construction, ship-building, electronics - they often  did so very incompetently. Britain was the first country to  industrialise, and because of that, it industrialised incompetently and  haphazardly, while Germany and the USA in the 1870s-1900s, Japan and  Korea in the 1950s-1980s, and China in the 1980s to the present, had  many successful models to copy. As soon as Britain faced competitors, it  struggled, as they always outproduced per man hour. Industrial decline  in Britain started in the 1900s, but only became conspicuous in the  1970s. This issue is still alive and well: in the present day, for every  3 widgets a British worker produces, a German worker produces 4, for a  similar wage. 2. Britain has a very poor education system,  particularly for working-class people. It culturally marginalises all  forms of technical education (to the point of banning it below the age  of 16, effectively), so we have a very unskilled workforce. This is the opposite of Germany. Britain had,  until the 1990s, only 1/3 of the number of university students as  Germany and the US, and British University students focused (and  continue to focus) on subjects like history, literature, philosophy and  anthropology, while in Japan, Germany, India and China it has been much  more aspirational to focus on physics, engineering, programming,  industrial design and electronics. So in Britain, we have a very  unskilled workforce, at the top and the bottom. 3. Britain has a  tradition of amateur, uneducated management. In Britain, the people that  often managed large manufacturing firms typically had no degree at all,  while in Germany, most of the board would have PhDs in whatever it is  that the company did - metallurgy, chemical engineering, mechanical  engineering, and so on. Amateurs can't make cars. In the USA, managers  tended to have educational backgrounds in things like industrial  processes, finance, management, and quality control. So in Britain,  management was completely incompetent. 4. Related to 3, British  businesses invest very little money in machinery, or training, or  research, because they report their finances very publicly, very often.  This leads to a lot of shareholder pressure for immediate returns, often  at the expense of long-term strategy. German and Japanese firms do not  report like this, and are more likely to be owned privately. Long-term  decision-taking is much more acceptable - even obvious. Britain still  has this problem. 5. Britain had a very fractured labour  movement, and the unions saw themselves as in competition with each  other, and the management. In Germany and the USA, there tend to be  one-industry unions - like Autoworkers, or IG Metal. In Britain, one  factory might have a dozen craft unions - an auto plant might have panel  beaters, welders, stitchers, painters, electricians and assemblers all  in a different union. So if the welders got a 2.4% pay rise, the  painters would strike for 2.7%, and then the panel beaters for 2.9%. Any  one of these unions could stop all production, so there was huge  disruptions to productivity. These unions were also culturally hostile  to management, while in the USA and Germany they either struck  industry-wide deals with management (USA), or had seats on the board so  could mediate between workers and management (Germany and Japan).  Because these unions were craft based, they refused to accept changes to  industrial practices. This issue has largely been solved, since the  mid-1980s. 6. Britain had, and still has, terrible  infrastructure. It's very hard to move around the country. This has all  sorts of implications. It's very difficult to get workers to come to  your factory, because bus and train systems were (and are) very poor  quality and very expensive. It's very difficult to move goods around,  because the road system was very poor, and the railway system  ineffective. Planning processes were completely arbitrary, and directed  by a very controlling centralised state, so it was very difficult and  expensive to build new factories, or expand existing ones. This issue  still exists. There is almost total paralysis in the planning system,  and the transport system is very expensive and very incompetent. 7.  British firms pay their workers very badly, and treat them very badly.  They are on lower wages, typically, especially at the bottom end of the  pay scale. And their contracts are often precarious. And they are not  invested in, and not involved in the life of the firm very much. This  makes them unproductive. 