How popular is ISIS (ISIL / DAESH)?
The difference in the polling depends on the questions asked. Many muslims have very nuanced feelings concerning orthodox movements - one part feels solidarity and respect, while another feels disdain and wishes they would 'move on' (a feeling that is echoed in some parts of Europe and the U.S. Christian communities). Note that the 3% poll shows very little information on the link you provided. First, you are directed to an article with a clickbaity title. Afterwards, you are referred to an infographic that is showing pretty much nothing. You have to go to a link given there to find the original article, here: ISIS Has Almost No Support in Egypt, Saudi Arabia, or Lebanon - But America Has Little More. As to how the people were interviewed, we aren't given much more information either: Now, however, a trio of new polls – the first ones of their kind – provides the hard data on which to make this judgment. The polls were conducted in September by a leading commercial survey firm in the Middle East, using face-to-face interviews by experienced local professionals. The sample was a random, geographic probability national sample of 1,000 respondents (nationals only, excluding expatriates or refugees) in each country, yielding a statistical margin of error of approximately 3 percent. I couldn't find the original statistics, and they give no information on how they got by the '3% error'. In either case, the article does not go into the nuances of 'how popular ISIS' is. It stated that about 5% of the interviewed in Saudi-Arabia supported ISIS. But supporting and approving is not the same. If you look at the the other link you provided, it asked whether or not people approved of the conquests of ISIS. I don't speak Arabic and both interviews don't give particulary that much information on what the exact questions were that were asked, but it's clear that both polls didn't ask the same thing. But to answer your question: how popular is ISIS? It isn't that popular. It currently has about 25.000 foreign fighters, with many coming not only from the Middle-east but also from Europe, the US and other parts of the world. But 25.000 on a population of over a billion muslims isn't that impressive. Many muslims at least understand their goals, and have some sympathy for them and their goals. But to go as far as supporting them? That's a step too far for most muslims. 