What are the best Data Science Masters Programs in the US?
A little late to the game but here is my take. Note - I am a, soon to be graduating, Harvard CSE graduate student and this answer is a variation of my answer to Is 'Master of Science in CSE' offered by Harvard a good choice if I want to become a Data Scientist? My background: Duke ECE/Econ -> Economic Consulting -> Harvard MS CSE -> Yelp Data Science Tl;dr: * I would check out all of the other posters' helpful lists of Data Science Masters. * I think Harvard's CSE program is a great program. * In picking a strong Data Science program look for: 1) Rigorous coursework: a quick heuristic to see if the coursework is rigorous is to see what projects did students produce at the end of the class and, better yet, find their websites and read their Github code. Did the projects make you think that this is something I would want to explore further or a question you would like to work on. I think it is a red flag if you cannot find projects/code online since those are a good reflection of how well can graduates learn the theory and apply it successfully. 2) Good job placement: did graduates end up getting data science related jobs at companies that you would want to work at. A quick LinkedIn search with the program's name in the search bar is often very telling of where graduates place. 3) University/Program resources: does the program organize trips or talks to learn from top data science teams or leading machine learning experts. What other interesting speakers have stopped by the university in the past? These events definitely broaden your horizon and you get to learn how data is used in interesting ways. Objective: I'm assuming that the end goal of a Data Science Master Program is to go into industry as a Data Scientist or an equivalent position. Therefore, I am answering this question to reflect what I believe is important when choosing a Data Science program. Coursework: The majority of students took courses that covered topics such as machine learning (supervised, unsupervised, reinforcement learning), stochastic optimization, MCMC (sampling techniques), Bayesian modeling, regression analysis and Generalized Linear Models, a few graphical models, time series models, parallel computing, and software design. See Aymen Jaffry's answer for the exact classes. After learning all those topics, what kinds of data science questions can we actually tackle? It is actually quite funny how some of my classmates' projects mirror Raj Bhuptani's illustration of data science projects. Here are a couple of similar projects. These are done by some of my awesome classmates! - Analysis of weather and event impacts on Boston's transit  (MBTA Capstone) with D3 visualizations (Weather and the MBTA). - Opinion Mining and Sentiment Analysis of TripAdvisor Hotel Reviews (TextMining) and be sure to try the Live Demo. - I have worked on NCAA predictions using Bayesian modeling (AM 207 Final Project Website), subscriber prediction for Boston Globe (AC 297r Boston Globe Capstone Project Website), and topic modeling on news articles (Predicting Social News Reach). If the above isn't enough, you can also find additional Capstone Projects. In all honesty, the coursework is fairly rigorous and prepares you well for real-world data science. From my past data science internship at Payoff, I used many of the concepts above for my modeling efforts to empower people to get out of financial debt! Job Search: Data (Institute for Applied Computational Science) shows that CSE graduates do become data scientists at well-known companies. Graduates have received full-time/internship offers at top tech firms (Microsoft, Facebook, Square, Palantir, etc), Finance (Goldman), and other startups and so forth. Perhaps, even cooler, is that you get to discover data science teams where you least expect them. Did you know that Legendary Pictures (company) (Creators of Jurassic World, Inception, etc) has a data science team where they use NLP to streamline their marketing initiatives? Pretty neat stuff! Additional Resources: Another aspect I really enjoyed in the program is that during the Spring semester, we visited data science teams at companies every Friday around the Boston area. We also went on a NYC trip over spring break to visit Buzzfeed, eBay, Goldman, Morgan Stanley , and 538. Word on the street is that the program will be making a trip out to San Francisco and Silicon Valley in Spring '16 to visit data science teams out there. Lastly, you get to hear awesome talks around campus. This year, we heard from the founder of OkCupid, iRobot, Peter Thiel, and many more. Other Data Science Programs: Not surprisingly, I also applied to many of the programs that Tushar Madaan listed in his answer back in 2014. In particular, Stanford's ICME program (not accepted) and CMU's MS in Machine Learning (accepted) stood out to me. I have an ex-coworker (Andreas Santucci, Reviews of: Stanford M.S. Data Science Track - ICME) in Stanford's ICME program and have interacted with graduates of the PhD program who are sharp and very knowledgeable of both CS and Statistics topics. In addition, I also visited both CMU's ML/CS programs and spoke extensively with ML/CS professors and graduate students. I would hands down recommend those programs and I looked through CMU ML courses and problem sets from 10-701 (ML), 10-702 (Statistical ML), and 10-708 (Probabilistic Graphical Models) to find comparable classes at Harvard. Good luck and feel free to PM me. Jeff 