Does academic scientific research really add to industry?
This is something that confuses people a great deal. The output of research is never directly a product. This is certainly the case in universities (even in the more applied fields). Nonetheless, in the long run, (good) research permeates into (good) products. I am from a computer science and electrical engineering background and so, I will try to answer this question from that perspective. Let us think on why this should be the case. You go to graduate school and you cannot help thinking on how everything seems so distant from the supposedly real world. You think: how am I going to turn the solution of this problem of, apparently, only academic interest on something that I can sell and make money on? Well, probably you cannot; at least not immediately. This is because on research at the academic level, people focus on solving very specific problems that are framed in the minimal possible way. People may even come up with the problem because of some more practical problem they thought of, but often, after dealing with it for long enough, they keep just the juice -- for example, the formulation in terms of equations or some mathematical optimization problem. This mathematical view gives you an unobtrusive look into the problem's core. You no longer have to keep all the spurious details around; many connections with other seemingly unrelated problems become clear. The difficulty sometimes is when you are presented only with the result of this transformation and fail to see the intuition and the motivation for solving the problem in first place. It is usually on this kind of circumstances where people feel the disconnect between academia and the "real world". The output of academic research is models, algorithms and explanatory theory. Many times you solve an idealized version of the problem that you care about for the sake of tractability; for the sake of making progress. You know that things do not quite hold in the real world -- that you are just working with an approximation (that is what models are) -- but the solution is still useful for insight. Hopefully, so far you realized that Academia tries to solves very specific problems, which  are framed in the most minimal ways to avoid inconsequential details and complexity. Let us try to see how this differs from building a product. Well, if I had to pick a single difference (this is not universally true, but still) that difference would be requirements. When you are developing a product you cannot just leave things to chance. You have constraints that you have to satisfy. Take some electronic device for example: How much is the target price? Do I have power requirements (e.g.. is it battery operated device)? Do I have to conform to protocols X and Y? What features do I need (or want) to support? How much computing power is going to be available to me? Does the device need to perform its task in real-time? How critical is the correct operation of the system (e.g. can I fail to perform the task sometimes or that is absolutely disastrous)? So when you are thinking about building a product you have to ask yourself (and answer) a sizable amount of questions. Of course the questions would be somewhat different if, instead of some electronic device, say, you were developing a new kind of washing machine, a car or a building, but, nonetheless,  you would still have a ton of requirements to think about and satisfy. You have to have a system's perspective into the product: You would start with some high-level requirements and then, from those high-level requirements, you develop some more specific requirements, and so on, until you had a good sense of how you should go about putting the product together piece by piece. I would say that this is really the essence of Engineering. Engineering is really about managing complexity; taking a large problem and breaking it into manageable small pieces that interact nicely and perform the desired task. Engineering is really the synthesis of systems as to satisfy some specified requirements. At last, let us think on why someone building a product (someone in industry) should care about the output of Academia. Let us also see how one may influence the other. Basically, the output of Academia allows you to develop better subsystems for the product that you care about; it allows you to do things that could not do previously. Take self-driving cars for example. You have a lot of engineering behind them, but the algorithms and components that make up the subsystems were first developed in Academia. There is nothing "new" in the car itself. The algorithms were probably all known when the car was developed (there is still a massive engineering effort and that is by no means to be belittled). Or take Google for example, who came into being largely as a consequence of the development of new algorithms. I am sure it is possible to come up with a huge stream of examples. Most developments start in Academia and eventually permeate into products. Industry also contributes to Academia by coming up with relevant problems that they want to solve. A nice example of this is the field of Machine Learning, whose current interest and developments are in a large part motivated by the desire to do more with the huge amount of data available. Do you think that Machine Learning would be as popular if Industry did not have such a keen on its implications for their businesses? Almost certainly not. Industry provides incentive and problems while Academia provides insight and solutions. 