How can a medical doctor justify doing an MBA?
I think I can connect to this and am suitable to answer this from a medical student point of view ; not from those who view our world from outside and see it all rosy.  Everyone says doctors are Gods and doctor profession is highly respected and there is no other profession that can come close to it. I agree with everything. But, what if that same God isn't happy being in that situation? What if that same God's soul is being killed on a daily terms? What if this profession feels like a slow poison spreading and taking away the living essence of that God? Does it mean that the person should continue it only because he is in that profession and people call him God? If that is the case, there are many who would gladly say 'don't call us Gods'. Because, that is the fact. That is the reality. No matter how much of a prestigious profession it is, public has to understand that not everyone are cut out to be a doctor even though they do end up taking MBBS. Yes, you heard me right. Having the passion to treat people is not enough to sustain as a doctor. It takes many other factors. And, if the MBBS candidate finds solace in MBA, which gives him the opportunity to serve people as he wanted and also be in peace, I don't see what more justification anyone else needs. In the course of 5 and half years- a spread out period- MBBS students are faced with a multiple situations which can break them. I am going to put the PG aside, and first focus on the medical problems which should justify the MBA situation.  A daily scenario of deaths and cries is not for everyone. You might say people should be aware of what they are getting themselves into before taking MBBS. Please, stop for a second and think. How old was that boy when he wanted to do MBBS? He had this colorful wings and was full of spirit when he first joined MBBS. He didn't even know what it was like to see death on daily terms. It hurts. It hurts a lot when a mother comes crying to you and begs you to tell that you are lying. That her child is alive, breathing. That her child is not dead. It hurts. Is it wrong for some medical students who can't cope up with that pain to enter into an alternate path so that they can still be in hospital side and do something useful? Is that a crime, to not want to feel pain? What more justification do you want? Blood, hospital smell of the antiseptics and anesthesia... When students join, they assure themselves that they can tolerate the sight of blood-the gross naturalization- but some things are inevitable and if that hurts their head enough to make them faint, what good will it do to anyone if he still is pushed to pursue in such a field? Doesn't the health of a doctor count? Is it always about the people he is treating? Isn't a person too before he is a doctor? I faint with slight scent of anesthesia. I can stand for a maximum of 20 minutes without swaying or fainting, and that is if I have a strong grip or support. I clearly know surgery isn't an option for me because I won't be able to endure the operation period, leave aside about the operation being success. Won't it be justified if I choose not to opt surgical field? Similarly, there are people who can't tolerate handling patients, and if they chose to proceed with MBA, I see it as they are doing the right thing for the society, not only themselves. What more justification do you need? After graduation opportunities You have to remember that in this world everything has become corporate and a mere MBBS degree is useless. Students have to pursue further and with tough competition and a lot of responsibilities that are put on them, is natural for people wanting to expand their horizon and seek new ways to solve their problems. Why is it that Engineering students are eligible to give up their jobs and even travel the world in leisure, when MBBS students can't even choose to do MBA which will land them in a hospital regardless of anything. Even with a MBA degree, they are working for the betterment of the health sector and isn't that countable? Doctor by himself can't do anything. This is a combined sector which also includes management. A doctor with a management degree knows better as to what changes a hospital needs and how it should run so that it will benefit every patient. He can do this job better because of his medical experience. Only because he doesn't chose to handle patients doesn't make him a less of a person. And, he isn't degrading any levels. There is one thing that always baffles me. Aren't doctors humans? Isn't their happiness and well-being of any consideration?  Balaji Viswanathan has pointed towards the others points and I am not going to discuss them. Unless you think those who do MBBS are forever slaves and don't deserve a life they want and should be bound to the chains of this because they took it, what more justification do you need? And, if you do think that, you should first justify your thinking. Sorry for my rant. I had to write this down. This answer deals with why it is ethically right for MBBS students to pursue some other field. 