What changes occur in an astronaut's body when they come back to Earth after a long mission from the ISS (International Space Station)?
1. Bone and Muscle Wasting When your bones and muscles aren’t doing the hard work of fighting gravity, they deteriorate fast. The atrophy of muscles in space can affect not only the performance of astronauts during missions, but it can lead to severe muscle injuries upon return to Earth. Astronauts landing on Mars may be susceptible to muscle injury once they step onto the planet. 2. Losing Your Mind Rocketing across interplanetary space in a metal can sound thrilling. But in reality, most of your waking hours are spent meticulously labeling test tubes or checking system logs. These are really boring, repetitive tasks which lead to apathy, distraction and careless mistakes. 3. Losing Your Sight Men and women started coming back from space complaining of slight changes to their visual acuity. Follow-up studies revealed that astronaut's eyeballs tend to be a bit flattened after six months. When you go into space, gravity is no longer pulling fluids to the lower part of your body, and so they redistribute themselves more evenly. Fluid redistribution increases intracranial pressure exerted inside the skull by the fluid surrounding your brain and one of the outlet for this fluid happens to press right up against the optic nerve which pushes on the back of the eyeball and deforms it a little. 4. Catching a Space Bug Most of the bacteria that live on us and in us are even helpful. But there’s still the possibility that in space, one of our bugs could turn against us. A series of scientific studies have shown that certain bacteria, including known human pathogens Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Staphylococcus aureus, seem to become more hardier and more virulent and at the same time, weightlessness can suppress certain immune functions, leaving astronauts more vulnerable to disease. But taking antibiotics in space is risky, because these drugs can wipe out beneficial bacteria, further diminishing the immune system’s capacity to fight infection. 5. Radiation There are a few types of harmful radiation zipping about in outer space. The radiation danger gets a lot worse when you leave the protection of Earth’s magnetosphere. There’s UV, which is several hundred times stronger in orbit than it is beneath Earth’s atmosphere. Hope this helps as well... 