History of Europe: Why did Germany fare so much better than Great Britain economically in the past 50 years?
It might in many ways rather be asked why it didn't fare better. Under different circumstances Germany should probably have been further ahead of Britain but messed up itself by two world wars and reunification. The reason I am saying this is that Germany in the early 1900 started getting a signifiant lead over Britain. Britain had grown the industrial revolution organically. To catch up Germany invented the modern lab and became the worlds scientific powerhouse. E.g. they were so far ahead in chemistry (like dyes, printing etc) that after WWI when allies captured german know how, they were no able to use it because it was too advance for them. Mathematics and physics was dominated by Germany. While the strong craftsmanship tradition emphasizing quality over price went all the way back to the middle ages. This was much because of the guilds which were quality oriented and which lasted much longer in Germany than Britain. This might also explain why Britain started lagging. Engineer and craftsmanship did not have the same prestige in Britain as in Germany. A Gentleman in Britain should be well versed humanities like latin and history. It was no accident that it was Germany which invented jetengines, rockets, the automobile etc. During WWII the US was actually far behind Germany scientifically. The US was mainly practically oriented  towards engineering and building stuff, not pure science. It was the exodus of German scientists during and after the war which kick started the American scientific hegemony we see today. It might be more fair to ask why has Britain managed to hold its own so well. Partly Britain at first managed to prop up its economics with its colonies. The colonial tradition help build up London as a financial hub. Britain also benefited from having better traditions for government and democracy. Germany ruined itself through a lot of bad decisions at the top by people like The Kaiser and Hitler. 