Why does Israel have such a strong military compared to other middle eastern countries?
A2A. The short answer: because it has to. This neighborhood is extremely unforgiving to minorities and countries that can't bite. Ask the Yazidis and other fellas which are either fleeing to Europe or waiting to die. However, as I like to do in many of my answers, the question is not 'Why?' but 'How did Israel got this strong?' Before all the regular band will start commenting "You are 80% funded by the USA, bitch!", I say: shut the fuck up. US aid is less than 1% of Israel's GDP and almost all of it is given in vouchers to buy US-made goods (AKA "Republican welfare"). Before the early 1970's it was practically zero (I posted the formal charts many times before, I can do it again if you want) and Israel was still able to pull the six-days-war. So where were we? Oh, yes, the "how did you do it?" question: The answer may surprise some: because we were the only group on the Middle East that did not define its identity by what we are against. We are the only ones how defined a vision of seeking for a better life and not of eradicating anyone who thinks or lives differently from us. Those who tried to eradicate us failed and they are trying ever since. Because of Israel's vision we managed to establish a liberal democracy, a strong judicial system, a fairly good education system which is educating to ask questions and cast doubts and an economy far stronger from any of our neighbors which is not relying on oil or gas, and we did all that without accusing anyone but ourselves in whatever we achieved or failed to achieve. Unlike the rest of the Middle East, We did not descend to tyranny, ignorance, corruption and using others (AKA 'The Yahood') as a scapegoat for all of our leaders' misdoings while the ruling elite is getting richer than God.    Once we got this right, building a strong military force was trivial, and when it was built, it was not built for protecting the government from its people. Instead, it was destined by Israel's founders to be the main vehicle for integrating immigrants and minorities into the society and as a base for equality. This is how you win wars. Updated 8w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Oliver Salem