How does it feel to travel alone?
I recently quit my unsatisfying job, bought a backpack and a one way ticket to Europe (Amsterdam) to be exact. I made plans with one of my friends who lives in Serbia to meet me in Amsterdam and travel together for a month. We both met in Amsterdam at a Hostel and quickly got off to a great start. We were constantly meeting new people, and making new connections, seeing new places, tasting new food, making new memories, and having great conversations along the way. I was completely blown away by the type of people I was meeting. Everyone was so genuine, open, and laid back. I can't even begin to explain how refreshing it was, and on a side note -- I believe the reason everyone was so open, kind, genuine, and just overly awesome is because almost every single person was exactly where they wanted to be. They didn't wake up each morning fretting going to their 9 to 5 job. They woke up each morning, and did exactly what they wanted to do that day, and go wherever they wanted to go. It was amazing! The amount of new experiences, new friends, and freedom available to solo travelers is truly astounding! Traveling with my friend was incredible, but he was quite low on money while we were in Prague and ended up booking a flight home. After that -- I was on my own, and it was by far my favorite time of the trip. I was almost forced to get out and meet people (which isn't hard at all), people approached me and talked to me often (people that I didn't know). And for instance, I ended up meeting a person in my hostel room the first night on my own from Portland Oregon, he just landed in Prague that night. We chatted for 15 minutes about traveling, favorite cities, and where we were from. It's very easy to hold a conversation while traveling with practically anyone. Everyone's stories are unique and interesting as you meet people from all over the world who are out traveling and exploring, and making some incredibly awesome memories. Anyway, after chatting with my new friend for 15 minutes he invited me to dinner with him and a few of his relatives that were meeting him. We met up and chatted, had drinks, and talked about plans. We all agreed to go to our hostels pub crawl that night which was huge, and a LOT of fun. Great group of people! We were up until 7 AM the next morning. I ended up hanging out with this group of people the next day too. This was quite common each time I went out to party and/or hangout with new group of friends (especially in Prague). I'm getting carried away here, but I could literally write an entire book on just the one month of travel with the many experiences, and memories I experienced/created along the way. I felt like I experienced and remembered more in 30 days than the previous 5 years of my life. It was magical! Anyway, to get to the point of this thread; my favorite part of my backpacking trip was traveling on my own. You have complete freedom. Meeting people is a breeze (it almost happens all on it's own). You can do exactly what you want to do whenever you want to do it. Go to whatever city you want to go to without checking in or asking and making sure it's something that "everyone" wants to do. There's no friction or stress, and you'll meet groups of people with plans that are more than happy to include you in them. You'll always have something to do as a solo traveler! I highly recommend taking a solo trip. You'll learn a lot about yourself, you'll embrace the uncomfortable, and you'll meet and connect with amazing people from all parts of the world. You'll also create some incredible memories that you'll never forget. You will not regret it! Traveling has given me a new zest for life, an understanding that whenever life gets dull, or boring -- I always have it to fall back on, and I'm only just getting started. My advice: Book a ticket and hit the skies. Your next destination could be one of the greatest decisions you'll ever make! --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Find more information on my new personal lifestyle design blog heavily focused on reading, traveling, and entrepreneurship. Updated 3w ago • View Upvotes