What are the best ways to prepare for interviews with top-tier management consulting firms?
I've worked as a consultant at BCG and am currently the co-founder of http://www.RocketBlocks.me - a web service that helps prepare for interviews and launch their careers. Our first product will be RocketBlocks: Consulting (lauching Aug. 2011), a web app specifically tailored at helping students prepare for interviews at top consulting firms. Suffice to say, I've spent quite a bit of time thinking about this particular question. A lot of good advice on *how to prepare* has already been shared, so I'll reiterate and highlight a few key points, roughly ordered in my recommended chronological order: Understand the context: Start on the company websites: Read all the info there. Get a sense for where there offices are. What industries they work or focus on. What awards, cases or work they highlight on their website. Pay attention to the words and language they use. Talk to consultants and former consultants: But don't ask them questions you could find the answers to on their websites. If you do, he/she will feel you haven't done your HW and you'll waste valuable time where you could get deeper answers. Ask them what it's like to be in a case room with a team all day? Ask them about his/her best case? And her worst? Ask them about the best advice a partner ever gave them? Ask them real questions that make them think, and prod them to provide insightful answers. Consultants at these firms are very sharp, if you ask probing questions you'll get all sorts of interesting tid-bits to build on. Become a case ninja: A case is a business problem. It tests your ability to break down the aforementioned problem, analyze all the key pieces and provide a compelling recommendation. When preparing for case interviews, I strongly believe you should approach your preparation the same way you'd approach an actual case problem: break it down into manageable buckets and master each bucket. When you break down what skills a case interview tests, it comes down to 5 key skills: 1) mental math abilities, 2) ability to structure a messy problem, 3) ability to quickly analyze and pull insights from data, graphs, numbers, 4) ability to creatively brainstorm and generate ideas and 5) an ability to succinctly synthesize key points into a recommendation. With all of these the best way to nail them is to practice, practice, practice. Mental math: Drill yourself on the types of math problems that consistently arise. You'll be amazed how much 5 minutes of prep daily will help on this. I actually built BizMath (www.bizmathtutor.com) to help students practice case math because I ran into similar problems when I was prepping for interviews. Structuring problems: Again, same advice. Practice drawing structures to case questions. Time yourself and make sure you can do it without taking too long as well (shoot for 1 minute or 1:30 at most). Compare your structures to suggested answers to see what you missed (or captured) that the answer did. For the other 3 skills, my advice is the same. Keep drilling yourself on them until you've mastered them. It's probably no surprise to anyone still reading (thanks, btw) that RocketBlocks consulting will be organized into these same 5 modules to help students gain proficiency in each. Do mock interviews: Lastly, it's important to pull all these skills together in the real thing. And the best way to prep for that is have a friend give you a mock interview. The more experience that friend has with consulting (ie is a consultant, is preparing for consulting interviews or was a consultant), the better. They'll be better at administering the case and providing you helpful feedback on what you can improve. Keep track of your feedback: As you do mock interviews, really listen to the feedback you get afterward. It can be incredibly tempting to finish a case and then be so happy to be done with it that you completely forget all the advice given to you at the end. Don't do it. I had a friend who now works at BCG who wrote the top 3 take-aways she got from every mock interview she did. Before she walked into every case interview, she reviewed that list to keep herself aware of areas she needed to focus on. Stay current on business, incorporate your experience & have fun (This should happen simultaneously with the other steps) Staying current: It doesn't matter which publication, whether it's Financial Times, WSJ or The Economist but pick one and make it a habit to read it regularly. I personally think it's easiest to pick one and make it part of a routine (it will help you keep up with it even when things get hectic with schoolwork, recruiting, etc). For example, I would read the WSJ with my morning coffee before class and when I ran after school, I would upload the audio edition of The Economist onto my iPod. Incorporate your experience: Prepping for these interviews is hard, but don't forget the other side of the coin. These consulting firms want you because you're talented and accomplished. And they'll want to see that you can incorporate your prior knowledge into your new work as well. Think about ways you can reference valuable work experience you've had in actual case interviews. For example, sometimes there will be a direct industry math (ie you worked in Healthcare before and this a healthcare case). Or maybe you worked at a company (or go to a University) which uses Google Apps and you're talking about a cost reduction case. You could mention the cost savings and efficiency your company (or Univ.) got from outsourcing things like email, etc to Google. Remind yourself to have fun with these interviews. When you're prepping, take a step back and think about the fact that the end of the day it's really just a 30 (or 45min) conversation about a challenging problem with an interesting, accomplished person. Regardless of outcome, it will be a great learning experience. 