How can a medical doctor justify doing an MBA?
I don't know why anyone has to justify their career choices to strangers. If a doctor takes up an another career path, it is his/her wish. It is not mine or your business. Cross-pollination of ideasA friend of mine did his Phd in biology and then went on for his MBA.  He then build up a company that fixes a pain of the hospitals - easily sharing data. He had a tech, medical and business background. Thus, he patented a device that would interface with the ECG device, securely transmit the data to a server that will then be synced with their iPhone/Android app  (InvisionHeart). Now, like Instagram photos, doctors could share their ECG graphs with other doctors, comment etc leading to better and faster diagnosis. All with strong security. Another doctor friend was working on a telemedicine concept to diagnose through the high res camera on your iPhone. He could do that because he had a good background of both medicine and business. If he had just one, he would have found it harder. Greatest of human ideas come from this jumping, when one guy shifts to an another field carrying all the pollens from the previous flowers. Managing hospitals and medical processesDoctors are taught to cure, but not to manage businesses. However, a hospital is a business. Thus, they either fumble with the management or bring an outsider with no medical background. My in-laws manage a hospital and it can be a brutal one - with all the challenges of a regular business. What if a doctor also has the management background? Then, he/she can do the management better and as patients we get better value. Another doctor friend of mine is taking this approach - by taking courses in Harvard Business School while also learning hospital management. People change; passions changeDo all engineers do engineering related jobs all their life? No. When we are 17, we don't really know what we need and pick up a career path. Later on, we might realize that we don't fit in that career path and do something else. Some might find out that they don't like medicine at all. Some might be repelled by the deep corruption in major hospitals that compromise people's health. Some might be repelled by the mere sight of blood. Some might find that their family commitments mean that they cannot focus on their surgeries. Humans have million commitments. In short, if a doctor becomes a businessman or an engineer or an actor, it is none of your or my business. He is just having a career change, like most of us in the world. Life changes. It is not set in stone. 