Why specifically did MySpace fall so fast and so far?
I was at Intermix, MySpace and FIM for over 5 years. There is one and only one reason MySpace "fell so far, so fast": It did not continually evolve the product and roll out features fast enough or in a regular way. They did ship product, but they just didn't do it as fast as Facebook. In the consumer internet space, "shipping product" is the key to competing. No matter what you think of Facebook and Google products, these companies are leaders in the space because they are extraordinary and prolific at shipping products. While many believe UI clutter, annoying personalization, lack of true identity, privacy, or ads killed MySpace, these factors are marginal at best. For every one of these factors I can name a successful consumer internet company today that has one or more of these issues and is thriving. For example, have you ever looked at some of the Twitter or Tumblr backgrounds users employ? Have you ever looked at some of usernames of many active Twitter accounts? The people who think these issues caused the decline are mostly speaking from a personal preferences point of view and are not in touch with regular everyday users. These issues are mostly inside baseball. Recently, I was having dinner and talking with my teenage niece and nephews about social media. I asked them what they and their friends wanted most out of Facebook. Their reply: personalization and ability to customize their pages a la MySpace. LOL! They also think the Facebook PC UI is too complicated and prefer to use Facebook on their iPhones. I asked "Do most people in your school feel this way?" My nephews answer, "Yep, I haven't logged into Facebook on a PC in 4 months." Of course this purely anecdotal, but I don't think its unusual for this demo.  The point here is: different things are pet peeves for different users, but the one sure way to alienate and lose all of your users is to NOT improve your product. To date, the only person Ive seen get this analysis correct is Sean Parker http://www.pcmag.com/article2/0,... 