What are some strong case studies and how-to's for user growth and retention re: attached diagram? http://t.co/acP8jTNpi6
Yup, your sketch has the core components of a user engagement model and the right ways to think about movement between user definitions. I generally have one more bucket called "drive-by users" which come exactly once (or download an app and never show)...it's good to put these in their own bucket so it doesn't overestimate your inactive users, which should be thought of as "were once active, and are now inactive". Once you set up your model, the fine tuning comes down to defining what is an "active user" and how often they come back. For consumer apps, a good rule of thumb is to understand how the value of your app fits into your consumers life: Highly engaged apps (think social networks, chat, messaging, calendar, list-makers, etc.) can define an active user as one who engages at least once every 3 days (avg engaged Facebook mobile user is .365 days, or 3 times a day...that's the best I have heard), Entertainment/distraction apps (games, video, curation, etc.) can target 7-10 days. The best are targeting 1-2 days. E/M-commerce can vary and are usually 14-28 days, depending on what you are selling, but understanding some of that engagement is designed to keep the brand fresh and not necessarily transact. Gilt and Rue La La are daily deals, so they should be 1 day. Fancy, Amazon, and others that have heavy curation should be closer to 7 days. Straight e-commerce sites are on the tail end, 14-28 days. Be careful not to define active users too broadly...PayPal calls an "active user" one who transacts at least once a year. That's just ridiculous. Once you define "active user", then "casual user" is usually someone using it 1/2-1/3 as much, but is showing the usage patterns that would indicate true engagement (ie, visiting more than one page, actually doing something, filling out a profile, etc.). "Inactive user" becomes someone who falls out of those buckets, and likely is worth some remarketing to get them back. I've been using Kahuna (Page on Kahuna), which is the simplest solution for getting this set up (~30 minutes), and starts you off with all the buckets defined. You can then easily automate the remarketing with e-mail and push notifications (the arrows in your diagram), much of which they have "borrowed" from growth best practices from FB, LinkedIn, Pinterest, etc. MixPanel also has a solution for customer engagement, as long as you know how to define your buckets in advance. It's also worth following Nir Ayal's blog (Nir and Far), since the analysis is often as much psychology/design as technical. It turns out the big bang for the buck for a lot of customer engagement analysis/marketing falls into the "obvious but important" category. Your iPhone app competes with ~70 others downloaded, and only ~13 get regular usage and the rest are forgotten within 16 weeks. Simple triggers to remind people to come back, see what their friends are doing, what's popular, and stay top of mind can double your engaged users by focusing on getting inactives back. Getting users to fill out profiles, connect to other social accounts, and other incremental steps can pull casual into actives, usually good for an additional 8-15% boost in actives. It's worth regular post-mortems to go deep on each bucket once a month to look for trends, and map the action back to your customer acquisition methods. If customer referrals are abandoning, you've got a problem. But if pay-per-download marketing is boosting your inactives, it's just a lump in the snake that will work it's way through. Cluster your buckets and back into social graphs for demographic/psychographic info to see who your customers really are, and you've got your foundation. Then the fun begins!!! 