In what ways does the Indian Quora differ from the American Quora?
I really enjoyed Rahul Sinha's answer to this question. But still I can somehow tolerate even those typical Indian questions as products of some adolescent minds with harmonal imbalance, but following are some examples of a more malicious and motivated mindset. (I rarely follow American users and American topics, and so mostly talking about the fads and foibles of Indian Quora only here) Was Mahatma Gandhi gay? Was Mahatma Gandhi a womanizer and drunk? Did Jawahar Lal Nehru die of stroke and heart attack or Syphilis due to his relations with multiple partners? (How does it matter anyway now? At least be grateful that Nehru did not infect a large number of people with STD by virtue of his being the longest serving Prime Minister) Was Indira Gandhi a woman of loose character? Did Indira Gandhi have big libido? (Again what the hell? Indira Gandhi died three decades back, and so you stand no chance of becoming her paramour anyway) These are some examples of questions asked by Indians on Quora about a freedom fighter venerated as the Father of the Nation, and two of the Prime Ministers, who between themselves held the top post for over three decades. I am not quite sure if Americans or users of any other nationality ever ask such questions about their national icons or their long dead presidents and prime ministers. What could have happened if Sardar Patel was chosen as the first prime minister of India? How India would have evolved if Subhash Chandra Bose would have been the first Prime Minister of India instead of Pundit Nehru? (In fact I can show hundreds of such questions with mind boggling varieties of permutations and combinations) And the funniest of all What would happen if Barack Obama became the prime minister of India? I do not think Americans or users of any other nationalities would have been so much obsessed with some hypothetical alternative histories of their Nations or about events that happened many decades ago. And I am quite sure no American would ever have asked What would happen if Narendra Modi became the President of America. One more interesting thing about Indian quora in this respect is that most of such fricking questions are almost always only from some fricking Anonymous users. Quora: Is Quora becoming another battleground for Arvind Kejriwal (AAP) and Narendra Modi (BJP) supporters? Most certainly yes. This raging turf war between the fanatical followers of AAP/Arvind Kejriwal and BJP/ Narendra Modi (known in popular parlance as the Tards and Bhakts respectively) is more epic than Mahabharata, Iliad, Game of Thrones and Star Wars put together, often degenerating into personal attacks and pitched battles. I do not believe American Quorans indulge in such ferocious fisticuffs about the Republican and the Democrats. As I said in the beginning, idiocy born out of innocence can be condoned, what should make any sane Indian user of Quora to hang his/her head in shame is this meaning less malice of such contents. More intriguingly, there seems to be some method even in this sheer madness. What do Australian women think about Indian men? What do European men think about Indian women? How familiar is India around the world? These and hundreds of their variants born out of some Narcissistic self consciousness is the staple of Indian Quora. I am not quite sure Americans or users of other nationalities display so much of ostrich like nationalism, or so much low self esteem craving external validation. I am sorry if this rant like answer ruffles many Indian feathers or hurts so many Indian sensibilities, but I thought some one needs to seriously look at our own nakedness here before others start pointing it out for us. Jai Hind. ( Oops, yet another Indian Quora trending trademark ;)) 