Are humans really causing global warming?
'Proving' climate change (CC) or anthropogenic (man-made) global warming (AGW) is difficult, because it is at the cutting edge of the scientific method. That is, most science is based on the acceptability of hypotheses, based on tests, experiments, logical consistency and current paradigms. The world's climate is one of the most complex systems we are trying to measure which means we understand very little about it. Also, it is not something we can experiment on. Instead, we have to deal with probabilities rather than certainties, and broad rather than deep data. There are many scientists, engineers, academics, journalists and politicians looking at the subject. Not surprisingly, there is much disagreement. But if you don't understand that we are dealing with probabalistic datasets, you won't understand the data. (note: almost all quantitative academic research is now highly dependent upon statistical analysis of probabilities.) The current academic system involves publishing data/results into the peer-review process, which means that there is a wide range of publications about CC/AGW available. The peer-review system is designed to allow discussion and debate about these results and to encourage the development of more accurate estimates and better hypotheses. But it can also lead to too much information. This is where the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) steps in. The IPCC collects as much of the academic/scientific results as it can; it then evaluates them and produces overall estimates and a summary of the state of the art. It develops a number of key scenarios for future research to be based on, which allows consistency. Whilst a small number of small results in recent IPCC publications have been found to be wrong, the overall significance of the IPCC reports are not so flimsy. Overall, the majority of the informed scientific/academic community believe that the Earth's climates are changing, and relatively rapidly. There is strong support for the hypothesis that this is in part (or even in the main) caused by human activities, particularly the release of greenhouse gases. These is a high probability, supported by a range of datasets, that this is likely to have a large impact on the planet, with a large impact on human welfare. It is more likely that the largest impacts will begin in 10-20 years time. It is likely that we will not predict some major changes, or that the expected changes will not occur in the manner predicted. It is probable that immediate action will reduce the future welfare impacts, and in such a way that even a large expense now will be worth it. CC/AGW is not provable, but it is probable. Updated 261w ago • View Upvotes