How does it feel to travel alone?
I have travelled solo on weekend trips but last week I came back from a 10 day solo trip to Rajasthan. It was awesome. Things that you have to take care of while travelling solo: 1. Planning: I took care of all the transportation and accommodation beforehand. Sometimes when you are travelling in a group, you don't even realise who booked the bus tickets or who researched about the hotels and places to see. When you are alone, you have to look at everything and be sure that there are no blind spots. 2. Family (or "society" as you say): I am not sure what you mean by society. I only told my Mom and Dad that I wanted to do this and believe me it wasn't easy to convince them! I first dropped hints that I wanted to go somewhere in Europe and it kinda scandalised them. Then I dropped down my destination to Rajasthan and they thought it was better comparatively. They know that I love to travel and I showed them how meticulously I had planned every little detail and there was no scope for any unsafe business. 3. Judgemental friends: All of my friends were really excited for me when I told them about my plans, so I am glad about that. If you have people around you who will judge you for travelling alone, the best thing to do is to ignore them. I met 4 Indian guys during my trip who were travelling alone. I am friends with them now. So you'll definitely make new friends who will share your interest of travelling. 4. Hostels: I mostly lived in Zostel which is a cool youth hostel where you can meet other travellers. Hostels are definitely the place for you if you are travelling solo or on a budget. Things that you realise while travelling solo: 1. Happiness is within you: When you are travelling all alone and there is nobody to talk to, your thoughts and ideas are your best friends. You read books, you observe people and you see new things. You understand yourself better and that I think is the best outcome of solo travel. 2. It's easy to make friends: All you need to start a conversation is a smile and a genuine desire to know the person. Talking to people from diverse backgrounds broadens your point of view. Believe me, sometimes you start talking to a person and you just click with them. Even if you don't happen to meet them again, what you do have is a cherished memory that is yours forever. 3. Plan the trip your way: On your solo trip, you are the decision maker. Forget about that overbearing friend who steers the whole group into the direction that they want. You want to visit a museum or sample the local cuisine, whatever it is, you make the plans. Please check out my blog Padhaarun Thaare Des - solo trip to Rajasthan by Manali Latkar on All I Wanna Say if you want to read about my experience in detail (Sorry for the shameless promotion :D) I would suggest you go out on a short solo trip and see how the world treats you. Forget about the "society", you weren't born to please the society. Thanks for the A2A Gaya. Updated 50w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Gayathri Sitaraman