How difficult is it to adapt to the conditions of earth after a space travel? What are the difficulties faced during this process?
There are two phases of concern.  The first is the immediate response to entry (EMS) and the second is the prolonged readaptation to the Earth normal environment (ERS).  The intensity of the effects is usually proportional to the amount of time spent in microgravity, but vary from astronaut to astronaut.  Some astronauts report little adverse effects.  EMS - Entry Motion Sickness Headache Pallor Sweating Dizziness Nausea Vomiting ERS - Earth-Readaptation Syndrome Orthostatic intolerance Reduced muscular strength Reduced bone strength Reduced coordination Neurovestibular disturbances Problems with locomotion This graph shows the typical recovery times for different physiological effects.  From it, we can see that readaptation is typically about 6 weeks after return, although some facets can take 6 months. The immediate effects of return to Earth-normal gravity are a strong sensation of heaviness in the limbs and a flow of fluids from the head and upper body into the lower body.  While in space, the heart has become smaller, blood volume has decreased, and baroreceptors have become ineffective and ignored by the brain.  This means that blood flows down into the legs because the baroreceptor signals that are used to control valves within the circulatory system are being ignored.  Because there is less blood volume, this results in a shortage of blood to the head and upper body.  About 80% of astronauts experience low blood pressure upon return.  The pressure suit that is being worn by the astronaut ameliorates this effect until the suit is doffed. The brain has also gotten used to receiving little data from the vestibular system, while in space.  Once back in Earth-normal gravity, these sensors seem like a cacophony and can result in dizziness and/or vertigo as the brain tries to relearn the difference between up and down. Over a few days, the brain regains useful communication with the vestibular and circulatory systems, fluid levels are replenished, and movement and balance become normal.  Over additional time, the immune system will return to normal. However, the muscles and bones are still weak.  Astronauts have reported straining neck muscles by turning their head too quickly. While in space, astronauts lose up to 1.5% of their bone mass for each month spent in space.  This loss is greatest in the upper thighs and pelvis.  Most of this bone will regrow, over time, but it can place the astronaut at greater risk for injuries such as hip fractures. For most long duration flight astronauts, full bone recovery is achieved between 6 months and 3 years of returning to Earth.  The astronauts that did not have full recovery still returned to within 5% of their preflight bone levels.  This occurred at the top of the femur, in the neck and trochanter regions.  On average, astronauts that spend six months on the ISS lose 11% of the bone mass in their hips. Much of the impacts and recovery for muscles and bones hinge on exercise countermeasures conducted while in space and exercise physical therapy on the ground after return.  ISS astronauts are scheduled for a total of 2.5 hours of exercise each day (including prep time).  They have a treadmill and a resistive device that allows them to simulate both running and weight-lifting.  One of the things we've learned is that short, dynamic, high-intensity workouts are most effective.  Extending the duration of workouts has a diminishing effect on further bone adaptation and bones cells also appear to be less responsive to routine loading signals. How quickly they recover depends on their own physiology and their age.  I know one that was back doing 5 mile runs a week after returning from 6 months in space.  Others have needed quite a bit longer. One interesting effect that was not predicted, is that the increased fluid pressure within the neck and head (while in space) can cause compression on the eyes that can change the astronaut's eyesight prescription.  This effect does not always return to normal after return to Earth.  NASA has begun conducting regular experiments such as ultrasounds on ISS astronauts, while they are in space, to better understand this phenomenon 