How do you become strong as a person?
Therapy for conditions of your sort is actually more effective if you include an antidepressant. I know a number of people for whom antidepressants worked extremely well. The interesting thing about antidepressants it that they work for social anxiety, and they really address a number of your issues. An antidepressant would help with the following problems that you cited above: socially anxiety lack of confidence fear of rejection ability to stay positive feelings of hopelessness, or as you say "like it's a dead-end" and it's not " never really going to get better." sadness or as you say "crying almost everyday." feeling "ok" - you say you are tired of "trying to be okay."For some additional background information see : Will Wister's answer to What are some pills that make a person more confident? The stress from the fear of rejection is a secondary problem which would be ameliorated if the fear of rejection was reduced. It's actually common that people who are depressed self-medicate with alcohol, so you won't need to do that as often. I'm glad that you've tried herbal remedies as it's akin to admitting  you have a problem, but studies show that pharmaceutical antidepressants are much more effective. So you'd need to start seeing a psychiatrist in addition to your therapist, and a psychiatrist could help you decide whether on not to get on a prescription for antidepressants. In your case, it sounds like the first drug to try would likely be an SSRI - so that means Prozac, Paxil, Zoloft, or Celexa. Remember think of an antidepressant like a temporary boost to turbo-charge your therapy. You can always get off of it later if it proves ineffective - or if you get to be so well that you simply don't need it anymore. I can tell that a number of people who I know had symptoms like yours derived substantial benefits from an antidepressant. Your psychiatrist will also be another person to whom you can tell your problems. Also, I would advise you to amp up your therapy. Once a month for therapy for problems of your sort is not enough. I would suggest once a week if you can do it - so that you get better faster. It seems like you have a lot to talk about, so much so that you're afraid to tell your friends or as you say "I'm scared they're going to run away from me. "  Given that, it makes sense to engage a therapist more regularly so that you can unload. CBT or cognitive behavioral therapy is extremely effective. It helps you understand why you think about some problems in one way and helps you to know when your thinking unfairly steers you in a negative direction. Make sure you have a therapist who is familiar with CBT and can help you better understand your own thinking. For example, if someone is short with you, the interpretation could be that they don't like you or that they are busy. People with biases unfairly assume the more negative possibility when they should understand that a range of things are possible. There are all sorts of patterns in thinking. With respect to social anxiety, there are a variety of thinking patterns and behaviors that can also be modified to help improve your happiness. Therapy is a big deal, and pills are just booster. It's important to understand why you're thinking the way you're thinking so that you can have a healthier, happier life. 