How popular is ISIS (ISIL / DAESH)?
The poll quoted in the New Republic reflects reality.Not the one conducted by FAUX News - Al Jazeera Arabic (Just in case you wondered: Al Jazeera English is a really good News Channel). Wouter van Burik complained that the New Republic poll doesn't have many data points - yes, but they provide data for Lebanon. Lebanese data is important for verifying data quality, because in Lebanon, there is no support for Islamists, no support for Sharia Law, no support for Hudud punishments (as in the pictures below), so the New Republic statistics are correct. The Pew Research Center regularly conducts polls on this subject matter, on which we will see the real and the tacit support for the Islamic State. Pew Poll (Nov. 2014): A Majority of Arabs Oppose IS / DAESH ​ In general, do you have a positive or negative view of IS / Daesh? Two countries stand out here: Lebanon for having 0% support for the Islamic State and Palestine for having the highest amount of support - 25% - while the Arab average is 11%. If we define support as anything which is not negative, then the Arab average jumps to 24%, while in Saudi Arabia it is 25%, in Tunisia 28% and in Palestine a whopping 60%! Interestingly, those are the countries which field most of the Islamic State's fighters!If we turn it around and ask: "In general, do you support or oppose the military airstrikes by the US-led international coalition against Islamic militant groups including ISIL and other groups in Iraq and Syria?” ​ 59% of Arabs support the U.S.-Allied airstrikes, with Saudia Arabia at 50%, Palestine and Egypt at 52%, Tunisia at 54% and Syria at 58% being below average. Lebanon and Iraq are the biggest supporters of U.S. airstrikes at 76% and 75%. However, with those two questions we're only scratching the surface here. The full potential support for the Islamic State only becomes visible when we change questions. The only survey I found is the Pew Poll (Dec 2011): The World’s Muslims: Diversity & Sharia Law The question below was only asked to respondents wanting sharia law - it measures the level of (in)tolerance of Islam in a certain country. Hence this is an indicator of salafist / wahabist mentality in the devout muslim part and not of the population at large. ​ As you can see from the above, there is strong support of IS policies in the Arab peninsula (Egypt, Jordan, probably also Saudi Arabia), but also in Afghanistan, Pakistan and Malaysia. This last graph is a vulnerability rating of high likely it is that in the short term future there will be a group swearing allegiance to IS. If anybody of the readers is interested, I'm happy to expand this answer with more detail. Thanks for the A2A, Scott Lowe! 