What's the difference between baseball and cricket?
Before I answer this incredibly important question, one of the most important questions of all time, I think it's important not to initially dismiss baseball and cricket as two rival sports that have simply happened to become more or less popular in different countries. Both of them are simply two different interpretations of a old game idea; the one of using a bat and a ball. The way that both have interpreted the idea and expanded upon it is intriguing; tactics in one are even more advantageous in the other, and they can learn from one another. It's also worth noting their intertwined histories show us many influences from the happenings at the time, be it the American Civil War, the start and end of British colonialism or even the War on Terror. The Equipment The Playing Field - I'll include playing field under the equipment category for now. Both of them are actually fairly similar, believe it or not, in many ways. Both are influenced greatly by how the particular sport has evolved from a simply 'bat and ball' game. Firstly, some of the important distances are very similar. If you look at the diagram below, the minimum distance from where the batter/batsman is in both sports to the boundary/fence directly infront of him is almost the same. The distance between the bowler/pitcher and the batsman/batter is also very similar, with the batsman in cricket being an extra 1.7m away. Field Comparison via File:CricketBaseballBasic.svg on Wikipedia Both sports place a greater reward on playing shots or hitting back over or past where the ball came from. In cricket you can notice this from the fact that the ground is more of an oval and the idea that 'drives' are practiced much more by batsman, often termed as playing within the 'v'. In baseball, you have no choice but to hit in from of yourself - anywhere else is a foul. The size and shape of the respective grounds also influenced the fielding quite a lot. Fielders in baseball have a lot less ground to cover on average (1,530 m2) each, with cricketers covering 1,810 m2 each. However, the average outfielder in baseball covers a lot more ground than your average outfielder in cricket. The opposite is true for infielding. Much of this has to do with 'good' hits in baseball being faster off the bat than equivalent hits in cricket. The Bat - The bat is perhaps the most important piece of equipment in bat and ball sports (obviously). Each sport has a bat that has evolved with the respective game to some extent, and influences the game as a result. Cricket bats are much wider and have a larger hitting area than a baseball bat, mainly because the tactics behind cricket are very different. In cricket, you have a full 360 degrees to work with, so the bat can be used for gliding the ball as well as smashing it as far as you can. Baseball bats reflect a different idea; that the ball is only going to hit in front of the batsman's leading shoulder and that it has to go as far as possible. The baseball bat is therefore very well suited to swinging hard at the ball in a particular area. A baseball bat therefore is less versatile but often hits a ball further than a cricket bat. A cricket bat is much more versatile but can only hit a ball about 80% of the range of a baseball bat. The Ball - There isn't really too much of a difference between the balls, apart from the difference in stitching. A cricket ball's stitching seems to be better for when the movement wanted through the air is primarily side to side, while a baseball seems to be slightly better at dipping in flight than a cricket ball. Cricket balls do last a lot longer than baseballs. A cricket ball is generally used for 80 overs of 6 balls, so 480 deliveries, before it is replaced. The aging of the ball is embraced by both sides as adding another tactical dimension to the game, as an older ball is hard to hit but also slower, but then again it can do a lot more in the air. Baseballs are replaced much more often because the idea is to keep the ball in an optimum condition. Because of this, a baseball usually reaches the batsman at a consistently higher speed than a cricket ball. Protection - The different protection used by both sports reflects some of the rules regarding each. A batsman in cricket wears a lot more protective gear because the ball might hit him anywhere, without penalty to the bowler. A batter in baseball uses less protective gear because it is extremely rare for a ball to hit the body, as well as pitchers being penalised for hitting the batter. Here you can see all the different protection a cricket batsman might wear. Joe Root here is wearing pads on his legs, as the ball regular cannons into the batsman's shins. He is also wearing a helmet with a grille, gloves, possibly a chest guard or arm guard if he wants, along with a thigh guard visible under his clothing and a 'box', to protect his manhood. Carl Crawford, the batter here, is wearing only a helmet, some sort of a guard on his upper arm and some thin gloves. This reflects the fact that the baseball is unlikely to hit his body. Gloves - Both sports feature the use of gloves as a catching aid to some extent. In baseball, a single glove is used by all fielders to help them catch the ball. In cricket, two gloves are worn by the wicketkeeper mainly to assist with repeatedly catching a ball all day. That's a fairly standard pair of wicket keeping gloves. Below is a fairly standard baseball glove: The Gameplay Players - Cricket and baseball both have teams that are selected based upon having a balance of batting, fielding and pitching/bowling. A cricket team usually has eleven players plus an honorary twelfth man, while baseball teams usually have 9 players. Baseball teams usually have a catcher, pitcher and 7 fielders/batters. Baseball also allows permanent substitutions, so often a pinch hitter or relief pitcher will be brought into the game later on to score a run or rest another pitcher. Cricket doesn't have a substitute rule, though a fielder may go off the ground and rest if he is just in the field. The replacement fielder, usually the twelfth man, cannot bat or bowl. Cricket teams are made up of 11 players, usually with 6 batsmen, one wicket keeper and 4 bowlers. However, changing tactics have meant that a more common line up now is 5 batsmen, one allrounder, one wicket keeper/batsmen, three fast bowlers and one slow bowler. On slower pitches such as in India, two or three slow bowlers might be picked over fast bowlers. Timing - Cricket is played in a variety of forms, ranging from 20 overs of 6 balls to 5 days with 90 overs each. Baseball doesn't have as many time restrictions, rather restrictions are innings based. One day cricket includes 20, 40, 50 and 60 over cricket. These games usually have a minimum overs that must be played in the event of rain. 'Power plays' are also used, which restrict the number of fielders outside the inner circle (on the diagram below) for 5 over blocks. Limited overs cricket is usually faster paced. Multi-day cricket ranges from two day club and school matches to 5 day test matches. Usually a set number of overs are allotted for each day, with three sessions throughout the day. In test cricket for example, there are three sessions of roughly 30 overs each day, adding up to 90 overs each day over 5 days. Baseball games have a minimum of 9 innings each at the MLB level, though this can be reduced to 5 or 7 innings at lower levels. If after 9 innings the teams are still level, extra innings may be added on until a team goes ahead. Fielding - Fielding in both sports is actually fairly similar. Fielders try to catch the ball, and then try to throw it to either a base or set of wickets. Baseball's fielding positions are a little more uniform across all situations however, compared to cricket. As you can see, the baseball fielding positions reflect the fact that there is only a roughly 90 degree range or the batter to hit the ball. Having 4 bases as opposed to 2 wickets also means that there are really only 4 fielders running around. Cricket is much more varied in terms of where fielders can go. The diagram above lists dozens upon dozens of potential positions. The only fixed fielders are the wicketkeeper and the bowler, with all 9 other players free to be put anywhere. Fields are often changed every few minutes to reflect changes in game play situations. Usually, a cricket team will start with two or three people next to the wicket keeper in slips, a resting bowler at third man or fine leg, a square leg, gully, point, cover and a mid off or mid on. This changes quite a lot during the game however, often with games ending with Deliveries - I'm referring to the pitcher/bowler getting the ball to the batter/batsman here. The main difference of course is that a baseball reaches the batter on the full and is thrown naturally, while a cricket ball is bowled using a specialised action and bounces. Above is an example chart of where pitches to a right-handed batter passed the batter. The batter would have been on the left hand side of the diagram. Below is a diagram of all the balls bowler to batsmen in an innings in one of the recent Ashes test matches. Below that is where all the balls bounced on the pitch in the same innings. Note how varied the areas where the ball bounces are, especially in terms of 'length' (i.e. how far they go before bouncing). Once the ball bounces, there is a lot of variation in terms of sideways movement, as shown by the top diagram showing balls in a slightly elongated area. A cricket bowling action is particular unnatural, yet over the years it has evolved into an action that is comparable to natural throwing for speed and power. A slower bowler might only jog or skip a couple of metres before releasing the ball, while a fast bowler might run for 20 metres before bowling the ball. A cricketer's action, where the arm usually sends the ball into the ground, allows for much greater accuracy when it comes to the line that the ball goes down. This is able to be used by bowlers to exploit cracks in the pitch. The action also allows the ball to spin around a horizontal axis, allowing backspin out of the hand and for the seam to be upright. This allows for swinging deliveries, not only drifting ones. Here you can see a baseball pitcher. Baseball doesn't rely upon a slinging action or momentum, rather the pitcher's elbow movements and shift in body weight contribute to the speed of the ball. Baseball pitchers rely a fair bit upon not only pace variations but also the movement of a spinning ball through air. Cricketers would call this movement 'drift', and it is what allows for curveballs and sliders to be thrown. For example, cricketers such as Shane Warne bowled sliders, and Warne's famous first ball in the Ashes was essentially a slow curveball that bounced and spun. Batting - Cricket's 360 degree hitting area and more spread out fielders allow for much more versatility with batting shots, as I explained under the Bat section. Baseball is fairly limited for shots, so hitting it as far as possible is the accepted way to usually score runs. Below is a picture of Sachin Tendulkar playing a block shot. This sort of shot is defensive, and the idea is to get as much of the bat in front of the ball as possible, as well as to get the body behind the bat to stop it from hitting the wickets (more on the wickets below). The bounce of the ball is the most unpredictable aspect of a delivery, so a straight bat covers any unexpected bounce. Next up is a picture of Ricky Ponting playing a pull shot. This is what is known as a cross bat shot, which is more attacking than a standard block. Having a horizontal bat leaves the batsman at risk of unexpected bounce, but usually cross bat shots are played to half-volleys (sweep shots) or high bouncing (short) balls that won't hit the stumps. Ponting will probably hit this ball square, into what would have been a foul in baseball. Lastly, here's a bit of a treat. It's Tillakaratne Dilshan's famous Dilscoop. Dilshan gets down low and glides the ball straight over his head and hopefully over the wicket keeper. A shot like this is extremely risky, so it is usually played in high scoring, quick games where the loss of a wicket can be afforded. As for baseball, the most efficient way to hit the ball a long way directly in front of you is to swing right through and hit the ball just a infront of the body. A cricketer might play a similar shot as a 'pickup' shot, or an 'agricultural' shot or 'straight pull' shot. Baseball also has the bunt shot, which is sort of similar to cricket's block shot, except that the bat is horizontal and easier to control with one hand further up the handle. The difference in runs scored per balls faced (strike rate) in both sports is quite different. In baseball, an average strike rate is around 5 to 10 runs per 100 balls. In cricket however, a strike rate of 50 runs per 100 balls would be about average in test cricket, rising to 70 to 80 runs per 100 balls per 100 balls in ODI and 100 to 120 runs per 100 balls in T20 cricket. Scoring - Both cricket and baseball score using runs systems. Cricket's version is a lot different to baseball however, which gives the higher scores (around a factor of 50 to 100 higher). Baseball's version of running is a little nicer to the fielding side I'll have to admit. In cricket, the batting pair that are out in the middle stay out there until they are out. They do not have to run, though, and so they might have a very dull innings. Until the other team can return the ball to the middle of the ground and the umpire deems the ball to be dead, the batting team may keep on running. The batting team can easily get more runs if the fielding team over throws the ball, for example. Batsmen can also score runs for their team (but not for themselves) by running if the wicket keeper doesn't catch the ball or it comes off the batsman's body. These are called byes and leg byes respectively. If a player hits a ball over the boundary fence or rope on the full, they get six runs. If they hit it over the boundary on the bounce, they get four runs. Otherwise, to score a run, the batsmen must both cross the white line at either end of the pitch. For baseball, a batter can only run if the ball goes into the fair zone. If they hit the ball over the back fence or boundary, they get a home run. A home run is where the batter runs through all bases at once. While a batter might get to second base, his run will only count if he gets all the way to the final base. A batter can advance one base if the pitcher throws four balls (outside the strike zone and left by the batter) or hits the batter. In baseball, batters not facing the pitcher may try to 'steal' a base by running before the ball has been hit. However, the pitcher may throw the ball to the base and get them out before they can make the run without having the throw it at the batter, making this risky. Batsmen in cricket call his concept 'backing up', but whether a bowler can get the backing up batsman out before bowling is controversial and the rules are open to interpretation. Outs - Both sports have the concept that the batsman can get out by missing the ball as well as being caught and not making it to a base or crease in time. Cricket has the stumps which increase the number of ways to get out, while baseball has the concept of a strike zone. Above is a diagram of the strike zone. A batter is out if he misses three balls in the strike zone or misses three that he swings at. A foul ball that he hits also counts to the strike count, but a batter cannot be out off a foul. A baseball batter is also out if a fielder catches a ball they have hit anywhere before it touches the ground. If a ball is thrown to another fielder touching a base before the batter reaches the base, they are also out, as they are if a fielder with the ball tags them. Cricket has a set of stumps instead of a strike zone, which the bowler only has to hit once and dislodge a bail (they sit on top of the stumps) before the batsman is out. Cricket also has the LBW rule, whereby a batsman is out if they are deemed to have defended a ball from the stumps without using their bat. The LBW rule is a bit like cricket's offside rule. If the ball bounces in line with the wickets, hits the batsman inline and would go on to hit the wickets, then the batsman is out whether it was deliberate or not. If the batsman leaves a ball, it may bounce outside the line of the wickets and still be LBW and out. A batsman is out if while trying to run, a fielder hits the stumps with the ball before the batsman make it over the line. The wicket keeper can also 'stump' the batsman if they stray out of their crease after they play a shot and miss. Batsmen are also out if a fielder catches the ball, but the fielder must only be touching the field, not the outside of the playing area. A batsman can also be out for taking more than 3 minutes to get onto the field, for obstructing the fielders, for picking up the ball and for hitting the wickets with their bat or body. The Culture Origins - Both sports are British. Sorry American marketers, but baseball is British, as is Cricket. Cricket was always the dominant sport of the two until the American Civil War, where baseball took over from cricket in the USA. Baseball ended up becoming the dominant bat and ball sport in the US dominated world, while cricket maintained it's dominance in the Anglosphere. England, Australia, South Africa, Pakistan, New Zealand and India all have strong cricket ecosystems, while Japan, the US and Cuba have strong baseball bases. Society - Both baseball and cricket have had an immense effect on the countries they are played in. Baseball is a symbol of unity and national pride for America, especially considering its roots as a mainstream sport in the American Civil War. The sport has grown to become the national past time. For Australia, cricket was one of the many signs that the soon to be new nation was going to be separate form England. Both Aboriginal and mixed teams had been visiting England since 1854, and the creation of the Ashes was almost like the birth of the country. No one needs to go past India for an example of cricket's effect. The popularity of the sport was greatly boosted by the 1983 World Cup victory, and since then the rise of superstars, encroaching on god-like stars, such as Sachin Tendulkar have cemented the place of the sport in Indian culture. Structure - Baseball is famous for having the Little League system, something that could only really work in a large base such as America. The club system in cricket recreates much of the Little League experience, whilst also giving players a pathway directly into higher cricket. From school and club cricket, good players go into domestic competitions, where they may then get selected for international competition as well as globalised club competitions. These competitions are run at the open level as well as under 13, 15, 17, 19, 21, 23. There you go, a short 3,280 word clarification. Feel free to suggest further clarifications. Also see: Why didn't cricket catch on in Canada and the US? This in depth Wikipedia article is also worth a look: Comparison of cricket and baseball. See more about Quora's Cricket Writers at the Cricket blog. Updated 99w ago • View Upvotes