I am unable to study properly. What should I do?
1. This is the last chance Second year of engineering! Well, let me tell you very honestly: this is the last chance you'll get to study something useful which could get you a good job for your future life or else you will have to join on a lower position in some MNC with no aspect bounding to your core and then have to put yourself through the ordeal of certification courses while doing the regular desk job for getting any pay hike. Also, you would have to work outside your core trade because honestly, if you don't get an on-campus placement in your dream core trade, manager and seniors in your firm won't ever take you seriously. And it hurts like hell. Take it from a horse's mouth. Have a clear and charted out detailed plan and flow chart of your career graph of how you would like the next 20 years of your life to be. This will keep you nudging to work on it and focus on important things. 2. Procrastinate Procrastinate things which are eating up your time right now. Decide a time-slot in which you will only study for your job requirements. Do not study for grades, they won't help. That said, study enough for your subjects to get an average grade to be able to qualify the grade expectations to sit for the companies you want to apply in. Engineering life is the period where everyone gets shit load of free time, but most don't realize it's importance. 3. Routine It's very important to be in a self-made, disciplined routine. The time you eat, sleep, workout, study: should be all planned. Once you do that, the laziness will disappear. 4. Habits and hobbies I would strongly recommend you invest your free time in developing some cool and useful hobbies like working out; or learning to play guitar; or maybe learning a new language (use the Duolingo app), etc. These were the personalized tips for you alone. The rest normal tips for getting and concentrating better on your studies, please read Nishant Kumar's answer to How can I study more effectively?. Thanks for A2A. :) 