How does it feel to travel alone?
Like the OP mentioned, there is always something to love and hate about traveling alone. Personally, I have found that I generally love it. When I was in Middle School and High School, I traveled solo between the U.S. and Asia a few times, and it was always extremely pleasant for me. I'm a pretty mellow person, and love having the opportunity to strike up conversations with strangers, so being alone on a plane ride was a happy experience. Traveling alone is great for people who like people watching, and who enjoy the sense of autonomy that solo travel affords. I actually enjoy this freedom so much that I am traveling by myself on a nine week vacation to Germany and France this summer. Granted, for a month it will be to visit a friend, but the rest of the time it will be au pair work at a yoga center in the Deutsch Landschaft.* The downside, of course, is that you do feel lonely once in a while. We're human--it's inevitable. I found out that as much as I like traveling alone, I also love traveling with friends and family, because the way I see it, you can't create a good memory all by yourself--memories take people. Fortunately, there's nothing quite like being alone in a foreign place that gives you the perfect opportunity for making some unforgettable memories. I'll always remember these three "old", mountain photographers I met on a climb in China one summer ago, where everything, from our first encounter to the unlikely friendship that ensued, was nothing short of an act of fate and serendipity. I can't help but smile every time I think of them. Let's also not forget the overwhelming feeling of camaraderie you get when you're in the airport, walking alongside your fellow travelers (after all, you are all alone together), and the realization of how surrounded you actually are, no matter where you go--which is a pretty amazing thought. So maybe it's not such a downside after all. Don't be afraid to fall into the world and let it catch you. Happy travels. ------ *German countryside 