Does academic scientific research really add to industry?
This is an excellent question.  I completely empathize with the OP as I had to face the same dilemma while shifting from a core industrial job to a research oriented environment. After seeing both the worlds in bits and pieces, I have finally come to a conclusion. The direct answer, as is the case with many complex questions, would be: It depends. Based on my experience, I divide the the ongoing research work, across all the fields, in two very broad categories: Research for the sake of career Research for the sake of Knowledge Research for the sake of career: Often, number of publications is treated as a direct proxy for performance of a professor/student/researcher etc. Promotions, grants, tenures, GAs are directly linked to number of publications. Due to this detrimental trend, researchers are forced to keep on publishing at regular intervals just to stay afloat. The ones in the research community can easily realize the effect of this on the quality of publications. Eventually, we end up with one good paper, followed by a string of weak ones with minor parameter variations. This kind of research, does not contribute a great deal to industry as a whole and often remain obscured in the tomes, condemned to be forgotten. Research for the sake of Knowledge Thankfully, there are researchers who manage to keep themselves away from the rat race of relentless publishing. They are not satisfied with run off the mill graphs which show weak correlation between two parameters which were increased by 10%. These are the people who do add a lot to the industry collectively. I have seen NGOs collaborating with labs in institutes to produce products/services which directly influence lives of the people. There are researchers without an academic background who are redefining lives. The critical difference: So what differentiates between the research done for career and the one done for knowledge? I strongly believe, the fundamental difference between the two aforementioned types is the point of origin. Research for the sake of research starts in the lab and stays in the lab. On the other hand, the research for the sake of knowledge has its roots in society/industry/nature (basically outside lab). Research which stems from society/industry ends up contributing something to society/industry. To conclude, whether the research really contributes something to industry or not depends on the attitude of the researcher. However, research done with specific industry/society oriented objectives invariable contribute something to the society/industry. 