How can a medical doctor justify doing an MBA?
Unlike other professionals looking for career growth or functional change, healthcare professionals usually consider an MBA to completely to a different field of healthcare from active healthcare practice. Not only does an MBA provide thorough education in business, but it also provides an opportunity to move to business-related segments of hospitals (administration and operations, for example) or healthcare companies (marketing, M&A, finance, network management). What career opportunities are available after an MBA in Healthcare? The ‘MBA in Healthcare’ refers to a regular MBA program with a focus on Healthcare Management as a major or concentration area. While most doctors can easily imagine a career in Hospital Administration after graduating from such a program, the opportunities today are much wider. Here are the post-MBA career options that healthcare professionals can today explore: Healthcare consulting: Most top management consulting firms today have large practices dedicated to consulting healthcare organizations. Healthcare consultants, though, do not just work with hospitals (or other clinical organizations). They also work with large pharma companies, insurers and payers, and even public organizations that deal with healthcare (governments and international bodies such as the World Health Organization). A career in Healthcare Consulting can be a rewarding alternative to leveraging one’s prior expertise in healthcare. Private Equity specializing in Healthcare: There are a number of big as well as niche players that invest in Healthcare organizations to help such organizations meet their growth goals while earning the investor a good return at the same time. Healthcare professionals bring intimate knowledge of the healthcare ecosystem, factors which contribute to growth, and strategies to eliminate cost without reducing quality. This can be an exciting career to be in, promising excellent financial rewards for those who possess the right expertise. For more information, see Bain Capital’s Private Equity practice by clicking here, or see Galen’s practice here. Hospital Administration: Hospital Administrators look after the operations of large hospitals (sometimes even a network of hospitals) and ensure coordination between different departments, and overall patient care and process implementation. Not all hospital administrators have an MBA (those who do not are usually very senior doctors), but having one is a definite advantage. This position is closely aligned with everyday clinical operations, so having undergraduate education in medicine or healthcare is most often a requirement. Business roles in Pharma companies: Large pharma organizations such as Novartis, Pfizer, Johnson & Johnson, Pfizer, and GlaxoSmithKline also offer roles in Marketing, Sales, and Finance. These roles may be related to corporate functions (M&A, Strategy) or related to other divisions such as medical devices or biotechnology. Most such roles have a strong international flavor or at the very least involve extensive domestic travel. These roles are also more business-facing and usually require little prior exposure to the Healthcare sector, so professionals from all backgrounds apply for them. 