How was your experience in Canada USA Mathcamp like?
I loved it. I apologize for the length in advance, but maybe that tells you how much I am recommending it. First of all, the people. Months before camp, when I was browsing Wikipedia's page on the construction of the reals, I became troubled, feeling uncertain that all real numbers could be defined. And, well, before camp I had asked people about my concern. Their answer boiled down to "your mind is too small to understand counterintuitive things, you'll get used to them." But on day one of Mathcamp, I described my fears in my inept stumbling way,  and a fellow camper (not even a staff!) somehow managed to understand me and introduced me to the fact that my suspicion was right, and besides, "most" reals were undefinable. Woah. So regarding your question, how encouraging is it to have peers who think just as deeply about math as you do? How stimulating is it to be able to have spontaneous math discussions over meals and on the bus? And besides, the people tend to obey rule 1 of Mathcamp: Be excellent to each other. For reasons that should be apparent, that's really great. If you want to attend math camp, then you'll surely be wondering about the classes. The people at Canada/USA Mathcamp seem to have a miraculous ability to find all the most interesting topics and teach them really well (so that I could actually understand complicated things! it was awesome!) I'll give you a few examples of things we did: I took a one-day class on the unit distance graph, learned about cubic curves, took a class on a system of infinitesimals where the Intermediate Value Theorem was not true and we disproved the Axiom of Choice, and learned that fractals actually exist. The class system is such that you'll get a huge variety and quantity of information crammed into your head over five weeks, so if you plan to remember everything, you will probably have to spend considerable energy reviewing your notes afterwards. My roommate described her experience as developing "pictures of math," without necessarily remembering details. If you want to thoroughly learn a single topic, it's probably possible to do so here but more difficult than doing what I did, which was tasting little bits of many different kinds of math. Which is not to say I forgot all the proofs, but rather to say I would be very unconfident if the classes had tests. (They don't.) As for freedom, it's one of the most free places you can imagine. You're basically given free reign all the time--essentially nothing is required, except that you have to sign in every day between 8 pm and 10pm. Halls become quiet either at 10pm or 12pm, but sleep, though strongly recommended, is not required. The freedom means time management is therefore very necessary. At the same time, it means that students can, and very often do, organize their own quirky activities. Finally, regarding the working environment, we had a period of time every day called TAU during which we worked on our homework. Mathcamp was interesting in that we were given tons of interesting problems and I don't think it was really possible to actually finish homework. (Finishing homework for one out of three or four classes was pretty satisfying.) But it was really fun, and mentors (i.e. people who taught us) were always really willing to help (and very helpful!) We also had projects, which were pretty popular, very diverse, and very fun. I did a project on strongly regular graphs, in which I tried to make progress on an open research problem, had lots of awesome discussions with one of the mentors about it, got addicted to the problem, and didn't make any progress. It was great. Summary: my recommendation is to apply. 