How was your experience writing PG entrance exam (PGEE) for IIIT-H for Computer Science?
I was rejected in 2014..best guess, on the basis of the aptitude paper. Prepared for GATE 2015 sincerely(I was scoring good in the mock tests but screwed up the paper. I mentioned this so that one does not take the written test lightly. Its lengthy and it has some good questions, for which youll either lose marks or kill your time. So be thoroughly prepared.). Also prepared aptitude thoroughly(People take this lightly too and get screened out on this basis. I made the same mistake in 2014, prepared technical and left apti and got screened out). The written test (technical section) had 6-7 questions from previous year GATE papers, to which I already knew the answer hence did not spend any time on those questions. The 2 mark questions were lengthy and moderately difficult and if I had not known the answer to those 6-7 questions previously, the paper was lengthy enough and it would've been difficult for one to complete it on time. As per the other posts, I read they ask 2 strong subjects and 2 weak subjects(at max). So i prepared 4-5 subjects(TOC, COMPILERS, DATA STRUCTRES and ALGOS, DATABASES, DISCRETE MATHS) so that I could tell 2 of those as weak. Also prepared my college project thoroughly, which was on compiler designing. I studied for almost 10 days just like I did for GATE. My panel had 3 interviewers. Interviewer: What are your future interests. Me:  Im interested in subjects like TOC and compiler designing, so I think the future would be NLP and even further would be AI. Interviewer: Do you know anything about AI? What is matrix chaining? Me: I dont know sir. Interviewer: What is your fav sub? Me: TOC   Interviewer: What is a finite automata? Me:  ........ initial state,final state, Q, sigma,Delta........... Interviewer: No, not the formal definition. What do you understand by it. Me: A machine that is able to accept languages that require finite memory. Interviewer:Explain R1.R2, where R1 and R2 are two relations. Me: Sir i dont know. Interviewer:Try it. Write set algebra for it. Its just like programming Me: (with pen and paper)  Is it something like f(g(x))?? Interviewer:Yes Me: Is the answer in terms of ordered pair? Interviewer:Yes I wrote for all x belonging to A, y to B, z to C(in notation forms). Interviewer:Good. Go on I wrote the entire statement, though with faulty syntax. Then I said I know what the question is and how to answer it. Just am not sure of the notations. Interviewer: I know. I get what you are trying to say. Its fine.  Me: Yes sir. Interviewer: Whats a regular lang. I answered. Interviewer: How do you create a regular language. What are the operations. As far as I know, there are three operations. Me : (I got nervous) I dont know sir. (The answer is Union, Concatenation, Kleene closure). Interviewer: What is kleene closure * mean? I answered. Interviewer: L={123, 12}. Show L* lexicographically. I answered. Interviewer: What is countability? I answered. Interviewer: Very Good. What are rational numbers? Me: ........ expressed as p/q........... Interviewer: What are p and q? Me: Integers Interviewer: Are rational numbers countable? Me: Yes sir. (which was right) Interviewer: How can you count them?(This wasn't an exclamation. He meant that if they are countable, then I must be knowing a way  to associate them one-to-one with integers and asked me how will I do that. In fact there was a way, a diagonalization method using matrix of which I wasn't aware, I learned this recently and its a good method. One should know it. ) Me: (after a sec) Sorry sir. They are uncountable.(I got confused and answered wrong.) Interviewer: If so,how many rational numbers are there between two rational numbers? Me: Sir, by this definition, infinite. Interviewer: In fact, there are infinite. Me: Yes sir.(And i was thought my answer was right. But it wasn't) Interviewer:(he gave me a paper) draw e^x. I did so. Interviewer: Draw log x. I did. Interviewer: Draw y=x. Me: I did. Interviewer: Now tell the relation between these three graphs. Me: They are symmetric about y=x. Interviewer: Which means? Me: They are inverse. Interviewer: YES. Now how do you store a line in a computer, i.e, if you have to operate on a line, you need to be able to store it on a computer. How do you do that? Me: y=mx+c. Store m and c for the corresponding line. Retrieve as required. Interviewer: Anything else? Me: No sir. (I guess he meant what if the line is in 3D space, for which we need vector geometry, but he wasn't explicit.) Interviewer: Just because you were able to answer the previous one (inverse one), can you draw the graph of 1- e^(-x)? Me: Yes sir.(because it was an easy graph, just some transformations) I took a new sheet and began to think. Then I turned to the previous sheet so that I could refer to the previous graph, to which the interviewer exclaimed,"Yes, that was what I wanted to see". I got a little relaxed and jotted e^(-x)-1.(facepalmed later). I explained how the graph would be asymptotic to y=1 (though it should've been from the negative side). They said that the approach was good but the graph was incorrect(I had drawn -f(x) instead of f(x)), and that because they were short on time, they couldn't give me any extra for correction. Lastly they pulled out my application form, read my choices and asked if they were final. I replied in affirmation. (I also said that I wanted to do MS but want to go abroad for it, that's why I need Mtech, and that I was really interested in keeping myself in the field of engineering). Today the interview results were announced and I got admitted to the MTECH CSE branch. PS- Thank you for the corrections. Updated 30w ago • View Upvotes