How do you become strong as a person?
What you need to do, in my view, is prepare. I'll come back to that. Full disclosure. I would say I am 'normal' confident in a social setting. Very confident in a work setting and have never had a strong fear of rejection (an abnormally strong one that is - I don't think anyone really doesn't mind it). So why am I wasting your time answering this? Well some time ago, for a whole variety of reasons, I went through a phase in my life where I became very insecure, in social and work settings both. What follows is what helped me with that period of my life. First of all - preparation. I am normally quite quick witted, verbally dextrous, used to love presenting (a.k.a. the sound of my own voice) or telling stories in a social setting but during the period referenced, I lost these qualities. I became nervous when addressed (even on topics in which I was considered an SME), I stammered, I developed a visible tremor in my legs and hands if I had to present or if people were watching me and actively avoided one to one conversations as far as possible. I also had panic attacks for the first time. So back to the preparation. I'd put this in two categories: preparation in advance and preparation in advance of doing. Let me give you an example by way of illustrating what I mean - it is just a convenient one but I used the same methodology for all the situations in your question. Let's use the scenario of a presentation I have to give in work to an audience of some people who know me and some who don't (interestingly the seniority of audience or whether I knew them made very little difference, in fact I was probably more nervous presenting to people I knew). So obviously I prepared my actual slide deck/subject material, that's a given for any presentation. However in the days leading up to the presentation and the night before I would ensure that the following 'talismans' were in place: Dry-cleaned suit. My favourite shirt pressed within an inch of its life. Shoes shined to mirrors. My best/favourite tie. My 'schoolbag' packed, checked and re-checked, i.e. my laptop bag, 'executive' jotter, best pen, spare power cable etc. Presentation sent to my own email, backed up on CD and on a thumbdrive. Secondly for the day, the presentation itself: "get there first with the most." [1]. Meaning get there early, waay before anyone else, ideally (if it was a morning presentation) before start-of-day. This accomplished two things:  Firstly: It helped conquer The Fear (panic attacks) I'd sometimes have between pulling up in my car and walking into the presentation room. No one around to see me = no one to see the tremor in my legs etc. Secondly, it allowed me to set up my laptop, the projector, lay out the printed agenda, set the lighting how I wanted it and so on. You may think so far so presentation 101 but technology is technology and sometimes a projector would not play and then I'd have to reseat cables and so on, which would draw peoples' attention to my hands which might be shaking which would make me more nervous which would - well, you get the picture. Not fun. So now I am suited and booted (and obviously groomed, perfumed, showered and shaven to as close to perfection as someone like me is ever going to get =) and I have commanded the battlefield. All is as well as can be. Now to the presentation itself, I mean delivering it. I know I am going to be nervous and have the jiggy legs and shaking hand thing. So fine. If they are going to behave like traitors, I'll give my limbs something to do. People only perceive nervous tremors when you are trying to be still, so I'd avoid using laser pointers and the like (not hard, I never really liked them) and if I wanted to highlight an area of the slide I'd gesture to it on the screen. Quite often this would mean switching to one side of the screen or the other so I was not blocking the audience's view. So much the better. Legs and hands occupied. Again please note this was already my natural presenting style so it wasn't a huge stretch to become skilled at natural opportunities to keep in motion without dancing around like a cat on a hot tin roof - it is a balancing act, I admit. The killer is when you are asked a question, you can't jump around while the questioner is asking you (without looking deranged) - you have to stand still. Here again I had a variety of tricks - clasping my hands. Flexing my legs from a leaning position as if taking the break to ease a slight cramp (please note: flexing equals straightening an already pretty straight leg, not doing those things Olympic sprinters do - see not looking deranged above). And so on and so forth. So outside of one narrow situation (delivering presentations in work) why do I think all the above has any value to helping your general situation, in work, social, other situations? Because of something I referred to above: The Fear. These words may make sense to you but they won't mean anything to you (right now I think) but take it from someone who knows: it is something that can only control us if we let it. "Easy for you to say, it isn't like I asked for it, invited it in, I woke up one day and there it was, or it crept up on me, whichever.". Well yes, it easy for me to say, now. Because with the 'talismans' I listed above, I was able to push back The Fear just a little bit. Maybe just enough to get through a work thing intially, or meet friends briefly in the pub, small victories. But with each modest victory my juju got more powerful. And before you think the above is too much of a work orientated answer, I am just using work as an example. I had panic attacks even going into regular work, my equivalent of school, I avoided social contact, all the things you describe in your question. The same techniques - adapted for the situation of course - helped me universally. Meeting friends for dinner/drinks? Get there first. Settle yourself. See? Normal? See? Drinking my full-to-the-brim Coke? No tremors! See? Fine...etc. It was a slow process  - maybe a year - reclaiming myself an inch at a time but eventually The Fear was the one cowering in the corner, trapped and panicking and I was the one in control, with my natural confidence rightfully restored to me. "Only thing we have to fear is fear itself." [2] [1] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nat... [2] http://historymatters.gmu.edu/d/... Updated 217w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Anonymous