Why doesn't Quora have a larger community yet?
Do you honestly want people who post photos of their food or their dresses on facebook here ? Do you want people who share "1 like = 1$" photos on facebook here ? Do you want people who share quotes by famous authors, but in all actuality have never read even a single book written by them ? Do you want people who share "if you don't share this something bad will happen to you at midnight" here ? Do you honestly want people who play farmville/mafia wars here ? Do you want people who keep spamming your wall with links that will allegedly "change the colour of your Facebook to red or will let you view your profile visitors" here ? Look call me an elitist or diagnose me with a superiority complex, but I honestly believe that 90% people are just plain stupid, Ok may be 90% is bit of an exaggeration, but still, I mean, I have friends who think 'the cold war' was called cold war because it was fought in the winter, Che Guevara was a 70's rock musician and "the Caesar Salad" is called the Caesar salad because Julius Caesar ate it. Look Not everybody wants to invest time learning something, Not everybody has the intellect, some people just like to update their profile picture, get more likes, update their status, check-in to just about anywhere, post photos of their food, stalk their crush, pin that dress on their wall, basically all things which have zero intellectual value. Socialisation is for everyone, intellectual curiosity is not and Quora isn't exactly your average social networking site. Quora is designed to fend off the Stupid people, and thank god for that, you can up vote the smart and useful answers and the stupid ones are down-voted and eventually collapsed, its interface makes sure that stupid people don't linger on for long, for example if somebody extremely stupid accidentally joins the Quora community, he/she would be confused with what's going on here and will almost certainly leave in about 10 mins, they would go back to facebook, check the notification tab, refresh the page a couple of times and then go back to doing whatever it is that stupid people do, if he/she stays longer than 10 mins then he/she is curious and I ll give them credit for that, they will hop around, browse a few questions, posts etc, but by then your average stupid person has had enough for the day and will log out and probably forget about quora from day two and will almost certainly never return, and if he comes back the next day, I would say he/she is genuinely interested in acquiring knowledge, and such chaps are more than desired here, unfortunately they make up for a very small percentage and that tells you why Quora is a much smaller community than facebook or twitter or any other social networking site. Updated 143w ago • View Upvotes