Music Theory: I see other musicians namely jazz pianists, using chords in between chords specified in the progression. I've heard talk of something called 'routes' and a ii - V - I but I can't make sense of applying it for myself. Could someone explain this to me or show me where I can read up on it?
When jazz pianists and guitarists add their own chords in between the ones specified on the page, it's called reharmonization. The most common method of reharmonizing is adding extra dominant 7th chords. Say you're in the key of C. The tune has two bars of C written: |  C  |  C  | You could make this more interesting by adding the dominant chord in C, which is G7: |  C  |  G7 C  | To liven things up further, you could temporarily treat G as the key center and add its dominant chord, D7: |  C D7  |  G7 C  | And you could take it an additional step by treating D as the key center and putting in its dominant chord, A7: |  A7 D7  |  G7 C  | The written melody might sound peculiar over all these chords, but it might also sound awesome. Through trial and error, you develop a sense of when these moves will work and when they won't. In addition to dominant chords, you can also add in subdominant chords. In rock and pop, the usual subdominant chord is the IV (F in the key of C.) Jazz prefers the other one, the ii chord (Dm in the key of C.) The typical jazz cadence is ii - V7 - I. In the key of C, the chords are: Dm  G7  C Jazz musicians will usually add extensions to those chords to make them richer: Dm7  G7  Cmaj7 Whenever you have a dominant 7th chord, you can almost always slip the ii chord in front of it: |  Em7 A7  Am7 D7  |  Dm7 G7  C  | You won't really be able to do this kind of chord wizardry without understanding the underlying music theory. The best jazz theory books out there are both by Mark Levine. The Jazz Piano Book is what it sounds like. The Jazz Theory Book is a more general-purpose book about how modern jazz from Coltrane onwards works. Both books are full of great transcriptions from actual music, and are pretty readable as music theory books go. 