How do I overcome hard times in life?
Hard times and good times are two sides of the same coin. This is just one example of the duality that we face all the time. Other examples can be profit-loss, victory-defeat etc. so, the hard and times and the good times will keep coming and alternating in life. As a matter of belief, how long these phases last relatively is determined by one's karma. But whether one believes in it or not, the duality is a part of life. The way you overcome hard times in life is by remembering this very fact - that the hard time will be over and will be followed by good time. A single short statement that gives you strength in these times is "this too shall pass". If you remember this continuously through the hard times, you will be able to face the hardship better. The next thing that helps in such times is your faith in a supreme power. This power could be your religious symbol, God or Guru. If you have unwavering faith in someone higher up, you can constantly draw on the energy from this source and be strong in the face of the challenges of life. Constantly praying to this power helps whether done at home, office or during travel etc. one doesn't need to be in a temple, church or mosque to pray. The prayer should be just to ask for strength, courage and will power to withstand the hardship. Another important aspect that determines your state in hard times is how you handle your good times. Do you become too ecstatic in your victories, do you feel you deserved the good time more than anyone else, do you feel only you are responsible for your achievements? If the answer is a strong yes, you may not be able to handle hard times well. Remember in your good moments and victories - this too shall pass ! Do thank the higher powers for all the good things that you have. Do offer your prayers regularly even when the times are good. By doing this, you will be much stronger in bad times and you may not have to bear the full brunt on your head also. The good times will surely be followed by the bad times and you need to be prepared for it. Life is not a straight line upward moving graph. It has ups and downs, sharp peaks and troughs as well. So learn to handle everything with equanimity and it should be helpful. Nothing is end of the world. After each defeat you can rise higher provided you have faith and you draw on that infinite power source up there. 