What are the best ways to prepare for interviews with top-tier management consulting firms?
There have been some good tips and resources here, so I'll try to add value by approaching the question from a slightly different angle: what are the attributes that the interview is testing and what does that imply for interview preparation? The case portion is designed to test for structured, logical thinking and problem solving ability. I won't dwell on the need for math skills, creativity and business familiarity beyond saying that they are necessary. However it is worth taking a moment to think about the structured thinking, as it can be an adjustment for many people in preparing. Suppose an interviewer asks you: "what are the different ways you can travel from New York to Boston?" A typical answer would be: You can take the train, or the shuttle or drive a car or take a bus. Practically, that is pretty much the answer, but this is not what consulting firms are looking for. Consider this alternative answer and the difference between the two: There are 3 ways you can travel: by land, sea or air. If you travel by land, you can drive, take the train, take a bus, bicycle or walk if you are patient. If you travel by sea, you could sail, take a motorboat or look into a ferry. By air, there is the shuttle, or a helicopter if you can afford it. The second answer shows the structured thinking that is important to consulting. Consultants solve problems by breaking them down into their constituent parts. This should be done in a MECE (mutually exclusive, collectively exhaustive) way. Notice that in the second answer, there is no way of travel that does not fall into one of those first three buckets, and yet each of those buckets is by definition different from each other. This is what you want to aim for during the structuring portion of a case. Practice it and practice again. The behavioral portion is designed to test for your ability to effectively interact with others, make your case, convince doubters, work collaboratively in a team. When you tell your stories in this section, you need to demonstrate in great detail the nature of the interaction in question, and communicate that nuance to your interviewer. The lowest bar for interviewees is "I persuaded them by my overpowering logic." Not compelling. Think about exactly what you said and did and why. Think about what the position was of the others in the group and how that factored into your thinking. Don't make the interviewer read your mind or infer. Typical questions will include: Tell me about yourself/walk me through your resume (even now, I am amazed how many times people flub this basic opener. Assume it's coming and hone your pitch) Tell me about a time you lead a team/worked on a team Tell me about a time you had to convince someone of something Tell me about a challenge that you had to overcome Why firm X? Why consulting? Practice and refine your answers to these questions (especially the stories) with the above perspective in mind. Others respondents to this answer are right in saying that the behavioral portion is important. You need to do well in both sections to get an offer. Finally, I lied, I will give one resource tip: The best source for practice cases is not actually Case In Point (though it's fine). The worst kept secret in consulting is that MBA students write down and compile the cases that they received during interviewing. They then give these cases to the next class of MBAs for practice purposes. If you don't have these already, find a friend who's an MBA and get their books. Edit: a fellow Sloanie tipped my off to this online resource for pdfs of MBA case books: Case Interview Casebooks From Top MBA Programs | MasterTheCase Updated 104w ago • View Upvotes