Why doesn't Quora have a larger community yet?
I agree that Quora appeals to intelligent people, but the normal distribution of the population's IQ does not explain the full story. To answer this question fully, we must explore what attracts people to Quora in the first place. What drives people to spend hours crafting detailed answers about How to increase productivity? or seek out answers to What other people would say to Steve Jobs? Clearly, the product has filled a real void for a very devoted user base - but what do these people have in common? While Quora appeals to people who have traits that are often found in intelligent people, lack of intelligence is not the underlying factor that is limiting growth. Instead, like most products, the user base tends to share motivations that match the value the product provides. Based on my own experience interacting with the community, I expect that most regular Quora users exhibit 3 or 4 of the following motivations: Strong interest in a specific topic or domain Motivated by learning Enjoy helping others Desire to produce quality content Desire to be recognized for creating quality content Thirst for competition Willingness to be critiqued For Quora, the majority of early adopters (i.e. people who signed up in 2009 or 2010) not only exhibited several of the above traits, but most were also interested in topics related to technology, start-ups, entrepreneurship etc... Over the last four years, the Quora user base has expanded and so has the spectrum of topics. This is similar to how Facebook originally focused on Harvard students, then college students in general, and then everyone. However, unlike Facebook, Quora appeals to a more specific set of motivating factors. So while most people are interested in connecting and sharing their life with friends, the set of people who are motivated by the above factors is clearly a smaller segment of the population. There is still plenty of room for Quora to grow, however. As the breadth of topics and density of content increases, the product's appeal also grows. Today, technology and entrepreneurial related topics no longer seem make up the majority of content on the site. Instead, new users are signing up to learn about 'life hacks' or share their views on religion and politics. As the user base and breadth of content expands, the product has become more appealing to a wider spectrum of people. As long as the density of the interest graph is increasing, the product's appeal to new users will also increase (i.e. the network effect). It's worth noting that while Quora has been in existence for 4 years and is still somewhat of a niche network, slow growth is not actually a bad thing. Caterina Fake applied the "Slow Growth" framework to grow Flickr. Dave Morin is doing the same thing with Path. Explosive growth often leads to rapid decay - see: Viddy and Socialcam. For Quora, the goal is to enable the breadth of content to become wide enough to have relatively broad appeal. I expect that Quora has recently made significant headway in this direction and that is why they are now spinning up more aggressive growth features such as forcing users to sign up before viewing content. The Product Management team recognizes the product's perceived value is now widely appealing enough to pull new users over the sign up threshold and to retain them. If this calculation is correct, the product's user base should expand more quickly over the coming months. Despite this, the product will most likely never have mass appeal like Facebook. The motivational factors that drive user's to Quora are simply less common. 