What's the difference between baseball and cricket?
Cricket is a lot easier to understand than Baseball As the game Cricket becomes more visible on the global stage I've seen more articles by American authors who tried to get the hang of it and got all mentally tangled up in the really fringe details. So right here right now I'm going to explain the core similarities and core differences between Cricket and Baseball. Before I begin it's important to know that there are 3 major forms of Cricket and the one I'm going to talk about is the T20 or the Twenty 20 format. Once that is understood the others become easier to understand. Core Similarities There are two teams with batters, pitchers/bowlers and fielders. Batters try to hit a ball thrown at them by a pitcher/bowler Fielders try to catch the ball in the air or stop its progress. When the ball is in flight, batters try to score by running between markers. At the end of the game the team with the most runs wins. A batter is "out" when they hit a ball in the air and it is caught by a fielder. There are other ways also in which an "out" is scored. There is a "special" fielder who is positioned right behind the batter called a "catcher" in Baseball and a "wicketkeeper" in Cricket A batter is out when they run and don't complete the run before a fielder throws the ball back to a marker before they get there ("marker" = Base in Baseball, Stumps in Cricket) When a ball is hit all the way to the edge of the field without hitting the ground the it counts for multiple runs (anywhere between 1 and 4 in Baseball, 6 in Cricket) Core Differences Cricket is played on the strip of ground called "the pitch", with a batsman/batter at each end. Baseball is played around a diamond shaped playing area with bases at the corners. In Cricket batters bat in pairs and run between the two ends of the pitch. When they safely exchange positions it's scored as a run. In Baseball a player runs around the diamond and when all four bases are traversed it's a run. In Cricket each end is are marked with three wooden sticks called stumps or wickets. Forcing an out is often referred to as "taking a wicket". In baseball there is a single home plate. In Cricket the strike zone is explicit and consists of the wickets, in Baseball the strike zone is implicit and left to umpire interpretation. In Baseball an innings is three outs and there are at least 9 and possibly more innings in a game In T20 Cricket an innings is 10 outs - the whole team bats, then the opposite team bats. (Aside: The reason it's 10 outs and not 11 is that batters bat in pairs and when 10 are out the last one is left without a partner.) In Baseball a pitcher can continue to pitch through the whole innings, in Cricket bowlers get a limited number of pitches. In Cricket bowlers bowl 6 pitches at a time, then switch bowlers. The next bowler bowls from the opposite end of "the pitch". In Baseball the ball is pitched full toss always, in Cricket almost always the ball is bounced off the ground and this is used to gain advantage via bounce, spin and swing of the ball. While the ball can be pitched full toss in Cricket, almost always this is less attacking than a ball bounced off the ground. Updated 82w ago • View Upvotes