Are humans really causing global warming?
Here's a 2010 summary study by Gray et. al -- It's called "Solar influences on climate" http://www.eiscat.rl.ac.uk/Membe... The paper is 40+ pages, very dense, and wonderful.  Here is their concluding section on climate change: 6.4. Climate Change Finally, the role of solar variability in climate change has received much public attention because reliable estimates of solar influence are needed to limit uncertainty in the importance of human activity as a potential explanation for global warming. Extensive climate model studies have indicated that the models can only reproduce the late twentieth century warming when anthropogenic forcing is included, in addition to the solar and volcanic forcings [IPCC, 2007]. The change in solar radiative forcing since 1750 was estimated in the IPCC [2007] report to be 0.12 W m−2, corresponding to an increase in TSI of 0.69 W m−2. A value of 0.24 W m−2 solar radiative forcing difference from Maunder Minimum to the present is currently considered to be more appropriate. Despite these uncertainties in solar radiative forcing, they are nevertheless much smaller than the estimated radiative forcing due to anthropogenic changes, and the predicted SC‐related surface temperature change is small relative to anthropogenic changes. One thing that is very clear from this review is that enormous progress has been achieved in our knowledge and understanding over the past few decades. The topic has emerged from its beginnings of almost purely investigation of statistical relationships that were subject to substantial criticism to become a solid scientific field that involves both solar physicists and climate scientists. Indeed, even 20 years ago it would have been very unlikely that the collection of scientific fields represented by the authors of this paper would have collaborated on such a review. From this, it looks like mathematical modeling shows that anthropogenic CO2 is causing climate change, and this is based on millions of input data on weather conditions, atmospheric composition, physical relationships between components of the model, and equations for how certain reactions run.  Although I think that this is strong evidence, it's not something you can see physically.      1.  Climate models have been developing for 20+ years, and are now in a pretty good state, compared to the original ones. 2.  If the input data are limited to only solar and volcanic influences, the models get the wrong numbers for the amount of heat flow from the surface of the Earth -- unless you add in data on the CO2 which humans are putting into the atmosphere. It used to be the case that folks could say -- "Well, maybe your model's no good."  And maybe it's not -- but if you'd like to have a look and see how they're constructed, see the Gray et al. (2010) summary paper.  It really is amazing. 