What was Silicon Valley like after the bubble burst in the early 2000s?
Rather than tell another story about empty parking lots, traffic, and Herman Miller chairs (all true),   I have a slightly different angle to share. It's worth mentioning was a indescribable time, almost - but I'll try. I am happy to have lived through it and the experiences it taught me, but I didn't have that perspective at the time. The company, Health Hero Network, grew quickly from 1997 to 2000 - and by quickly, I mean by "normal" standards - not at all by the standards of the time We spent money like mad, but not irresponsibly - we didn't have lavish parties and we had very spartan offices. However, the key difference between then and now, and the thing most people leave out about the bubble, was that the cost of EVERYTHING was prohibitively high. We were paying EDS an absolutely obnoxious amount of money to host our servers (EDS!) . We were paying college students $100,000 to come learn how to code, professionally. We paid  IDEO an astronomical amount of money to help design our hardware experience. Of those expenses, IDEO did an amazing job (leading to a Business Week best products of 2000 award) and many of those college students turned out to be major contributors, but the amount of capital required was just insane. I've left out the costs of servers (just trying a Solaris machine in 1999 or 2000), Oracle licenses (still insane, but thank god less necessary), real estate costs. You get the point. Not only did everyone expect to get rich, everyone charged for (and happily paid for services) as if they already were. And we certainly were not. That may be the biggest different between now and then. There was no Lean Startups movement, no MVP approach to development, open source was there and LAMP (software bundle) was popular, but not like today. Then, of course, 9/11 (terrorist attack) happened, and you could get all of these things for cheap - but no one was spending money. You saw a complete reverse of the ecosystem, from one where everyone was overspending to the point of lunacy, and then to the situation of where no one would spend anything at all, funding dried up, and it felt like the valley went into hibernation. Someone said "Raising tides lift all ships, and low tide grounds them too". This ying-yang was, at least for me, the best summary of that 4-5 year span. Rather than bore you with the rest of the story (including everything from our Envy of pet-food selling sock puppets to moving into much-less-Spartan offices - our dumb-bubble move we made later in life), I just want to mention one other really critical point that gets forgotten, which is the people. Over those years of trying to keep the company alive, you have to make a lot of actions you regret, don't want to do, and never end well. Layoffs, terminations, separating people that were critical to growing the company, these were painful to the entire valley - friendships broken, corporate distrust at high levels, depression - it  changed the demeanor of the valley, at least for a few years.  In the end, we went through a series of painful layoffs (going from nearly 120 to 20), building it back up, nearly dying again, and then building it once again, this time to a very successful exit and acquisition to Robert Robert Bosch GmbH Healthcare. 