Gas prices in the USA averaged $3.90 a gallon in August - how much is this damaging the economy?
[EDIT: This question was originally a "subtle" bit of Obama-bashing posted by an Anon User. The question no longer blames Obama for gas prices supposedly doubling during his presidency but that's where this answer started.] Let's step back a minute and stop blatantly cherrypicking datapoints favorable to the Romney campaign. Here's an inflation-adjusted chart showing the gasoline prices since 1990, with vertical lines demarcating the Clinton-Bush transition and Bush-Obama transition: US Average Regular Gasoline Price, Bush's Term in Red http://www.wolframalpha.com/shar... As you can see, Bush saw prices skyrocket. Then the economy collapsed at the end of his term and energy demand dropped until the recovery started. This all happened because of market forces, not presidential policy. Specifically look at the growth of automobile ownership in India and China, and rising oil/gasoline prices make perfect sense -- but that's a subject for another question. It's a complete coincidence that Obama's Inauguration Day happened to be at the exact same time as the dead-center of the oil price collapse in 2008-2009. In fact, economic growth leads to high gas prices, not the other way around. High demand leads to high prices, as you can see quite well from this chart: US GDP Growth vs US Gasoline Price The peaks, slopes, and troughs in US GDP growth clearly lead gasoline prices by 18-24 months. This is about how long it takes for good economic performance to solidly become a real difference in people's car buying and driving habits. (Note that there was some very bubbly pricing and subsequent bubble-popping in oil/gasoline price from Q3 2008 to Q2 2009. You can blame that on speculators if you want a simplistic explanation.) High gasoline prices are caused by strong world economic growth. All  it really means for Obama to see a price rise is that the world economy  is recovering faster than new oil can be brought to market. It will likely continue to do so. Unfortunately, the price of gasoline is both highly visible (seen dozens of times per day by most drivers) and the only significantly-varying cost most people experience. So despite being only a small portion of US consumer spending, gasoline has a disproportionate impact on our perception of the economy. Gas prices are suspiciously strongly correlated to consumer sentiment  -- much more so than actual economic  statistics. If we're in a recession, the media harping on it does reduce consumer sentiment. But the majority of the time when we're not in a recession, the relationship between gas price and sentiment is uncanny: Inverse Relation Between Gas Price and Consumer Sentiment http://www.wolframalpha.com/shar... When you get right down to it, gasoline prices  are the only economic indicator most Americans look at! If we're not being told the economy is bad by the nightly news, we look to the biggest, boldest signs in the sky. It seems that when people  drive down the highway and see high gas prices on all those giant signs, they  immediately, with zero delay, become negative about the economy.  This  probably does have an impact on actual economic performance but not in  clear-cut ways. So  what we have is a rather ironic situation where high gas prices are  caused by economic growth, yet people's emotions about the economy are  soured by high gas prices. On face, high fuel prices should harm the non-energy sectors of the economy, but energy employs so many people that high oil prices tend to cause inflation more than economic damage. It's complicated and sadly there is no cut-and-dry answer. 