In what ways does the Indian Quora differ from the American Quora?
One of my favorite topics. :)  So I have this blog over at quora numbers and I research this topic semi-regularly.  I'm not going to do any new research here.  Rather, I am going to pretty much summarize the research I have already done related to this topic as I don't believe I have mostly put it in one place yet.  I apologize for the length.  This is as definitive a post as you're likely to get on the topic.  If you think something is missing (because I know stuff is and I can't find it and spent about 4 hours writing this) or have ideas for further research, please do let me know. Proportionate percentage of users This is hard to gauge, and Alexa is probably the only reasonably public source of data for this.  What are the demographics of Quora users? has this data, or at least a chart for it I can use. There are twice as many Indian visitors to Quora as Americans.  The latest Alexa data suggests Pakistan is at around 2%, and the growth appears to be favoring SE Asians, who are appear to be expanding faster than American and more Anglo countries. The above gives this from a historical perspective.  The all other country drop is mostly a result of Pakistan suddenly being separated out when it was not before. Above is a google trends map for interest in Quora from India. Above is a google trends map for interest in Quora from the United States. The peak periods were different.  Quora acquired these user bases at different times and different rates. Demographic differences Indian users and American users look nothing alike in terms of demographic composition.  National breakdowns of by age participation on Quora by Laura Hale on quora numbers looks at age differences using Facebook data.  It shows a clear difference in age between the two communities: Indian Quora is young, full of university aged students.  American Quora is young, but not nearly that young.  Over 50% of Quora's India community is between 18 and 24.  The United States, compared to other countries, has a greater percentage of its users who are older. The gender distribution for both countries is skewed male.  Way more males than females.  There is less gender skew for Americans than Indians.  If you're an Indian male and wondering where the females are, there is a reason.  The gender gap for Americans is lowest at the polar opposite ends of the age spectrum. For Indians, it is rather more consistent though at its smallest in the 45 - 54 age range. The above looks at historical changes in comparitive gender participation on Quora using Facebook data. Quora's India growth accelerates among men while slowing for women by Laura Hale on quora numbers discusses some issues regarding Indian growth rates. The data suggests that Indian growth among males is increasing while the rate among women is contracting.  The data cited isn't actually the best but it was repeated in non-published on Quora by me data.  This is actually different than American community where there has been a slower but steadier increase in female participation. Educational attainment is also different among American and Indian Quora communities: There are more Americans percentage wise with less education.  It's pretty even though when it comes to being college graduates. Location of users Geographic distribution of Quora's Indian Users by Laura Hale on quora numbers looks a bit at the geographic distribution of Indian users by state. The above graph visualizes that data. The above is the table behind the map.  While I cannot get you the map easily for the United States, this data does highlight a key difference between American users and Indian users: American users are less geographically distributed than Indian users.  They are concentrated much more in California and New York City in the United States.  Every other state is just marginal.  Indian users have much greater geographic distribution from where they come from.  It is't evenly distributed, but it is still distributed better. This is actually much more clear when looking at Indian users by city from that same post: Indians are from all over the place.  Yes, there are the major cities, but there are more of them with bigger populations. Followers The most followed writers on Quora are male and American. Laura Hale's answer to Which Quora users have the most followers? has some data on this.  Women occur much less frequently.  Asian and Indian men have a much easier time cracking this list of most followed on Quora if they live in the United States.  For Indians in India, it is easier for women to make the list.  This isn't because they are pretty and (Indian) men are mindlessly following them. As you'll see elsewhere, this is because of a Facebook benefit and because they get followers from other Indian women.  It is the power of women followers that get them this high. There is this idea that Indian women have this intrinsic advantage in getting followers.  The above chart looks at that and comes from Are Indian Quorans more inclined to follow people's profiles? . It does not include Americans but still useful, as this is not demonstrably similar for American women and men.   Of the groups included, Indian women just top all Australians. Indian men follow fewer accounts than Indian women, while on the median Indian men have more followers than Indian women but just.  Think about that: Indian men follow at a smaller rate but get followers at a higher rate. The above is a scatter graph using logarithmic scaling to show what is happening on an individual basis with that data. Follower ratios for these groups: There is nothing here that indicates Indian users are more inclined to follow than other groups. Indian men actually appear less inclined t follow than other groups. Follower networks One way in which Indian Quora and American Quora differ is in follower networks, and how these plug into different sections of the Quora community.  This is explored in Smaller Quora follower network node analysis: Location defines your experience by Laura Hale on quora numbers . I went and got around 1,093 pairs of follower/follows relationships on Quora with the country of the user known for each person in the pair.  The above is the graph.  The color coding is as follows: Blue = India/India Violet = India/United States Magenta=United States/India Red=United States/United States Green=Not USAorIndia/Not USAorIndia Cyan=India/NotUSA Pink=USA/NotIndia Yellow=Not USAorIndia/USA Navy=Not USAorIndia/India The research finds more or less, and quoting from the linked post:  There is an Indian Quora and an American Quora. They are populated by different people, with each group having their own more important nodes to connect. It looks possible that the Indian community is more isolated through a lack of major connecting nodes than users from the United States. People who are from other countries, Green lines representing pairs from neither country, Cyan, Pink, Yellow and Navy representing a connection to either India or the USA are in the center. Some non-American/non-Indian pairs also appear near the edges, suggesting separate national populations with internal linking. The ones you're seeing more on the edges of these maps feature uses from Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Bosnia and Herzegovina. When users from all other countries are eliminated, the crossover between the United States and India, using the same color coding as before, looks like this: What insights are available from this graph?  Quoting again from the post: All red lines are USA-USA follows. All blue lines are India-India follows. The others are India/USA. There are one or two Americans who attract Indian followers and vice versa. Beyond Balaji Viswanathan , Anangsha Alammyan serves as another nexus for users in India getting followers from the USA. A lot of the crossover you're seeing between the two groups features Asians. They don't need to be Indians. Just being Asian here can be a benefit. Yishan Wong is another major nexus. One thing to understand about the Quora experience is it is't just the Indian experience or the American experience.  There is also the female experience and the male experience.  This gets further gradiented down, because your Indian female does not have the same experience as your Indian male.  Same issue for American male and female users.  It is not unique to India. Continuing this thought, the following is what a nexus looks like including only connected Indian and American men: Quoting again from the linked post: The above is the same graph when all the women are taken out. The Indians appear to be pushed more towards the edges here. And Americans and Indians are also in their own isolated bubbles. (You can't easily see the all American male chain of four users here.) There is still a fair amount of mixing. This male network looks  different than the similar network for American and Indian women only networks.  The graph below shows this: Quoting again from the research post: The above is a nexus like the other one, except it is USA connections when the men are taking out and includes only women. Most of the crossover here between the two groups is Indian women living in the United States. Otherwise, there is a whole lot of self segregation going on. Indian women have smaller networks of female users and more complex interconnections. American women have bigger nodes of all women and easier to understand pathways. There are other issues here of difference in the two communities that are more apparent when you start looking at how the national populations are gender connected.  To do this, color coding change: Pink=Female/Female Green=Female/Male Orange=Male/Female Blue=Male/Male The nexus immediately below is India, with only known male and female connections: From the same research: While not clearly visible here, there are a few all men nodes. That is, no women are connected to them, and Indian women are very well integrated into the wider network. It actually makes sense to me as I have looked at a number of Indian males, and there are quite a few who do not follow any women. It's all men. Also, Indian women appear to follow a number of Indian women. They aren't just getting follows from men. Again, this makes sense if you consider that many Indian users get their initial follower and follows base from Facebook connections. Worldwide, evidence suggests women have more friends on Facebook on men, with their network being over represented by women. The male connections initially either come through Facebook or through content creation. This nexus construction is different than the United States.  This looks like the nexus below: Quoting from the same node analysis: The biggerish isolated node is a user who has not been active since 2014: Valerie Moyer . The isolated all male node string you see involves Biz Stone and Joseph Carney . While there are a number of all male chains going on, this really doesn't feel all that much different than India, except, it has more points and there are more central nexuses near the center. It lacks a secondary node separated but connected to the main. It doesn't matter how many times I refresh it. It still appears to be centered. To summarize: The Indian follower network is more distributed without as many interlinks through the same nodes.  It is easier to be isolated into certain pockets on "Indian Quora" full of similar Indians.  You're in a smaller pool.  Americans are much more interconnected to the same people.  Indian users can exist completely outside these major nexuses. Quoting again from the same research: Quora is based on relationships. These include homophily, transitivity and propinquity and are based around your following patterns, upvoting patterns and your topic interactions by following a topic, writing a lot in a topic, etc. The location of your followers can thus serve as a reinforcer of the type of location based information you see. People from outside India and the United States likely see large amounts of content from those and elsewhere not related to where they live because of their interconnectedness being dependent on lots of relationships from people who are not from their countries. The myth and the legend of the Indian upvote brigade causing answers to go viral almost certainly seems true as answers spiral through these networks. The lack of overall depth in the network for the United States through fewer isolated nodes means it is probably much harder to go viral as the ability to do so is shorter connection wise. You've got to capture a larger number of people's followers in iterations just to keep up with the depth aspect. This issue was explored a bit more in Understanding the '15 Top Writer community: Network analysis by Laura Hale on quora numbers .  To a degree, it confirms this idea of node related upvoting, and that Indian Top Writers are generally not part of the American Top Writer upvote node network.  They are isolated away from each other, with little crossover between the two. Follower acquisition rate American and Indian women have something in common: They get followers at lower numbers than men, and they acquire them more slowly. Summary of the one post from another post at What are the gender differences when it comes to Quora participation, usage, behavior on site, and how people engage with the same and opposite gender? : This data says men average more followers than women . They also gained them at a slightly higher rate than women on average than women. On the median there is no difference because few people actually got new followers. This is to be expected to a degree because the average man is more likely to follow either more man, or men and women proportionally to their participation on Quora. That men over sampling for men though explains it. Also, why there is a possibility that cannot be discounted that beautiful women on Quora with pictures may get statistically more followers (which is not proven), men who are successful in business and technology far outperform women as men follow other successful men more so than they follow beautiful women. Top Writers One of the places where I investigated these differences was at What is the geographical distribution of 2016 Top Writers? . The above graph was the distribution I knew of when I was collecting said data.  While the percentages may not be 100%, I'm reasonably confident of the ratios when it comes to American and Indian Top Writers.  The pie chart shows this at 73% and India at around 5%. The above is a bit more explicit in how this is portrayed.  Lots more American TWs than India. The above graph is the historical differences in percentages that I am aware of.  There are differences.  The drop for Americans did not appear to be a result of more Indians, but of more people from other countries Geographic patterns also differ inside a the United States and India. The above is the by state distribution for the United States.  California dominates, and dominates a lot.  This should be contrasted to India: The by state dominance in India is much less pronounces, with TWs being more evenly distributed around the country.  Being from a particular state does not appear to give you any strategic advantage. Facebook Quora Indian Community and the Facebook follower effect by gender by Laura Hale on quora numbers looks at the Facebook impact and India.  I do not have a counter analysis to explain clearly the difference between India and the United States.  What I can tell you from unpublished data is that for both men and women in the United States, the effects described here are not as severe.  Based on the sample of Indian Top Writers, females average more followers than males. For all writers from India though, men have a higher average. Not Top Writer female Indian who have a linked Facebook account average the least number of followers. Top Writers with Facebook from India have an inherent advantage of sorts when it comes to getting followers. This stratification though has limits: The strong correlation between total followers and total answers suggests that Indian women get followers through content production. Their male counterparts, with and without Facebook, are not as dependent on content production to deliver views. In essence, Indian women with Facebook linked accounts have a bit of a harder slog because they do not get built in credibility: They earn it through content production. The latter is also true for American women, with similar patterns found for American men.  Both groups have that in common: Content production for women matters in both countries, and it doesn't matter as much for men. Followers and upvotes There is this whole issue about how people believe that followers result in upvotes.  I've looked at this at various times.  What are the gender differences when it comes to Quora participation, usage, behavior on site, and how people engage with the same and opposite gender? has a summary of Women and feminism: Male versus female answers by Laura Hale on quora numbers  so I am just going to quote from that to explain the differences between American and Indian Quora here: [This] was one of my first pieces of research on gender differences. It found operating Quora while female on feminism and women's topics does not appear to cause any distinct advantage or disadvantage compared to male peers in terms of upvotes. Both are somewhat random, with what could be called a general trend of both genders getting more upvotes by virtue of having more followers at the same rate, 0.43 correlation for women compared to 0.41 for men. The slope of the line for women is actually steeper. Confirming some of the other data mentioned, this research also found if only the questions that mention India are separated out, there is a significant difference in the results from the whole group. For all Indian related questions, there is a correlation of 0.63 between followers and upvotes. For females, there is a correlation of 0.69 and for males there is a correlation 0f 0.62. The more followers someone has, the more responses they are almost certainly likely to get. Here, the rich get richer seems to very much be a truth but the numbers are so small, that the relative number of upvotes almost is insignificant. Education Education can be a big stratifier, if you're Indian. The huge subculture around IITians is huge and impacts individual interactions with Quora.  It creates a situation in Indian Quora with one group appearing to have greater credibility over others because of where they went to school.  For the Quora Community in the Americas , this issue matters a lot less.  It is an issue that rarely, if ever, comes up in normal interactions with other users from the same country.  Bringing it up with, "Well I went to Stanford!" would either be considered a joke, or something that will get you a slap in the face back as it would not appear relevant unless you're discussing Stanford in some way. Upvote display This research is a bit old, and I am not sure it applies now.  It probably describes something that is more historical in nature at this point, but I did the research and it appears worth mentioning.  There have been differences in who is shown on upvote beyond which of your followers upvoted it.  Quoting from What are the gender differences when it comes to Quora participation, usage, behavior on site, and how people engage with the same and opposite gender? , this is: 