What are the best ways to prepare for interviews with top-tier management consulting firms?
Agree with Jackie completely.  Especially for top-tier consulting firms, memorization of Case in Point frameworks seems to be a given these days. Something that helped enormously during this process was constant practice with friends that were in similar positions - I'd take the role of the interviewer, they'd be the interviewee, and then we'd switch.  By practicing with somebody in a similar situation and mindset, you're really able to see how different people (e.g. interviewers) approach certain topics, cases, questions, and so on - this applies to both behavioral fit questions and the case questions themselves.  Even if your friend is technically competing with you, it's worth the experience.  Be open to criticism, and don't be afraid of appearing in a position of weakness (i.e. admitting that you don't know the answer to a question). While the case(s) is definitely the most important part of the interview, don't neglect polishing your answers to fit questions.  Many consulting firms, especially MBB, look very closely at "how well you'd fit in" with the rest of the firm.  Remember that your interviewer is evaluating you from the perspective of prospective clients (i.e. "Do I feel comfortable letting this person represent my firm in front of a client?"). I think that Case in Point, aside from frameworks, has some excellent case study examples, so I won't bother repeating those exact ones.  Off the top of my head, some McKinsey ones I recall hearing about involved the number of street lamps in New York City, or number of total Crayola crayons in the United States.  I remember getting one from Goldman about how I would go about designing a toaster (for Technology Analyst role).  Remember, the answer isn't important - rather, they're far more interested in how you approach the question and the methodology governing your thinking.  For example, are you blurting out your answer without thinking?  Or are you taking too long?  Are you asking the right questions?  Or are you making too many assumptions?  And so on. For fit questions, if you keep in mind 1-2 of your best experiences with respect to what you're interviewing for (in this case, probably internship or research experiences), you'll find that you're able to find interesting stories about seemingly insignificant actions.  Fit questions all tend to overlap with each other (see list below), and often you'll find that you can use a prepared answer for numerous questions.  The key is to simply know yourself, your experiences, and your resume extremely well so you can pick which story to tell at the appropriate moment.  Above all, don't be repetitive, don't be boring, and don't talk too fast. :D   As far as fit questions themselves are concerned, here are a few: Why do you want to work at [insert company name here]? <-- IMPORTANT. Tell me about a time you took a risk. Tell me about a time you had to deal with a conflict in a group. Tell me about your experience working on a team (how did you reach your goal, who did what, etc) Tell me about a time you demonstrated leadership. What do you bring to the table? Describe a time where you had to make a hard decision. Describe a time when you had to deliver bad news. Why do you feel you're a good fit for [insert company name here]? Where do you see yourself in [x] years? Describe an instance where you set your sights on a high/demanding goal and saw it through to completion? Provide an example of how you acquired a new skill to accomplish a goal. Provide an example of something you started that wasn't there before you initiated it. Tell me about a time when you persuaded or convinced someone to your way of thinking. Tell me about a time when you demonstrated prioritization skills. Updated 283w ago • View Upvotes