Music Theory: I see other musicians namely jazz pianists, using chords in between chords specified in the progression. I've heard talk of something called 'routes' and a ii - V - I but I can't make sense of applying it for myself. Could someone explain this to me or show me where I can read up on it?
In strongly tonal jazz (as opposed to modal or more harmonically free jazz), chord progressions tend to work according to certain conventions. I find it unhelpful to think of chord behavior in terms of rules, since we're talking about behavior that is largely predictable but not absolutely governed by stricture--it's always grounding to remember that analysis comes after the specimen, not before! Probably the most basic of these conventions is an expectation that the dominant seventh chord (V7) tends to resolve to tonic (I), though in a deceptive cadence it can move elsewhere. With that in mind, one of the most basic chord progressions we could outline, say, in the key of G, would look like this: In this case, the "route" is quite direct: it's just there and back again, Mr. Baggins, [V7-I]. If we wanted to add a bit of interest, our first opportunity for investigation would be prior to the V7. Because V7 pulls so strongly to I, adding things after it, between it and its intended target, would be a little trickier. But we can add a predominant chord, a chord that functions well as preparation for the dominant, to give a little flavor. The most eligible predominant chord in our arsenal is the ii chord. Exactly why ii is a great predominant is a complex matter, but the simple answer is that just as V is situated a perfect fifth above I, so ii is situated a perfect fifth above V. Adding in the ii chord, which will be A minor in the key of G, will yield: Note that I added the seventh to the ii chord for interest--jazzers love to stack sevenths, ninths, and various other odd-numbered chord extensions at every available opportunity. :) Also note that the "route" did not really change. We're still going "there and back again," it's just that we added a little pit stop before the "there." It's wise to learn to think of chord progressions in this way, as general procedures or "routes" rather than as series of discrete identities with no intrinsic relationship to one another. The last three chords in the above sequence form the pattern [ii-V-I], probably the most common cadential chord sequence in classic jazz and pop music and one of the more common ones in Western music as a whole. Notice that in a [ii-V-I] progression, the root movement is by fourth--from A to D to G, for example, forming a series of two fourths. One of the major developments in jazz harmony was the "discovery" that anything which can be achieved through root movement by fourth can also be achieved through root movement by half-step. Check this one out: At first glance this may look cryptic, but the underlying procedure is very simple. This is still essentially a [V-I] (dominant-tonic) progression, but I have used a chord substitution for the dominant according to the principle of equation between root movement by half-step in place of traditional root movement by fourth. That is, instead of moving the chord root a fourth from G down to D and back, I moved the root a half-step up from G to A-flat and back. The resulting chord progression has a more interesting and unconventional sound, but still feels like the same basic "route." We can apply the same kind of substitution in the slightly more interesting [ii-V-I] progression also: This doesn't look anything like the friendly [ii-V-I] on the surface, but that's precisely what it is. In making a half-step subsitution for the V7, we relocated the predominant to a fifth above that substituted chord--the predominant that used to be a simple Am7 is now an Eb7, because that's the chord we find when we move a fifth up from the Ab7 that now functions as our dominant. The harmony here is different, but the "route" and functionality of the chord progression is still the same as that old 1920s standby, [ii-V-I]. In bebop music especially, musicians had a great deal of fun at [ii-V-I]'s expense. Take a look at the chord progression from Coltrane's infamous chops-buster, "Giant Steps": If you were to examine only the chord symbols one after another, you'd probably wind up scratching your head for a while as I once did. But this chart, shamelessly swiped from elsewhere on the intertubes, handily shows that what at first appears to be a Borg encryption sequence is really just a cyclical progression of [V-I] and [ii-V-I] turnarounds in various keys (actually these shifting key centers proceed upward by leap through the members of the augmented chord Eb-G-B, which is the source of the tune's name). This is a good bit of information packed into a very short discussion, but hopefully it helps to demonstrate that chord "routes" which can look circuitous or even nonsensical are usually just slight variations of extremely simple, time-honored favorites. There are many great books and websites out there dedicated to basic Western harmony and jazz harmony--I wouldn't want to recommend just one. I think that reading through fake books of jazz standards on a regular basis and critically listening to as many recordings of the same standards as you can is an excellent start. Cheers. 