Why specifically did MySpace fall so fast and so far?
It's important to separate operational deficiencies that probably led to MySpace's decline from product and feature choices.  It's possible to argue that their products and feature simply didn't fit the market, but for the purposes of this answer I will assume that there was/is a market for MySpace's particular product offering (e.g. anonymity) and that their decline is due largely to operational factors (e.g. poor technology). In my opinion, here are some major contributing factors: Inability to recruit top-tier talent. MySpace suffered a stigma of being a trivial entertainment-oriented site and, increasingly as time wore on, a cultural ghetto.  Facebook suffered from similar image problems of not being a very serious place to work, but was eventually able to overcome this by promoting its brand of being a technological powerhouse.  Also, MySpace was headquartered in Los Angeles, far from the talent center of Silicon Valley, so the available recruiting pool was that much smaller.  The compounding effects of this (top people attract other top people) exacerbated this problem over time.  This manifested itself not just in technological sophistication but also in terms of how innovative or driven its internal culture ended up developing. Corporate parent.  Organizations that belong to a larger corporate parent often find themselves unable to focus squarely on strategies or actions which benefit them, because the corporate parent has other overriding priorities.  One way in which this seemed to interfere with MySpace's operations is that revenue and advertising priorities set by the corporate parent (News Corporation) would cause them to take decisions that degraded the user experience or product value delivered to users.  This kept them from executing an optimal strategy to appeal to users. Reliance on closed-source technology stack.  This is not normally a problem in most companies, but in companies where the technical operations are world-class in size and scale, it becomes necessary to be able to directly develop and extend the technologies being used since the scale of the operation means that new technological ground is constantly being broken.  Closed-source OTS technology (even with direct on-site assistance from the vendor) places the company at the mercy of the vendor, who implicitly lacks as strong a motivation to solve key scalability challenges because it is not their core business (it's just another vendor, albeit an important one).  The vendor may also lack the ability to extend their technology to the scale at which it is being used, and will resist attempts to evaluate whether their technology should be replaced or re-written. Updated 301w ago • View Upvotes