★How do you explain Machine Learning and Data Mining to non Computer Science people?
Analogy 1 : Growing up in the World From the childhood you have been meeting, observing and interacting with people. Their behavior and impression on you gets stored in your brain. Your brain becomes a huge data center. You keep on adding more data as you meet new people. Soon you are able to guess how your experience will be with the next person you meet. The person smiles well, wears spectacles and has short hair. You become friendly with him because other smiling people who wear specs are good to you. Then a big 6' man with a beard and broken tooth comes and you run away as a kid. This is all part of Data Mining within your brain. As you grow up, you realize that spectacles, beards and size are not the only things that can tell you what people are like. You begin to see their position in society and their behavior in new situations. So the relevant attributes may change. Your algorithms improve by themselves. This is machine learning. Analogy 2 : Belief in Astrology This is all my supposition and I'm working to verify my belief. Your birth date has a sum that psychics, astrologers, numerologists call a Birth Number. Hundreds of years ago, they'd have noticed that there are patterns in a person's personality and his birth number. For example, people with birth number X are good in making up weird yet interesting analogies (like this one). People with birth number X are bad in relationships. As they met more people with birth number X who were in poor relationships, it added to the "support" and "confidence" of their data. Then, after meeting a person with birth number X, happily married for 20 years to a person with a certain birth number Y, they made an adaptation to their rules of prediction. This kept increasing till the point when they were able to predict the personality types up to 99% of times. So this is again a combination of Data Mining and Machine Learning P.s. I still don't believe in astrology. Analogy 3 : Business Management <a deeper explanation> You collect lot of data from the processes of your large retail store. Whenever someone makes a purchase, the computer at the billing counter adds a record to your database. I'm a regular visitor at your store and today I brought an expensive pen and a writing pad. Two records are created: <Aditya brought Item # 12220 (Pen) today as a part of transaction # 222333> <Aditya brought Item # 12243 (Pad) today as a part of transaction # 222333> Now the first part is organizing the data. You will see if there are any records like <Aditya brought Item # 000000 (nothing) today as a part of transaction # 222333> You will get rid of them. This is called CLEANING. The records in the database will be stored in a Data Warehouse, which is a large database arranged in a fashion that will simplify the process of finding good results. Now you perform CLUSTERING. You will find out the transactions/the people/ the products which are related to a group. For example, the people who buy stationary from your store will be in one cluster. You can use this information to see cool information like People who buy expensive pads buy cheap pens, and don't buy anything else which a regular housewife buys. Then comes CLASSIFICATION If a person who is 23 years old, doesn't have a job and doesn't earn much comes to your store to look for a new computer, he's not going to buy it. ASSOCIATION MINING A person who brought an expensive $100 pen mostly purchases a few novels too. You can use this information to modify your store so that the pens section is far apart from novels section. The person will have to travel a long way over multiple aisles which may cause them to buy another thing on the way. REGRESSION When you had put up a Christmas sale with 20% discount on all products for kids, you had an surplus profit of $50,000 in the last year. Depending on the products and their quantities/costs available right now, this year you can earn up to $60,000 of profit even with a discount offer of 30%. There's lots of such stuff. But by now anyone new to Data Mining will have seen enough to be interested in learning how this all works.    Embed Quote Updated 4 Mar, 2013. 3,758 views.