How do I learn data mining in one month?
It's not possible to meaningfully "learn data mining" in a month. In fact, to try to do so would just make you a danger to yourself, your employer and somebody's balance sheet. Sure, there are cookbooks and code snippets to give you the basics, but this misses the point. Data mining - as a concept - is pretty simple. But, as with most anything of value in life, the whole field turns on very fine distinctions...ie, the trick is in the details -- and understanding those distinctions means the difference between a useless study and a useful one (or even being able to recognize the difference!). In other words, data mining is not a suite of static tools where you merely upload some data and let some script you've cobbled together do the work. At its best, data mining is augmented intelligence - computational horsepower facilitates the leverage of pre-existing analytical / intellectual tools the miner possesses; it never replaces them.   This means you need to know the limits of the models and tools you will be using. You need to become familiar with the assumptions such models make -- when it's safe to allow those assumptions and when it would harmful. Your career in data analysis will be made or broken on such things....and, unfortunately for you, the only way you'll learn those distinctions is through making a lot of mistakes. This means a significant investment of time to simply even let the errors of your early efforts manifest themselves. Then you have to go about learning from them. This is a fun process and very rewarding, but it takes time and effort. That said, you can make a start on the long (and very intellectually rewarding) journey to basic competence; there are tons of resources on Quora already (including great answers from the likes of heavyweight data guns, including the likes of Quora User, Peter Skomoroch, et al). In terms of my own practical contribution to your effort, learn Excel to at least an expert level (know almost every function, how they interact [especially with respect to data manipulation] and how to do basic things like linear regression models - all without using the mouse). Simultaneously, download a copy of "R" (cran.r-project.org) and begin reading r-bloggers, datawrangling, flowingdata etc religiously.  Most importantly, spend time understanding methods intuitively by applying them to whatever datasets interest you - you'd be amazed how much of your own detritus lies in various consumer internet API's, but there are plenty of datasets included in the R base and even more floating around on the web...many accessible via API. Also, try to get some practical feedback on your forays into the field...good, positive critique of your work should be your overwhelming priority. At this point, you should be up to about 2014. Let's talk more then....unfortunately, nothing like in one month's time.    Embed Quote 