How do I start a data mining firm?
I would answer this question by framing the data mining firm as an analytics consulting firm. So to start a data mining firm, I need: - a problem to solve using data mining, - a team that can come up with the solution and deliver it to the client - a customer who will choose your firm and pay for the service The problem with Kaggle Kaggle is great, but not everyone who wins competitions automatically becomes a magnet for work. Anecdotally, I spoke to a Kaggle winner recently and while he has had a data mining firm for years, it is not like potential clients are breaking down the door to get to him yet despite the publicity. I think the reason for this lies in the market for data mining services. Kaggle sits on the supply side. The people who compete, follow competitions and highly regard winners, are often not the people buying data mining services. But, they are your potential employees. Unfortunately, winning a Kaggle competition only gives you credibility in the eyes of... other Kagglers. I have spoken to buyers of analytics services, and not a single one of them have heard of Kaggle. In fact, the buyers might not even know that what they need is called 'data mining'. This is quite a big deal, because I even live and work in the city where Kaggle was founded. The missing link Data mining is primarily a basket of techniques. But the buyers think in terms of requirements, applications and outcomes. The missing link is the translation between business and data mining / data science. Un-sexy as it sounds to say it, you need to articulate the value of data mining to a client in terms of how it can be applied (application) to solve a client problem (requirement) and deliver a benefit (outcome). This need exists on two levels: - You need this to close the sale, and - You need this to steer delivery to make sure that your data miners' effort are targeted and, more importantly, presented in a digestible way You don't sell and deliver CARTs, random forests or glms. You sell and deliver below the line marketing analytics to an online retailer to increase the update of direct offers by 100%. You don't sell and deliver sell ARIMA or exponential smoothing. You sell and deliver cash management forecasting to professional services to reduce working capital by 40%. You may need someone to help you do this, because not enough people straddle both worlds at the moment. Your first client It should not be too difficult to close your first sale - your main hindrance is credibility. But fortunately data mining projects can be delivered quickly and cheaply, and it is only a matter of time before your sales pitch includes a few successful projects. In particular, it is not hard to get a big brand. Yes, a tier 1 firm can charge $4 million to the corporate headquarters of a listed company with a $50 billion market cap. But that same company has subsidiaries, with business units, with regional offices, where a friend of yours works in. Deliver a one week project for $4000 and you now have the same logo as part of your client base. TL:DR - Go to Kaggle, hire delivery employees. Then look for the rare data mining salespeople and delivery managers who can straddle both data mining and business. Put them to work translating client requirements into data mining requirements and embedding data mining deliverables into client processes. Start with small, short projects. Rinse, expand, repeat. Edit: Fixed some typos.    Embed Quote 