What are the most useful data mining / analysis / science tools?
We maintain a github repo with lots of resources and links to people about datascience. You can follow further updates from:  okulbilisim/awesome-datascience First of all, Data Science is hottest topic on Computer and Internet farmland nowadays. People created pretty much data from applications and systems until now and time to analyze them. The next steps are producing suggestions from these data and creating predictions about future. You can find here biggest question for Data Science ever and hundreds of answers from experts. Our favorite data scientist is Clare Corthell. She is expert of data related systems and hacker, now she has been working on a company as a DataScientist. Clara's blog. This web site helps you to understand exact way to study as a professional data scientist. Secondly, Our favorite programming language is Python nowadays for datascience. Because Python - Pandaslibrary have fully functionality to collecting data and analyzing. We use Anaconda to play data and to create applications. Swami Chandrasekaran make a Curriculum via Metro map. What is Data Science? What is Data Science @ O'reilly What is Data Science @ Quoara The sexiest job of 21st century What is data science What is a data scientist MOOC's Google Making Sense of Data Coursera Introduction to Data Science CS 109 Data Science Schoolofdata OpenIntro Data science MOOC Data Sets Academic Torrents Quora hadoopilluminated.com data.gov Quandl freebase.com Bloggers Wes McKinney - Wes McKinney Blog. Matthew Russell - Mining The Social Web. Greg Reda - Greg Reda Personal Blog Kevin Davenport - Kevin Davenport Personal Blog Julia Evans - Hacker School alumna Hakan Kardas - Personal Web Page Sean J. Taylor - Personal Web Page Drew Conway - Personal Web Page Hilary Mason - Personal Web Page Noah Iliinsky - Personal Blog Matt Harrison - Personal Blog Data Science Renee Documenting my path from "SQL Data Analyst pursuing an Engineering Master's Degree" to "Data Scientist" Vamshi Ambati - AllThings Data Sciene Prash Chan - Tech Blog on Master Data Management And Every Buzz Surrounding It Clare Corthell - The Open Source Data Science Masters Paul Miller Based in the UK and working globally, Cloud of Data's consultancy services help clients understand the implications of taking data and more to the Cloud. Data Science London Data Science London is a non-profit organization dedicated to the free, open, dissemination of data science. We are the largest data science community in Europe. We are more than 3,190 data scientists and data geeks in our community. Peter Skomoroch MACHINE LEARNING, DATA MINING, AND MORE John Myles White Personal Blog Quora Data Science - Data Science Questions and Answers from experts Siah a PhD student at Berkeley Data Science Report MDS, Inc. Helps Build Careers in Data Science, Advanced Analytics, Big Data Architecture, and High Performance Software Engineering Louis Dorard a technology guy with a penchant for the web and for data, big and small Machine Learning Mastery about helping professional programmers to confidently apply machine learning algorithms to address complex problems. Daniel Forsyth - Personal Blog Data Science Weekly - Weekly News Blog Revolution Analytics - Data Science Blog R Bloggers - R Bloggers The Practical Quant Big data Micheal Le Gal a data enthusiast who gets hooked on solving intriguing problems and crafting beautiful stories and visualizations with data. Over the past 5 years, He haas applied statistics to solve problems in government, brain sciences, and most recently, retail. Datascope Anayltics data-driven consulting and design Yet Another Data Blog Yet Another Data Blog Spenczar a data scientist at Twitch. I handle the whole data pipeline, from tracking to model-building to reporting. KD Nuggets Data Mining, Analytics, Big Data, Data, Science not a blog a portal Meta Brown - Personal Blog Data Scientist is building the data scientist culture. WhatSTheBigData is some of, all of, or much more than the above and this blog explores its impact on information technology, the business world, government agencies, and our lives. Mic Farris Focusing on science, datascience, business, technology, and channeling inner geekness! Tevfik Kosar - Magnus Notitia New Data Scientist How a Social Scientist Jumps into the World of Big Data Harvard Data Science - Thoughts on Statistical Computing and Visualization Data Science 101 - Learning To Be A Data Scientist Facebook Accounts Data Big Data Scientist Data Science 101 Data Science Day Data Science Academy Facebook Data Science Page Data Science London Data Science Technology and Corporation Data Science - Closed Group Center for Data Science Big data hadoop NOSQL Hive Hbase Analytics, Data Mining, Predictive Modeling, Artificial Intelligence Big Data Analytics using R Big Data Analytics with R and Hadoop Big Data Learnings Big Data, Data Science, Data Mining & Statistics BigData/Hadoop Expert Data Mining / Machine Learning / AI Data Mining/Big Data - Social Network Ana Twitter Accounts Wes McKinney - Pandas (Python Data Analysis library). Matthew Russell - Mining the Social Web. Greg Reda Working @ GrubHub about data and pandas Kevin Davenport - Organizer of San Diego Data Science & R Users Group Julia Evans - Hacker - Pandas - Data Analyze Hakan Kardas - Data Scientist Big Data Science - Big Data, Data Science, Predictive Modeling, Business Analytics, Hadoop, Decision and Operations Research. Ryan Orban - Data scientist, genetic origamist, hardware aficionado Sean J. Taylor - Social Scientist. Hacker. Facebook Data Science Team. Keywords: Experiments, Causal Inference, Statistics, Machine Learning, Economics. Drew Conway - Data nerd, hacker, student of conflict. Data Science Central - Data Science Central is the industry's single resource for Big Data practitioners. Hilary Mason - Data Scientist in Residence at @accel. Juan Miguel Lavista - Principal Data Scientist @ Microsoft Data Science Team Data Science Tips - Tips and Tricks for Data Scientists around the world! #datascience #bigdata Erin Bartolo - Running with #BigData--enjoying a love/hate relationship with its hype. @iSchoolSU #DataScience Program Mgr. Noah Iliinsky - Visualization & interaction designer. Practical cyclist. Author of vis books:http://www.oreillynet.com/pub/au... Matt Harrison - Opinions of full-stack Python guy, author, instructor, currently playing Data Scientist. Occasional fathering, husbanding, ult|goalt-imate, organic gardening. Data Science Renee - Documenting my path from SQL Data Analyst pursuing an Engineering Master's Degree to Data Scientist Vamshi Ambati - Data Science @ PayPal. #NLP, #machinelearning; PhD, Carnegie Mellon alumni (Blog:http://allthingsds.wordpress.com ) Tony Ojeda - Data Scientist | Author | Entrepreneur. Co-founder @DataCommunityDC. Founder @DistrictDataLab. #DataScience #BigData #DataDC Prash Chan - Solution Architect @ IBM, Master Data Management, Data Quality & Data Governance Blogger. Data Science, Hadoop, Big Data & Cloud. Clare Corthell - Dev, Design, Data Science @mattermark #hackerei Paul Miller - Cloud Computing/ Big Data/ Open Data Analyst & Consultant. Writer, Speaker & Moderator. Gigaom Research Analyst. Data Science London Data Science. Big Data. Data Hacks. Data Junkies. Data Startups. Open Data dj patil Applying data science to decision making. VP @ RelateIQ Gregory Piatetsky - KDnuggets President, Analytics/Big Data/Data Mining/Data Science expert, KDD & SIGKDD co-founder, was Chief Scientist at 2 startups, part-time philosopher. Peter Skomoroch - Creating intelligent systems to automate tasks & improve decisions. Entrepreneur, ex Principal Data Scientist @LinkedIn. Machine Learning, ProductRei, Networks Monica Rogati - Data @ Jawbone. Turned data into stories & products at LinkedIn. Text mining, applied machine learning, recommender systems. Ex-gamer, ex-machine coder; namer. Jeff Hammerbacher ReTweeting about data science John Myles White Scientist at Facebook and Julia developer. Author of Machine Learning for Hackers and Bandit Algorithms for Website Optimization. Tweets reflect my views only. Quora Data Science Quora's data science topic Data Science Report - Mission is to help guide & advance careers in Data Science & Analytics Luis Rei - PhD Student. Programming, Mobile, Web. Artificial Intelligence, Intelligent Robotics Machine Learning, Data Mining, Natural Language Processing, Data Science. Spencer Nelson - Data nerd Recep Erol - Data Science geek @ Rice University Toolboxes - Environment Hortonworks Sandbox is a personal, portable Hadoop environment that comes with a dozen interactive Hadoop tutorials. R is a free software environment for statistical computing and graphics. Python - Pandas - Anaconda Completely free enterprise-ready Python distribution for large-scale data processing, predictive analytics, and scientific computing Data Science Toolbox - Coursera Course Data Science Toolbox - Blog Wolfram Data Science Platform Take numerical, textual, image, GIS or other data and give it the Wolfram treatment, carrying out a full spectrum of data science analysis and visualization and automatically generating rich interactive reports—all powered by the revolutionary knowledge-based Wolfram Language. Sense Data Science Development Paltform A New Cloud Platform for Data Science and Big Data Analytics Collaborate on, scale, and deploy data analysis and advanced analytics projects radically faster. Use the most powerful tools — R, Python, JavaScript, Redshift, Hive, Impala, Hadoop, and more — supercharged and integrated in the cloud. Mortardata Solutions, code, and devops for high-scale data science. Variance Build powerful data visualizations for the web without writing JavaScript Kite Development Kit The Kite Software Development Kit (Apache License, Version 2.0), or Kite for short, is a set of libraries, tools, examples, and documentation focused on making it easier to build systems on top of the Hadoop ecosystem.    Embed Quote Updated 4 Aug, 2014. 682 views.