What are the best online masters programs in data mining?
SAS and OSU Data Mining Certificate ProgramOklahoma State University. Data Mining program. Data Mining Course (undergraduate level),  developed by G. Piatetsky-Shapiro and G. Parker, a set of teaching  modules for a complete one-semester introductory course on Data Mining,  suitable for advanced undergraduates or first-year graduate students.  Freely available thanks to a grant by W. M. Keck Foundation and Howard  Hughes Medical Institute. Big Data University, offering online classes on Hadoop and DB2. Caltech Learning from Data course, free, broadcast online Apr-May 2012. Class Central. a complete list of free online courses offered by Stanford's Coursera, MIT and Harvard led edX (MITx + Harvardx), and Udacity. CMU Open Learning Initiative, including on-line courses in statistics, math & logic. Coursera, offering online classes from Stanford and other top universities. Check especially Statistics, Data Analysis, and Scientific Computing courses. Data Mining Tools Tutorials, covering Data Mining, Probability, Weka, R, and numerous commercial data mining tools. Drexel University online MS in Business Analytics. EMC Data Science and Big Data Analytics open course. Georgia Southern University online MS in Computer Science, with a concentration in Data Mining and Data Warehousing. LearnAnalytics India, delivering SAS and Advanced Analytics trainings online and offline.  Machine Learning and Data Mining slides by Pier-Luca Lanzi for the course at the Politecnico di Milano MIT OpenCourseWare : Data Mining, features XLMiner tools, designed by the instructor, Nitin Patel. Also many other relevant courses in MIT OpenCourseWare Northwestern University Online Master of Science in Predictive Analytics, skills for leadership in a growing Field. Oklahoma State University Graduate Certificate in Business Data Miningfor training professionals in the field of business data mining using SAS and SAS Enterprise Miner. Courses are offered online and working professionals can earn the certificate in 1 year (taking 2 courses/semester). OpenClassroom Machine Learning Course, by Andrew Ng. Oxford Advanced Diploma in Data and Systems Analysis, a one-year online course. SJU: Saint Joseph's University Online Master's Degree in Business Intelligence, offering specializations in Behavior Analysis and Business Intelligence. Stanford Center for Professional Education, offers certificate programs for managers and professionals inData Mining and Applications and many related areas. Statistics.com, offering on-line short courses in statistics and data mining. Statsoft Electronic Statistics Textbook, freely available. UCI: U. of California, Irvine Extension, Predictive Analytics Certificate Program, a comprehensive online program. UC San Diego Data Mining Courses, part of Data Analysis study area. Udacity, online university founded by David Evans and Sebastian Thrun. Udemy, offering online courses - many free or low-cost. UH Data Mining Hypertextbook and Course, a new model for the data  mining course, which includes a significant project on real-world data,  and surveying the learning styles of students. UHD Data Mining Projects, for undergraduate class projects, developed by Prof. Ping Chen. University of Louisville Certificate in Data Mining, jointly offered by Computer Science and Math Depts for training professionals in the interdisciplinary field of data mining.  Louisville, KY, USA. Video lectures from conferences, workshops and ther scientific  lectures in the areas of machine learning, data and text mining, and  semantic web. Web Mining mini-course, focusing on web usage mining, developed by  G. Piatetsky-Shapiro, freely available thanks to a grant by W. M. Keck  Foundation and Howard Hughes Medical Institute. Weka tutorials (Video), covering Classification, Prediction, Clustering, and Text Mining. Stanford UC San Diego Extension Central Connecticut State University University of Louisville New Jersey Science and Technology Institute [REF] KDNUGGETS    Embed Quote 