★How do you explain Machine Learning and Data Mining to non Computer Science people?
I'll try to draw an analogy with life examples. Of course, I am not going to cover all topics, but some popular terms you may have heard in ML are here. Machine Learning is about making decision based on trial and error and is a more application oriented version of statistics. The basic idea is to make decisions based on certain amount of information you have. Classification based on data You have seen people screw up their lives by smoking. You make the decision that neither you nor your kids will ever smoke because you learnt in life that smoking kills. You have observed that fat people tend to have heart diseases. You make the decision that you will try to remain thin, else you'll suffer from heart diseases. Mathematically, you have observed a ton of data, and come up with a rule for classification. You have decided that a certain characteristic means class A, else class B. Gradient Descent When you touch a hot plate, you get hurt, you pull back your hand. You are unlikely to touch a hot plate again on purpose. Or you use mittens next time. While throwing darts at a target, you don't get it right at the first shot. You move your aim and change the force, which makes you think that you'll get closer to the bulls eye. You miss again, you calculate again, and change your tactics again, till you get very close or you hit the bulls eye (or you get bored after wasting a ton of time ad quit)Mathematically, you are doing trial and error. You look at a random attempt, calculate the error made. Then you calculate the change in your technique which you expect will lead to a better result. Then you try out the new technique. Online Learning You play black jack. Based on the sequence of cards you see, you make a quick decision whether to hit or to stay You are a trader, you are getting sequential data of a stock, you decide when to buy and sell.Mathematically, you are now faced with the task of making quick decisions. Based on previous information you have and looking at what happens, you decide quickly. For example, you have kept count of cards in Black Jack, and you'll know when you want to raise the stakes if the count is high. Transfer Learning Your mom taught you how to choose oranges. She sends you to the grocery to buy apples. Though you don't know how to, you can use some common sense to do this. You know how to play tennis, shouldn't take long to pick squash.This is essentially what the HR of companies term as transferable skills. Regression You get the data for house price vs area of house. You plot this on a graph. You see that it is almost a straight line. You approximately draw the straight line, and now you think you cna predict the price of the house if someone tells you the area.Machines do it in a more mathematical and formal way. Now replace yourself with a machine, and give the machine some steps to follow so that it can learn the same things like you. A machine lacks the thinking power to manage an unexpected scenario, but it doesn't make mistakes on the basis of what it has learnt (and is faster than you). So now, the machine is learning from its environment, and we call it Machine Learning.    Embed Quote 