What are some limitations of phylogenetic trees?
The biggest problem is that there are many different methods that construct trees. The trees are often highly correlated. But sometimes they can have extremely different results and interpretations, because the methods answer very different questions. So like any analysis tool, they’re quite fine if you use them properly (select the right tool/test, understand the assumptions, and consider the accuracy/error/variation). So the most consistent limitations is that a tree can’t interpret every question you have. On the flip side, there is theoretically a specific tree for every question you have. The most common phylogenetic tree methods based on genetics are not genealogies (they are not built for ancestry and pedigrees), even though they usually interpreted that way. They are similarities or clustering algorithms, which are useful for a snapshot of the current state in time. There are other methods for estimating genealogies that do go backwards, but they’re much less common and more computationally intensive e.g. coalescent theory. The extra computation occurs because migration, recombination, mating, population size, and selection can be considered and built into the modeling. Rooting the tree is useful but biased and/or arbitrary. The lengths can be misleading and there are a lot of ways to calculate them. Some form of “variance”/error should be displayed (e.g. bootstrap values). They’re often not shown. You can often construct very different but valid trees based on the same data. Depending on how they are displayed, they can be easily misinterpreted. This goes back to the main point about them being genealogies. The most common way to do this is to use the same tree, but change the linear order of the ends or nodes to represent a desired conclusion. Most trees cannot show horizontal transfer or recombination. They rely on a binary tree structure. Intuitive ideas and misconceptions about evolutionary trees 195 Views · 8 Upvotes