★Fuzzy Logic: How would you explain Fuzzy Logic Controller in a layman's terms?
No expert on fuzzy control, but let me try. First I encourage you to watch this 3.5 mins video, which I find to be very helpful for understanding the basic idea of fuzzy logic without any background knowledge: As for my humble try for the answer, with some emphasis on control: Fuzzy control uses fuzzy sets, which are essential for understanding fuzzy logic. These sets are different than those sets we are used to from elementary school, which we can call "crisp sets". In crisp sets, the logic is crisp, either 0 or 1. A question has the answer either "yes" or "no". For example, let's define 3 sets for the room temperature; "cold (less than 15°C)",  "warm (between 15°-25°C)", and "hot (more than 25°C)". If the room is at 27°C, in classical (crisp) logic this temperature reading belongs to the set "hot". In fuzzy logic there is some sort of "fuzzy boundary" between the sets that are touching. This is because we want to be able to say something more about 27°C other than it is "hot", we want to be able to differentiate between 27°C and 35°C. Fuzzy logic does this via "membership functions", which assign the temperature values the extent to which they belong to a certain set. In crisp logic, with the sets defined earlier, 27°C belongs to the set "hot" 100%, and the sets "warm" and "cold" 0%. In fuzzy logic, imagining some membership functions defined in a certain way for the sake of example, 27°C would belong to the set "hot" 60%, the set "warm" 40%, and the set "cold" 0%. Notice that the values (the membership degrees) add up to 100% (60%+40%). Bottom line is, unlike crisp logic, where a value can only be assigned the titles "member" or "not a member" regarding a given set, fuzzy logic enables us to give partial memberships, like 27°C is 40% warm and 60% hot. For the issue of control. We are at the room with 27°C, and say that there is an automatic control system operating in the room, which reads the temperature and has authority over the radiator. A simple temperature controller, operating on the principles of crisp logic, can have a look-up table like this: 1) If the room is COLD, then set the radiator to HIGH. 2) If the room is WARM, then set the radiator to MEDIUM. 3) If the room is HOT, then set the radiator to LOW. Let us imagine that the controller was designed such that "high" corresponds to 1500 W, "medium" to 1000 W, and "low" to 500 W. The controller reads 27°C, and decides that the room is hot. It sets the radiator to low, according to above table, and thus the radiator operates at 500 W. For the fuzzy controller: We saw that the room is "60% hot" and "40% warm" according to the fuzzy sets we imagined. The controller has access to information about these fuzzy sets, and when it reads the 27°C value, it "fuzzifies" this information into "60% hot" and "40% warm". Now, it has to "infer" something from this fuzzy information to give an order to the radiator about its setting. The controller does this according the its "rule base", a simple example of which can look like this: 1) If the room is COLD, then set the radiator to HIGH. 2) If the room is WARM, then set the radiator to MEDIUM. 3) If the room is HOT, then set the radiator to LOW. Notice that this is the same as the look-up table of the simple controller that I made up just to draw attention to the difference of fuzzy controller. The difference is that the simple controller can only choose one setting between the possible three, whereas fuzzy controller will form a combination of the 3. With this rule base, the controller decides to set the radiator to "low" and "medium". Let us imagine that the membership functions are designed so that "60% hot" corresponds to "60% low", and "40% warm" to "40% medium". The setting "60% low" and "40% medium" is still fuzzy, but the radiator is asking for a setting that is a crisp numerical value, like 1000 W for example. Thus, the controller needs to "defuzzify" its decision, which will transform the "inference" "60% low" and "40% medium" to a numerical value. Let us imagine that the controller has the same settings scheme as before ("high" is 1500 W, "medium" is 1000 W, and "low" is 500 W). The controller makes the following calculation for the "defuzzification" of its fuzzy decision "60% low" and "40% medium": radiator setting = (60% * 500 W) + (40% * 1000 W) = 700 W With this calculation, the decision making is finished. The fuzzy controller commands 700 W to the radiator for a temperature of 27°C.    Embed Quote