★What's the point of fuzzy logic?
When I first came across fuzzy logic, I found it strikingly similar to probability. One simply associates a real number between 0 and 1 inclusive to a statement, instead of an event. But the difference arises in the fact that probability is a measure of how likely an event is to occur, whereas with fuzzy logic, in a sense, we are answering the question how true (or false) is a statement. In classical logic, a truth assignment to a statement assigns it a value of either 0 or 1, whereas in fuzzy logic, the truth assignment is between 0 and 1 inclusive. In fuzzy logic, if and are any two statements, and is our truth assignment, we have the following properties: Note that the above properties are also satisfied for our classical proposition logic. What is the point of it? Well, consider a light bulb. No wait, that's too old fashioned, consider an LED lamp. It has just two states. On and off, pretty much like any statement in propositional logic. On the other hand, a ceiling fan, with a regulator has multiple states, say Off, 1, 2, 3, and 4. Let the fan be in state 1 for now. Now is the statement The fan is on true? What if the fan was in state 2? If we restrict ourselves to propositional logic, we will answer that the statement is true in both the cases without distinguishing in between the states. On the other hand, with fuzzy logic, we might say that the statement The fan is on is 1/4 true if the fan is in state 1, 1/2 true if it is in state 2, and so on. This might sound a stupid and crazy thing to do, but it does have many applications in designing control systems. You can check out more on fuzzy logic on here. On a lighter note, fuzzy logic is a cool excuse to annoy people if you enjoy that sort of a thing. Whenever they make a statement , you make a statement that is true too, but it gets boring after a while. Another amazing application of fuzzy logic was demonstrated by Katy Perry in one of her songs called Hot n Cold which goes something like this: Cause you're hot then you're cold You're yes then you're no You're in then you're out You're up then you're down You're wrong when it's right It's black and it's white We fight, we break up We kiss, we make up (you) You don't really want to stay, no (but you) But you don't really want to go-o You're hot then you're cold You're yes then you're no You're in then you're out You're up then you're down I don't like the song, and I'm no fan of Katy Perry, but people who argue that this song doesn't make any sense do need lessons in fuzzy logic.    Embed Quote