★What are good real world examples of fuzzy logic being used?Please provide as much information as much possible as to how it was applied not just whether it was applied or not.
Air Conditioners : Old AC's used simple on-off mechanism. When the temperature dropped below a preset level, the AC was turned off. When it rose above a preset level, the AC was turned on. There was a slight gap between the two preset values to avoid high frequency on-off cycling. Example would be "When the temperature rises above 25 C, turn on the unit, and when temperature falls below 20 C, turn off the unit". Using Fuzzy Rules like "If the ambient air is getting warmer, turn the cooling power up a little; if the air is getting chilly, turn the cooling power down moderately" etc. The machine will become smoother as a result of this and give more consistent comfortable room temperatures. Automatic Gear Transmission System: It uses several variables like speed, acceleration, throttle opening, rate of change of throttle opening, engine load and assigns a weight to each of these. A Fuzzy aggregate is calculated from these weights and is used to decide whether to shift gears. Washing Machine: Sense the load size, detergent amount etc. Keep a track of the water clarity. At start of cycle, the water will be clean and will allow light to pass through it easily. As the wash cycle proceeds, the water becomes discolored and allows less light to pass through it. This information is used and control decisions are made. Reading Hand written input and interpreting the characters for data entry. Television: A Fuzzy logic scheme uses sensed variables such as ambient lighting, time of the day and user profile to adjust parameters such as screen brightness, color, contrast and sound. Criminal Search System: Helps in criminal investigation by analyzing photos of the suspects along with their characteristics like "short,young-looking.." form witnesses to determine the most likely criminals. Online Disease Diagnostic System: Analyses the user's symptoms and tries to identify the disease he/she may be suffering from. Error Correction in Information Reception: Basically for limited-bandwidth communication link which is affected by data-corrupting noise. The front-end of a decoder produces a likelihood measure for the value intended by the sender ( 0 or 1 ) for each bit in the data stream. The likelihood measures might use a scale of 256 values between extremes of "Certainly 0" and "certainly 1". The two decoders may analyse the data in parallel, ariving at idfferent likelihood results for the values intended by the sender. Each can then use as additional data, the other's likelihood results and repeat the process to improve the results untill consensus is reached as to the most likely values. Massive engine used in The Lord of the Rings which helped show huge scale armies create random, yet orderly movements.     Source: The Internet.    Embed Quote