★What advantage does fuzzy logic have in rice cookers over conventional digital/sensor logic?I have long heard that rice cookers were one of the first practical applications for fuzzy logic, but I don't understand what makes fuzzy logic necessary.
For a layman or a busy-bee in normal household with lot of other things to worry about, cooking rice means implicitly - follow these steps: 1. Measure rice (based on how many people are there and each person's approximate dietary needs) 2. Clean the rice (until it looks 'visually OK') 3. Add water to the rice in a bowl (how much? - varies from rice-to-rice, person-to-person, cuisine-to-cuisine) 4. Place the arrangement in the cooker. Turn on the flame. 5. Switch off the flame after a predetermined time (how much etc. is usually passed from generation to generation, esp. in Indian households or one can find the 'recipe' and follow it) 6. Rice 'should' be cooked. Even if slightly underdone or overdone - seldom happens in household with experienced cooks ;) - Swalpa adjust maadi! (please adjust) But, this does not work, for instance in high-end restaurants. So, chefs are "highly" skilled. They do the magic. They make the rice taste the same (good) every time (well almost - humans err - but it is very rare). Rice is usually cooked in four main stages - 1. Stands in water 2. Boils 3. Absorbs (steamed stage) 4. Resting Heat is accelerated or decelerated for each stage and in different ways for each variety of rice and/ or rice-dish (e.g. White rice, Brown rice, Sticky rice, Steamed rice, Sushi rice, Rice cake, Porridge etc.) and/ or type of vessel/ bowl in which rice is placed. Now, who controls the heat. The cook (chef) of course! That is why they are paid - they know what to do - they understand what is going on with the rice! :) In fuzzy-logic based rice cooker, it uses fuzzy-logic to do the work of the skilled cook (chef) every time (well, almost - but works for all practical purposes) to make rice tasty every time (this is what marketing dept. of all fuzzy-logic based rice cookers claim! - I have not used it to give my personal opinion). The cooker not only senses the temperature, but many other parameters like user input (type of rice, type of dish etc.), weight, prior moisture content, real-time pressure etc. They are input to the fuzzy-logic unit - a mathematical algorithm that takes decision on when and by how much to accelerate/ decelerate heat. On why fuzzy logic and why not crisp logic (simply put, a look-up table) for controlling, since the number of parameters that the subjective 'rice is done' depends on is huge - crisp logic controllers are not feasible - not convenient. Further the solution space is highly non-linear, making the size of the table (if it can be conceived) very large for all practical purposes (a maximum of entries where n is the number of input variables). Fuzzy logic controllers on the other hand are "universal approximators" (see Fuzzy logic controllers are universal approximators and Page on utep.edu). It can deal with highly non-linear surfaces and only fewer number of 'rules' is required to program (ideally )    Embed Quote