★What are the differences between fuzzy logic and artificial intelligence?
Fuzzy Logic belongs to the family of many-valued logic. It focuses on fixed and  approximate reasoning opposed to fixed and exact reasoning. A variable in fuzzy logic can take a truth value range between 0 and 1, as opposed to taking true or false in traditional binary sets. Neural networks (NN) or artificial neural networks (ANN) is a computational model that is developed based on the biological neural networks. An ANN is made up of artificial neurons that are connecting with each other. Typically, an ANN adapts its structure based on the information coming to it.             Fuzzy logic allows making definite decisions based on imprecise or ambiguous data, whereas ANN tries to incorporate human thinking process to solve problems without mathematically modeling them. Even though both of these methods can be used to solve nonlinear problems, and problems that are not properly specified, they are not related. In contrast to Fuzzy logic, ANN tries to apply the thinking process in the human brain to solve problems. Further, ANN includes a learning process that involves learning algorithms and requires training data. But there are hybrid intelligent systems developed using these two methods called Fuzzy Neural Network (FNN) or Neuro-Fuzzy System (NFS).             It can be said that both Fuzzy Logic and Artificial Neural Networks try to exploit the scope of using “Tolerance towards Uncertainty and imprecision”, but the approaches used by them are starkly different. Whilst Fuzzy logic is based on Mathematical modelling to incorporate imprecision and tolerance towards uncertainty, Artificial Neural Network follows the human brain’s biological model to solve the same problem.             An important difference is that in ANN there is possibility of Evolution and learning whereas Fuzzy logic is pure calculative logic taking into its faction (wherever possible) the scope of tolerance for imprecision and uncertainty and does not evolve by itself.    Embed Quote