What are some things about databases everyone does not understand?What are some important things people should understand about databases? 'Everyone' means everyone who uses it (software engineers, developers, database administrators..).
80 percent of the time of a data analyst is consumed with data prep. The poor semantics and rigid schema of relational databases is a major reason why data prep takes so long, and with more and more growth in less structured data, RDBMSes and standard ETL are less and less suitable for the current data environment. How do you sufficiently disambiguate the entities in your data sources for the purpose at hand? Cryptic row and column headers don't provide enough context. The most powerful approach to disambiguation involves graph databases that support strong, flexible, dynamic relationship data. Those relationships constitute the semantic metadata that provides disambiguation, and databases that support inferencing allow relationship data to be generated at scale.  From a machine read perspective, graphs allow a probabilistic approach to disambiguation. Graphs also allow tinker-toy style integration: instead of joining whole tables, one relationship can provide a linkage. Tools such as Anzo Express (from Cambridge Semantics, which has a JBR with my employer) and databases such as Stardog, Google Cayley and SPARQLverse demonstrate the power of this approach. Hybrid document/graph databases such as MarkLogic and AllegroGraph /Mongograph have some useful additional features worth exploring. With the this hybrid approach, you can maintain developer speed and evolve rich semantics by developing the graph associated with the documents. Awareness of graph database technology and relationship semantics is very low. Here's the situation inside a typical organization: 1) Developers are getting more power, with automation trends putting them at the center of the IT control console. 2) Most developers (but not all) tend to be ignorant and careless about data. They have an app-centric focus. That's in spite of the fact that data has become more and more important. 3) Most data geeks (but not all) tend to be ignorant about graph data, graph structures, relationship analytics, triples and quads.... 4) Only a small IT minority believes in the necessity of ontological domain modeling. 5) A very, very small minority understands how knowledge representation on the content side can help enterprises on the data side, or how technologies adopted in search engine optimization can help in data analysis. What this implies is that only the knowledgeable ones and those few who've been persuaded by those knowledgeable ones are pushing forward with a semantically-based approach to integration, analytics and application development. Which suggests most organizations may be mired in the dated, rigid approaches of the unaware for years to come. The good news for the organizations who are aware of these trends is that they have a opportunity to take competitive advantage with a semantically aware, relationship-rich approach to data via graph databases. We're done research on these and related data trends; if you're interested in our findings and illustrative case studies, see these publications: Semantic Web in the Enterprise Making Sense of Big Data Reshaping the workforce with the new analytics Data lakes and the promise of unsiloed data 