Is Cayley actually used by Google for their knowledge graph?The Cayley description reads: "Cayley is an open-source graph inspired by the graph database behind Freebase and Google's Knowledge Graph." Does this mean that Cayley resembles the graph database behind knowledge graph, or that it actually is the knowledge graph (perhaps with a couple of tweaks).
Almost certainly the former - that is, it resembles the Knowledge Graph but isn't the actual engine behind it. While a great open source graph database, it doesn't seem likely that something this (relatively) lightweight is capable of fueling the vast size and complexity of the Knowledge Graph. More empirically, Cayley developer Barak Michener strongly suggests in his post introducing the database on 25 June 2014 [1] that the Knowledge Graph was up and running well before work started on Cayley. As we know the Knowledge Graph was announced 16 May 2012 [2], we can review Michener's timeline against it.  Emphasis below mine: "Four years ago this July, Google acquired Metaweb, bringing Freebase and linked open data to Google. It’s been astounding to watch the growth of the Knowledge Graph and how it has improved Google search to delight users every day. When I moved to New York last year [some time in 2013, after the Knowledge Graph has been released], I saw just how far the concepts of Freebase and its data had spread through Google’s worldwide offices. I began to wonder how the concepts would advance if developers everywhere could work with similar tools. However, there wasn’t a graph available that was fast, free, and easy to get started working with. With the Freebase data already public and universally accessible, it was time to make it useful, and that meant writing some code as a side project [i.e. post-Knowledge Graph, and as a "side project" rather than a foundational Google technology]. So today we are excited to release Cayley, an open source graph database [in June 2014]." [1] Cayley: graphs in Go [2] Introducing the Knowledge Graph: things, not strings 