How are new concepts invented in math.?Meaning actually all that we are studying are the derived ones but how could one think of a new one..
I am glad that someone asked this. Mathematics is a branch that many feel to be very dry and unimaginative. But on the contrary it is the horizon where art and science meets. Now coming to your question let me give you a few examples of famous Mathematicians that cntributed some brilliant concepts in Mathematics: Sir Isaac Newton: Sir Isaac Newton was once working on the equations of gravitation. During his study he wanted to calculate the gravitation force of a planet (like Earth) on a smaller celestial object (like Moon). Now to do this he considered Earth to be a spherical body and divided it into large number of thin rings aligned parallel to the axis. He would then calculate the gravitational force of each ring on the distant object (Moon) and then add it together to get the net total force. But there was one serious problem. To get the exact equation Newton had to limit the thickness of the rings as small as possible and that would proportionately increase the number of rings. Theoretically speaking, the sphere was suppose to be composed of infinite number of rings having zero thickness. Thus he needed to add infinitely small infinite quantities . In order to solve this problem Newton devised a tool that would deal with infinitesimal quantities and infinte summation by implementing operators to modify the function suitably. This technique is called "Integration" and the tool is now famous as "Calculus". Leonhard Euler: The city of Königsberg in Prussia (now Kaliningrad, Russia) was set on both sides of the Pregel River, and included two large islands which were connected to each other and the mainland by seven bridges. The problem was to find a walk through the city that would cross each bridge once and only once. The islands could not be reached by any route other than the bridges, and every bridge must have been crossed completely every time; one could not walk halfway onto the bridge and then turn around and later cross the other half from the other side (the walk need NOT start and end at the same spot). Euler proved that the problem has no solution. But the difficulty was that there there was no technique developed to analyse such problems and so a mathematical proof was lacking. Today, graph theory is a highly developed field of mathematics, and is both a fertile ground for the creation of new mathematics and an area with many, many applications.  Many research problems in graph theory are easily stated and easily understood (although perhaps not easily solved).  A few of the applications of graph theory include transportation and warehousing applications, planning and scheduling, analysis of electrical networks, and even understanding the Internet! De Morgan: Francis was a student of De Morgan at the University College London. While he was studying at home his younger brother studying at school came up with a problem doing his homework. He was assigned the task of coloring the world map but he had only four different colors. He was worried if four colors were sufficient to color the entire map so that no neighbouring countries sharing a common boundary have the same color. As he has only one copy of the map and couldn't figure out a way to begin coloring, he took this problem to his elder brother Francis. Francis was unable to devise a perfect solution for minimum number of colors required and from which country to begin with, he took this problem to his professor De Morgan the next day. De Morgan was unable to give an answer but he asked this to his friend Hamilton in Dublin, the famous Irish mathematician in 1852. The problem, so simply described, but so tantalizingly difficult to prove, caught the imagination of many mathematicians at the time. In the late 1860s De Morgan even took the problem and his proof to America where among others, Benjamin Peirce a famous mathematician and astronomer, became interested in it as a way to develop his logical methods. In 1878 Arthur Cayley (1821-1895) at a meeting of the London Mathematical Society asked whether anyone had found a solution for De Morgan's original question, but although there had been some interest, no one had made any significant progress. Cayley became interested in the problem and in 1879 published a short paper On the colouring of maps where he explained some of the difficulties in attempting a proof and made some important contributions to the way the problem was approached. His question that, 'if a particular map is already successfully coloured with four colours, and we add another area, can we still keep the same colouring?' began another line of enquiry which led to the application of mathematical induction to the problem. Eventually to prove this "simple-appearing" problem Mathematicians came up with concepts of Knots and Networks. This also contributed to the development of Graphs and Topology. Pascal and Fermat: "A gambler's dispute in 1654 led to the creation of a mathematical theory of probability by two famous French mathematicians, Blaise Pascal and Pierre de Fermat. Antoine Gombaud, Chevalier de Méré, a French nobleman with an interest in gaming and gambling questions, called Pascal's attention to an apparent contradiction concerning a popular dice game. The game consisted in throwing a pair of dice 24 times; the problem was to decide whether or not to bet even money on the occurrence of at least one "double six" during the 24 throws. A seemingly well-established gambling rule led de Méré to believe that betting on a double six in 24 throws would be profitable, but his own calculations indicated just the opposite. This problem and others posed by de Méré led to an exchange of letters between Pascal and Fermat in which the fundamental principles of probability theory were formulated for the first time. Although a few special problems on games of chance had been solved by some Italian mathematicians in the 15th and 16th centuries, no general theory was developed before this famous correspondence. The Dutch scientist Christian Huygens, a teacher of Leibniz, learned of this correspondence and shortly thereafter (in 1657) published the first book on probability; entitled De Ratiociniis in Ludo Aleae, it was a treatise on problems associated with gambling. Because of the inherent appeal of games of chance, probability theory soon became popular, and the subject developed rapidly during the 18th century. In 1812 Pierre de Laplace (1749-1827) introduced a host of new ideas and mathematical techniques in his book, Théorie Analytique des Probabilités. Before Laplace, probability theory was solely concerned with developing a mathematical analysis of games of chance. Laplace applied probabilistic ideas to many scientific and practical problems. The theory of errors, actuarial mathematics, and statistical mechanics are examples of some of the important applications of probability theory developed in the l9th century. Like so many other branches of mathematics, the development of probability theory has been stimulated by the variety of its applications. Conversely, each advance in the theory has enlarged the scope of its influence. Mathematical statistics is one important branch of applied probability; other applications occur in such widely different fields as genetics, psychology, economics, and engineering. One of the difficulties in developing a mathematical theory of probability has been to arrive at a definition of probability that is precise enough for use in mathematics, yet comprehensive enough to be applicable to a wide range of phenomena. The search for a widely acceptable definition took nearly three centuries and was marked by much controversy. The matter was finally resolved in the 20th century by treating probability theory on an axiomatic basis. Since then the ideas have been refined somewhat and probability theory is now part of a more general discipline known as measure theory. Epilogue: Thus we can say that like any other branch of science new concepts in mathematics are developed only when new problems are faced and a generalised solution is demanded. 