Abstract Algebra: What is a Cayley graph?
I'm going to assume that you know what a group is. If not, none of the following will make any sense; if you still think you absolutely must know what a Cayley graph is, well, you should first ask about groups[1], or look them up. So if you have a group G and a set S of elements that generate G - meaning, every element of G can be written as the product of some elements of S - you can draw the following diagram (officially, that's a directed graph - but if you don't know what a graph is, that's ok.) Take a piece of paper and mark a point for every element of the group G. Then, for any element x in G and any member s of the generating set S, draw an arrow from the point corresponding to x to the point corresponding to xs. Here "xs" means "the element of G which is the product of x and s". That's it - that's your Cayley graph (of the group G with respect to the generating set S). A few further remarks: It is common to assume that S contains the inverse of every element it contains. This isn't, however, strictly necessary. It's not really even necessary to assume that S actually generates G but when it doesn't, the diagram you get will be disconnected (it will consist of several "islands" with no arrows connecting them). You can use different colors for the arrows according to the value of s. This makes the diagram prettier to behold and also corresponds more closely to the official definition. If an element s in S has order 2, you're going to get an arrow from x to xs and then another arrow back from xs to x = xss. People often collapse those arrow-pairs into a single, undirected line connecting x and xs. If the group G happens to be infinite, the first step ("take a piece of paper and mark a point for every element of G") may take a horrendously long time. In this case people resort to drawing just part of the diagram and then imagining, and reasoning about, the rest. The same holds when G is finite but very large. Here are some Cayley graphs of small groups: The Cayley graphs of free groups are infinite but really pretty. Here's a graph of the free group with two generators a, b (where S is taken to be just {a, b, a^-1, b^-1}): (this is taken from the Wikipedia page on "Cayley graph" which likely makes this whole answer redundant). Daniel McLaury's answer to What is a Lie Group in layman's terms? Updated 4 Sep 2012 • View Upvotes