Is there any good website to learn advanced mathematics step by step?
You might find some useful topics and tutorials covered here. There are also plenty of automated quizzes to help you reinforce your learning. I know it is somewhat messy and the UI/UX needs considerable amounts of work the learning point Introduction to Complex Numbers Introduction to Complex Numbers and iota. Arg-and plane and iota. Complex numbers as free vectors. N-th roots of a complex number. Notes, formulas and solved problems related to these sub-topics. Series and Progressions Arithmetic, Geometric, Harmonic and mixed progressions. Notes, formulas and solved problems. Sum of the first N terms. Arithmetic, Geometric and Harmonic means and the relationship between them. The Principle of Mathematical Induction Introductory problems related to Mathematical Induction. Quadratic Equations Introducing various techniques by which quadratic equations can be solved - factorization, direct formula. Relationship between roots of a quadratic equation.  Cubic and higher order equations - relationship between roots and coefficients for these. Graphs and plots of quadratic equations. Quadratic Inequalities  Quadratic inequalities. Using factorization and visualization based methods. http://...Geometry Geometry http://...Co-ordinate Geometry Introduction to Co-ordinate Geometry  The Equation of Straight Line The Circle A Quick Introduction to Conic Sections: Parabola, Hyperbola, Ellipse Parabola Hyperbola Ellipse http://...Probability Probability: Part 0 - An Introduction with examples - Conditional, Compound Probability; Random Variables; Baye's Theorem Probability: Part 1 - Some Definitions with A Solved Problem Set- Continuous and Discrete Random Variables, Chebyshev Inequality Probability: Part 2-  Distributions- Discrete and Continuous- Bernouilli/Binomial/Geometric/Uniform/Exponential/Gamma, etc. Probability - Part 3 - Joint Probability, Bivariate Normal Distributions, Functions of Random Variable,Transformation of Random Vectors - with examples, problems and solutions Linear Algebra Linear Algebra - Matrices Part I - A Tutorial with Examples Introduction to Matrices. Theory, definitions. What a Matrix is, order of a matrix, equality of matrices, different kind of matrices: row matrix, column matrix, square matrix, diagonal, identity and triangular matrices. Definitions of Trace, Minor, Cofactors, Adjoint, Inverse, Transpose of a matrix. Addition, subtraction, scalar multiplication, multiplication of matrices. Defining special types of matrices like Symmetric, Skew Symmetric, Idempotent, Involuntary, Nil-potent, Singular, Non-Singular, Unitary matrices. Linear Algerba - Matrices Part II - A Tutorial with Examples, Problems and Solutions Problems and solved examples based on the sub-topics mentioned above. Some of the problems in this part demonstrate finding the rank, inverse or characteristic equations of matrices. Representing real life problems in matrix form. Linear Algebra - Determinants - A Tutorial with Examples, Problems and Solutions Introduction to determinants. Second and third order determinants, minors and co-factors. Properties of determinants and how it remains altered or unaltered based on simple transformations is matrices. Expanding the determinant. Solved problems related to determinants. Linear Algebra - Simultaneous Equations in Multiple Variables - A Tutorial with Examples and Problems Representing a system of linear equations in multiple variables in matrix form. Using determinants to solve these systems of equations. Meaning of consistent, homogeneous and non-homogeneous systems of equations. Theorems relating to consistency of systems of equations. Application of Cramer rule. Solved problems demonstrating how to solve linear equations using matrix and determinant related methods. Basic Concepts In Linear Algebra and Vector Spaces - A Tutorial with Examples and Solved ProblemsTheory and definitions. Closure, commutative, associative, distributive laws. Defining Vector space, subspaces, linear dependence, dimension and bias. A few introductory problems proving certain sets to be vector spaces. Linear Algebra - Introductory Problems Related to Vector SpacesProblems demonstrating the concepts introduced in the previous tutorial. Checking or proving something to be a sub-space, demonstrating that something is not a sub-space of something else, verifying linear independence; problems relating to dimension and basis; inverting matrices and echelon matrices. Linear Algebra - More about Vector Spaces Defining and explaining the norm of a vector, inner product, Graham-Schmidt process, co-ordinate vectors, linear transformation and its kernel. Introductory problems related to these. Linear Algebra - Linear Transformations, Operators and Maps Solved examples and problems related to linear transformation, linear maps and operators and other concepts discussed theoretically in the previous tutorial. Linear Algebra - Eigenvalues, Eigenvectors and Cayley Hamilton Theorem Eigenvalues, eigenvectors, Cayley Hamilton Theorem Linear Algebra - Problems Based on Simultaneous Equations, Eigenvalues, EigenvectorsDemonstrating the Crammer rule, using eigenvalue methods to solve vector space problems, verifying Cayley Hamilton Theorem, advanced problems related to systems of equations. Solving a system of differential equations . Linear Algebra - A few closing problems in Recurrence Relations Solving a recurrence relation, some more of system of equations. http://...Vectors Introduction to Vectors - Zero Vectors, Unit Vectors, Coinitial , Collinear, Equal Vectors, Addition and Subtraction of Vectors, Scalar and Vector Multiplication Introducing a vector, position vectors, direction cosines, different types of vectors, addition and subtraction of vectors. Vector and Scalar products. Scalar Triple product and Vector triple product and their properties. Components and projections of vectors. Vectors: Introductory Problems and Examples - Related to products, properties of vectors, proving geometric properties using vectors. Solved examples and problem sets based on the above concepts. Applying Vectors to Geometric Problems - Parametric Vectorial equation of a line and Plane, Condition for collinearity of three points, Shortest distance between two lines, Perpendicular distance of a point from a plane or line, Angles between lines and planes Parametric vectorial equations of lines and planes. Angles between lines and planes. Co-planar and collinear points. Cartesian equations for lines and planes in 3D. Vector Applications in 2D and 3D Geometry: Solved Problems and Examples - Shortest and Perpendicular Distances, Proving properties of Triangles, Tetrahedrons and Parallelograms using Vector methods Solved examples and problem sets based on the above concepts. Vector Differential And Integral Calculus: Theory and Definitions - Differentiation of Vectors, Introduction to Div, Curl, Grad; Vector Integral Calculus; Green’s theorem in the plane; Divergence theorem of Gauss, etc.Derivative, curves, tangential vectors, vector functions, gradient, directional derivative, divergence and curl of a vector function; important formulas related to div, curl and grad. Vector Integral Calculus. Line integral, independence of path, Green's theorem, divergence theorem of Gauss, green's formulas, Stoke's theorems. Vector Differential And Integral Calculus: Solved Problem Sets - Differentiation of Vectors, Div, Curl, Grad; Green’s theorem; Divergence theorem of Gauss, etc. Solved examples and problem sets based on the above concepts. http://...Trigonometry    Trigonometry 1a ( Introduction to Trigonometry - Definitions, Formulas ) Introducing trigonometric ratios, plots of trigonometric functions, compound angle formulas. Domains and ranges of trigonometric functions, monotonicity of trigonometric functions quadrant wise. Formulas for double and triple angle ratios. Trigonometry 1b ( Tutorial with solved problems based on Trigonometric ratios ) Problems based on the concepts introduced above. Trigonometry 2a ( Basic concepts related to Heights and Distances ) Applying trigonometry to problems involving heights and distances. Angles of elevation and depression. Sine and Cosine rule, half angle formulas. Circumradius, inradius and escribed radius. Circumcentre, incentre, centroid and median of a triangle. Trigonometry 2b ( Tutorial with solved problems related to Heights and Distances and other applications of Trigonometry ) - Problems based on the concepts introduced above. Trigonometry 3a ( Introducing Inverse Trigonometric Ratios) - Inverse trigonometric ratios - their domains, ranges and plots. Trigonometry 3b ( Tutorial with solved problems related to inverse trigonometric ratios )- Problems related to inverse trigonometric ratios. Trigonometry 4 ( A tutorial on solving trigonometric equations )- Solving trigonometric equations. Methods and transformations frequently used in solving such equations.     http://...Single Variable Calculus        Quick and introductory definitions related to Funtions, Limits and Continuity - Defining the domain and range of a function, the meaning of continuity, limits, left and right hand limits, properties of limits and the "lim" operator; some common limits; defining the L'Hospital rule, intermediate and extreme value theorems. Functions, Limits and Continuity - Solved Problem Set I - The Domain, Range, Plots and Graphs of Functions; L'Hospital's Rule- - Solved problems demonstrating how to compute the domain and range of functions, drawing the graphs of functions, the mod function, deciding if a function is invertible or not; calculating limits for some elementary examples, solving 0/0 forms, applying L'Hospital rule. Functions, Limits and Continuity - Solved Problem Set II - Conditions for Continuity, More Limits, Approximations for ln (1+x) and sin x for infinitesimal values of x More advanced cases of evaluating limits, conditions for continuity of functions, common approximations used while evaluating limits for ln ( 1 + x ), sin (x); continuity related problems for more advanced functions than the ones in the first group of problems (in the last tutorial). Functions, Limits and Continuity - Solved Problem Set III - Continuity and Intermediate Value Theorems - Problems related to Continuity, intermediate value theorem. Introductory concepts and definitions related to Differentiation - Basic formulas, Successive Differentiation, Leibnitz, Rolle and Lagrange Theorems, Maxima , Minima, Convexity, Concavity, etc - Theory and definitions introducing differentiability, basic differentiation formulas of common algebraic and trigonometric functions , successive differentiation, Leibnitz Theorem, Rolle's Theorem, Lagrange's Mean Value Theorem, Increasing and decreasing functions, Maxima and Minima; Concavity, convexity and inflexion, implicit differentiation. Differential Calculus - Solved Problem Set I - Common Exponential, Log , trigonometric and polynomial functions - Examples and solved problems - differentiation of common algebraic, exponential, logarithmic, trigonometric and polynomial functions and terms; problems related to differentiability . Differential Calculus - Solved Problem Set II - Derivability and continuity of functins - Change of Indepndent Variables - Finding N-th Derivatives - Examples and solved problems - related to derivability and continuity of functions; changing the independent variable in a differential equation; finding the N-th derivative of functions. Differential Calculus - Solved Problems Set III- Maximia, Minima, Extreme Values, Rolle's Theorem - Examples and solved problems - related to increasing and decreasing functions; maxima, minima and extreme values; Rolle's Theorem. Differential Calculus - Solved Problems Set IV - Points of Inflexion, Radius of Curvature, Curve Sketching -  Examples and solved problems - Slope of tangents to a curve, points of inflexion, convexity and concavity of curves, radius of curvature and asymptotes of curves, sketching curves. Differential Calculus - Solved Problems Set V - Curve Sketching, Parametric Curves - More examples of investigating and sketching curves, parametric representation of curves. Introducing Integral Calculus - Definite and Indefinite Integrals - using Substitution , Integration By Parts, ILATE rule - Theory and definitions. What integration means, the integral and the integrand. Indefinite integrals, integrals of common functions. Definite integration and properties of definite integrals; Integration by substitution, integration by parts, the LIATE rule, Integral as the limit of a sum. Important forms encountered in integration. Integral Calculus - Solved Problems Set I - Basic examples of polynomials and trigonometric functions, area under curves - Examples and solved problems - elementary examples of integration involving trigonometric functions, polynomials; integration by parts; area under curves. Integral Calculus - Solved Problems Set II - More integrals, functions involving trigonometric and inverse trigonometric ratios - Examples and solved problems - integration by substitution, definite integrals, integration involving trigonometric and inverse trigonometric ratios. Integral Calculus - Solved Problems Set III - Reduction Formulas, Using Partial FractionsI- Examples and solved problems - Reduction formulas, reducing the integrand to partial fractions, more of definite integrals. Integral Calculus - Solved Problems Set IV - More of integration using partial fractions, more complex substitutions and transformations - Examples and solved problems - More of integrals involving partial fractions, more complex substitutions and transformations Integral Calculus - Solved Problems Set V- Integration as a summation of a series - Examples and solved problems - More complex examples of integration, examples of integration as the limit of a summation of a series. Introduction to Differential Equations and Solved Problems - Set I - Order and Degree, Linear and Non-Linear Differential Equations, Homogeneous Equations, Integrating Factor - Theory and definitions. What a differential equation is; ordinary and partial differential equations; order and degree of a differential equation; linear and non linear differential equations; General, particular and singular solutions; Initial and boundary value problems; Linear independence and dependence; Homogeneous equations; First order differential equations; Characteristic and auxiliary equations. Introductory problems demonstrating these concepts. Introducing the concept of Integrating Factor (IF). Differential Equations - Solved Problems - Set II - D operator, auxillary equation, General Solution - Examples and solved problems - Solving linear differential equations, the D operator, auxiliary equations. Finding the general solution ( CF + PI ) Differential Equations - Solved Problems - Set III - More Differential Equations - More complex cases of differential equations. Differential Equations - Solved Problems - Set IV - Still more differential equations.   http://...Multiple Variable Calculus  Calculus - Multiple Variables - Part I- Functions of severable variables; limits and continuity   Calculus - Multiple Variables - Part 2- Functions of several variables, theorems and co-ordinates   Calculus - Multiple Variables - Part 3- Multiple Integrals; double and triple integrals    http://...Applied Mathematics : An Introduction to Game Theory          An Introduction to Game Theory Extensive Games Bayesian Games : Games with Incomplete Information Repeated Games http://...Applied Mathematics : An Introduction to Operations Research     Introduction to Operations Research A quick introduction to Operations Research. Introducing Linear Programming, standard and canonical forms. Linear Programming geometry, feasible regions, feasible solutions, simplex method. Some basic problems. Disclaimer: A small project of mine. 