What are some good examples of using Semantic Technologies for Enterprise Metadata Management?Or in more general terms to get better view of how data, processes, applications and capabilities are inter-related within a large enterprise.
What seems to be hinted at in this question is a process-to-application-to-process feedback-response loop, a conceptualization of the data-driven enterprise in which processes would be continually refined with the help of continually tuned and expanded applications, and each process would thus become more and more instrumented. The data generated would be used to tune both processes and the applications that serve them. Web companies seem to be among the best examples of data-driven enterprises because so much of their businesses are online and heavily instrumented. Zynga, Google, Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, Baidu come to mind.... Then there's retail + logistics. If you think about Amazon + its suppliers and fulfillment network and how continually the website is tuned and how instrumented the warehouse and logistics is becoming, including 10,000 robots in warehouses (by the end of 2014), eventually drones for delivery, transportation algorithms that are continually tuned at UPS and FedEx etc., that may be one example of an extended "data-driven enterprise" you could think about. Walmart + its supplier and fulfillment networks may also fit the description. High-tech manufacturers also come to mind when the processes on the factory floor are heavily instrumented. Tesla, Toyota, GE, Miele, as well as semiconductor companies such as Intel, Samsung and TSMC and their supplier networks and Foxconn and the OEMs they serve are associated with high levels of automation and instrumentation. I'm sure I'm forgetting some others. Now none of these companies as far as I'm aware have focused much on semantic metadata within the context of the data-driven enterprise. But you could imagine semantic metadata playing a bigger role if much of the enterprise data were accessible via a single high-volume repository such as a data lake. The concept of a data lake is still relatively new. See our writeup here for a concept of data lake semantic metadata management:  Data lakes and the promise of unsiloed data Semantic tech vendors such as Revelytix, Cambridge Semantics and MarkLogic, among others, have contributed to this vision of semantic metadata management. On the side of more flexible schema and schema on the fly, Splunk, MongoDB and others in the NoSQL community have made contributions. Then there's the content business. On the content integration side of things, the online search engine companies such as Google, Yahoo and Microsoft have been associated with knowledge graphs, as well as Facebook on the social networking side and IBM with Watson. The BBC and Ontotext and its other semantic vendors have made strides in dynamic semantic publishing. In addition to RDF stores from Ontotext, Virtuoso and Franz, graph databases such as Titan, Neo4j and Google Cayley are starting to play a role. It's important to note that large-scale integration has other stumbling blocks that need to be resolved such as services orchestration and application workload portability across clouds. The research we'll be publishing at  http://www.pwc.com/us/en/technol... considers some of these issues and technologies that address them. Semantics may become a more pressing issue at the process and application layers as other interoperability issues are resolved. 