What are some famous problems in group theory?
One of the famous problems in group theory is the word problem. It's a problem of a different level than your ordinary problem, but by studying it you'll learn not just about groups but of the nature of mathematics itself. Group presentations There are various ways you can describe a particular group.  One way is to present it with generators and relations.  I'll illustrate this with an example group, namely S 3   the permutation group on three elements. First I'll describe it in a way that doesn't present it with generators and relations, then I'll present it with generators and relations. Each element in S 3   describes a permutation on a set of three elements.  Let's denote those three elements x  , y  , and z  .  One permutation is the one denoted (xyz)  which sends x  to y  , y  to z  , and z  to x  . Another is (xzy)  .  A third permutation is (xy)  which exchanges x  and y  but leaves z  fixed.  The notation I'm using here is called cycle notation. In that notation if a permutation fixes an element, then that element is not written down.  Two more permutations are (xz)  and (yz)  . The last notation is the one that leaves all three elements fixed, the identity permutation. It needs a special notation, and I'll denote it 1  .  So S 3   is the group with the six elements 1  , (xy)  , (xz)  , (yz)  , (xyz)  , and (xzy)  . Now let's let a  denote (xy)  and b  denote (xyz)  .  Just a  and b  are enough to generate all the rest. We've got a 2 =1  , b 2 =(xzy)  , ab=(xz)  , and ba=(yz)  . There are also equations in the variables a  and b  that hold, including, a 2 =1  , b 3 =1  , and (ab) 2 =1    It's a little harder to show, but these three equations imply all the rest.  That's equivalent to saying that the group presented by                     (a,b:a 2 =b 3 =(ab) 2 =1)  is the group S 3   .  The easiest way to see that this presentation gives the group S 3   is to build the Cayley graph for this presentation. Choose a point to represent 1, draw a red arrow to point to a  , and since a 2 =1  draw an red arrow back to 1  .  That's drawn below as a bidirectional red arrow.  Draw a blue arrow to b  , another blue arrow from b  to b 2   , and a third blue arrow from b 2   back to 1  .  Then, since abab=1  , make sure that all red-blue-red-blue paths are cycles. Try it on the presentation                      (a,b:a 2 =b 3 =(ab) 3 =1  to get the Cayley graph for A 4   , the alternating group on 4 elements. The word problem It seems like when a group is given by a group presentation that should be enough to tell you everything you want to know about the group, but there are some insurmountable problems with group presentations.  For one, you can't tell when a presentation describes the trivial group with 1 element or not.  You can in specific cases, like the two above, but not in general. There is no algorithm that determines whether a group presentation describes the trivial group.  The word problem is to determine whether a string of generators names the identity element given the presentation. You can for some presentation, such as the one for A 4   above.  To determine if ababbababbabab  names the identity element, just follow the path in the Cayley diagram around and see if you end up where you start. In the 1950's Pyotr Novikov (1901–1975) and William Boone (1920-1983) gave proofs that the word problem for groups is undecidable.  There is no algorithm to determine given a group presentation and a string of generators if that string names the identity element in the group. What kind of project can you do? I suggest one that includes three aspects.  First, construct several Cayley diagrams for various presentations.  Keep the number of generators down to 2 or 3 so you can draw them.  The groups may end up being infinite, as you would get with (a,b:a 2 =b n =(ab) 2 =1)  for n≥6  , but you can still draw enough of them to see what they are.  (For n≥7  you'll need a hyperbolic plane for your drawing paper.) Second, study the history of the word problem.  See where it came up and why it's interesting. Third, study the proofs that the word problem is undecidable.  Naturally, this is the hard part.  It could take a semester to really understand them and the background that goes into the proofs. 