★What separates great "launching soon" web pages from OK ones?Give examples if you have them.
What separates a great coming soon page with just an OK one are mainly 4 components: 1. Clarity When the user lands the first time on your coming soon page, he should be able to make out instantly what it's all about. No fancy phrases or words ! be direct, straight to the point and answer WHAT this page is all about or WHAT's your big promise. This should be the first thing that catchs the attention of your visitor and it's mainly the role of the "headline + subheadline" For Sherlybox, the answer to the "WHAT" is clear, direct and also create a sense of curiosity (next point). You : WHAT ? Sherlybox : Sync, share and backup your sensitive files while your PC/MAC is switched off 2. Curiosity The coming soon page must creates enough curiosity that your visitor desperately want to get to the otherside (sign up) This can be done in three ways: #1. make a BIG and crazy PROMISE #2. design your page in a way that raises curiosity For example, you can use an image of your product as a background and add a fade-to-back effect... it works. In some cases, you can simply just give a sneak peak of your product and it will be enough #3. use a teaser video on your coming soon page (even a 30 seconds video can do the work if done correctly) 3. Social Proof IF you have any testimonials, endorsement, press mentions, or even just nice tweets about your product/app ... then use it/them on your advantage (seth godin endorsing change... pretty cool ! isn't it ?) Also, "high numbers" of tweets, likes, fans, followers for your product can do the work and help implementing social proof on your coming soon page. 4. Scarcity This is the last ingredient to include in order to have an irresistible coming soon page that get signups. Now it's time to ask for your visitor email, but instead of just being blunt and say "SIGN UP NOW" (and so, make it looks like you are the one who will benefit from this action instead of your visitor), why not add some fuel on fire to make it look like it's for the benefit of the visitor to submit his email ? the "fire" is ALL the work you did on the coming soon page to create the desire for your product : clarity + curiosity + social proof the "fuel" is scarcity ! Scarcity simply means that things are more attractive when their availability is limited, or when we stand to lose the opportunity to acquire them on favorable terms. Practically, for example you can say in your coming soon page: "number of invitation is limited to 1000 only ! 317 had already gone out. Submit your email now and get your invitation immediately" (obviouisly if you said "limited to 1000 only" it should be true and it will be great if you can give a reason why the limit is only 1000. otherwise, it will be manipulation... and that's bad !!! read : Anouar Ali's answer to Is manipulation equivalent to persuasion?) Good luck    Embed Quote