★Why aren't web pages designed to fit the screen resolution?Space wasted on both the sides with centered overlay if used will save so many scrolling efforts and also gives opportunity to broader information poistioning. (More on same page or wider with same content)
Some reasons against fluid widths (overlaps with other answer are possible) Fluid width webpages are difficult to conceptualize in terms of practical usability. Sometimes a design element works good only in one type of size and looks weird when stretched to beyond proportions - e.g. in GMail you don't have a 5" wide chat list on a 27" monitor - it would be just weird. They are even more difficult to implement. You got to work a lot in percentage widths. Content placement cannot be controlled properly and you might end up wasting a lot of space. Not to mention some tedious CSS. Designing a fluid width page is like painting a canvas edge to edge. sometimes you just don't need so much stuff on a webpage Whitespace is most comfortable absorbed when it is enveloping an entity. With a fluid width page you would frequently run the risk of having a lot of unorganized whitespace in the center regions of the document because there might not be stuff long enough to fit in the new width. To develop a similar look and feel of a webpage for desktop and mobile devices alike is very difficult if you have a ultra-wide implementation on the desktop and suddenly switch to 3" - 7" wide mobile displays. Design cannot work commonly across these sizes - only the design elements can be restructured to create a similarly themed experience across platforms. Content readability is highly hampered in long, weird, orphaned lines that could well have been cozy paragraphs in decent columns. Some reasons for fixed widths The visual experience is uniform and that is very important for reducing the learning curve and improving customer return. You can mathematically design the page off-line and tweak it to achieve a desired look. You content does not behave like Hogwarts staircases - it stays where its supposed to be. Due to the mathematical 'organizedness' you can make some really amazing Whitespace happen in the design and make it come alive. Fixed width pages are much easier to execute and maintain. Its easy to debug whats going wrong where and its also easy to let other people know how best to maintain the page.    Embed Quote