★Why is HTML used in web pages?
When we ask "Why is HTML used for webpages?", what perhaps we are asking is "Why isn't something else used?". Perhaps we should look at the historical context. At first, hypertext only allowed you to navigate through a single filesystem on another computer. Also, before hyperlinks, the web was hierarchal, and difficult to navigate for users. Computers had plenty of software you could use within them to create documents, but the internet, at that point, didn't have a standard for these documents. When Tim Berners-Lee was developing the idea of the "web", as we now call it, he decided it should allow for linking dynamically to other documents--none of the competing methods for creating documents which were to be displayed through an internet connection had provided this functionality. ...many desktop publishing methods were in vogue: SGML, Interleaf, LaTex, Microsoft Word, and Troff among many others. But Tim strived for simplicity in his method--he knew it was feasible to provide hyperlinks. So he simplified the document structure, limiting it to a specific group of tags. ...[he] demonstrated a basic, but attractive way of publishing text by developing some software himself, and also his own simple protocol - HTTP - for retrieving other documents' text via hypertext links. Tim's own protocol, HTTP, stands for HyperText Transfer Protocol. The text format for HTTP was named HTML, for HyperText Mark-up Language...  Tim modeled HTML after SGML (Standardized Generalized Markup Language) and encouraged others to build upon what he created. This, in conjunction with his addition of the <a> (anchor tag), allowed for hyperlinks (which is the core functionality of what the "web" actually is), which solidified the popularity of the technology. There were, in years to come, many competing ideas and standards, but improving HTML has always been the target of this group--it has been this iterative process that has evolved HTML from something very simple into what we know it as today--and generally speaking, the core methods of the underlying protocol, HTTP, haven't changed much. All quotes come courtesy from this article: Chapter 2 - A history of HTML And if you're interested more in how these groups form and develop the specifications that web browser use, this article by Paul Ford is required reading: On HTML5 and the Group That Rules the Web - The New Yorker    Embed Quote