★How do you protect the idea (like an app or web page)  if you decide to go crowdfunding?What precautions you must/should take?
Great question. Whether or not you need a patent application is technology-dependent.  Yes, an idea without execution is almost worthless. On the other hand, just going out in the marketplace (sans issued patent armada plus Orange Book listing) and selling "an idea" directed to a blockbuster drug is tantamount to giving your competitors 50% or more of the value of the product platform. Bear in mind that generic drug manufacturers have their (identical ) product on pharmacy shelves the day after patent expiration and can copy drugs faster than a Chinese counterfeiter. Also, in the drug area, a single day of patent term extension can be worth more than a million dollars in additional sales. Additionally, some technologies are extremely valuable for the entire 14 to 20 year life of the patent while other technologies are borderline worthless after the end of the Christmas selling season for that year. Thus, the patent may not have issued before the market has turned to the next new thing. (Unless you filed with a fast-track approach). In almost all cases, it's vastly superior to at least file (a patent application) in the US. As a rule of thumb, that may be as much as 50% of the market.  Viewing the issue in binary terms (file / don't file) is myopic. Instead, consider using a portfolio analysis approach. Moreover, even in the computer science area, the big players have some of the biggest patent portfolios. Look at Apple kicking Samsung around with design patents. Was Steve jobs wrong to secure patents on the look and feel of the iPhone? Before going to market with no patent application, please consider at least consulting competent patent counsel. Good luck. Schaefer O'Neill LLC http://www.schaeferoneill.com This response is for information purposes only, does not  constitute legal advice, and can not be a basis of for creation of an attorney-client relationship. Results may vary. Conflicts may be obscured. You must hire your own patent guy. Any and all warranties are expressly disclaimed. Blah blah blah.    Embed Quote