★Why aren't web pages designed to fit the screen resolution?Space wasted on both the sides with centered overlay if used will save so many scrolling efforts and also gives opportunity to broader information poistioning. (More on same page or wider with same content)
It's amusing to think of screen space as wasted. It's not like paper, which is made with physical resources and once used cannot be used for anything else without a complex process of recycling. Heard of minimalism (the screenshot you shared doesn't do justice to this word, still)? Or of something called white space? By this argument, you might argue that Tree of Life was a waste of cinema time, Pink Floyd songs waste a lot of sound time, and so on. While I agree that design should be more aware and adaptive to the size of the screen it's being displayed on, and try to present information and interaction in the optimum way, the stand that space is being "wasted" is a false position to start from. Ok, end of rant. Let's step back from this "wasted space" stand, and then look at the broad concern. Websites which are designed on 1280x800 screens look like the middle column of a 3-column layout when viewed on a 2560pixel width screen. Conversely, the same design when viewed on your iPhone would look like ants crawling, or as if you're looking at part of a giant's face from a distance of 5 feet. While that is the case with most websites that exist today, designers are developing newer websites with a view to adapting the design to screen sizes. Some use an approach called responsive, some use an approach called adaptive, some use a mix of both, and almost all of us are also working on different approaches for different elements to balance communication efficacy, speed, effort, which would deliver optimum effect on each popular screen size. The result is a website which looks like it's designed exactly for the screen you're viewing it on, because most probably it has been designed for it, along with various other screen sizes, and it uses a combination of CSS/javascript/server side scripting to ensure that you see the correct design for your screen. If you're interested in developments on this field, one of the blogs I follow keenly is Responsive News written by the developers at BBC.    Embed Quote