★How do you implement a typical linear regression model using a Bayesian approach?What benefits are there in doing so? Links to external tutorials v. welcome. Please explain in as intuitive terms as possible... I'm fairly new to all this.
Bayesian regression typically involves sampling from the posterior distribution of the betas, which may not be worth it for your problem. If you're interested in a special case of Bayesian linear regression where you put identical and independently distributed normal priors on the regression coefficients though, then you should check out Tikhonov regularization (aka Ridge Regression), which is equivalent to that special case of Bayesian Linear Regression. Ridge Regression is much easier to do and there are packages that will do it for you! If you're interested in placing a Lapacian prior on your betas, then try LASSO regression! Let's say you want to fit the linear regression model. here is the error term in our estimates, distributed normally with mean 0 and a constant standard deviation In the Bayesian approach, we can treat as Random variables and set the following independent priors on them. We now have the conditional distribution of given all of our unknowns. And now we know the conditional distribution (up to a normalizing constant) of given our observed After you get the conditional distribution of the parameters given the observed data, the next steps are to sample from the conditional distribution using an MCMC method (or some software like Bugs or Stan) to get posterior means, variances, and correlations for all of the parameters. Using a Bayesian method to perform linear regression allows you to add priors to the parameters. It also allows you to add some sort of regularization to the parameter space by shrinking the values closer to zero to make sure that you don't overfit such that one of the values is too high. Bayesian methods are most helpful here when you don't have a lot of data. In these cases, you can incorporate prior knowledge to make the parameter estimates more well-behaved.    Embed Quote