★Does it suffice to say that "If a linear model with all predictors is not statistically more significant than a model based only on a subset of predictors, than any model between the two would not be more significant (regarding ANOVA)"?E.g. if the full model is y=x1+x2+x3+x4, and it is shown to be no more  statistically significant than y=x1+x2, does this mean that y=x1+x2+x3 and  y=x1+x2+x4 will be no more statistically significant than y=x1+x2?
Making the following 2 assumptions on the context of your question: We're using a very standard linear regression approach for the models. We compare them with the F-test to determine if there is a significant difference.Then it is possible the model using 3 independents is better by a significant margin. My reasoning: Take the formula of the F-test: (ty wikipedia) Assume that the variable we leave out for the 3 variable model, has no value whatsoever in the 4 variable model. 1 in the formula refers to the model with 2 independents. 2 in the formula refers to the model with 3 or 4 independents. Since we took the situation where the 4th variable does nothing to help the model, the RSS difference remains the same whether we use the 3 variable or the 4 variable model. However, in the 3 variable model, p2 - p1 will be 1 instead of 2. Since it is in the nominator, that will double the F value. Likewise, n - p2 will be 1 more in the 3 variable model and it is in the nominator of the nominator, so that will also increase the value of the F test. Of course, the 'border' value for significance will move along, so we need to consult a table for that: F-Distribution Tables So we need to find: For the 3 variable model: 1, n-1 For the 4 variable model: 2, n-1You'll see that the difference between both is always less than a factor 2. And if we look at how or F value changed, it at least doubled. So the border value does not increase fast enough to compensate for our increased F value. So in conclusion: you cannot be sure that the 3 variable model will not be significantly better without verifying it. ;)    Embed Quote