★Are "quantitative" funds actually still using linear factor models with fixed weighting?I just finished reading the May 31st issue of Pensions and Investments and there were quantitative fund managers claiming that they did not handle last years market conditions well because the weighting coefficients in their factor models were not conditioned on market conditions. Is this is a joke or are quantitative funds 30 years behind in their mathematical models?
It is a general misunderstanding by the public that the best performing quant funds are based on some extremely complex magical multilayer machine learning blackbox. To be profitable in the market over the last couple of years would have meant a quite radical shift in strategies about two-three years ago for many funds making the sort of bread and butter trades that stopped working, I personally would not have invested my money with anyone who claims they have a crystal ball that could see such changes coming and revamp the funds entire philosophy on that basis. A hundred days of data is also simply too short to "adapt to" no matter how fancy your method for it was, so you would have to use some sort of model to predict these market conditions continue. Truth is, most of the time when someone shows you a model so complex that it does investment decisions they can not explain qualitatively is a situation when they have some sort of severe overfit or even coding error that is surprisingly enough, not going to make them a killing in live trading. (I've seen this sort of stuff pitched to me multiple times) In all types of machine learning one first constructs a simple dummy model that beats throwing dice, and then proceeds to look at adding complexity if relevant statistical information criterion tests (Akaike usually being a good starting point) can be passed by those added complexities. If there really is some pattern in the market it should at least be exploitable with a simple (typically linear and backfitted) dummy model before proceeding to anything fancier. Sure many try and add value on top of that model with fancy tricks, but very often proposed "fancyness" doesn't pass modern information criterion tests. Furthermore, Daniel Ahn is also correct in that the added value of added complexity is seldom worth the added opaqueness to the investors. Investors are not stupid in requiring transparency in how the model works, having been in this field for some years and seen what I've seen I would do the same. Where I believe some investors are being stupid, is that many ignore the execution bit when doing due diligence. Execution is, as anon user mentioned quintessential when frequency gets high, but few realize it basically can be the difference between a good and a bad fund - even when trades are made on a daily frequency. - Yet another hedge fund researcher    Embed Quote