What are all the major graph algorithms used in the world of programming?
You can look at a comprehensive list of graph algorithms here in the Algorithms Repository. 1) 3D Surface Tracker Technology. Process to add images on walls in a video while hidden surfaces are taken into account. 2) Bellman-Ford Computes shortest paths in a weighted graph (where some of the edge weights may be negative). 3) Graph canonization. Find a canonical form of a graph that is isomorphic to another graph. Used in cheminformatics. 4) Dijkstra's algorithm Computes shortest paths in a graph with non-negative edge weights. 5) Perturbation methods. An algorithm that computes a locally shortest paths in a graph. 6) Floyd-Warshall Solves the all pairs shortest path problem in a weighted, directed graph. 7) Floyd's cycle-finding Finds cycles in iterations. 8) Johnson All pairs shortest path algorithm in sparse weighted directed graph. 9) Hopcroft–Karp algorithm From a bipartite graph, returns the maximum number of edges with no common endpoints. Alternatives are 10) breadth-first and depth-first algorithms 11) Kruskal Finds a minimum spanning tree for a graph. 12) Pims's . Finds a minimum spanning tree for a graph. Also called DJP , Jarník or Prim–Jarník algorithm. 13) Boruvka . Finds a minimum spanning tree for a graph. 14) Ford-Fulkerson. Computes the maximum flow in a graph. 15) Edmonds-Karp . Implementation of Ford-Fulkerson. 16) Nonblocking Minimal Spanning Switch. For a telephone exchange. 17) Woodhouse-Sharp. Finds a minimum spanning tree for a graph. 18) Spring based. Algorithm for graph drawing. 19) Hungarian. Algorithm for finding a perfect matching. 20) Coloring algorithm Graph coloring algorithm. 21) Nearest neighbour. Find nearest neighbour. 22) Topological sort. Sort a directed acyclic graph in such a manner that each node comes before all nodes to which it has edges (according to directions). 23) Tarjan's off-line least common ancestors algorithm. Compute lowest common ancestors for pairs of nodes in a tree. NOTE: The Algorithms Repository contains mashup of information from many online resources. There are many online sources which are contributing to this repository such as Index of /, Wikipedia, Algorithms and Data Structures with Java and C++ implementations, C programming.com - Learn C and C++ Programming - Cprogramming.com, CodingUnit Programming Tutorials, GeeksforGeeks - A computer science portal for geeks, Website of Bruno R. Preiss, Stoimen's Web Log, The Object Oriented Programming Web, FSU Computer Science, For those who code, Code n Learn and many other resources. Thanks Updated 99w ago • View Upvotes