Is the universe computable?
I'm fairly surprised to see no one putting in a vote for 'Yes', so I'll do my best to put on my contrarian hat & defend the notion: Previous answerers have dismissed this is a possibility for two main reasons, I'll counter each in turn: (a) Universe is inherently in-computable due to quantum effects: The basic argument is that since we cannot compute truly random or unpredictable effects (this is indeed confirmed by Stanford Information Theory, see the halting problem), and since we see those in 'our' universe [Heisenberg uncertainty principle was invoked as a particular manifestation of this idea in Haneef Rehman's answer], it follows that we cannot ever compute any Universe. However, this belies a misunderstanding of quantum physics; the Heisenberg principle is merely the observation of a complex multidimensional Quantum Waveform (WF) or function, which itself is not inherently random or chaotic, but actually contains computational validity. Indeed, most physical systems- including quantum ones- have computational validity, as Seth Lloyd argues: Physical systems that can be programmed to perform arbitrary digital computations are called computationally universal. Although computational universality might at first seem to be a stringent demand on a physical system, a wide variety of physical systems — ranging from nearest-neighbour Ising models to quantum electrodynamic and conformal field theories (M. Freedman, unpublished results) — are known to be computationally universal. Indeed, computational universality seems to be the rule rather than the exception. Essentially any quantum system that admits controllable nonlinear interactions can be shown to be computationally universal. For example, the ordinary electrostatic interaction between two charged particles can be used to perform universal quantum logic operations between two quantum bits. Taken from: "Ultimate Limits to Computation", Seth Lloyd [quant-ph/9908043] Ultimate physical limits to computation More broadly, there is an epistemic flaw in this argument as it assumes our current observations account for the actual state of quantum reality. In other words- while we all agree that there is noise in our existing measurements, for example in formulations of the WF based on the interference of the observation itself [google 'double slit experiment],  that really says more about our current formulations of these laws and the math behind them than implying in-computability. It does not, a priori, deny the compressibility of physical phenomena into some yet undiscovered and elegant algorithm(s) (b) Universe is too big/complex to ever be computed: The basic gist of this claim was that the universe could only be computed by something as big and complex as itself, which then enters realm of metaphysics and devolves as an answer. However, this ignores the obvious case that the entire universe is itself a massive quantum computer; this is not a metaphysical claim but a possible one given what we know about quantum computation. This is a gross simplification of Seth Lloyd's interpretation, he has written a book on this very topic in much more depth which you can check out here: Programming the Universe: A Quantum Computer Scientist Takes on the Cosmos: Seth Lloyd: 9781400033867: Amazon.com: Books A second more 'meta', but no less possible interpretation, is indeed that our particular universe is an offshoot of a much more vast and perfectly computable Universe ('omni-Verse). In order to get to this sort of theory we only need employ two conceptual tools, the first widely accepted and the second speculative: a universal Turing machine (TM), and the Many Worlds Interpretation.  In the first case we just set TM to run infinitely in an unidirectional orientation, describing any particular universes state at a particular time as a finite set of bits. As for the second, we just need to establish a series of sub-programs, A1.. An, that each compute unique finite algorithms and trigger each other to run sequentially. Between these conditions, we have the general conditions for a computable omni-verse. Then regarding the break-off into potentially in-computable branch universes, we just note that noisy phenomena has not broken computability (halted our universal Turing computer), but rather, generated additionally  possible [computable] universes as it fulfills its quantum computations. Each continues to exist but the computability of the master Universe has remained unbroken. In conclusion, it remains a distinct possibility that our entire Universe is computable- and as we know about quantum states, that possibility implies existence somewhere :p Further Reading: Longer essay by me on the topic: In Defense of a Possibile (Computable)... A second essay by Prof. Jürgen Schmidhuber I cite heavily http://www.idsia.ch/~juergen/eve... Background on MWI http://plato.stanford.edu/entrie... Background on TMs http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tur... Updated 159w ago • View Upvotes • Not for Reproduction