Is the universe computable?
The universe is bound by causation (so far as we know) and, theoretically, can be predicted to 100% accuracy if we have enough information and could compute it. This is, rather disappointingly, not possible for three reasons: We can't obtain all the information. To compute the universe we would need ALL of the information of the universe. Due to Heisenberg's uncertainty principle, this is impossible. We can only ever know 50% of the data at one time (position OR momentum of individual particles). We can't store all the information. In order to store all of the data (if we could obtain it) we would need storage space that would have to be bigger than the universe itself as, for example, we can't store all the information about one atom on the atom itself, we'd need more space than that. Whatever we use to store one bit of information on, we'd need more bits to store the information of the bit itself (and possibly it's other quantum states) since that bit is part of the universe. So a computation of the computation would be necessary, which regresses infinitely. We can't compute all the information. Even if the above two issues weren't a problem and we had stored all of the information, to run the computation we would have to know exactly how everything in the universe interacts with each other. We would need a theory of everything, which we don't have. It may even be the asymptote of modern physics. I would say that it is theoretically possible to compute the universe to 100% accuracy if we had, could store and compute the information. Alas, none these things are not allowed under the current laws of physics. But we could, however, be able to compute the universe to within reasonable accuracy despite the above problems, but with much less information and only an approximation to the computation. This may be quite accurate for a while but over time more and more differences would arise between the computation and reality due to the 'Lorenz Butterfly' effect or 'Sensitive dependence upon initial conditions' (which is very well demonstrated here: http://www.exploratorium.edu/com...). If we were to do this to try and compute the universe (or any part of it) to an accuracy of below 100% then we would need to refresh the data every now and again from the real world to overcome the Lorenz Butterfly effect. Updated 176w ago • View Upvotes