What websites would be helpful to learning Java?
Udemy’s Java Tutorial For Beginners: Java Programming From Scratch First one is the John Purcell’s Java Tutorial on Udemy. This free Java Tutorial is very famous on Udemy and it is considered as one of the best among all the other paid Java courses on Udemy. It is actually my favorite. This course starts is intended for beginners and there are almost 75 lectures (16 hours of content). All you need to do is to visit the link above and sign up and enroll for free. You will get unlimited access to the course. TheNewBoston YouTube Channel’s Java Programming Tutorials For some reason if you don’t like to learn through Udemy’s platform shared above, then i would suggest you to check this. TheNewBoston YouTube channel is very famous for its programming tutorials. Bucky (Instructor and the Owner of the Channel) explains everything in detail in simple short videos. There are a total of 87 videos in this beginners Java course and after you are done with it, you can also go for the Intermediate and advanced Java tutorials on the same channel. Oracle Java Tutorials and HomeandLearn’s Free Java Course If you don’t want to watch video tutorials and you prefer to learn something by reading, then these two are your best options. First one is the Oracle Java Tutorials Documentation. This one presents you with in-depth concepts of everything you need to become a Java professional. Second one is also similar reading tutorial series by HomeandLearn website. I suggest you to try the both and choose the best that suits to your liking. LearnJavaOnline.org: An Interactive Way to Learn Java Online This is a new and complete different approach to learn Java online for free. If you are familiar with sites like Codecademy, Udacity, which offer interactive programming tutorials, then you are gonna love this. Because this website offers on the flow Java learning experience. If you are complete beginner and have no idea about programming then this site is your best option. 