Do companies need machine learning processes that are real-time, or are offline batch computations most usually sufficient?
The difference to a learning algorithm between "batch" and "real-time" is, to my understanding, essentially nil at "testing" time - when you're passing it some input vector, and asking for an estimate of some label. There there could be a difference in processing methodology - maybe labelling requires access to some "resource" that's expensive to acquire, so you accumulate a backlog of input vectors to label until you reach some threshold, and then run through them all in a loop, instead of instantly labelling a datapoint as it comes in, to minimize your "cost". But this is a processing problem, and is entirely dependent on the domain problem that you're solving. It's nothing to do with machine learning. A system to classify radar objects into {large geese, incoming ICBMs} would have to be real time, whereas a system to classify chromatographic samples into {olive oil, sunflower oil} could probably be batch. Otherwise, the difference between "batch" and "on-line" in the parlance of machine learning, is to do with being able to adjust the predictive output of your learner in light of new data. Say you have trained an SVM using a million labelled data points.  Suddenly, out of the bushes, 1000 new datapoints appear! If you want to "retrain" your SVM taking advantage of this new data, you have to combine all your training data together (to give 1,001,000 training examples), and run your training algorithm all over again, to have a classifier with updated predictive capability. This is batch learning. If your learning algorithm takes a lot of time to train, this is costly. Instead, say you have a k-nearest neighbour predictor that you've trained with a million datapoints. k-nearest neighbour is a learning algorithm that can learn *on-line*. If 1000 new datapoints jump out of a tree, you can just pass this new data straight into K-NN, and it will update its predictive capability, without having to retrain using the entire dataset. 