★How can I avoid nitpicking others' incorrect use of words?I like to be precise about the way I use language. This often causes me to get into numerous arguments with people about the meaning of the words they use and trying to clarify the casually ambiguous language they speak. How can I get myself to avoid this?
It seems like everyone here is answering from a grammatical point of view, so I'm going to go ahead and answer from a linguistic point of view. It seems like the question here is more about word meaning, so I'll focus on that. If a large portion of native speakers uses the same word incorrectly, then they are not, in fact, incorrect. Languages change and evolve, and guess what? Your correct usage of a word was "incorrect" or unusual at one point. The key thing to remember here is that when a word goes into a dictionary, that's how it's used at that time. But usage changes a lot faster than dictionaries do. The Oxford English Dictionary's slogan is "The definitive record of the English language," and it's just that: a record. It's a record, not an active reference. Meanings change and that information is recorded in the etymology of a word. Let's take the word "peruse" as an example. We know that the "correct" definition of the word is to "read something carefully or thoroughly," but more often than not, people use that word in a context that means to "casually read something." Well, let's have a look at the etymology, shall we? In the late 1400s, the word used to mean "to use up completely." This came from the middle English "per" which meant "completely" and "use"... which meant "use." Now, according to the etymology, the definition "to read carefully" first appeared in 1530, and it may be a separate formation, but how the word came to mean that makes sense. The meaning jumped from "used completely" to "read completely." If you asked many people today, they would most likely tell you that the word means "to read over something." Is that REALLY that far from the "true" meaning? No, it is not. This is just one example of language changing. We can see this effect in word pairs like "nauseous" and "nausiating," "agitating" and "irritating," etc., etc. When it comes down to it, if a large number of natives speakers use a word a certain way and you use it a way that's in the minority, you are actually the one that's "incorrect." Dictionaries usually require a lot more people to be using a word the new way before they change the definition, but it does happen. Thats why  there are so many words in the dictionary that have "archaic" definitions. Meanings change as the spoken language changes. A general rule of thumb is that if a large number of native speakers use a word or construct a certain way and their intent is clear, then they are, in fact, using the word correctly.