★How much knowledge on networks & communication protocols and data handling is required to start off a mini project on the Internet of Things (IoT)?
The BLE beacon as below offers a simple protocol that you read easy with an iOS or Android phone. On Android is a lot of about BLE public or open source. If you read the temperature sensor on the beacon or detect the button pressed or detect the movement by accelerometer, then you will get your first small IoT project. Bluetooth Low Energy Beacon at a glance Tiny Bluetooth Low Energy Beacon Small and light: 30mm diameter, 10mm thickness, 7 grams Long time operation on CR2032: 18 months (30 year shelf life) Long range: 75 Meters with up to 120 Meters at max power Secure: Immune to wireless attacks Weatherproof enclosure with option on custom tooling Support of all major beacon standards Certified: FCC/IC/CEThe  picture shows a small, weather-proof Bluetooth Low Energy beacon   suitable for mass deployment. The device can advertise ID and sensor   data. This Bluetooth Low Energy beacon offers the best battery lifetime   and range for any available coin-cell operated beacon on the market   today. The Bluetooth Low Energy beacon can be used with the free App   (iOS and Android versions) and is compatible with all Bluetooth Smart   Ready devices. The push-button can be used to cycle through different  beaconing  modes. Modes for high performance and long battery life are  available.  The modes will help with a battery life of 2 month to 30  years on a coin  cell: Sleep Mode with over 30 years of shelf life ID Mode advertises UUID, Major ID, and Minor ID, and achieves up to 2 months battery life ID low power mode beacons ID information with 18 months typical battery life Sensor mode broadcasts sensor data such as battery voltage, temperature, and button presses with 18 months typical battery life Dual mode is activated for ID and Sensor functionality simultaneously and achieves a 9 month typical battery life Any mode can be locked for final deploymentOn  top this Bluetooth Low Energy beacon can be delivered in any  quantity  with guaranteed unique ID numbers. A unique serial number is  printed on  the label and encoded in a QR code for optical scanning.   An  optional  NFC tag is also available for easy identification. Unlike most other  beacons on the market today, the beacon can’t be  hacked. The beacons  come pre-programmed with a uniquely defined UUID,  Major ID and Minor ID  and cannot be re-programmed wirelessly. The Bluetooth Low Energy beacon is FCC, IC, and CE certified, RoHS, Reach, and halogen free compliant. The  beacon can be customized for individual deployments with the   development kit. The kit contains a programmer interface board, cable,   and 5 Bluetooth Low Energy beacons for re-programming. The programming   tools are available separately on request. Bluetooth Low Energy features Weatherproof Enclosure Size: 30mm x 10mm disk; Weight: 7 grams Replaceable CR2032 3V Li battery Integrated push-button with LED indicators Accessories Wall-mount Key-fob Wrist-bandMulti-mode beaconing with Bluetooth Low Energy beacon Sensor packet format includes battery voltage, temperature, packet count and push-button count ID packet format includes UUID, Major ID, and Minor ID Compatible with common beacon standardsLong Range on Bluetooth Low Energy Over 75 m line-of-sight at 0 dBm output powerApplications for the Bluetooth Low Energy Beacon Customer Experience Enhancement Stores, malls, airports, museums, theme parks, sports arenas, conferences, exhibits, festivals Proximity, electronic leash applications Push notifications, alerts Passive data collection Battery, temperature monitoringMounting accessory You have the freedom to select from three different kind of mounting brackets. Wall-mount for the BLE beacon Wall mounted bracket The  wall mount bracket gives you the freedom to assemble the  Bluetooth Low  Energy beacon to the wall, laptop, bicycle, skies or  whatever you  like. After de-mounting you can replace the CR2032 battery  easy. Key-fob for the BLE beacon BLE key fob The key-fob is based on the same principle. The plastic ring clasps around the beacon and fix it to your keys. Wrist-band for the BLE beacon BLE beacon at wristband The mounting bracket for the wrist-band gives you the freedom from standard bracelet on the market Customised bracket for the BLE beacon If  you like you can design your customised brackets by 3D print easy.   Printing is for such small pieces of plastic not to expensive. If you  have an interest in an evaluation kit with 5 Beacons , then do  not  hesitate to drop an email to harald.naumann (at) gsm-modem.  - See more at: Page on www.gsm-modem.de