★What are some real life good habits that programming gives people?Inspired by What are some real-life bad habits that programming gives people?
I did Assembler, Cobol, Rpg and a bit of C, Fortran... until 1988 when the world was facing the abyss with Windows 3.11 and I decided to move on to something worthwhile like astrology, massage and meditation. lol Assembler makes you aware that "the way things are" is not necessarily clever or desirable. Like counting from 0 to 9 instead of 1 to 10... Cobol makes people excellent proof-readers, no margin for messing with the language  (and hyper critical sometimes) RPG can teach all those left-brain dominated people about cyclic events and the idea that there are a minimum of two ways to look at almost anything, one more masculine or straight and one more feminine or cyclic. The things most practical that I learned from analysis and design courses is: - the beauty of simplicity. (if more than one plan will solve the problem choose the most simple one. ) - Ancient Indian philosophy and program design share the idea that all things have a beginning, a middle and an end... aka Brahma, Vishnu, Shankar. Most people are quite happy to play Brahma (the creator), some are willing to play Vishnu (sustaining)  but very few actually want to clean up the mess and move on (Shankar) . It helps planning parties, building houses, cooking if there's an understanding of what needs to be done at every step so that life and programs become long-term sustainable. If there's still a few scratch files left on the hard disk after this routine has finished, you haven't fully applied the Shankar principle. If the dirty dishes are still there the next morning, same story. - Abstract thinking... the beauty of creation shines through in well-done database-design. Once you get it, it facilitates any other project you embark on. - The 80/20 rule... which applies way beyond programming... It takes 20% of the time/ resources to build 80% of the customers specs and 80% resources to build the final 20%... A Dutch software company actually started advertising that "we only build 80% of your specs" successfully aiming at dramatically lowering the programming costs. This spills over in most aspects of life. - There's more to life than Computers and Internet... - A funny one from "unsolvable problems"... If stuck, explain what you have been doing to the person in the building with the least knowledge of what you are doing. At some point you will say "thank you" to them, leaving them flabbergasted at how they helped you. Going down to the most basic level will show you the flaws in your line of thinking. - The power of intuition or accumulated experience... Whilst programming in Cobol it was common to say to anyone who was stuck: "does your program have a table", if yes, its in the table, if no, keep looking.