★Why is communication protocol engineering a subset of software engineering?This is a follow-up question to What are the major differences between the fields of IT, Computer Science and Software Engineering?.
I've seen all 3 titles (and a few more) used interchangeably.  Many companies assume they are the same, many differentiate the titles greatly.  Generally they all would all involve some aspect of developing a software system.  Historically, I think there has been some academic influence in the job titles as well.  In my experience I've seen: Programmer: I haven't seen many job postings just for "programmer" but usually associate that role/title strictly to computer programming (coding).  This person would be specifically writing code, in a specific language, for a specific project.  A lot of colleges teach "Applied Programming" courses which allow graduates to quickly enter the work force with a specific language skill.  Video game courses in college, for instance, teach a specific toolkit for specific platform, allowing their students to easily transition into the industry as "programmers".  The stereotypical "code monkey" is often a "computer programmer". Developer: Usually has some prefix with it: Web Developer, Applications Developer, Software Developer.  I think there has been some confusion with this role "developer" specifically in Web Development because it often includes everything from frontend developer/backend development and sometimes even graphic design.  Some graphic designers turned programmers call themselves "web developers" over "web programmers" to avoid confusion.  An "application developer" might work on designing and creating software on a specific proprietary platform, in a specific proprietary environment.  I've experienced "developers" including any aspect of the design/architecture/development of a software project.  I tend to think of a "developer" as someone who is involved in many aspects of the software development phase, not just the coding. Software Engineer: This one gets tricky.  A lot of employers and computer programmers have started to abuse this title.  *Formally*, Software Engineering is an accredited branch of engineering.  You can get your P.Eng (in Canada) or Professional Engineering Certification (in the states), I don't know how it works elsewhere in the world.  Mission/Life critical systems, like airplane guidance software, medical instrument regulators are (hopefully) strictly managed and require these kinds of certification (though this isn't always the case).  In practice, Software Engineering has been used as a more general term which describes software development by one who has a M.Sc / B.Sc in Computer Science or equivalent.  This includes experiences or training in Software Engineering practices like testing, design, development, process, etc.  From an employers perspective, this is a more flexible title and more enticing for international employees because the "Engineering" part of "Software Engineer" is included in the NAFTA list of allowable professions.  A computer "Programmer" or "Developer" will not be able to easily obtain a work VISA.  A "Software Engineer" will have a much better chance. Again, some people treat these titles as synonyms, I personally do not.  If you are an employer trying to set a job title, try to outline what this person will be doing.  I have personally held jobs with all 3 of the listed titles at some point, and had varying duties (as described above) while holding each title.  From my experience, and some quick browsing on glassdoor.com will show salary expectations as:  $Soft Eng. > $Developer > $Programmer but obviously there are always exceptions. Hope this gives some insight, please comment if you disagree, this is just my perspective.  You can call yourself whatever you want, I've seen a "Sr. Software Architect Engineer" writing html code all day...