★Which are the frequently asked interview questions for Java Engineers ?
All interviews i have taken have been rather variant with pretty much all that has already been mentioned here. But i will elaborate on something that can win an interview or kill your chances. IME, one resounding thing tends to be asked every time: Describe the projects you're most proud of, the most difficult problems you've solved as an engineer, what is your favorite programming language. Or some variant like this. Furthermore: Increasingly I have noticed in junior and entry level job listings they may even ask you to submit a favorite snippet of code with your application. They may even ask if you have a favourite piece of code or software during the interview, so maybe bring something along. Surprise them early on if they ask "what is in your file you are holding? | what have your brought with you?", you may respond: "a copy of my cv, certifications, oh.. and one of my favourite pieces of code!" Whether it is your own or someone else's, be prepared to explain its function and why it is your favorite in your interview, chances are they wont look at it until the interview and will expect you to elucidate on it there and then! I believe these more abstract questions can raise the nerves of inexperienced interviewees, but can also relax the formality of an interview at the same directing it into discussion instead of interrogation. IME the questions are increasingly asked by other employees of the company invited in by the hiring manager, because most importantly: they need to be able to work with you!. The Interviewers will likely accept and even expect a bit nervousness for these personable questions, the important part is how you handle these: nerves can are ok, overconfidence and arrogance is more damaging. This interview technique serves as a good way for an employer and staff to get insight into how a candidate handles discussion, criticism - useful to test for any potential "red-flags" in candidates.