★Why can no PC laptop match the touchpad of a Mac?Out of all the laptops I've tried, I end up getting disappointed with their touchpad: it's close to useless. I find this rather peculiar, since MacBook touchpads seem decent. Why isn't there any other (to my knowledge) laptops that have implemented a quality touchpad? It can't be that hard to make, can it?
You're  right, it's not that hard. In fact the underlying technology for the TouchPad is the same as your multi-touch enabled smartphone. The basic  issue is that unlike Macs, PC's are still using a 15+ year-old communications protocol for the TouchPad to communicate with the host computer.  This protocol, called PS/2 was originally intended to communicate the relatively low bandwidth mouse data (relative motion data for those of you that care), not the multi-finger absolute position  data or the full image frame data that would enable the type of functionality you get with a Mac's TouchPad.  Over the years, the PS/2 protocol, which was originally meant to be a one-way interface for mice data, was co-opted and cleverly hi-jacked to enable two-way, limited multi-touch data from TouchPads.  However, PS/2 simply can not be extended to provide a full multi-touch data stream (or the even more bandwidth intensive full image data set) from a TouchPad. Since Apple  is in control of their device architecture, they simply switched over to a high bandwidth TouchPad communications protocol (over their previous non-PS/2 comm protocol called ADB).  For some reason, it's been  near impossible for the Wintel folks to abandon PS/2, probably because a  PS/2 port is available with every keyboard controller (and it would take work to design it out).  More recently, it appears that the  major PC manufacturers are recognizing the need to achieve parity with Apple's touch input and they are finally realizing that we've pretty much hit the limitations trying to implement multi-touch data protocols with PS/2.  However, it's still not clear how much longer this is going to take since PC manufacturers aren't exactly of the belief that they are losing sales purely on account of their underperforming TouchPad