★What software/networking protocols are used to communicate with the Philae lander?
DISCLAIMER: I am just a layperson, who is interested in space and space missions. I am not an expert by any means. I will just share whatever I have learned from various sources over the last few months, when I got interested in the Rosetta mission. Hopefully, you will find this helpful, or, at the least, it will pique your interest in the Rosetta mission even more. Since its launch, Rosetta has been controlled by the Rosetta mission control, which is based in Rosetta Mission Operations Centre (RMOC) at the European Space Operations Center (ESOC) in Darmstadt, Germany. RMOC is responsible for monitoring and controlling the entire mission. This includes [1]: Mission planning, monitoring and control of the spacecraft and its payload Determination and control of the spacecraft trajectory Distribution of the scientific data received from the spacecraft to the Rosetta scientific community and the Principal Investigators.RMOC is working closely with ESA's Deep Space Antenna 1 (DSA 1) ground station at New Norcia, Perth (Australia), which is the primary ground station for the mission. ​ESA's New Norcia station, DSA-1 (Deep Space Antenna-1) [2] However, during phases like launch, planet swing-bys, approach and arrival at the comet, and lander (Philae) delivery and relay, etc., it got additional support for tracking, telemetry and command by other ESA ground stations at Kourou (French Guiana), Malargüe (Argentina) and Cebreros (Spain), and by NASA's Deep Space Network (DSN) stations at Madrid, Spain, and Goldstone, USA [3]. ​Rosetta Mission Control Team [4] The team (Team PHILAE) that is responsible for controlling and operating Philae, the lander, is based at the Lander Control Center (LCC) in the Microgravity User Support center (MUSC). The team at LCC is supported by another team, which is located at the Centre national d'études spatiales (CNES), the French Space Agency. Now, the way it works is like this: commands are first sent from LCC to ESOC, which then forwards it to the ESA's Deep Space Ground Station in Norcia or Malargüe. Finally, from the ground station, they are sent to Rosetta. ​Lander Control Center (LCC) [5] Messages are sent and received via radio waves in two frequency bands: X-band (8 GHz) and S-band (2 GHz). Also, as far as I know, NASA’s Deep Space Network is providing backup for communications and navigation. I think, that's enough of a background. Let's cut to the chase and talk about the various software ESA has in its arsenal. ESA has around 35 software packages, most of which have been developed in the ESA Ground Operation System (EGOS) project. Some of the software suites [6]: MICONYS® – the ESA Mission Control System Infrastructure, including SCOS-2000® and its ancillary applications. SIMULUS – the ESA Simulation System Infrastructure, including a satellite simulator (SIMSAT), a set of models to simulate different aspects of the satellite environment and the ground station equipment SIMULUS-M – the modelling framework for the simulation infrastructure TEVALIS® – the ESA Ground Test & Validation System used to simulate and test the whole chain of equipment from the mission control system to the satellite DABYS® – the ESA Generic Database Software, an EGOS specialised framework for building DB management applications EUD – the EGOS User Desktop, providing a generic user interface that can be used by all EGOS applications SLE API – an API intended for use by application programs implementing SLE (Space Link Extension) Services CFDP - ground segment implementation of the CCSDS File Delivery Protocol NAPEOS – portable navigation software for earth-orbiting satellite missions Space debris software products – a set of space debris-dedicated tools and databases Each of the aforementioned suites have multiple components. If you want to get more information on these software packages, please check source [6]. Bonus: Sources: [1] Long-distance communication [2] New Norcia station (Image Source) [3] Rosetta operations [4] Rosetta mission control team (Image Source) [5] Rosetta Lander Control Center (Image Source) [6] ESA operations software licensable products - overview Edit 1.0: Found these terrific videos about the software used in ESA: 1) Software that drives our missions 399480 2) Virtual spacecraft, simulated cosmos, real exploration 399481