★Can Bluetooth be applied for communication protocol between mobile and square like hardware card payment device?Will there be any security concern?
Yes!  In fact there are a number of companies that have done this or will do it shortly. Cross Platform Compatibility There are a number of benefits in using the Bluetooth interface of a Smart Phone. There is obviously a clear compatibility advantage across many platforms. Bluetooth is also not scheduled to be replaced anytime soon. Connectors Will Limit The Thinness Of Smart Phones The fact is the standard 3.5mm audio connectors may become a thing of the past in the near future as Apple (many patents filed in the area) and others reach the barrier where these connectors are limiting the thinness of the Smart Phone. Apple's 35 pin connector is also scheduled for a change in the near future as this is also a limiting form factor to the pursuit of ultimate thinness. There is one thing you can always count on, Apple products are scheduled to get thinner. Today I am predicting the connectorless iOS device. Existing Products There are a number of Bluetooth Card Readers in the market.  There are also a number of products being built now that will be a part of new product releases. The Magtek BT90 (http://www.magtek.com/v2/product...) is an example of a currently shipping product. The Downside Bluetooth has some downsides in the current chip sets, power consumption.  The power requirements make these devices have limited duty cycles.  However, there are new chip sets in the works that will cut battery drain by 85%! The Future Some of the products I have seen that transmit the a Payment Card Swipe have been simply amazing.  They do not even remotely resemble anything on the market today.  The freedom this technology creates has allowed new companies in the  Payments market to add a rich set of new features that are quite unexpected. In the very long term, as NFC (Near Field Communications) reaches the tipping point, all card swipe based Payment Processing Systems will take the road of the long goodbye (It may take decades). Today Bluetooth and a few other technologies offer great cross brand compatibility that will address the disappearing (or scaled down) connectors found on today's Smart Phones.