How would a Darren Aronofsky Batman film differ from the current Nolan series?
Here is what the Aranofsky movie would have had according to the batman wiki. While it's imaginative in Aranofsky's typical way, I'm so glad it didn't happen. (my commentary is in italics) After Bruce Wayne's parents are shot, Bruce loses his fortune and becomes homeless. -So how does he get the Kevlar armour and grapple gun? Alfred's character changed to a African-American man named "Little"Al who runs a Auto-Repair shop and acts as Bruce's mentor. -Just for goodwill? What is his relationship to the Wayne's? Bruce dosen't travel the word, he instead reads books on various types of combat and practices them. -Believable, but how can he learn everything without practical and firsthand experience? Bruce uses mostly chemical based weapons when fighting (like the original Bill Finger Batman). -Could have been quite interesting to watch. Bruce Wayne gets his persona from an intertwined T and W on a ring he wore while fighting crime that was mistaken for a bat. -While it's an interesting idea, it just betrays the original symbolism and Bruce's fear. Gordon has lived in Gotham for years, and is trying to leave for the sake of his pregnant wife. - A reworked origin, but messes up the timeline for Batgirl. Gordon's wife is renamed Ann. -Why? Carmine Falcone is omitted from the script and Gillain B.Loeb would have replaced him as the Master of the Organized crime. -Interesting plot twist but won't make sense from the very beginning. Selina Kyle would have been African-American and would have had a more prominent role. -I'm not against the racial makeover of characters, but why in a movie? Just rehash her in the comics and maybe after 10 years it'll be more understandable. Like Nick Fury was first made black in the comics. Gordon's character would have been suicidal -Wouldn't be too hard to imagine. But very typical Aranofsky. The Batmobile would have been a Lincoln Contientinal -Naaaiiiice. Here''s some concept art: 