Which is the best sitcom: the Big Bang Theory, HIMYM or Friends?
The original question: Which is better: HIMYM or Friends? I personally like HIMYM over Friends. Contrary to popular belief, HIMYM is NOT just about awesome Barney. It’s about the dreamy romantic Ted, the “perfect couple” Marshall and Lily and the strong, independent badass Robin. The show was built upon the five’s friendships, but it also focussed upon their individual lives/career goals.(Ted’s dream of becoming an architect, Lily’s longtime passion for art, Marshall’s endeavour to save the environment and Robin’s aspirations of becoming a famous and successful businesswoman/journalist). They eventually achieve all of it, including Barney, who finds his salvation in his daughter (he always loved babies, remember the doppleganger episode for Lily’s “sign from the universe” and how he warmed to the idea of his brother’s marriage when he heard there was a baby….one of the MANY examples!). Fulfilling their personal life goals…in a way, that’s a happy ending (though non-conventional) for all the characters, isn’t it? The non-linear storytelling, the way it flits between the present situations and the possible implications/consequences in the future (especially in the later seasons) is heartwarming! The soundtrack/ songs in some of the most defining and touching scenes of the show is soul-stirring and uplifting. I remember/relate so many songs with HIMYM’s dramatic moments. This is where Friends falls far behind! HIMYM sure has lame jokes and even ridiculous situations and made-up theories (by Barney especially) that sometimes seem to be over-the-top, but see, unlike Friends, it’s NOT JUST about jokes. Every episode, there’s a LIFE-LESSON to be learnt (future Ted narrates it to his children) about friendship, love, career, adjustment, commitment, responsibility, happiness, forgiveness, etc. It’s funny (to the point of being comically bizzare), but I guess that’s the FUN. They (or rather Ted) deliberately goof up/exaggerate the situations, but at the same time, there are a lot of emotions involved and portrayed, which I find lacking (comparatively) in Friends. Coming to life-lessons, check out these brilliant, memorable quotes from HIMYM that will stay with you FOREVER. Some of my favourites: We struggle so hard to hold on to these things that we know are gonna disappear eventually. And that’s really noble. Lily , Season 1, Episode 17 Because sometimes even if you know how something’s gonna end that doesn’t mean you can’t enjoy the ride. Ted, Season 2, Episode 14 Oh, my God, look at you cowards! So afraid of any kind of change. So  terrified of anything new. So-so desperate to cling to anything  comfortable and familiar. Robin, Season 4, Episode 4 That’s life, you know, we never end up where you thought you wanted to be. Marshall, Season 2, Episode 17 You can’t just skip ahead to where you think your life should be. Lily, Season 5, Episode 20 Look, you can’t design your life like a building. It doesn’t work that way. You just have to live it… and it’ll design itself. Lily, Season 4, Episode 24 The future is scary but you can’t just run back to the past because it’s familiar. Yes it’s tempting… Robin, Season 6, Episode 24 Revenge fantasies  never work out the way you want. Marshall, Season 8, Episode 11 We gotta wait for the real thing, no matter how tough it gets. Ted, Season 7, Episode 11 Whenever I’m sad, I stop being sad and be awesome instead. Barney, Season 2, Episode 2 We’re going to get older whether we like it or not, so the only question  is whether we get on with our lives, or desperately cling to the past. Ted, Season 4, Episode 4 Nope, Friends doesn’t even come close in this department. Link: 45 Quotes From HIMYM That Are Legen — Wait For It Also, the characters grow over time. Lily and Marshall’s chemistry as a couple is way better than Chandler and Monica’s. Their relationship seems to be “flawless”, but in so many episodes, as their marriage progresses, we get to see how they reconcile, sacrifice and adapt to each other as well as “situations”. Isn’t that the dream?  Ted and Robin both represent the opposite ends of the emotional spectrum, in my opinion. Ted’s personality is clingy and too passionate, whereas Robin’s personality is independent and career-oriented (not that lovey-dovey), and both of them undergo a gradual change. Ted learns how to control his emotions better whereas Robin softens up slowly to the idea of being in a relationship. Barney evolves from a womanizing sociopath who acts as the “awesome” relief, to a presumably great dad, and he always remains a true friend (to all of them) till the end. The ending definitely broke many hearts, including mine, but let’s face it, reality can be bitter. It makes sense that Barney and Robin weren’t able to be in it for the long run (there were hints from the beginning) but that doesn’t mean that they did not love each other. Their love was temporary, but it was true. And however dreamy and perfect the wedding was, it doesn’t mean it couldn’t unravel right? Also, Barney and Robin altering their personalities for “love” was never that probable, coz both of them have been shown to be extremely individualistic. Ted and Robin were friends/lovers who drifted apart over the years after their respective marriages, so when Robin’s marriage failed and Ted became widowed (WHICH DOES HAPPEN IN REAL-LIFE), why is it so disgusting that they could have had another chance at a happy ending? All those who say the mother did not live up to "standards"… BOOHOO!!! What did you expect, a supermodel? I would say her personality and portrayal was perfect for Ted AND the group! And finally, I absolutely love Marshall and Lily (not only as a couple, but as individuals as well.). They are both JUST the right amount of mature and mischievous, dependent and independent, wise and nuts! P.S. I am not a Friends hater (I love it as well) but for me, HIMYM’s characters and situations are more relatable. Everytime I see the show, I feel nostalgic. There's crazy, super-awesome comedy  happening in the show, but at the heart of it all, it's a father narrating all the fun and  emotional experiences of his youth (which is in the present we are all living in!!!)  to his kids decade(s) into the future... HIMYM rules! :) Images' source : Google Updated 2w ago • View Upvotes • Not for Reproduction