Which is the best sitcom: the Big Bang Theory, HIMYM or Friends?
Because it's so close to the life of their target audience, and at the same time so wonderfully better. I'll take as an example How I Met Your Mother, but Friends is the same principle. The protagonists are various and easy to define. Their characters are exaggerated so that you immediately understand who they are, what motivates them, what they struggle with and so on. There is Ted, the romantic that's looking for the love of his life. Lots of young (and less young) men identify themselves in this character and will want to see how it ends because it gives them a glimpse of how it might end for themselves. There is the couple, with their couple related problems, their intimacy, the progression of their couple life, etc. People that can't identify themselves as Ted will find their match with Lily or Marshall. Additionally, Lily is sometimes a feminist and Marshall has a somewhat difficult professional life : They have the same problems as everyone. And, for anyone who doesn't fall in those two categories, Barney and Robin do the trick. Barney is this kind-of awesome guy that has all the girls but is (not so) slightly misogynic. Robin is a strong independant woman who will put her work before her relationships. This group of 5 people cover everything that can happen to you with the help of secondary characters (gay brother, crazy mom, abusive dad...) But at the same time, your life will never be as awesome as theirs. Have you noticed how every girl Ted dates is smoking hot? Even the women in the bar are beautiful, unless they are required to be moderately attractive or plain ugly for the needs of the current episode. There is always something happening to them. And that's because 22 episodes of 20 minutes in a year is not a lot. They focus on everything great that happen to them. Hot girlfriends/boyfriends, great job offers, fun parties... So, to summarize : We watch these series because they describe an awesome life, but just normal enough so it could be you. Oh, and I should mention : Friends and How I Met Your Mother are well written, the actors are good, and they are funny. Some sitcoms are not as good, and they're not so successful... 