What in the scvngr list of game mechanics are actually game mechanics?
Almost none of them, as Tony said. His answer is dead on and I recommend the article he linked. In general, you will have more luck looking for mechanics if you go looking in the realm of NP-hard math problems than in Web 2.0 decks. I don't think looking at these from only the title is going to give accurate assessment though, so here's a quick whack at it: 1. Achievement Definition: A virtual or physical representation of having accomplished something. These are often viewed as rewards in and of themselves. Example: a badge, a level, a reward, points, really anything defined as a reward can be a reward. Nope, that's your feedback on success with a mechanic or system. 2. Appointment Dynamic Definition: A dynamic in which to succeed, one must return at a predefined time to take some action. Appointment dynamics are often deeply related to interval based reward schedules or avoidance  dyanmics. Example: Cafe World and Farmville where if you return at a set time to do something you get something good, and if you don’t something bad happens. Technically, duration of the delay before an event comes to fruition is a parameter, not a mechanic. The mechanic is that of a result for an action, and that's insufficiently described here to be termed a mechanic. The actual mechanic here is "scheduling problems." 3. Avoidance Definition: The act of inducing player behavior not by giving a reward, but by not instituting a punishment. Produces consistent level of activity, timed around the schedule. Example: Press a lever every 30 seconds to not get shocked. Feedback mechanism, not mechanic. 4. Behavioral Contrast Definition: The theory defining how behavior can shift greatly based on changed expectations. Example: A monkey presses a lever and is given lettuce. The monkey is happy and continues to press the lever. Then it gets a grape one time. The monkey is delighted. The next time it presses  the lever it gets lettuce again. Rather than being happy, as it was before, it goes ballistic throwing the lettuce at the experimenter. (In some experiments, a second monkey is placed in the cage, but tied to a rope so it can’t access the lettuce or lever. After the grape reward is removed, the first monkey beats up the second monkey even though it obviously had nothing to do with the removal. The anger is truly irrational.) Psychology, not mechanic. 5. Behavioral Momentum Definition: The tendency of players to keep doing what they have been doing. Example: From Jesse Schell’s awesome Dice talk:  “I have spent ten hours playing Farmville. I am a smart person and wouldn’t spend 10 hours on something unless it was useful. Therefore this must be useful, so I can keep doing it.” Same. 6. Blissful Productivity Definition: The idea that playing in a game makes you happier working hard, than you would be relaxing. Essentially, we’re  optimized as human beings by working hard, and doing meaningful and rewarding work. Example: From Jane McGonical’s Ted Talk  wherein she discusses how World of Warcraft players play on average 22 hours / week (a part time job), often after a full days work. They’re willing to work hard, perhaps harder than in real life, because of their  blissful productivity in the game world. Same. 7. Cascading Information Theory Definition: The theory that information should be released in the minimum possible snippets to gain the appropriate level of understanding at each point during a game narrative. Example: showing basic actions first, unlocking more  as you progress through levels. Making building on SCVNGR a simple but staged process to avoid information overload. This can be applied to an unlocking mechanic, and it's good practice, in fact. But it is not in itself a mechanic. It's an aesthetic, really. 8. Chain Schedules Definition: the practice of linking a reward to a series of contingencies. Players tend to treat these as simply the individual contingencies. Unlocking one step in the contingency is often  viewed as an individual reward by the player. Example: Kill 10 orcs to get into the dragons cave, every 30 minutes the dragon appears. This is not only not a mechanic, it is fundamental to how games work in general, and below the level of individual mechanics. 9. Communal Discovery Definition: The game dynamic wherein an entire community is rallied to work together to solve a riddle, a problem or a challenge. Immensely viral and very fun. Example: DARPA balloon challenge, the cottage industries that appear around McDonalds monopoly to find “Boardwalk” This COULD be a mechanic. 10. Companion Gaming Definition: Games that can be played across multiple platforms Example: Games that be played on iphone, facebook, xbox with completely seamless cross platform gameplay. Not a mechanic at all, but an interface! 11. Contingency Definition: The problem that the player must overcome in the three part paradigm of reward schedules. Example: 10 orcs block your path A COMPONENT of a mechanic. Most specifically, the "content" that goes into mechanics, the statistical variation in challenges within a given system. 12. Countdown Definition: The dynamic in which players are only given a certain amount of time to do something. This will create an activity graph that causes increased initial activity increasing frenetically until time runs out, which is a forced extinction. Example: Bejeweled Blitz with 30 seconds to get as many points as you can. Bonus rounds. Timed levels Again, a parameter on a mechanic. Still a scheduling problem. 13. Cross Situational Leader-boards Definition: This occurs when one ranking mechanism is applied across multiple (unequal and isolated) gaming scenarios. Players often perceive that these ranking scenarios are unfair as not all players were presented with an “equal” opportunity to win. Example: Players are arbitrarily sent into one of three paths. The winner is determined by the top scorer overall (i.e. across the paths). Since the players can only do one path (and can’t pick), they will perceive inequity in the game scenario and get upset. A design error, not a mechanic. 14. Disincentives Definition: a game element that uses a penalty (or altered situation) to induce behavioral shift Example: losing health points, amazon’s checkout line removing all links to tunnel the buyer to purchase, speeding traps Feedback, not a mechanic. 15. Endless Games Definition: Games that do not have an explicit end. Most applicable to casual games that can refresh their content or games where a static (but positive) state is a reward of its own. Example: Farmville (static state is its own victory), SCVNGR (challenges constantly are being built by the community  to refresh content) An aesthetic, not a mechanic. Specifically, a quality of a certain sort of mechanic. Usually a very desirable one. 16. Envy Definition: The desire to have what others have. In order for this to be effective seeing what other people have (voyeurism)  must be employed. Example: my friend has this item and I want it! A motivation, not a mechanic. 17. Epic Meaning Definition: players will be highly motivated if they  believe they are working to achieve something great, something awe-inspiring, something bigger than themselves. Example: From Jane McGonical’s Ted Talk where she discusses Warcraft’s ongoing story line and “epic meaning” that involves  each individual has motivated players to participate outside the game and create the second largest wiki in the world to help them achieve their individual quests and collectively their epic meanings. Same. 18. Extinction Definition: Extinction is the term used to refer to the action of stopping providing a reward. This tends to create anger in  players as they feel betrayed by no longer receiving the reward they have come to expect. It generally induces negative behavioral momentum. Example: killing 10 orcs no longer gets you a level up A function of the data used by the mechanics. The actual "mechanic" is "kill" -- it's the combat system. 19. Fixed Interval Reward Schedules 20. Fixed Ratio Reward Schedule You can use these in mechanics. They often arise out of the dynamics, though. 21. Free Lunch Definition: A dynamic in which a player feels that they are getting something for free due to someone else having done work. It’s critical that work is perceived to have been done (just not by the player in question) to avoid breaching trust in the scenario. The  player must feel that they’ve “lucked” into something. Example: Groupon. By virtue of 100 other people having bought the deal, you get it for cheap. There is no sketchiness b/c you recognize work has been done (100 people are spending money) but  you yourself didn’t have to do it. Sounds like psychology, not a mechanic. But a mechanic could USE this. 22. Fun Once, Fun Always Definition: The concept that an action in enjoyable to repeat all the time. Generally this has to do with simple actions. There is often also a limitation to the total level of enjoyment of the action. Example: the theory behind the check-in everywhere and the check-in and the default challenges on SCVNGR. Psychology. Also, false. 23. Interval Reward Schedules Definition: Interval based reward schedules provide a reward after a certain amount of time. There are two flavors: variable and fixed. Example: wait N minutes, collect rent Dupe. 24. Lottery Definition: A game dynamic in which the winner is determined solely by chance. This creates a high level of anticipation. The fairness is often suspect, however winners will generally continue to play indefinitely while losers will quickly abandon the game, despite  the random nature of the distinction between the two. Example: many forms of gambling, scratch tickets. Yes! This is actually a mechanic. 25. Loyalty Definition: The concept of feeling a positive sustained connection to an entity leading to a feeling of partial ownership. Often reinforced with a visual representation. Example: fealty in WOW, achieving status at physical places (mayorship, being on the wall of favorite customers) A result, not a mechanic. 26. Meta Game Definition: a game which exists layered within another game. These generally are discovered rather than explained (lest  they cause confusion) and tend to appeal to ~2% of the total gameplaying audience. They are dangerous as they can induce confusion (if made too overt) but are powerful as they’re greatly satisfying to those who find them. Example: hidden questions / achievements within world of warcraft that require you to do special (and hard to discover) activities as you go through other quests A structural characteristic of games, not a mechanic. 27. Micro Leader-boards Definition: The rankings of all individuals in a micro-set. Often great for distributed game dynamics where you want many  micro-competitions or desire to induce loyalty. Example: Be the top scorers at Joe’s bar this week and get a free appetizer Leaderboards are a mechanic. This is like a small subset design of leaderboards. 28. Modifiers Definition: An item that when used affects other actions. Generally modifiers are earned after having completed a series of challenges or core functions. Example: A X2 modifier that doubles the points on the next action you take. Yeah, this is a common mechanic. 29. Moral Hazard of Game Play Definition: The risk that by rewarding people manipulatively in a game you remove the actual moral value of the action  and replace it with an ersatz game-based reward. The risk that by providing too many incentives to take an action, the incentive of actually enjoying the action taken is lost. The corollary to this is that if the points or rewards are taken away, then the person loses all motivation to take the (initially fun on its own) action. Example: Paraphrased from Jesse Schell  “If I give you points every time you brush your teeth, you’ll stop brushing your teeth b/c it’s good for you and then only do it for the points. If the points stop flowing, your teeth will decay.” A classic example of a dynamic. :) 30. Ownership Definition: The act of controlling something, having it be *your* property. Example: Ownership is interesting on a number of levels, from taking over places, to controlling a slot, to simply owning  popularity by having a digital representation of many friends. This can be a mechanic, but you'd have to get way more specific. 31. Pride Definition: the feeling of ownership and joy at an accomplishment Example: I have ten badges. I own them. They are mine. There are many like them, but these are mine. Hooray. Outcome, not mechanic. 32. Privacy Definition: The concept that certain information is private, not for public distribution. This can be a demotivator (I won’t  take an action because I don’t want to share this) or a motivator (by sharing this I reinforce my own actions). Example: Scales the publish your daily weight onto Twitter (these are real and are proven positive motivator for staying on  your diet). Or having your location publicly broadcast anytime you do anything (which is invasive and can should be avoided). Hidden information, secrets, and the like are indeed common mechanics. The description takes it in an odd direction though, into the realm of dynamics. 33. Progression Dynamic Definition: a dynamic in which success is granularly displayed and measured through the process of completing itemized tasks. Example: a progress bar, leveling up from paladin level 1 to paladin level 60 A progress bar in itself is feedback, but progression itself is a mechanic. 34. Ratio Reward Schedules Definition: Ratio schedules provide a reward after a number of actions.  There are two flavors: variable and fixed. Example: kill 10 orcs, get a power up. Oh look, here it is again. :) 35. Real-time v. Delayed Mechanics Definition: Realtime information flow is uninhibited by delay. Delayed information is only released after a certain interval. Example: Realtime scores cause instant reaction (gratification or demotivation). Delayed causes ambiguity which can incent more action due to the lack of certainty of ranking. A structural element of game feedback. You could USE it as a mechanic. Again, this focuses far more on the dyanmics and psychology of it. 36. Reinforcer Definition: The reward given if the expected action is carried out in the three part paradigm of reward schedules. Example: receiving a level up after killing 10 orcs. Another term for the feedback you get FROM a mechanic. 37. Response Definition: The expected action from the player in the three part paradigm of reward schedules. Example: the player takes the action to kill 10 orcs A required component of a mechanic, but not one in itself. 38. Reward Schedules Definition: the timeframe and delivery mechanisms through which rewards (points, prizes, level ups) are delivered. Three main parts exist in a reward schedule; contingency, response and reinforcer. Example: getting a level up for killing 10 orcs, clearing a row in Tetris, getting fresh crops in Farmville Dupe. 39. Rolling Physical Goods Definition: A physical good (one with real value) that can be won by anyone on an ongoing basis as long as they meet some characteristic. However, that characteristic rolls from player to player. Example: top scorer deals, mayor deals Feedback, not mechanic. 40. Shell Game Definition: a game in which the player is presented with the illusion of choice but is actually in a situation that guides them to the desired outcome of the operator. Example: 3 Card Monty, lotteries, gambling Yes, a mechanic. 41. Social Fabric of Games Definition: the idea that people like one another better after they’ve played games with them, have a higher level of trust and a great willingness to work together. Example: From Jane McGonicgal’s TED talk where she suggests that it takes a lot of trust to play a game with someone because you need them to spend their time with you, play by the same rules, shoot for the same goals. A classic dynamic. 42. Status Definition: The  rank or level of a player. Players are often motivated by trying to reach a higher level or status. Example: white paladin level 20 in WOW. Feedback. Also, dynamic. Also, dupe. 43. Urgent Optimism Definition: Extreme self motivation. The desire to act immediately to tackle an obstacle combined with the belief that we have a reasonable hope of success. Example: From Jane McGonigal’s TED talk. The idea that in proper games an “epic win” or just “win” is possible and therefore always worth acting for. Motivation,. not mechanic. 44. Variable Interval Reward Schedules 45. Variable Ratio Reward Schedule Even more. 46. Viral Game Mechanics Definition: A game element that requires multiple people to play (or that can be played better with multiple people) Example: Farmville making you more successful in the game if you invite your friends, the social check-in A characteristic of some mechanics. 47. Virtual Items Definition: Digital prizes, rewards, objects found or taken within the course of a game. Often these can be traded or given away. Tokens, by definition, are not mechanics. Trading, gifting, yes. :) I think a key thing here is that these are mostly useful principles, but they do not stick to the boundaries of "mechanics"; at all. 