What are the best books on game design fundamentals?
although the books listed by the others are great and I would agree with them, I think that the fundamentals of current game design  can be found in the SCVNGR cards given to its designers and now revealed on tech crunch http://techcrunch.com/2010/08/25... 1. Achievement Definition: A virtual or physical representation of  having accomplished something. These are often viewed as rewards in and  of themselves. Example: a badge, a level, a reward, points, really  anything defined as a reward can be a reward. 2. Appointment Dynamic Definition: A dynamic in which to succeed, one must  return at a predefined time to take some action. Appointment dynamics  are often deeply related to interval based reward schedules or avoidance  dyanmics. Example: Cafe World and Farmville where if you  return at a set time to do something you get something good, and if you  don’t something bad happens. 3. Avoidance Definition: The act of inducing player behavior not  by giving a reward, but by not instituting a punishment. Produces  consistent level of activity, timed around the schedule. Example: Press a lever every 30 seconds to not get  shocked. 4. Behavioral Contrast Definition: The theory defining how behavior can  shift greatly based on changed expectations. Example: A monkey presses a lever and is given  lettuce. The monkey is happy and continues to press the lever. Then it  gets a grape one time. The monkey is delighted. The next time it presses  the lever it gets lettuce again. Rather than being happy, as it was  before, it goes ballistic throwing the lettuce at the experimenter. (In  some experiments, a second monkey is placed in the cage, but tied to a  rope so it can’t access the lettuce or lever. After the grape reward is  removed, the first monkey beats up the second monkey even though it  obviously had nothing to do with the removal. The anger is truly  irrational.) 5. Behavioral Momentum Definition: The tendency of players to keep doing  what they have been doing. Example: From Jesse Schell’s awesome  Dice talk: “I have spent ten  hours playing Farmville. I am a smart person and wouldn’t spend 10 hours  on something unless it was useful. Therefore this must be useful, so I  can keep doing it.” 6. Blissful Productivity Definition: The idea that playing in a game makes  you happier working hard, than you would be relaxing. Essentially, we’re  optimized as human beings by working hard, and doing meaningful and  rewarding work. Example: From Jane  McGonical’s Ted Talk wherein she discusses  how World of Warcraft players play on average 22 hours / week (a part  time job), often after a full days work. They’re willing to work hard,  perhaps harder than in real life, because of their blissful productivity  in the game world. 7. Cascading Information Theory Definition: The theory that information should be  released in the minimum possible snippets to gain the appropriate level  of understanding at each point during a game narrative. Example: showing basic actions first, unlocking more  as you progress through levels. Making building on SCVNGR a simple but  staged process to avoid information overload. 8. Chain Schedules Definition: the practice of linking a reward to a  series of contingencies. Players tend to treat these as simply the  individual contingencies. Unlocking one step in the contingency is often  viewed as an individual reward by the player. Example: Kill 10 orcs to get into the dragons cave,  every 30 minutes the dragon appears. 9. Communal Discovery Definition: The game dynamic wherein an entire  community is rallied to work together to solve a riddle, a problem or a  challenge. Immensely viral and very fun. Example: DARPA balloon challenge, the cottage  industries that appear around McDonalds monopoly to find “Boardwalk” 10. Companion Gaming Definition: Games that can be played across multiple  platforms Example: Games that be played on iphone, facebook,  xbox with completely seamless cross platform gameplay. 11. Contingency Definition: The problem that the player must  overcome in the three part paradigm of reward schedules. Example: 10 orcs block your path 12. Countdown Definition: The dynamic in which players are only  given a certain amount of time to do something. This will create an  activity graph that causes increased initial activity increasing  frenetically until time runs out, which is a forced extinction. Example: Bejeweled Blitz with 30 seconds to get as  many points as you can. Bonus rounds. Timed levels 13. Cross Situational Leader-boards Definition: This occurs when one ranking mechanism  is applied across multiple (unequal and isolated) gaming scenarios.  Players often perceive that these ranking scenarios are unfair as not  all players were presented with an “equal” opportunity to win. Example: Players are arbitrarily sent into one of  three paths. The winner is determined by the top scorer overall (i.e.  across the paths). Since the players can only do one path (and can’t  pick), they will perceive inequity in the game scenario and get upset. 14. Disincentives Definition: a game element that uses a penalty (or  altered situation) to induce behavioral shift Example: losing health points, amazon’s checkout  line removing all links to tunnel the buyer to purchase, speeding traps 15. Endless Games Definition: Games that do not have an explicit end.  Most applicable to casual games that can refresh their content or games  where a static (but positive) state is a reward of its own. Example: Farmville (static state is its own  victory), SCVNGR (challenges constantly are being built by the community  to refresh content) 16. Envy Definition: The desire to have what others have. In  order for this to be effective seeing what other people have (voyeurism)  must be employed. Example: my friend has this item and I want it! 17. Epic Meaning Definition: players will be highly motivated if they  believe they are working to achieve something great, something  awe-inspiring, something bigger than themselves. Example: From Jane McGonical’s Ted Talk where she  discusses Warcraft’s ongoing story line and “epic meaning” that involves  each individual has motivated players to participate outside the game  and create the second largest wiki in the world to help them achieve  their individual quests and collectively their epic meanings. 18. Extinction Definition: Extinction is the term used to refer to  the action of stopping providing a reward. This tends to create anger in  players as they feel betrayed by no longer receiving the reward they  have come to expect. It generally induces negative behavioral momentum. Example: killing 10 orcs no longer gets you a level  up 19. Fixed Interval Reward Schedules Definition: Fixed interval schedules provide a  reward after a fixed amount of time, say 30 minutes. This tends to  create a low engagement after a reward, and then gradually increasing  activity until a reward is given, followed by another lull in  engagement. Example: Farmville, wait 30 minutes, crops have  appeared 20. Fixed Ratio Reward Schedule Definition: A fixed ratio schedule provides rewards  after a fixed number of actions. This creates cyclical nadirs of  engagement (because the first action will not create any reward so  incentive is low) and then bursts of activity as the reward gets closer  and closer. Example: kill 20 ships, get a level up, visit five  locations, get a badge 21. Free Lunch Definition: A dynamic in which a player feels that  they are getting something for free due to someone else having done  work. It’s critical that work is perceived to have been done (just not  by the player in question) to avoid breaching trust in the scenario. The  player must feel that they’ve “lucked” into something. Example: Groupon. By virtue of 100 other people  having bought the deal, you get it for cheap. There is no sketchiness  b/c you recognize work has been done (100 people are spending money) but  you yourself didn’t have to do it. 22. Fun Once, Fun Always Definition: The concept that an action in enjoyable  to repeat all the time. Generally this has to do with simple actions.  There is often also a limitation to the total level of enjoyment of the  action. Example: the theory behind the check-in everywhere  and the check-in and the default challenges on SCVNGR. 23. Interval Reward Schedules Definition: Interval based reward schedules provide a  reward after a certain amount of time. There are two flavors: variable  and fixed. Example: wait N minutes, collect rent 24. Lottery Definition: A game dynamic in which the winner is  determined solely by chance. This creates a high level of anticipation.  The fairness is often suspect, however winners will generally continue  to play indefinitely while losers will quickly abandon the game, despite  the random nature of the distinction between the two. Example: many forms of gambling, scratch tickets. 25. Loyalty Definition: The concept of feeling a positive  sustained connection to an entity leading to a feeling of partial  ownership. Often reinforced with a visual representation. Example: fealty in WOW, achieving status at physical  places (mayorship, being on the wall of favorite customers) 26. Meta Game Definition: a game which exists layered within  another game. These generally are discovered rather than explained (lest  they cause confusion) and tend to appeal to ~2% of the total  gameplaying audience. They are dangerous as they can induce confusion  (if made too overt) but are powerful as they’re greatly satisfying to  those who find them. Example: hidden questions / achievements within  world of warcraft that require you to do special (and hard to discover)  activities as you go through other quests 27. Micro Leader-boards Definition: The rankings of all individuals in a  micro-set. Often great for distributed game dynamics where you want many  micro-competitions or desire to induce loyalty. Example: Be the top scorers at Joe’s bar this week  and get a free appetizer 28. Modifiers Definition: An item that when used affects other  actions. Generally modifiers are earned after having completed a series  of challenges or core functions. Example: A X2 modifier that doubles the points on  the next action you take. 29. Moral Hazard of Game Play Definition: The risk that by rewarding people  manipulatively in a game you remove the actual moral value of the action  and replace it with an ersatz game-based reward. The risk that by  providing too many incentives to take an action, the incentive of  actually enjoying the action taken is lost. The corollary to this is  that if the points or rewards are taken away, then the person loses all  motivation to take the (initially fun on its own) action. Example: Paraphrased from Jesse  Schell “If I give you points  every time you brush your teeth, you’ll stop brushing your teeth b/c  it’s good for you and then only do it for the points. If the points stop  flowing, your teeth will decay.” 30. Ownership Definition: The act of controlling something, having  it be *your* property. Example: Ownership is interesting on a number of  levels, from taking over places, to controlling a slot, to simply owning  popularity by having a digital representation of many friends. 31. Pride Definition: the feeling of ownership and joy at an  accomplishment Example: I have ten badges. I own them. They are  mine. There are many like them, but these are mine. Hooray. 32. Privacy Definition: The concept that certain information is  private, not for public distribution. This can be a demotivator (I won’t  take an action because I don’t want to share this) or a motivator (by  sharing this I reinforce my own actions). Example: Scales the publish your daily weight onto  Twitter (these are real and are proven positive motivator for staying on  your diet). Or having your location publicly broadcast anytime you do  anything (which is invasive and can should be avoided). 33. Progression Dynamic Definition: a dynamic in which success is granularly  displayed and measured through the process of completing itemized  tasks. Example: a progress bar, leveling up from paladin  level 1 to paladin level 60  34. Ratio Reward Schedules Definition: Ratio schedules provide a reward after a  number of actions.  There are two flavors: variable and fixed. Example: kill 10 orcs, get a power up. 35. Real-time v. Delayed Mechanics Definition: Realtime information flow is uninhibited  by delay. Delayed information is only released after a certain  interval. Example: Realtime scores cause instant reaction  (gratification or demotivation). Delayed causes ambiguity which can  incent more action due to the lack of certainty of ranking. 36. Reinforcer Definition: The reward given if the expected action  is carried out in the three part paradigm of reward schedules. Example: receiving a level up after killing 10 orcs. 37. Response Definition: The expected action from the player in  the three part paradigm of reward schedules. Example: the player takes the action to kill 10 orcs 38. Reward Schedules Definition: the timeframe and delivery mechanisms  through which rewards (points, prizes, level ups) are delivered. Three  main parts exist in a reward schedule; contingency, response and  reinforcer. Example: getting a level up for killing 10 orcs,  clearing a row in Tetris, getting fresh crops in Farmville 39. Rolling Physical Goods Definition: A physical good (one with real value)  that can be won by anyone on an ongoing basis as long as they meet some  characteristic. However, that characteristic rolls from player to  player. Example: top scorer deals, mayor deals 40. Shell Game Definition: a game in which the player is presented  with the illusion of choice but is actually in a situation that guides  them to the desired outcome of the operator. Example: 3 Card Monty, lotteries, gambling 41. Social Fabric of Games Definition: the idea that people like one another  better after they’ve played games with them, have a higher level of  trust and a great willingness to work together. Example: From Jane McGonicgal’s TED talk where she  suggests that it takes a lot of trust to play a game with someone  because you need them to spend their time with you, play by the same  rules, shoot for the same goals. 42. Status Definition: The  rank or level of a player. Players  are often motivated by trying to reach a higher level or status. Example: white paladin level 20 in WOW. 43. Urgent Optimism Definition: Extreme self motivation. The desire to  act immediately to tackle an obstacle combined with the belief that we  have a reasonable hope of success. Example: From Jane McGonical’s TED talk. The idea  that in proper games an “epic win” or just “win” is possible and  therefore always worth acting for. 44. Variable Interval Reward Schedules Definition: Variable interval reward schedules  provide a reward after a roughly consistent amount of time. This tends  to create a reasonably high level of activity over time, as the player  could receive a reward at any time but never the burst as created under a  fixed schedule. This system is also more immune to the nadir right  after the receiving of a reward, but also lacks the zenith of activity  before a reward in unlocked due to high levels of ambiguity. Example: Wait roughly 30 minutes, a new weapon  appears. Check back as often as you want but that won’t speed it up.  Generally players are bad at realizing that. 45. Variable Ratio Reward Schedule Definition: A variable ratio reward schedule  provides rewards after a roughly consistent but unknown amount of  actions. This creates a relatively high consistent rate of activity (as  there could always be a reward after the next action) with a slight  increase as the expected reward threshold is reached, but never the huge  burst of a fixed ratio schedule. It’s also more immune to nadirs in  engagement after a reward is acheived. Example: kill something like 20 ships, get a level  up. Visit a couple locations (roughly five) get a badge 46. Viral Game Mechanics Definition: A game element that requires multiple  people to play (or that can be played better with multiple people) Example: Farmville making you more successful in the  game if you invite your friends, the social check-in 47. Virtual Items Definition: Digital prizes, rewards, objects found  or taken within the course of a game. Often these can be traded or given  away. Example: Gowalla’s items, Facebook gifts, badges 