Being an immortal god, why didn't Shiva swallow the poison?
There is science and logic behind Shiva drinking the poison and it stopping there right in the throat. Shiva, described as the Neelkanth has another story. In our body and even Shiva's body there are 114 chakras, out of which 2 are out of physical body and 4 are simply the result of other chakras. So, we come down to 108 chakras that is a significant number. The diameter of the sun and the distance from the sun to earth is 108 times, the diameter of the moon and the distance between the moon and the earth is 108 times and there is also another scientific fact. Now, in these 108 chakras 7 are very important. Out of which, one is near the throat, vishuddhi- meaning that which takes out all the poison and purifies one. If your energies are dominant in vishuddhi, you become very powerful. Shiva also represents this by the blue throat, Neelkanth, he is very powerful and all the impurities are stopped by his throat and he is pure. This is also spiritual, meaning it also stops all the bad and impure thoughts entering one's mind. This is what it stays, purify your body, mind and soul. The seven chakras are all in body and it is proved by science, however we say that they are in triangular shape while they believe it is in circular shape. These chakras apply to the body and when you clearly understand them, how it applies spiritually. The seven fundamental chakras are known as muladhara, which is located at the perineum, the space between the anal outlet and the genital organ; swadhisthana, which is just above the genital organ; manipuraka, which is just below the navel; anahata, which is just beneath where the rib cage meets; vishuddhi, which is at the pit of the throat; ajna, which is between the eyebrows; and sahasrara, also known as brahmarandra, which is at the top of the head, where when a child is born, there is a soft spot. See, the vishuddhi chakra is denoted by blue in the picture. The mythological stories are just a way to get into the science. When we read such stories, it is not simply logic less, but we need to get deep into the coconut and remove the water and drink it and not just removing the husk of it. Prakriti is woman so she is Parvati and Parvati, that is Prakriti, the body, where the chakras reside stop the poison while Shiva, the Purusha knows how to control the Prakriti. Just don't think these are mere stories, learn to get the message from them. Shiva and Parvati know they are immortal and to continue to live immortal they need the vishuddi, the Prakriti, Parvati and the one to control it, the Purusha, Shiva. Sources: The 7 Chakras And Their Significance Lord shiva has sent to earth, sanatana dharma, sahasrara chakra Evidence: If you have gone to a yoga class more than once, chances are, the word “chakras” have crossed your path. Chakras are believed to be psychic energy centers that govern the human body. Chakra comes from the sanskrit word for “wheels”. They are supposedly located in seven different parts of our anatomy beginning from the base of the spine going up to the crown. Through the practice of yoga, these centers of vitality unite the mind to the body creating peace and well-being. Carolyn Myss,author of the Anatomy of the Spirit, went as far as identifying the diseases associated with specific psycho-spiritual dysfunctions in relation to the seven Chakras. Many scientists will tell you that there is no scientific basis for the chakras. There are no actual “wheels of light” rotating inside our bodies. But the context of ancient language may have been classically misinterpreted.Wheels are round objects that circulate along a center. So it may be talking about “circulations” more than actualwheels. If this is so, it may be safe to interpret the chakras as seven circulations of vital activities within our body. Perhaps modern science hasn’t found the chakras because they have not been looking at the right place. In 2007, Sandra and Mathew Blakeslee published a book entitledThe Body has a Mind of its Own. In this book, they traced the history of “body maps”from the time of neuro-scientist Alfred Penfield. According to the book, Penfield successfully identified the functions of specific parts of the brain that run our bodies. He called this body map thehumunculus which translates as “little man” in latin. The advancement of neuroscience has led to the discovery of more body maps within the brain. Now more than ever, we are seeing that the body is a mirror of the “the little man” on the top floor, the one inside the skull. We now know which part of the brain thinks of certain things. The footprints of the psyche can be observed at work during brain scans. We now know which part of the brain lights up when we think of food, sex, religion or our next door neighbor. If we were to overlay a diagram of the chakras on a the human brain we will find a surprising match. It is as though the chakras are running down a little man crouched in a fetal position inside our skulls. The amazing coincidence is, notonly are the parts of the brain consistent with the thought processes of the chakragroupings, they are also the exact anatomical equivalents of the human body. According to eastern metaphysical theories of Ayurvedic  Indian medicine, there are seven “Chakras” or integrated energy centers that are considered to be correlated with physical, mental, emotional and spiritual well being. These energy Chakras are positioned or embedded into the spinal column at various locations beginning with the coccyx, rising all the way to the crown of the head. “Each Chakra is considered to resonate at a different frequency level. With new BioWell software, it is now possible to quantitatively estimate the energy of Chakras and graphically display their level of activation, and indicate whether this level of activation is above or below the level found from large numbers of subjects.” Dr. Pradeep B. Deshpande (1) Below are the results from a case study done by Dr. Pradeep B. Deshpande, a professor emeritus at the Department of Chemical Engineering at the University of Louisville, which had over 100 participants in attendance.  Please keep in mind that clinical studies of more than 10,000 patient cases with various health challenges have also been well documented in Russia. The aligned Chakras indicate that the subject was calm, relaxed and nourished from their participation in the case study, which involved information on meditation, breathing practices, love, kindness and intention. You can also observe a smoothing of the energy field before and after the case study work shop. Results like this were consistent with a number of volunteers. Sources: The Anatomical Proof of the Existence of the Chakras Scientists Quantify & Graphically Chart Alignment Of Human Chakras In Various Emotional States 