Why do vegans eat mock meat looking foods?
Back when I ate meat (20 years ago) I didn't give it up because of the taste. All humans enjoy the flavors "salty", "nutty", etc. There are several plant-based items that naturally mimic the taste of meat, eggs or milk. I personally don't care whether the stuff I eat looks or tastes exactly like real meat, eggs or milk, if it was purple and shaped like a Rubik's Cube I'd still love it, as long as it tasted similar to some of the "fake-meat" dishes I eat now. Especially if it had a good BBQ sauce or hot sauce on it. Update: Meant to add that I gave up using all animal substances for the reason that the intentional exploitation of any sentient beings is immoral. Learn more about that here: On Veganism: Disclaimer: I am 100% Abolitionist Vegan and 100% against exploitation of nonhuman or human animals, violence against humans, Welfarism and anything else that makes it seem like exploitation of animals is ok. My only goal here is to produce as comprehensive a resource for Vegan information as possible. If any of those positions are endorsed on any site in this list, or any language is used to imply that, it's not that I included that link because I agree, but simply because I don't control every bit of information on all these sites. Section 1: Morals/Ethics (primarily): Videos (primarily): "The Best Speech You Will Ever Hear" by Gary Yourofsky: Gary L. Francione 2013 Keynote Speech, "Animals as Food: The Legal Treatment of Animals in Contemporary Agribusiness and Factory Farming": Professor Gary Francione's site: Animal Rights: The Abolitionist Approach - ...and Abolition Means Veganism! Disclaimer: I am making it perfectly clear that I am vehemently against violence in any form. I believe unequivocally in pacifism: Gary Yourofsky's site: Animals Deserve Absolute Protection Today and Tomorrow "Do Animals Have Rights? 1/7" by Mylan Engel Jr.: "Earthlings": Earthlings // Feature | Earthlings.com Page on documentarywire.com "Earthlings - Deleted Scenes": "101 Reasons To Go Vegan": Debate at the Wheeler Centre in Australia called "Animals Should Be Off The Menu": Paul McCartney narrates "Glass Walls": Paul McCartney talks about why eating animals and animal products is destroying the entire ecosystem of this planet - "Devour The Earth": "Vegan Video": www.VeganVideo.org "Why Vegan?": "Six Minutes": "Think": "The World Is Vegan!": "What Came Before" featuring Steve-O: The Truth About Meat and Modern Farms: Family-Friendly: "Animals: Our Moral Schizophrenia": "Going Vegan as a Teenager": "Cow Cries All Night Over Loss of her Calf - Then They Reunite": Cow Cries All Night Over Loss of Calf - Then a Beautiful Moment Happens ♥ "Happy Cows": "Do you want to make history?": "Why Must We Eat The Animals? (Oh Why Oh Why?)": Cruelty: WATCH: Pigs Kicked, Punched, and Spiked Like Footballs at Tyson Factory Farm "Farm To Fridge": "Ohio Dairy Farm Brutality": "Cows Kicked, Stabbed and Dragged at DiGiorno Pizza Cheese Supplier": "Undercover Video of Bettencourt Dairies in Idaho": "The Short Life Of Lambs": "Nanny State": "Life in a Nightmare Egg Farm": "Eggs Hatchery (Free Range Organic)": "The fate of almost all male chicks in organic, free range, barn and caged egg farm systems": "Exposé: Live Lobsters, Crabs Torn Apart": "The price of milk/dairy - separation of a cow and her calf" (with English subtitles): Professor Gary Francione on violence in the ARM: You searched for violence - Animal Rights: The Abolitionist Approach Interview with Gary Yourofsky: Disclaimer: I am making it perfectly clear that I am vehemently against violence in any form. I believe unequivocally in pacifism: Gary Yourofsky Interview on Israeli TV 2013 #1: Disclaimer: I am making it perfectly clear that I am vehemently against violence in any form. I believe unequivocally in pacifism: Music Videos: Dead Prez - "Be Healthy" (explicit): Goldfinger - "Open Your Eyes": Promoe - "Long Distance Runner": Text-Based Info (primarily): Becoming Vegan: The Abolitionist Vegan Society (TAVS) website: The Abolitionist Vegan Society | The hub of the organized grassroots movement of veganism around the world. Join us in advancing abolitionist veganism, animal rights. Why veganism? Link to information about TAVS Chapters: Page on abolitionistvegansociety.org Sarah's story on why she became an abolitionist vegan - Must Read!: Why I Became an Abolitionist Vegan TAVS Pin Campaign: TAVS Pin Campaign - The Worldwide Campaign to End All Animal Use "What Is Veganism?": What is Veganism - by Joanne Stepaniak Vegan Starter Kit: VeganKit.com "The Bloody Dairy Industry: Your Guide to Veganism": YOUR GUIDE TO VEGANISM "Top 10 Reasons To Go Vegan": Top 10 reasons to go vegan Facebook Pages: Professor Gary Francione's Facebook page: Gary L. Francione: The Abolitionist Approach to Animal Rights "TAVS" Facebook page (where you can find the weekend challenge): The Abolitionist Vegan Society "Vegan Philosophy Forum": Facebook "Vegan and Non-vegan discussions (troll free)": Facebook "Freelee the Banana Girl": Freelee the Banana Girl "Frugivore By Nature": Frugivore By Nature Miscellaneous Text-Based Links: "The Immorality of Eating Meat" by Mylan Engel, Jr.: Page on uta.edu What Is Speciesism?: What is Speciesism? "A Moral Argument For Veganism": An Argument for Veganism Tribe Of Heart: Tribe of Heart - The Art of Peaceful Transformation "The Meat Moderates" by Sailesh Rao: The Meat Moderates Can't Save the Forests Action For Animals - "What is Veganism?": AFA - Vegan Info On this page, the answers by Kalvin Lyle and Ariel Garlow are worth reading: http://www.quora.com/Veganism-1/Why-is-veganism-so-controversial-but-meat-eating-and-dairy-not "Eight Arguments In Favor Of Eating Meat And Objections Thereto": Eight Arguments In Favor Of Eating Meat And Objections Thereto Notes On Mylan Engel, Jr.’s "The Immorality Of Eating Meat": Page on mesacc.edu "Least harm: a defense of vegetarianism from Steven Davis's omnivorous proposal" by Gaverick Matheny: Submission to the Journal for Agricultural and Environmental Ethics "Why Animals Matter: A Religious and Philosophical Perspective" A Philosophical Perspective Philosophy Quotations Page on Northern Illinois University site focusing on philosophy/ethics and conscientous dietary choices: Mylan Engel - NIU - Department of Philosophy "On Human-Nonhuman Relations A Sociological Exploration of the Ideology of Speciesism": On Human-Nonhuman Relations "A Giraffe’s Death and the Meaning of Our Outrage": A Giraffe’s Death and the Meaning of Our Outrage Numbers of sea animals killed each year (Welfarist): towards more humane commercial fishing Animal Rights History: Animal Rights History Timeline A Vindication of Natural Diet, by Percy Bysshe Shelley Prototype Vegans: Page on vegansociety.com Unofficial Gary Francione page: The Unofficial Website Animal Rights and the Future Issues With Various Foods: Milk: "Cheese consumption is the largest enemy of cows & calves": Timeline Photos - The Bloody Dairy Industry | Facebook "Happy Cows; Behind The Myth": Behind the Myth: Happy Cows "Breaking the Mother-Calf Bond: The Untold Story of Milk": Breaking the Mother-Calf Bond: The Untold Story of Milk To learn more about the dairy industry, please see: The Spiked Nose Ring: A Symbol for All Dairy Cruelty An article written by a former small-scale goat dairy farmer from the US: Former Dairy Farmer and Sanctuary Founder Cheri Ezell-Vandersluis "Learn about the Goat Dairy Industry (including organic) here": Nanny State: The Truth about Goats' Milk Meet the Woodstock Sanctuary goats: Goats The Humane Animal Farming Myth "Why Honey Is Not Vegan": Why honey is not vegan "Is Sugar Vegan?": Grassroots Veganism with Jo Stepaniak "Alright, so what on earth is wrong with sugar?": Vegan Products and Standards "7 Reasons to Buy Fair Trade Chocolate": 7 Reasons to Buy Fair Trade Chocolate Animals feel: Mulesing: Whats Wrong with Wool - Why Vegans Do Not Wear Wool "Fish May Actually Feel Pain And React To It Much Like Humans Do": Fish May Actually Feel Pain And React To It Much Like Humans Do "Evidence Mounts That Shellfish Feel Pain": Evidence Mounts That Shellfish Feel Pain : DNews "Consciousness Is Everywhere": Consciousness Is Everywhere Vivisection: Page on vivisectioninformation.com Page on vivisectioninformation.com An Examination of Animal Experiments Americans For Medical Advancement Dario Ringach... Wrong Again on Animal Research Hypocrisy in the Animal Liberation Movement or Bad Arguments from the Speaking of Research Community? What's Wrong with the Animal Welfare Act and Other Systems of Lab Animal "Protection"? Page on fda.gov Problems with Animal Research Limitations and Dangers FAQs About Animal Testing How reliable is animal testing?; Podium Page on navs.org ABOUT Why Animal Experimentation Doesn't Work -- Reason 1: Stressed Animals Yield Poor Data Why Animal Experimentation Doesn't Work -- Reason 2: Animals Don't Get Human Diseases? Why Animal Experimentation Doesn't Work. Reason 3: Animals Aren't Little Humans History of Maternal Deprivation at UW-Madison Page on nature.com Page on vivisectioninformation.com SHAC >> Stop Huntingdon Animal Cruelty Safer Medicines Andrew Knight White Coat Waste Project "Insulin from flowers instead of pigs": http://www.popsci.com/science/ar... Books: "Sacred Cows and Golden Geese: The Human Cost of Experiments on Animals" - by C. Ray Greek M. D. & Jean Swingle Greek D.V.M.: Sacred Cows and Golden Geese: The Human Cost of Experiments on Animals: C. Ray Greek M. D., Jean Swingle Greek D.V.M.: 9780826414021: Amazon.com: Books "Specious Science: How Genetics and Evolution Reveal Why Medical Research on Animals Harms Humans"  - by C. Ray Greek M. D. & Jean Swingle Greek D.V.M.: Specious Science: How Genetics and Evolution Reveal Why Medical Research on Animals Harms Humans: Ray C. Greek, Jean Swingle, D.V.M. Greek: 9780826413987: Amazon.com: Books Hunting: "How are Deer Managed by State Wildlife Agencies?": How are Deer Managed by State Wildlife Agencies - Hunting, Conservation, License Sales and Pittman-Robertson Funds Hunting Myths: Hunting myths | eL Me "RITUALS OF DOMINIONISM - The Jim Mason Interview" By Claudette Vaughan: Jim Mason Companion Animals: Home "The Vegan Feline: Can my feline companion be a vegan?" by Laurie Jeffreys DVM: The Vegan Feline: "Can my feline companion be a vegan?" by Laurie Jeffreys DVM Logic, Myth And Advocacy In Veganism: Rbutr App.: Introducing the rbutr Toolbar - rbutr Anywhere, Anytime, Any Platform. Link to Misinformation Safely! "Moral Concern, Moral Impulse, and Logical Argument in Animal Rights Advocacy": Page on abolitionistapproach.com In Vitro Meat Is Still Exploitation Of Animals: 6 Reasons Why You Should Not Support In Vitro Meat! 'In vitro' meat has no place in animal rights campaigns "Why Hitler Was Not a Vegetarian" by Rynn Berry: Rynn Berry Tom Billings and Beyond Vegetarianism--Raw Food, Vegan, Fruitarian, Paleo Diets: Tom Billings and beyondveg.com "An Open Letter to the Facebook Commenter Who Said that Vegans Are Hippie Fascists": An Open Letter to the Facebook Commenter Who Said that Vegans Are Hippie Fascists "People Are Not Vegan Because Of You" by Gary Smith: People aren’t vegan because of YOU - The Thinking Vegan "How The "Go Vegan" Message Pepetuates The Objectification Of Nonhumans - By Kelly": How the "Go Vegan" Message Perpetuates the Objectification of Nonhumans "Some Thoughts on Why Vegans Criticise Vegans for Promoting Veganism": Some Thoughts on Why Vegans Criticise Vegans for Promoting Veganism "Rhys Southan's attempt to discredit veganism": Rhys Southan's attempt to discredit veganism "Harriet Hall's 'Critique' of Greger's "Uprooting the Leading Causes of Death" by Don Matesz: Harriet Hall's "Critique" of Greger's "Uprooting the Leading Causes of Death" "Vegetarianism: less grain for cattle, fewer animals killed in grain fields": Vegetarianism: less grain for cattle, fewer animals killed in grain fields "If You Were Alone on a Deserted Island With a Pig, Would You Eat the Pig?": If You Were Alone on a Deserted Island With a Pig, Would You Eat the Pig? Ask A Stupid Question… Lists Of Fallacies In Regards To Veganism: Catalog Of Logical Fallacies: Part 1: Catalog of Logical Fallacies Used to Justify Inhumanity Fallacy in Animal Rights and Vegan Discussions: Fallacy in Animal Rights and Vegan Discussions "Fallacy in Animal Rights and Vegan Discussions": AR Fallacies "Most Common Objections to Being Vegan": Most Common Objections to Being Vegan Archives Vegan Debates: Vegan Treats "Wayfaring Vegans: Common Debate Topics": Common Debate Topics Vivisection: (Some) animal rights philosophers say the darndest things! Why Debate When You Can Publish Unopposed Nonsense? Americans For Medical Advancementpdf/ringach.pdf Blood Type Arguments: "It's not about your blood type, research shows": Popular diet theory debunked "Cusack Leila, et al, Blood type diets lack supporting evidence: a systematic review. Am J Clin Nutr, July 2013; ajcn.058693." Blood type diets lack supporting evidence: a systematic review "Moen T., Blood Type Diet—science or fantasy. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2001 Jan 30;121(3):355-8" ["Blood type diet"--science or fantas... [Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2001] Is the Eat Right For Your Type (blood type) diet fact or fiction? | NutritionFacts.org Eat Right! For Your Blood Type? Welfare-Watch (observing the hypocrisy in Animal Welfare and single-issue campaigns): Video Section: "Happy Meatopia: How Conflict of Interest is Damaging Animal Advocacy": "Can being vegan help animals?" Answered by Wayne Pacelle: Can being vegan help animals? - Curiosity Text-Based Info (primarily): Professor Gary Francione on Welfarism (one page of many on this site): Page on abolitionistapproach.com Gary Yourofsky's page on "Groups And Individuals To Avoid": Other Animal Rights Issues "Advanced Advocacy": Advanced Advocacy "Invasion of the Movement Snatchers: A Social Justice Cause Falls Prey to the Doctrine of "Necessary Evil" By James LaVeck - October, 2006: Invasion of the Movement Snatchers "Activists have no business promoting the agenda of corporate lobbyists": Activists have no business promoting the agenda of corporate lobbyists "The HSUS Missouri Agriculture Council": Page on humanesociety.org "Greenpeace Supports Killing Whales — But Do Detractors Support Something Similar?" Greenpeace Supports* Killing Whales -- But Do Detractors Support Something Similar? Books: "Animals as Persons: Essays on the Abolition of Animal Exploitation" by Gary L. Francione: Animals as Persons: Essays on the Abolition of Animal Exploitation: Gary L. Francione: 9780231139519: Amazon.com: Books "Animals Property & The Law (Ethics And Action)" by Gary L. Francione: Animals Property & The Law (Ethics And Action): Gary Francione: 9781566392846: Amazon.com: Books "Eat Like You Care: An Examination of the Morality of Eating Animals" by Gary L. Francione & Anna Charlton: Eat Like You Care: An Examination of the Morality of Eating Animals: Gary L Francione, Anna Charlton: 9781492386513: Amazon.com: Books "Introduction to Animal Rights: Your Child or the Dog?" by Gary L. Francione and Alan Watson: Introduction to Animal Rights: Your Child or the Dog?: Gary L. Francione, Alan Watson: 9781566396929: Amazon.com: Books "Rain Without Thunder: The Ideology of the Animal Rights Movement" by Gary L. Francione: Amazon.com: Rain Without Thunder: The Ideology of the Animal Rights Movement eBook: Gary L. Francione: Books "The Animal Rights Debate: Abolition or Regulation? (Critical Perspectives on Animals: Theory, Culture, Science and Law)" by Gary L. Francione: The Animal Rights Debate: Abolition or Regulation? (Critical Perspectives on Animals: Theory, Culture, Science and Law): Gary L. Francione, Robert Garner: 9780231149556: Amazon.com: Books "Vivisection and Dissection in the Classroom: A Guide to Conscientious Objection" by Gary L. Francione: Vivisection and Dissection in the Classroom: A Guide to Conscientious Objection: Anna E. Francione Gary L. And Charlton: 9781881699002: Amazon.com: Books "We're Vegan!" by Anna Bean: ${fbTitleEscaped} These links and tons more: Colin Wright - On Veganism: Disclaimer: I am 100%... Section 2: Science/Health/Nutrition: Video Section: The Myths About Proteins: "The Dangerous Truth About Protein" - Janice Stanger, Ph.D.: "The Truth About Protein" - Dr. Tel Oren (MD): Dr. T. Colin Campbell explains the science of why animal proteins are toxic: Dr. T. Colin Campbell responds to Denise Minger's attempt to refute his findings: China Study author Colin Campbell slaps down critic "Pandemic Prevention, Infectious Diseases, Aids, Climate Change, Influenza" - Dr. Michael Greger: "Eggs and Diabetes" - Dr. Michael Greger: "Who Says Eggs Aren't Safe?": "Nutrient Blocking Effects Of Dairy" - Dr. Michael Greger: Nutrient Blocking Effects of Dairy "Eggs Versus Cigarettes In Atherosclerosis: One egg a day (whether factory farmed, free range or back yard), equals smoking 25,000 cigarettes" - Dr. Michael Greger: Eggs vs. Cigarettes in Atherosclerosis Why all calories are not equal: "Troubled Teeth: Dealing with Dental Dilemmas": Also, watch any video on Youtube starring "Durianrider": TedX: "A vegan bodybuilding experiment: Joshua Knox at TEDxFremont": "The food we were born to eat: John McDougall at TEDxFremont": "Debunking the paleo diet: Christina Warinner at TEDxOU": "Plant-strong & healthy living: Rip Esselstyn at TEDxFremont": "Plant Based Nutrition: Julieanna Hever at TEDxConejo 2012": "Tackling diabetes with a bold new dietary approach: Neal Barnard at TEDxFremont": Text-Based Info (primarily): Comparative Anatomy: "Humans Are Herbivores" - Chart Of Comparative Anatomy And Bio-Chemistry by Colin Wright View image: Obligate Comparison 01 "Humans are naturally plant-eaters: according to the best evidence: our bodies" by Michael Bluejay: Humans are natural plant-eaters -- in-depth article "The Comparative Anatomy Of Eating": The Comparative Anatomy of Eating Page on adaptt.org "A rational critique of the talk: 'Humans Are Omnivores' adapted from a talk by vivisectionist John McArdle, Ph.D" - by Laurie Forti: Humans are NOT Omnivores "Science Verifies That Humans Are Frugivores": Science Verifies That Humans Are Frugivores "20 Questions On Atherosclerosis": Page on nih.gov Myths About Food: "The Mystique of Protein and Its Implications" By T. Colin Campbell, PhD: The Mystique of Protein and Its Implications - Plant-Based Diet - Nutrition Studies "5 Ridiculous Myths About Cow’s Milk": 5 Ridiculous Myths About Cow’s Milk Understanding the B12 myth: Vitamin B12 Deficiency, The Meat Eaters' Last Stand Vegan B12 deficiency: putting it into perspective | NutritionFacts.org Center for Nutrition Studies Papers on Treatments & Supplements Sources of B12 for Vegans Vitamin B12: Are You Getting It? B12 in Vegan Foods The Vitamin B12 Issue Vegan Vitamin B12 Deficiency is a Myth The Vitamin B12 Issue Vitamin B12 recommendations for Vegans More on nutrition Vegans and the B12 Deficiency Myth Table Construction from Mozafar [1994] B12 in plants? Understanding the myths about estrogen and cholesterol in plants: Phytoestrogens Phytosterol "Seven Myths About Veggies": Seven Myths About Veggies "Is soy bad for your health?": Soy and Your Health Myths about cellulose: How do I respond when a meat eater says cellulose is indigestable? What Foods Contain Cellulose? | eHow Is cellulose the latest food additive? Misc. Info: Database Of Vegan scientific articles: Vegan scientific articles - Vegan Folks The Physician's Committee For Responsible Medicine: PCRM | Power Plate A letter about why milk is harmful by a doctor Kradjian: Dr. Kradjian addresses cow's milk "10 sexual benefits of going Vegan": 10 Sexual Benefits of Going Vegan "Trans fat consumption and aggression": Trans fat consumption and aggression. Physicians Committee for Responsible Medicine A project of Vegan Action The NOTMILK Homepage! (MILK is a bad-news substance!) FoodnSport: Home of The 80/10/10 Diet by Dr. Douglas Graham The Engine 2 Diet McDougall Program & Dr. McDougall's Health and Medical Center Durianrider's Blog 30 Bananas a Day! Home Vegan Bodybuilding & Fitness Promoting Scientific Research Relevant to Plant-Based Nutrition The Woodstock Fruit Festival Animal proteins and heart disease: Protein and Heart Disease Animal proteins and diabetes: Page on nih.gov Animal proteins and inflammatory bowel disease: Meat Consumption Linked to Inflammation Red Meat (unsorted): Red meat raises red flags Page on karger.com Organic Meats Are Not Health Foods Page on nutritionfacts.org Page on nutritionfacts.org Prevent and Reverse Heart Disease Diet and Nutrition News, Advice, - HuffPost Healthy Living Ornish Diet Ranked First For Heart Health By U.S. News: Diet Inventor Explains What Makes It So Heart-Healthy Page on jamanetwork.com ingentaconnect Diet and Blood Pressures Vegetarian Dietary Patterns Are Associated With a Lower Risk of Metabolic Syndrome A Natural Cure For Impotence Cure Breast Cancer By Avoiding All Milk Products Link between high-fat diet and type 2 diabetes clarified Red Meat Consumption and Mortality: Results From 2 Prospective Cohort Studies All red meat is bad for you, new study says Meat and cancer: Environmental factors and cancer incidence and ... [Int J Cancer. 1975] Cancer incidence in vegetarians: results from... [Am J Clin Nutr. 2009] Vegetarian diets and the in... [Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev. 2013] Intensive lifestyle changes may affect the progressio... [J Urol. 2005] Effects of a low-fat, high-fiber diet and exerci... [Nutr Cancer. 2006] Dietary fat in relation to tumorigene... [Prog Biochem Pharmacol. 1975] Page on nih.gov The Answer to the Pritikin Puzzle Page on nutritionfacts.org Page on nutritionfacts.org Page on nutritionfacts.org Page on nutritionfacts.org Ex Vivo Cancer Proliferation Bioassay Meat Consumption and Cancer Risk PCRM | 1907 New Study in Pediatrics Shatters Milk Myth Dr. McDougall's Health & Medical Center Do fast foods cause asthma, rhinoconjunctivitis and eczema? Global findings from the International Study of Asthma and Allergies in Childhood (ISAAC) Phase Three -- Ellwood et al. 68 (4): 351 -- Thorax Meat, smoking have strongest links to cancer incidence rates Page on ornishspectrum.com Intestinal Microbial Metabolism of Phosphatidylcholine and Cardiovascular Risk — NEJM Page on ornishspectrum.com Egg, red meat, and poultry intake and risk of lethal prostate cancer in the prostate specific antigen-era: incidence and survival Eating Meat Kills More People Than Previously Thought Could A Vegan Diet Help Prevent Cancer? (read comments) Meat consumption and risk of breast cancer in the UK Women's Cohort Study Meat intake and risk of stomach and esoph... [J Natl Cancer Inst. 2006] Meat and diabetes: Type 2 Diabetes and the Vegan Diet Meat and osteoporosis: Eating less meat may help reduce osteoporosis risk, studies show Meat and arthritis: Protein, iron, and meat consumption and risk for rheumatoid arthritis: a prospective cohort study Meat and Alzheimers: Diet and Alzheimer's Disease Page on weebly.com Eggs: Intestinal Microbial Metabolism of Phosphatidylcholine and Cardiovascular Risk — NEJM Dairy: Dairy & cancer: Milk consumption is a risk factor for p... [Asia Pac J Clin Nutr. 2007] Milk consumption is a risk factor for prostate c... [Nutr Cancer. 2004] Hormones in milk can be dangerous Page on biomedcentral.com Childhood dairy intake and adult cancer risk: 65-y follow-up of the Boyd Orr cohort Milk and lactose intakes and ovarian cancer risk in the Swedish Mammography Cohort Dairy products, calcium, and prostate cancer risk in the Physicians' Health Study http://www.ornishspectrum.com/wp... GALACTOSE CONSUMPTION AND METABOLISM IN RELATION TO THE RISK OF OVARIAN CANCER Page on eugeneveg.org A prospective study of dietary lactose and ovar... [Int J Cancer. 2004] Dairy causes infant apnea and crib death: Cow’s Milk Casomorphin, Crib Death, and Autism | NutritionFacts.org Cow's-milk-induced infant apnoe... [J Pediatr Gastroenterol Nutr. 2011] Dairy and autism: Beta-casomorphins-7 in infants on different type of... [Peptides. 2009] Page on nutritionfacts.org Dairy and osteoporosis: Preventing and Reversing Osteoporosis Three Daily Servings of Reduced-Fat Milk: An Evidence-Based Recommendation? Dairy and diabetes: Children and Diabetes Dairy and athsma: Asthma explained by common allergy to milk and dairy products Dairy and Crohn's disease: Crohn's disease Dairy and other illnesses: The Myth about Milk and Protein Got Truth? The Dairy Industry’s Junk Science Health Concerns about Dairy Products http://nutritionfacts.org/video/... http://www.all-creatures.org/fac... High school dietary dairy intake and teen... [J Am Acad Dermatol. 2005] Milk allergy Symptoms - Diseases and Conditions - Mayo Clinic THE LINK BETWEEN DAIRY ALLERGIES, CHRONIC EAR INFECTIONS AND ASTHMA Fish: The McDougall Newsletter February 2003 (Read the next 2 in order) Cholesterol in Fish Cholesterol in Hot Dogs Other info on diabetes: http://spectrum.diabetesjournals... Marijuana: The next diabetes drug? "Dietary intake of carbohydrates and risk of type 2 diabetes: the European Prospective Investigation into Cancer-Norfolk study": Dietary intake of carbohydrates and risk of type 2 diabetes: the European Prospective Investigation into Cancer-Norfolk study "Transfat In Animal Fat": http://nutritionfacts.org/2014/0... Vegan diet reverses heart disease: Vegetarian Diet to Reverse Heart Disease | LIVESTRONG.COM Section One: Preventing and Reversing Heart Disease Vegan diet and obesity: The effects of a low-fat, plant-based dietary inter... [Am J Med. 2005] A two-year randomized weight loss tr... [Obesity (Silver Spring). 2007] http://nutritionfacts.org/video/... Vegan diet and cancer: Soy products in the managemen... [Curr Opin Clin Nutr Metab Care. 2012] Incidence and mortality of testicular and prost... [Int J Cancer. 2002] Prediagnosis soy food consumption and lung canc... [J Clin Oncol. 2013] http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubm... http://ajcn.nutrition.org/conten... http://ajcn.nutrition.org/conten... http://nutritionfacts.org/2013/0... http://nutritionfacts.org/2013/0... Vegan strength: http://www.veganstrength.org/ Animals Deserve Absolute Protection Today and Tomorrow/athletes.html http://www.telegraph.co.uk/news/... http://www.ecorazzi.com/2014/02/... http://www.pledgevegan.com/vegan... Vegan diet misc.: http://www.vrg.org/nutrition/pro... http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubm... http://www.thepermanentejournal.org/.../fall/5552-diet.html http://www.huffingtonpost.com/ka... http://www.independentsciencenew... Harmful Plant-Based Foods: "Sugar Facts and Myths: Why Sugar is Bad for You": http://www.motherearthnews.com/r... Recipes/Food: Videos: How to make Vegan yogurt: Text-based: Food Guides: Vegan food pyramid: http://postimg.org/image/ejdv00zj5/ "Your Guide to Going Dairy Free; Plant-Based Milks, Cheeses, and More": http://freefromharm.org/food-pro... Vegan cheese: http://www.buteisland.com/ Vegan liquor guide: http://www.barnivore.com/ Recipe Sites: http://livevegan.org http://vegweb.com http://meatoutmondays.org http://www.thisdishisvegetarian.... A two-time Cupcake Wars winner on the chemistry of vegan baking: http://www.splendidtable.org/sto... Books: "Dying For A Hamburger: Modern Meat Processing and the Epidemic of Alzheimer's Disease": http://www.amazon.com/Dying-Hamb... "Prevent and Reverse Heart Disease: The Revolutionary, Scientifically Proven, Nutrition-Based Cure Paperback" by Caldwell B. Esselstyn Jr.: http://www.amazon.com/gp/product... "The 80/10/10 Diet" - Dr. Douglas N. Graham: http://www.amazon.com/The-80-10-... "The China Study: The Most Comprehensive Study of Nutrition Ever Conducted And the Startling Implications for Diet, Weight Loss, And Long-term Health" by T. Colin Campbell, PhD: http://www.amazon.com/gp/product... More link lists on Veganism and health: https://www.facebook.com/notes/v... https://www.dropbox.com/sh/23yqf... Section 3: Ecological (primarily): Video Section: "Making the Connection - Why Vegan? PART 1": "Making the Connection - Why Vegan? PART 2": Text-Based Info (primarily): Environmental Destruction: "What Would Happen To All The Animals If Everyone Went Vegan?" by Will Tuttle: http://www.onegreenplanet.org/un... Book Review: “Food Choice And Sustainability: Why Buying Local, Eating Less Meat, And Taking Baby Steps Won't Work” by Dr. Richard Oppenlander: http://www.ourhenhouse.org/2014/... "Livestock Impacts On The Environment": http://www.fao.org/ag/magazine/0... "Land": http://www.vegansociety.com/reso... "Evaluating the environmental impact of various dietary patterns combined with different food production systems": http://www.eve.ucdavis.edu/catof... "Environment": http://www.woodstocksanctuary.or... http://www.animalvisuals.org/pro... What goes into a burger: http://www.npr.org/blogs/thesalt... Grass-Fed Beef Is Not Better For The Environment: http://www.examiner.com/article/... Sustainable (Veganic) Farming: "Build a $300 underground greenhouse for year-round gardening": http://www.treehugger.com/green-... "Sunizona Family Farms": http://m.sunizonafamilyfarms.com... GMOs: Non-GMO Shopping Guide: http://www.nongmoshoppingguide.com/ Images you can print and hand out as flyers: http://s449.photobucket.com/user... Updated info for the images: https://www.facebook.com/squeeze... Another link list on Veganism and ecology: https://www.facebook.com/notes/v... Section 4: Veganism-Related (misc. non-Vegan issues related to Veganism): Videos: "The Story Of Your Enslavement": "A radical experiment in empathy": Sam Richards at TEDxPSU: "How to Change the World With Love": Joey Adler at TEDxMontreal: "For argument's sake" by Daniel H. Cohen: "The Rationalization of Misogyny: Why I left the Vegan Skeptic Community": http://academicabolitionistvegan... Text-Based Info: World Clock: http://www.poodwaddle.com/Stats/ "You Decide: Save the People or Save the Planet": "News is bad for you – and giving up reading it will make you happier": http://www.theguardian.com/media... "Which Products Should You Buy Fair Trade?": http://mambosprouts.com/news/whi... Cats are not the real threat to birds: https://www.alleycat.org/sslpage... Anarcho-Syndicalism at Wikipedia: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ana... "Minority Rules: Scientists Discover Tipping Point for the Spread of Ideas": http://news.rpi.edu/luwakkey/2902 "What is 'Nutri-washing' and Why Should You Care?": http://www.nutritionbykiki.com/b... These 10 Corporations Control Almost Everything You Buy: http://www.realfarmacy.com/these... Updated 100w ago • View Upvotes