Which is the best sitcom: the Big Bang Theory, HIMYM or Friends?
Speaking of facts and figures, FRIENDS is ranked at 39 on IMDB top 250 TV shows. HIMYM is rated at 223 Source : IMDb Top 250 TV However it is important to consider that TVF Pitchers is at 24 and even though I totally loved it, but come on! Chandler and Barney literally defined LMFAO for me. The thing about TV show enthusiasts is that we don't compare every show we fell in love with, it's love, it was unique every time. Comparing these two in the comedy genre is like comparing Lord of the Rings and Game of Thrones in fantasy. One speaks to the inner child within us full of hope and dreams and the other speaks to the adult who has come to terms with embracing a bit of darkness too. I love Friends because it brings in that warm and fuzzy feeling that one can live through only until college, the beautiful and innocent dynamics of a group of friends who meet up to have coffee and end up having a great time. A time when love and dating had no complications whatsoever. That's what Friends invokes in people. Also it came first (like LOTR) so it will automatically set the benchmark for a comedy series about a group of friends. HIMYM on the other hand can sometimes get too real, it is more about how dating and friendships in your late twenties look like. People start meeting up only to drink, friends start getting married and their priorities change, relationship issues, trust issues, baggage, priorities above feelings, casual relationships, breakups that leave you scarred for life, manipulation, getting way too close to getting married before it doesn't work out, being unsure of where your life is going, becoming numb, giving up, losing all hope and finally realizing that it all happened to put you in the right place at the right time. (Though I totally feel they should have ended it when they met.) It's about finding humour through all those ups and downs of twenties when things get way too real. HIMYM helps us laugh at the harsh realities of dating, FRIENDS reminds us of how simpler life was when we were younger and we used to sweat over the tiniest of problems. That's why they are unique but most people prefer FRIENDS, because no matter how great the whisky was last night, the christmasy feeling that a coffee with cinnamon and vanilla gives the next morning, is something we would rather hold on to. Like this answer? Here's a copy of my novel OFfTraCk.pdf for you to read. 