Which is the best sitcom: the Big Bang Theory, HIMYM or Friends?
The PLOT How I Met Your Mother has a group of friends with varied lifestyles and their own ideology of love. The people are very different from each other, yet are closest of friends. There is one couple who is well settled, a guy who is in love with another cast member and makes people root for their love. There's a guy who scores women by the scores, and is the go-to guy one-liners and catch phrases. When you think about it, it's a little like F.R.I.E.N.D.S, only they're going with Joey-Rachel storyline instead of Ross-Rachel one. Let it be known though, that I don't think HIMYM is half the show on its best days, than what F.R.I.E.N.D.S was at its worst. The setting of HIMYM allows them to include new people into the cast, as love interests of the core members, and keep things fresh. However, they do heavily rely on over the top drama, catch-phrases, puns about sex & women to engage the audience. I believe that sex, and everything related to it, always sells. To how many, depends entirely on how elegantly you package it. There have been many shows, some more successful than others, that explored dating and relationships - Sex and the City, Scrubs, Will & Grace, Caroline in the City, and Mad About You to name a few. And they all brought their own flavor to try and stand out from the rest. HIMYM stands out because of its stellar cast, and the character of Barney Stinson. Neil Patrick Harris has done an amazing job on the show, and has created a loyal fan-base for himself and in-turn for the show. The Big Bang Theory is also in its own way a show about friends, and a show about dating and relationships. To try and stand out from the rest, they've used the premise that the entire male cast of the show are geeks. It was a bold move, as I'm sure it would be on the minds of creators and the network, that they might alienate a large part of their audience. The show struck a chord with most though, and has developed a loyal fan base among science geeks. The show is also, not limited to the geeky audience, as there are some who laugh at Sheldon's jokes, and there are some who laugh at Sheldon. The show initially concentrated on science jokes to get by, but now has been going more and more down the line of relationship-humor. The science part is still there, but is heavily toned down for generating mass-appeal. Like Neil, Jim Parsons also has made huge fan base for himself, and is awesome in the role of Sheldon. I like the fact that his jokes are more intelligent, and rely less on puns and catchphrases (except Bazinga!, of course) Current Standings The premise itself, is flawed when the narration is all about Ted explaining to his kids about how he met their mother, yet many episodes have nothing to with him or his relationships. I for one, am willing to overlook this as long as the show entertains. The stage where both the shows are on, I enjoy TBBT way more than I do HIMYM. Simply for the fact that HIMYM's storyline is becoming repetitive, and forced. They have over done the on-again-off-again drill with Robin-Ted and Robin-Barney. They bring love-interests for Ted, Robin, and Barney, extract 10-15 episodes in the process and then end their flings for stupidest of reasons, like she-was-too-dumb, or had-this-particular-nagging-habbit which the person dating so conveniently failed to notice till others pointed it out. There is no concept of talking/working things out. They just shut the character out. Just like that. If I had to watch sexual-humor and meaningless flings with hot-ladies, I'll stick my neck out and say Charlie Harper did it better in Two and a half men. HIMYM showed promise, and still has the premise to do better. Much better. I hope it gets better and not stretches the series for the heck of it. Not everything has to run for ten seasons. All is not well with TBBT either. They've also milked the on-again-off-again part of Leonard-Penny relationship. The humor hasn't been as great over the last couple of seasons as it used to be in the first two. It's still better than most other sitcoms currently on-air though. The Promise of Recovery Unless they start giving closures to their smaller plots in a way that is not so-over-the-top that it shames the intelligence of it's viewers, I fear the worst for HIMYM. Two and a half men, never tried to be "real" or "connect to the audience" on a human level when it came to relationships. And that was its charm. HIMYM wants us to believe in love when the romantic speeches that Ted and Barney twice throw each season. They must figure out a way to back it up with some substantial storyline, if they want to do it again and again. They can. I'm not sure they would. For TBBT, the path they're headed, I fear they'll run out of "freshness" because none of the characters are big into dating, and letting new people into their lives. Just because it is against their nature of character. So they can't keep introducing new characters/guest stars at a pace that other shows do. Only Leonard has been shown to be capable of getting into new relationships. I hope they don't keep toying with Leonard-Penny relationship, for the sake of extending the show. Then again, we've seen with Two and a Half Men that Chuck Lorre apparently has a hard time letting shows go, even when they've lived well past their time. If I had to bet, I'll bet on HIMYM's recovery over TBBT. Verdict (Just my opinion) Currently, both HIMYM and TBBT are not  nearly as good as they used to be. In their prime (first couple of seasons), HIMYM has been a better show than TBBT. The way they stand now I believe TBBT is a better/funnier show than HIMYM. If the shows do stretch out for more than a couple of seasons from now, HIMYM has a better chance of regaining its lost glory. Updated 161w ago • View Upvotes