How can I teach myself to play the acoustic guitar?
There are a few suggestions: Learn to tune your guitar properly, both with a tuner and to itself. How to Tune a Guitar to Itself Using the Fifth-Fret Method If you play along with a recording, you may need to adjust your tuning slightly to match the recording so it doesn't sound wrong. This is much harder than it sounds. Learn a couple basic strumming patterns well. You can use this when you're just experimenting with chords so you have something that sounds OK to make you happy enough to keep playing. Learn the CAGED chord forms. Nearly every chord on the guitar is made of the same five forms slightly altered. The Guitarist's Guide to the CAGED System Pick some tunes that you like and learn to play them. (Keep it simple to start! 90's rock tunes like "Breakfast at Tiffany's" by Deep Blue Something come to mind as really approachable. They don't have to be your *favorite* songs just yet.) You can find chord charts on the Internet, but sometimes these are flat out wrong. For around $20, you can get a good fake book in a music store or on Amazon such as The Easy Nineties Fake Book: Melody, Lyrics & Simplified Chords for 100 Songs in the Key of C (Fake Books): Hal Leonard Corp.: 9781423469421: Amazon.com: Books or Amazon.com: The New Guitar Big Book of Hits -- '90s to Today: 51 Contemporary Favorites (Guitar TAB) (New Guitar Tab Big Book) (9781470610999): Alfred Publishing Staff: Books Many of these use simplified substitutions for more complicated chords. For instance, if the band originally played an F# half diminished seventh in first inversion, the fake book is likely to simplify this to just Am or D7/F#. Obviously, learning music theory can also help you figure out substitutions as well but that's for a little farther down the road. Record yourself. It's easy to hack along while a professional plays on a recording. Put headphones in and use a recorder to hear how you really sound. Play. A lot! That's how I started playing. Best of luck! 