Furries: What was it like to be at Midwest FurFest during the chlorine gas attack in December, 2014?
I was dancing it up at the con with my wolf friend, and there was also my partner who was outside checking badges at the ballroom door during the rave. The beat was awesome and the energy in the room was off the charts!  The DJ set was over and a new DJ came on.  I have noticed that the room got remarkably emptier.  Part was perhaps due to the DJ change dynamics, but later I found out that evacuation procedure started slowly -- first people closest to the exit inside the ballroom were told to evacuate, before it was announced to everyone. So back to me dancing it up at the con... when suddenly, the DJ drops the beat (pretty badly I must say, could have at least slowly turn down the volume, instead of shutting it off abruptly) and tells us to head out.  I didn't hear all that he said, but everybody suddenly started to just head out without a fight.  I expected true ravers to express their disapproval in some way, but no, all furries just tapped out peacefully like it was planned.  It was about 1:38am.  Everybody got outside in about under 5 minutes. I was wearing shorts, and despite living in Michigan, it was pretty chilly out.  After a while I got used to it, but still it was not warm.  I was with the wolf and another guy who was a firefighter.  He got onto a police scanner and was listening to things going on, and directing us to go this or that way.  I repeatedly suggested us to go to my vehicle that was in the parking lot, where we could get warm, and go elsewhere, but it was met with silence, so I just kept hanging out.  It was not clear also if it was safe to go to the parking structure that was in the same hotel.  Police vehicles, fire trucks, ambulances, other cars just kept coming and coming.  I think there were at least 40 vehicles that arrived to the scene.  Theories ranged from "fire alarm", to "gas was found in hotel".  We were told to stand 20 feet away from the building, gas?  I was thinking could the building blow up (?).  There were too many fire trucks on the scene.  It looked like they wanted to be ready for whatever happens. Suddenly, we were allowed back into the rave area for 4 minutes, and then ushered back outside.  Someone made the wrong call. I've met an organizer of another fur con, who was pissed at the way someone in security handled evacuation.  It looked like someone with fake authority was creating too much ruckus telling people to get the fuck out, instead of calmly directing traffic. I saw a big huge truck pull up with words "Hazardous Incident Team" on it.  "Woah",  I thought.  We went to a nearby parking lot, but were directed out of it.  We walked across the street and stayed there for a bit. Eventually my partner buddy called me and found us.  He managed to secure a table cover, which we used to cover ourselves completely with and get warm that way.  It was me now, him, and the wolf, under a blanky :)   It was mmr, cozy and warm! People outside could only see our feet, as they were sticking out, and it was fun when someone would tap me gently on the soles of my shoes.  The firefighter buddy I think was standing outside by us, feeling important and feeling his call of duty as a firefighter.  He was observing the situation, and watching out for people and directing traffic, being a part of the scene.  He was good.  He also was the only one in our group who had a coat. Then, someone said they opened some kind of a hall area in another hotel and started directing traffic there.  We kept hanging out under the blanket, which was awesome very awesome!  Finally we got out and joined the crowds walking towards the extra space to the neighboring hotel.  It was cold again, as the blanked was not covering us completely anymore, but just hanging around us.  There was a delay due to crowds and doors to the space not yet being fully open.  I was thinking f this, it was great under the blanky, why are we moving. The doors got opened, and we were let in.  Yay, it was actually heated!!  It was apparently an area for a dog show.  It was a huuuuuuuuuuuuuge space huuuuge.  HUGE.  It was like a giant huge giant humongous warehouse.  I heard some barking from cages towards the right.  "heh" I thought.  My partner buddy secured some folding chairs from a dog exhibit and we lounged there for a while.  The firefighter guy got left outside, so it was me, wolf and my buddy now. We took pix of each other, and just lounged around for awhile.  We were told to move further in later, so we moved our chars and blanky further down inside the warehouse, and that's where we sat probably for at two hours or so just playing with our phones, watching people, watching twitter stream, reading people warning us to keep our phones charged, don't run them down; tons of people asking if so and so is okay, telling us they are okay, informing us of firefighter and ambulance work, speculating on what happened, occasionally posting funny pics, and so on.   People complaining about losing sleep as some did have to work the next day.  I didn't envy them. Rumors that gotten my way were that one of the hotel's AC systems leaked R22 into the rest of the ducts and that the system was old and used the EPA-banned coolant.  Only towards very of the night the evacuation it got out that it may be intentional.  Welp, there were other things like people screaming out "Quiet!!" as if someone had some news to report, but nothing happening after that.  Later finding out that an ambulance entered the hall space to take someone with poisoning symptoms out of the space.  And that's why calls for quiet was needed. Eventually we were told this -- we will go outside and stay outside for a while and then we will be let into the hotel.  Why were we to stay outside for a while was not said.  I still don't know.  Why stand outside in the cold, waiting to be let into the hotel?  I don't know.  That, was stupid of whomever did the crowd control.  What's more the standing outside part was communicated to us beforehand, so it sounds like it was intentional (?). And so we piled out of the warm warehouse space, out into the street, and stood there for a while.  Then someone came over from inside the hotel and opened up the doors.  We piled into the hotel and stood there with the crowds, while we were being let into the hotel a small group at a time. And then I went to the room.  I thought I lost my camera on the way in, so I went outside my room for a bit, saw a friend who waved at me, then I went back inside when my buddy called me back, and then I went to bed.  It was 5:15am Chicago time. Sleep is at a premium during a con.  I saw a lot of tired sleepy, somewhat annoyed people during evacuation.  When I came back home all I did was sleep and work.  Slept for 12 hours straight after work, barely, and my body is still trying to catch up.  Gonna go sleep again now. I must say people who really got poisoned, were ones really not having fun, during, and after.  Choking - not fun.  Gasping for air - not fun.  Or someone mentioned, coughing up blood - no thanks.  Ambulance ride along is probably upwards of $1,700, and ER stay is probably at least just as much if not more.  Not fun. UPDATE: from someone else (not me) who was hospitalized (edited for content, spelling): "I have been in the hospital for a week dealing with after affects of exposure to the chlorine gas i did not realize truly how affected i really was. I have a few [conditions] and this has left me more susceptible to the exposure long term wise. and has sent my health issues into a tailspin. I had a seizure last night and I have chemical burns that appeared on my neck, head, and wrist.  I also have a bronchial lesion. They (docs) have me on high dose of magnesium for splitting headaches and topical silver sulfadiazine for the chemical burn. I am just very concerned about everyone else who may have gotten more exposure than they think. please get yourself checked out if you are experiencing and burn or skin lesions, excessive coughing or heart arythmia". Updated 57w ago • View Upvotes • Not for Reproduction • Asked to answer by Caroline Zelonka