Why do most women wear the wrong size bra? What are the harms of doing this?
There are several reasons.   The basics of measuring for one are simply the band size and the cup size. Part of this will depend also on how a manufacturer sizes bras. Some measure band with as the circumference of the rib-cage below the breasts. Others measure the band size as the circumference above the breasts but under the armpits (I have no idea why, but it is true). Then there is various math involved here. Some makers say round up to the nearest even number (35 becomes 36, etc.), some makers say add 4 inches if you are an even number in circumference and 5 inches if you are an odd circumference. That is just for the band size. Then the cup size. More math. You measure the circumference around the fullest part of the breast (bust size), and you are supposed to do this in your current best fitting bra (which may not actually fit you). Then you subtract the band size from your bust size. Now you are ready for the charts. Again depending on the maker the sizes will vary. The general theory is that for every inch difference between bust and band size you add a cup. I.E. 1 inch=A cup, etc. Though some European makers use the half inch=cup. So 1/2 inch=A cup. As if that wasn't confusing enough, once you get past a D cup things change all over the place. Some companies use multiple D's, as in DD, DDD, etc. Others continue with the alphabet, as in D, E, F, etc. Then some companies use both ways depending on the style of bra. Confused yet? Let's add some more. There are also different cuts to "standard" bra sizes. So if you are a larger cup size you can get "fuller cut", plus cut, push-up cut, minimizer cut, etc. And then different bras for different outfits and activities, such as strapless, high impact sports, nursing, etc.  All of which can mean being a different size from your "day-to-day" bra. So of course going to a store that offers bra measuring would seem like a good idea right?  Not so fast. Are the bra fitters in that store professionally trained, with knowledge of the different makers, styles, and what constitutes a proper fit? Or did they get 5 minutes of "training" as in "Here's a tape measure, it will do the work for you"? Also, you need to be aware that some stores that offer bra size measuring will do so, then no matter what the measuring tape says, they will tell you that you are a size you aren't. Now why would they do that?  Well to move stock that doesn't sell, of course. Also there are few stores across the US that actually have well trained bra fitters, mostly only in large cities, like NYC. So unless you can book a trip, then book an appointment with these fitters, you are kind of on your own. And that is just the bra size part of it. Now add in that women's bodies vary, some have lopsided sizing, others are more well endowed than their local retailers carry, that your bra/cup size can change with hormones or weight gain (like pregnancy and periods), and you have a wonderful idea of why most women grab something that fits "well enough" and call it a day. The harm of this can be poor posture(back problems, etc.), shoulder divets (from too tight straps), calluses (from chafing/rubbing), stretched out skin (lack of support), headaches (from back, neck, and shoulder strain from an improper fit), and I am sure there are others. The most minor "harm" it can cause is having your boobs look weird under clothing. Until you have a proper fitting bra, that does all a bra is supposed to do, you have no idea that your super uncomfortable, back ache inducing, chaffing undergarment is the wrong size. 