★What is a go-to-market strategy?What does it mean when someone asks for your go-to-market strategy? What are some good examples of this?
What is Go-to-Market Strategy The term Go-to-Market or Go-to-Market Strategy is used frequently by a diverse group of people with a meaning that spans a wide range. What is even more confusing it that marketing strategy and go-to-market strategy are used interchangeable when they are actually very different concepts. Marketing strategy is usually focused on who to sell to and what to sell. The boundaries of marketing strategy run across functional lines inside an organization but marketing primarily interacts with two other functions in a company. First, marketing interacts with development via product marketing to convey market requirements and to provide content for communications and sales tools for selling. Marketing also interacts with sales to build pipeline and assist in closing opportunity more quickly. Go-to-Market Strategy Go-to-Market Strategy is focused on how the organization will put offerings into the market to reach market penetration, revenue and profitability expectations. This charter is a superset of marketing strategy as it impacts all functions within an organization with the goal of preparing the entire company for market success.  Another key point to stress is that G0-to-Market Strategy is not an event, i.e., a product launch. GTM strategy is focused on the entire product lifecycle—from concept to grave. The Go-to-Market Strategy can be over whelming if not managed properly. The key is not to try to do everything but to focus on the core issues and to nail them. For example, here is a checklist that one company used: Go-to-Market Strategy Checklist Solve a compelling business problem in a differentiated manner that demands a premium Determine the market opportunity. Decide upon the beach head target for initial market penetration. Understand the buying process: Identify the decision makers, approvers, recommenders, influencers and snipers. Understand the business issues for decision makers and develop a value proposition that resonates with them. Tie them to a compelling event. Establish a differentiated position from substitutes and alternatives. Prepare a product road and complete product life cycle. Document the distribution strategy and corresponding sales process. Create an integrated demand creation plan to create qualified opportunity. Develop a comprehensive and methodical demand management plan to follow-up on qualified opportunities. Prepare an implementation plan to ensure the offering is set-up to perform properly. Train the support organization to handle implementation and end user inquiries. Identify partners for creating awareness, interest, consideration, purchases, implementations and supporting customers.    Embed Quote