★Brand marketing strategies?market plans for brand
Marketing starts with and ends with the customer. Unfortunately many businesses get their marketing strategies wrong in the real world because they discount this fact. As much as you'd like to focus only on making a great product (or service), and hope that everybody buys it, unfortunately that's not how it works in the real-world. You can read the entire post here: Segmentation, Targeting & Positioning in the Real World Segmentation should really start by understanding the potential sources of growth - grouping customers into multiple buckets based on the choices that they make. After you've understood the various groups which can be your potential sources of growth, you need to choose from them the ones against which you'll direct your marketing resources. One of the temptations marketers tend to give in is to go blindly after the biggest segment (in volume or value). While it can be the segment with the biggest potential in itself, but the question to ask oneself is that can you even begin to serve the specific needs of that segment, and are you, given your present strengths, well placed to succeed in that segment, which will be targeted by multiple other competitors for obvious reasons. You MUST match your target segment's needs with your own strengths (likelihood to win) by making informed choices about your target audience, and IGNORE the others. Positioning is something which isn't done to your product, but actually in the mind of your prospect (as most people use their minds, rather than their brains, to make a lot of choices). And thus, for conceptualizing and executing a successful positioning strategy you need to decide on a positioning that's unique, differentiated, ownable and sustainable over the long-term, while keeping in mind your target audience's profile, the competitive frame in which you operate, and your key point of differentiation. If interested you can read the entire post here: Segmentation, Targeting & Positioning in the Real World Hope this helps. :)    Embed Quote