★How important is content in a digital marketing strategy?
Everywhere I look online there tends to be this constant belief that Content is King. I don't think I've gone a single week since 2013 without reading or hearing that line from someone. It's as if we're living in a world where Wu-Tang has come out with a new track... C.R.E.A.M: Content Rules Everything Around Me. Everyone is screaming that content is king. Everyone wants in on the content marketing space and brands from every industry are publishing content day in and day out. How much content is created every single day? A lot. How much content is created in your industry every single week? A lot. In the marketing space, there are thousands of blog posts published every day on topics very similar to me. This surge in the amount of content being created is found in every industry. In a nutshell, content is everywhere we look and is resulting in people screaming that content is king. The idea of content being king, is being promoted so frequently that the quality of content being created is suffering. Brands, organizations and businesses are pushing out hundreds of blog posts a week just because they want to be a part of this latest trend and frenzy. This brings me to the problem. The problem is that some of this content is great but it’s not able to get the attention it deserves because it’s being lost in a sea of noise. Your Best Content Is Getting Lost… Yes, you read that right. Your best content is getting lost in the sea of noise. It’s happened to me many times but I’ve taken the steps to go against the sea by recognizing that content isn’t actually king… Distribution is. D.R.E.A.M: Distribution Rules Everything Around Me. Submit your content to online communities. Distribute your content on social media channels. Make requests from friends and colleagues to share for you. Reference your own content in comments on other sites and blogs. Leverage content assets like infographics and reuse them in guest posts. These are just some of the many opportunities that exist. Look... You can invest in content but if no one see's it. It doesn't exist. Distribution is king.    Embed Quote