★What is the most underutilized marketing strategy for consumer internet startup companies?
In my opinion there are two marketing strategies that you could blanket across all start-ups... Search Engine Optimization (SEO) It's hard to just leave it at SEO since now it encompasses all of the following too: Keyword Research / Targeting Acquiring Citations Content Strategy & Creation Social Media Promotion Reputation Management The best method, in my opinion, would be to focus on content and guest blogging. Obviously, take care of all the on-site SEO issues too (learn to differentiate on-site and off-site SEO, if you haven't already). Start creating great content, that people actually need and would enjoy reading. As you start producing great content, start building relationships with bloggers, and try to get your message out through Guest Authoring a post on their blogs. Not only will this gain you authority on the subject, but it'll get you backlinks / citations. If you target blogs that cater to the audience you would like to target, you may even gain a few buying users. If this seems a bit much for you, there are plenty of consultants to help you through the entire process. E-mail Marketing This is a must! Start collecting e-mails before you even launch your start-up, have a sign-up form on the landing page. After you get everything running, make sure you have multiple ways to have users opt-in your email list. Have a form on your site, after they buy your product, offer white papers, tips, etc... Your email strategy can diverse into multiple ways. You can either keep providing weekly tips, create an autoresponder / sequential email to educate the reader on some particular subject. Example: if your Mint.com teach your users way to raise their Financial IQ. Quick way to get started is by using Mailchimp and even utilizing their vast list of Experts who can guide you through the process. The Third Strategy - Guerrilla Warefare Look up how AirBnB initially used craigslist to increase traffic to their website. Find out of the box techniques to promote your company online. There are millions of channels, find the one most relevant to you, and figure out a way to capitalize on it. I'd call this Growth Hacking more than Marketing. Conclusion As a start-up you want to find the lease time consuming, yet highest yielding method for your niche. As an entrepreneur you don't have that much time to dedicate solely to marketing. You'll be wearing multiple hats.    Embed Quote