★What are the best marketing strategies that start ups could learn and execute?
Starting from very basic things: 1. Your unique selling points. Yes, it is! Many people follow up big ideas but then soon end-up in the midle of nowhere. Focus on your product's signature characteristics in the comparision with your competitors'. If you're even not sure why you're using your products instead of competitors', it's done! 2. Based on the above point, identify your targeted customers. At the very begining, just focus on specific (and small) groups that you are sure about their demand. Look at them, brand storming about their behaviours, their interests, their desires...Take a note down and see what is the link of all those collected information. When you can find that link, you win 50%! 3. Identify your channel of approaching your targeted customers. Try to make everything simple, do not make your approaching channels to be too complicated. You cant afford to chase it in short& mid term run. 4. Your STRICT BUDGET PLAN. Dont laugh if you feel its stupid and common sense. I saw many beginners fail at this step. You must remember: Your cash will run out even before you realise that fact! In whichever way you want to approach your customers, try to work out the cost - Strictly. Do not estimate anything, contact your suppliers (if any) to take the actual quotation based on your plan. Use MS Excel to record every single piece of cash flow data and editing it regularly. You will see your potential threatens. If possible, design an simple chart (e.g, gantt chart) to have an overview on the progress of yout marketing plan in the accordance with the amount has run away from you pocket/bank account. Tips: Always having a back-up amount to cover "must spend" marketing expenses. 5. Tracking the improvement of your marketing plan. Amend if you feel something is going wrong (you've got enough tools to do so - based on the above points). The tracking procedure must be measurable, so that you can have a benchmark to evaluate correctly.    Embed Quote