★What is the best marketing strategy for a new Internet startup?Building and launching a new Internet startup is not a big deal, but making it a hit is really a big deal. The whole success lies on your marketing strategy and how successfully you devise and execute that strategy.
Internet marketing seems like a piece of cake, isnt it? The real picture is very different. If in the offline world say television you have audience fragmentation because of cable and satellite boom, in the internet world you have several channels. Every customer behaves differently (N=1) hence treating them with one brush stroke will be a gross error. Dont be scared. Start small. Get your A-B testing done. Know which are the key messages which gives you maximum output. Knowing your conversion funnels based on the channels you use for marketing. Helps you to optimise the campaigns/ budgets effectively. In any B2C model you need significant marketing burn to support customer acquisition. Take that as a given. Be prepared for the lang haul. Keep investors with reasonably deep pockets handy. Start from the basics - learn Google ad words tool (get certified). There is nothing like you doing it by yourself. Popular networks like Google will given as much as 80% coverage. Customers have started hitting the unsubscribe/ spam button and also are optin for DND. Work on getting a good optin database. Dont focus on just getting a customer - focus on a "good" customer who will use your services regularly. Know everything you need to know about them from the data they provide and the behavioral data from your business. Good customer will always fetch good valuation. You can be grossly wrong to think that you understand the customer ways and their needs. Keep building your product/ business with customer feedback. Make the next move only with customer feedback. Prempt the next wave and get the first mover advantage - Hint - Smart Phones. Build a good website. That's the face of your business in the internet world. Browsing on smart phones is just picking up. Make it mobile responsive. Its a primary requirement for any search on the internet. Over time, build a good motivated marketing team inhouse - SEO, SEM, Social Media, Paid Ads, Writer, Art, the works. Remember you are not an expert in everything. Get specialists to do it for you. Remember you are the Opera Conductor. Only you can orchestrate a symphony.    Embed Quote