★What are the highest-impact inbound marketing strategies for SaaS companies?A lot of time can be spent on inbound marketing (e.g., writing blog posts, conducting webinars, building a Twitter following, etc.). What are the highest ROI activities for an early-stage SaaS company to be involved in?
Like you mentioned, there are tons of different avenues for marketing... and the marketing mix for each company will be very different because your products and your customers are very different. Define Your Product and Market First You have to determine where your market is and what they are searching for. This will help you identify which strategies to target. In case you think I'm just giving a blow-off response... here's an example: If you are selling a storage product that allows teen girls to categorize, store and label their Justin Beiber songs... social media, with a strong focus on Twitter and Facebook (where Beiber has a huge bases of followers). But, if you're selling a storage product aimed at helping tech un-savvy people how to backup the files on their computers... you may need to look into offline methods like daytime TV advertising and radio spots. Some Avenues to Consider You've identified a few of these already, but depending on who your market is, what they are looking for and where they look... these could be some good strategies to research further: Social Media - Focus on building REAL, active, engaged fans... not just a large number of people who have clicked the "Like" or "Follow" button on your page. You could spend a lot of time (and some money) to build a giant following, with no results. So, spend your time and money in social media looking for quality, targeted, active fans... not just numbers. Email Marketing - Email is still one of the least expensive and highest converting mediums we have. Throw up a simple signup form, send a weekly newsletter and before you know it - you'll have built a relationship with a growing base of followers. Affiliate Marketing - With this strategy, you can tap into the affiliates' knowledge of your (and their) market to identify and speak to your potential customers. Plus, as a performance-based strategy, you'll pay only when affiliates send you sales (plus the cost of the tracking and management of course). Pay Per Click Search Marketing (PPC) - Buying keywords on Google (and other engines) can help you attract potential customers at the exact moment that they are looking for a solution... in the search box. It will take some testing to see which keywords actually draw clicks and sales - but paying a few cents at a time is a budget-friendly way to do it. Content Marketing/SEO/Blogging - This is a great strategy also. Using what you already know and very little money, you can build up your brand and your name as an expert in your market. There is No Fast Solution I get it - I want things to work really quickly too - but they don't. And... as I've learned myself and by watching others... the more time you spend trying to find "quick" methods, the more time you lose. Instead of trying to get something going quickly this month, and then feeling behind next month and starting another quick scheme which puts you another month behind... (you get the picture!) start now with a 3 month plan. That's right - a 3 month plan. Don't expect to see results for 90-days. If you do see some before that, great, but don't plan on it. Good luck!    Embed Quote