★Why don't people get upset by clearly deceptive marketing strategies like set a price $9.99 instead of $10?Shouldn't companies have a reputational damage by using these techniques?
Most people know that is not "clearly deceptive." Only someone with a very narrow sense of right and wrong, someone a shrink might call a "wounded narcissus,"  one who finds personal insult in the smallest, even imagined, offer that allows for interpretation, could call it deception. But it is not clearly deceptive.  It is merely a pricing strategy known in business as "fractional pricing."  The price is clear. There is no intent to deceive. It is boldly stated and (assuming for the sake of the discussion that the goods will sell at that price) simply an offer that people prefer to hear  instead of "$10.00." There is a lot of research and experimentation that suggests that $9.95 or $9.87 produces sales way higher than $9.99 in a way to make up for the slightly reduced margin of the higher price. Deception would be if the goods are not as represented (fake brand, damaged, etc.) or if the sale is rung up at a different price. I live in one of the most ethnically, religiously and cultural cities in the world, Jersey City. The market practices of the world - not those of USA -  are our common local practice. Americans consumers, especially during the last 1/2 of the 20th Century, became "trained" by mass marketers and chain stores, to assume that the price marked on something is its selling price and not open to counter offer and negotiation. This was not some nefarious plot. It was simply the logical result of stores where the transaction was handled by a clerk who had authority to make transactions only for the price that owner marked on the goods. But when you, as a consumer in a smaller business, are dealing with the owner or the manager who has responsibility for sales volume, turnover and net profit of his department or even the store, then there is the possibility of negotiation. This kind of negotiation, for that reason, is common in "third world" countries where you are often dealing directly with the owner. So, he (or she) marks the goods with the price that is the starting point of negotiations. He is not being deceptive.  It is simply the basic element of any contract, offer / counter offer, back and forth, until final agreement or termination of negotiation. The next time you come off a cruise ship or find yourself in a foreign resort dealing with a wander vendor on the beach, re-learn the ancient skill of negotiation. When someone wants $5 for that gaudy tee-shirt or coconut carved with a monkey face, ask "What's MY price if I buy right now?" You are not being deceptive. Just asking. But the lack of a discount offer tells you the owner is either sales-stupid or not the owner at all. Whatever he says, use what you have learned and either walk away because there's no negotiation possible, or make a counter offer substantially below the asking price. In most cases, if it is the owner of the goods, not a clerk, you will get a discount offer before you take three steps away. That's when the fun begins. And please trust me, negotiating a lower price is not at all disagreeable. The other side may pretend to be offended and claim you are being unfair. But until they turn their back - and maybe not even then - it's all just theater. How well does negotiation pay? Not long ago spent a few days one of the popular tourism towns in Tuscany, Italy, I was checking out of a small hotel. As usual for such small hotels, the manager was also the owner. He added up my bill for the room and the meals I had eaten in his restaurant. It came to about $300 (in Euros, of course) and as I fumbled in my pocket, he pulled the credit card gadget into the middle of the desk. My hand came up with cash. I asked, "How much for cash, no plastic." For him, cash in hand means, no delay waiting for the card processing company to pay up - sometimes that might be a week - no card processing charges, no charges by his bank against his mortgage or loan (a not uncommon practice), no taxes, and not even his wife finding out he has cash in his pocket today. He did not blink an eye but smiled and said "$200."  Deal.    Embed Quote