★How important is Google Analytics in your social media marketing strategy?
Nothing makes me happier than a good analytics question on Quora. :-) Google Analytics has made heaps of improvements over the last year, which has turned the platform into a leader in website analytics for social media traffic. If Google Analytics is your web analytics platform, there are numerous reports you can use to improve your social media campaigns and optimize your website content. You can use G.A. to track the quality of traffic from social media sites. Quality could be measured via conversions (e.g., lead form completions, purchases), micro-conversions (e.g., viewed product page, downloaded whitepaper, added product to cart), and engagement (e.g., page depth, avg. visit duration, page views/visit, site search usage). Do certain social website sources convert better than others? Do some of your tweets or status updates lend to more visits and more conversions? Leverage this information to focus your efforts on certain social sites and post content. You can also use Google Analytics to measure the quality of visitors who share your content on social networks via social plugin's on your site. Do users who "like" or "tweet" about your brand have a higher total economic impact than users who don't? Use this information to optimize your efforts on these channels, as well usage of social plug-in's in your website layout. Google Analytics is also great for measuring the social "share-ability" of your website content. Which pages are shared more than others? Are there any trends in the type of content that users are more inclined to share? You can use this information to optimize your site content to increase your brand's social network saturation. Note: Tracking social plugins, such as Facebook Like and Twitter Tweet, via Google Analytics requires a special set-up, which you can learn more about here: http://www.meadigital.com/clicko... Now, with the launch of Google Analytics new social reports you can analyze the paths of visitors from social media websites via the Google Analytics Flow Visualization tool. For select social media websites, you can see activities and mentions about your brand that take place off of your websites. Google Analytics social data hub partners include networks such as Google+, Digg, Reddit and Delicious. Learn which pages are being shared and what is being said about your website. You can also see user profile photos and usernames for public posts. There are a number of other really valuable social media reporting features in Google Analytics, that you can read about at the resources below. http://www.meadigital.com/clicko... http://analytics.blogspot.com/20... http://searchenginewatch.com/art...    Embed Quote