★What's the best way to develop and execute an online marketing strategy?A small local business wants to take its marketing efforts digital. They want a three-pronged attack: Blog, Bi-weekly email, Facebook. How do you sell your advertising space and at what price ?
I would recommend taking a different approach. Here is why: The current approach is jumping several steps. Force fitting media and/or social media channels is not the best approach because it will eventually lose direction. Here are some ideas to kick start the process: 1. Target audience - It all starts with who is the target audience for your client. Who are they? What interests them? What channels and social media channels do they frequently use? So if your target is not likely to frequent blogs, having one would not attract them. 2. Content - The above would also help you identify your communication strategy. It will give you an idea of how they (target) communicates: what topics do they like to discuss and general style of communication? Social listening is a good method to achieve both steps and search potential channels and figure out the typical persona of your audience. You can also research your competitors/other local businesses. 3. Internal assessment - Most importantly, what line of business does this small business engage in. Certain types of social media channels lend themselves better than others. You also need to see what type of content can you put out to engage your audience. If the small business is in retail, I would suggest Pinterest - posting pictures of your own items as well as other inspirations. You can also run a contest and get the audience to pin their favorite items from your website and create an outfit or wardrobe. The idea is to leverage your assets and weave your business into the social channels to engage the audience. Jonathan is bang on when he says engage the audience. That's always the way to go than just talking at them. Very few brands can do that and get away from it. Finally, see how you can leverage and cross promote channels. So have your social media links in emails, integrate social into the website, and build a personality into your social media channels. People respond well when they feel they are talking to a person. Look at PETA's Twitter page. Parting thought: social takes time and the client will need to be responsive to its audience. Engage Engage Engage.    Embed Quote