★How important is content in a digital marketing strategy?
A recent research report put together by Sharethrough and Forbes Insights, "Go Native: How Marketers Are Reinventing The Online Video Advertising Experience",  provides interesting insight regarding the importance of content in a  digital marketing strategy. The Forbes Insights and Sharethrough  Research teams conducted a study of  136 marketing executives from leading brands including Intel, JetBlue,  Heineken, Honda, & K-Swiss to assess the market’s appetite for  native advertising and branded video content. The following are some of  the comments found in the study about the importance of content : "Consumption  has changed, and advertisers will have to continue to follow  [consumers]. Quality has become more important now."  - Ron Amram  (Senior Media Director, Heineken USA) "Content has to get at what the brand is about. If  we're going to do tie-ins, they've got to fit into what we do." - Marty  St. George (SVP, Marketing and Commercial Strategy, JetBlue) "It all comes down to the concept and the talent that's involved in the concept" -Billie Goldman (Co-Marketing Manager, Intel) They practice what they preach... Heineken's recent advertising initiative was a multi-part series. The most recent installment intersects with the release of James Bond film, Skyfall. It features a everyman caught between the current Bond, Daniel  Craig and sinister-looking villains. The segment ends with Bond  skydiving from a snow-covered trestle.The ad received nearly 7 million  views on Heineken YouTube Channels. In June 2012, JetBlue created “Get Away With It,” a game show-themed campaign highlighting the company’s Getaways vacation packages. The show ran in roughly 15-minute installments live-streamed over five days. Contestants answered travel-related questions via Skype, while viewers could learn how to become a contestant on the JetBlue website, which also linked directly to the shows. “If you made it through 12 minutes of that video, you learned an awful lot about JetBlue Getaways and about JetBlue,” says St. George. “The good thing is that the shows are actually hilarious. So you not only learned those things, but you actually had a good time, too.” Intel produced "TheBeauty Inside".  The 40-minute film, which was released earlier in 2012 in six  installments, marries independent film-making, social media and  advertising. Intel Co-Marketing Manager Billie Goldman calls the genre “social film." The Beauty Inside generated more than 66 million views by October 2012, along with approximately 8,400 Twitter followers and 95,000 Facebook fans. At StumbleUpon, we provide Paid Discovery (StumbleUpon's  ad platform) advertisers some of the following tips to help them better  understand what type of content works and doesn't work on a native  advertising platform: What works well? Engaging Content: Reward visitors with a well-designed and content-rich page that engages them from the moment they land on the page. Rich Information: You wouldn’t want to see a film open  with a 10-minute continuous shot with nothing interesting going on,  would you? That same principle applies to your page. Make sure the  viewer knows what they’re getting by providing context to your content,  and allowing them to fully interact with your site. Appealing Visuals: Nobody likes  looking at a site that resembles a quickly-modified template. Provide them with visuals that will draw their attention to  everything your site has to offer. Check out our blog post 7 Reasons Why charity: water’s Ad Inspired — and Delivered — Using Paid Discovery to understand the importance of GREAT content.    Embed Quote