★What major elements comprise a good online fashion marketing strategy?
Both Marianna and Kylee bring up good points: don't expect immediate ROI, make sure that your brand tells a good story, and be proactive on social media. With 3 years' experience working on both the brand side and the agency side for some of the world's biggest fashion brands, I'd like to add a few tips of my own: 1. Stay abreast of new media and emerging technologies. You're aware that fashion bloggers have influence - but it's not just about sending them samples and hoping you get credited in a blog post. For instance, if you're a retail brand, are your product photos optimized for Polyvore (www.polyvore.com)? Fashion bloggers love using this scrapbook-like platform to make mock fashion editorials, and will definitely pass over your brand if they can't include it in their collages. Other things to keep an eye on are: Lookbook, haul videos, and Foursquare contests. For a great example of a wildly successful Foursquare campaign, just look at Jimmy Choo's "Gotta Catch a Choo" challenge. 2. Let the consumer run your business. This is kind of a scary thought, but it's where the industry is headed right now. ModCloth, best known for its success using social media to build a loyal following, lets its consumers decide which products will be sold in its web boutique. Similarly, Moxsie holds "buyer chats" on Twitter which lets consumers preview and comment on upcoming additions to the product line. Taking this a step further is customization. Two of my favorite examples of this are in the footwear industry: Nike ID and Converse. Both of these brands let the consumers design their own sneakers. What all this comes down to is, when the consumer invests the time in selecting and creating your merchandise, they're going to develop an emotional attachment to your product, which increases the likelihood of purchase. 3. Have a solid PR strategy. So you've invested in digital, dove into social media, and are putting your consumers at the heart of your brand. That's all great, but don't underestimate the power of public relations. Regular placements in "traditional" media like fashion magazines and celebrity stylists give your brand credibility and prestige. Attend conferences and other industry events, network, and spread the word about your brand among the fashion elite. Even though we live in the age of the fashion blogger, these people are still looking towards their favorite celebrities and fashion magazines for advice on what to wear.    Embed Quote