★What are the marketing strategies for EMR companies?There are lots of EMR companies. How are they doing their marketing?
Sound marketing always relates back to a few core principles: branding specificity and actual benefits. If EMR companies construct their creative strategy around those two concepts, they'll get much stronger responses. Let's examine each: 1) How to be specific: If EMR systems are designed for certain specialties, that needs to play a central role in their branding. The American College of Physicians released a study reporting that 39% of doctors would not recommend their EMR to their peers in 2012. The study also highlights that specialists were the least satisfied. Additionally, only 50% of physicians in solo practices reported using EMRs. What's to be learned for marketers? If you have a product that appeals to solo practices or specialists, that specific benefit must be the cornerstone of your branding. Even if your product doesn't serve a specific specialty or practice size, it's still crucial to communicate the specific, unique offering for your product. I see way too many EMRs claiming to have "the best, most intuitive charting function" or something similar. Using superlatives in your marketing isn't convincing because it's not specific, and it's probably not true. Which transitions us to: 2)  Sell Actual benefits: Do not oversell your product. Note the study I cited earlier: physicians have a general disenchantment with EMRs because a great deal of companies are trying to sell them the world. If you beta tested your product, use statistics. If you have legitimate success stories, write a case study. If you have happy customers, use testimonials. But do not promote an EMR as an end-all solution for doctors. The most effective marketing will emphasize measurable improvements to cost, quality of care and productivity. These are the type of benefits doctors are looking for. Physicians are smart enough to understand that EMRs aren't healthcare's savior, rather they're a step in the right direction.    Embed Quote