★What is a good content marketing strategy for a digital agency?
If you’re marketing a digital agency, you need to show that they are out in the digital marketing world themselves in my opinion. I agree with Katherine, show all your skills! A lot of companies do not have the time to spend on their strategies in house, but it can be very beneficial to their company when driving new business to think about a content strategy. I work behind the scenes writing content for http://www.lwscreative.co.uk a marketing agency in Sussex. They look at all aspects of content marketing, but follow some of these content marketing strategies with their clients to gain great results: 1.Give your knowledge away. This can be in the form of guides, tips and advice on your website. Create digital guides for people to download and share but be sure to capture their email. 2.Use your website as the central content hub for your industry. Link all of your offsite and onsite content to each other and promote the content you write. 3. Add content to your site regularly. This could be in the form of blog posts or new pages to your website. Update your blog two or three times a week at least. Set up a marketing E-Newsletter to those who subscribe to your website and send them an email with new content and news about the digital agency.  4. Search in the Google Keyword Tool for content gaps in your site, and in your competitor’s site to put on your site. This will help to give you one of the best content strategies for your industry.  5. Remember that Video is the new marketing trend this year, and for a digital agency’s strategy, a YouTube channel hub could be the best way forward to gain new visits to your site.  Remember to add to the descriptions a link to more of your content. 6. Engage with your customers and those who comment on your blog posts. Follow them on twitter and start conversations to increase engagement and brand awareness. Tweet your old content as well as the new, it could be relevant to someone who hasn't seen it before. 7. Social bookmark your content via platforms such as http://www.scoop.it/ to get your content in other places people may be looking for it. These types of platforms can scoop any article, blog post or content it likes into one helpful page. 8. Go on forums and check if you have written great content for a question being asked. Point them in the right direction.    Embed Quote