★What are the best iPhone app marketing strategies?Besides of P.R. (Mashable, RRW, etc.), review sites, and fortuitously getting featured in iTunes.
Build an App that people are looking for.  Do some research using google trends and Google Insight to see what kinds of app people are searching for.  If you can fill an actual need with your app you'll get some discovery for free (see number 3). Elevator pitch it.  Get your one liner down for EVERY PERSON YOU MEET.  When someone says, 'what do you do?' launch into the pitch.  Start discussions with as many people as possible before you build anything.  They will poke holes and trends in questions will start to pop up. Test a MVP.  Rather than go all in to an app build a minimum viable product and put it out there to test the discoverability of the app.  Core functionality only, don't worry about the look, just get it out there. http://theleanstartup.com/ Build a great app.  This is an essential part of marketing your app.  If you get any reviews below 4+ stars read them and fix your app, don't brush off anyone.  Attention to detail is free.  The viral effect of a great app is worth a great deal as they are free conversions.  If one person downloads your app and loves it he will market it for you (see number 8). Include viral sharing inside the app.  Make that viral share as easy as possible.  As mentioned by others, this is free.  The best strategy is if you can offer the user something for sharing your app.  Give them extra features or points or whatever you can.  If you can get every person who downloads your app converts 1.000001 more person it will be a huge success given enough time. Track all data.  Integrate google analytics and track every button click and every screen touch related to monetization and viral sharing.  More than just 'how many downloads' you want to know how many active users you have and what they use your app for.  Now that GA has real time stats you can literally sit and watch how many active users you have at each time of the day. Your icon better rival the Mona Lisa. Low quality icons and screenshot artwork will kill any conversions that you may be getting.  This is more true if you are charging money for the app.  Everything about everything I see about your app better scream 'this had money spent on it, loads of money' that way I know I'm getting something of value. Praise your Customers.  Respond to every mention of your app online.  Gary Vaynerchuck has a great presentation on the future of marketing being personal, one-to-one with your customers.  Search your app name daily and respond to every mention of it.  Find out who those people are and send them flowers, mow their lawn and shower them with attention.  Watch this video it's AMAZING: Submit meaningful updates regularly. More than just 'bug fixes' please.  Showing your existing customers that you are maintaining and adding value to the app will help them promote your app to their social circle and if you have addressed the issues they were having with it, they may come back to using your app on a more reglar basis. Cross Promotion.  If your app is free or 'lite', applifier is a great free service for cross promotion that you can later swap out for ads and monetize. http://www.applifier.com/    Embed Quote