★What are the best iPhone app marketing strategies?Besides of P.R. (Mashable, RRW, etc.), review sites, and fortuitously getting featured in iTunes.
I have already posted this answer on a similar question : Great answers from everyone. Like a lot of experts have suggested before, first and foremost you need an app that's like world class. But having an app that's world class does not guarantee you success in the app store. You would also need to meticulously plan for your launch. If you have a very tight budget, then the below listed approach might serve you good. However if you have unlimited resources, there are quite a few additional things you could try from the ones listed below here on my post. Pre - Launch Phase: 1. Create a splash page much before you launch your app. Collect e-mail addresses so that you could notify them when you launch your app. I recommendhttp://www.launchrock.com/ for creating and deploying your splash page. Ensure that you create a great splash page that excites the user and makes them key in their e-mail ID for notification. Also, exceptional Splash Pages that starts trending on Launchrock gets featured by them further increasing your visibility. 2. Create a Facebook and a Twitter Page. Start engaging with your audience. Facebook and Twitter are great channels to drive targeted users. Again there are quite a few techniques you can use for getting access to a large audience with a relatively cheap budget. 3. Create banners which are 640х100 iPhone \ 25 kb \ jpeg or png. Reach out to as many applications in the same niche as possible and try to buy spots on their pages. Can be expensive but try getting one or two. This would give a stream of downloads. Note that buying display Ad spots can be a little expensive so, chose carefully. Do not over spend. 2011 numbers shows that 30% of all app traffic is from in-app advertising and cross promotions. 4. Create a Press page on your website with all the necessary information. Also, create an e-mail draft to be sent out to the press/ blog reviewers etc. It’s very important that you create a quality e-mail draft to be sent out to the Press. Remember that the reporters receive hundreds of requests for coverage/ review everyday. Hence it’s very important to be precise and catchy with your description. Do keep in mind the following things while drafting the message (you can hire someone from Hire freelancers and find freelance jobs instantly, The world’s largest online workplace, oDesk is where savvy businesses and professional freelancers go to work! or Copify - Quick, Quality Copywriting if you think you need help): ·         The name of your app exactly as it is spelt on the App Store.           What it does and why it is different?           The price.           One link to your product page (Your website).           One link to the iTunes product page.           One or two screenshots.           A video - No longer than 30 seconds. Remember this is a very important component. Many a times the reporter would play the video in trying to understand your app before heading to your app page. This leaves the first impression, so ensure it’s quality stuff and excites the reporter.           A description in a concise paragraph. Say who your audience is, what your app does?           What sets it apart from the Crowd?           Contact information. An email address and not a link to a contact form.           Skype IDs, Twitter IDs Check : http://maniacdev.com/2012/05/ios... for a great list of Blog/ Review site whom you would definitely need to contact. 5. Create a perfect App description to be displayed in the App store. I can’t stress upon how important this aspect of your app is. This is what your consumers would read first, hence ensure that you create an extremely compelling description. Also, Create localized and translated App description. You never know who all and from where all are going to download your app. So ensure you have the app description localized. Try http://Elance.com or http://Odesk.com... (more)Loading...