★What is the abc of Android app marketing strategy?What are the basic things about android apps marketing that every developer should know. What are the bare basic things that a developer can do to promote his apps...
Honestly there is no one strategy for app marketing though there can be a certain framework for apps, which should be followed for an initial push. I would certainly want to mention a few points here 1. Product page:- First and foremost setup a product page for your app. A good product page adds to your credibility and gives a good impression to users. How to setup a product page is very app and userbase dependant. To keep in mind a product page should be very inviting and user engaging. A few tools that i feel are good, use AppSurfer- Try android apps in the browser. app-widget to let your users run your app on your product page. This is a very unique technology and lets users actually try your app even before downloading it. 2. Social Media:- Set up your facebook, twitter, google + pages. These are extremely important, this is where you listen to your users, again the design of these pages is very user dependant. There are tools that help you in social media postings. AppSurfer helps you post your app running widget on facebook. Your users can try the app in facebook itself. If your app is good it can immediately reach millions of people through viral likes and shares. 3. App Reviews: This might cost you a dime. But its good for a start. Always helps you gain credibility at the start. Here's a thought to gain some virality, ask your app review blogger to review your app and integrate your app running tool in your review. Users could read the review and try the app there itself along with the review. Your app might just have something different to showcase, could go viral perhaps. Marketing is all about innovation. A little out of the box thinking. 4. Forums & Blog posting:- Participate in the forums & blog posting for marketing your app. It helps to share the information about your app to users. Select these forums and blogs depending where your user base hangs out. 5. Constant feature releases:- Collect  feedback from users from ratings, email communications, social media conversations and post new  feature updates on your product page, users could try  out these  features on your app running tool. Keep your users always in the loop! These are the basics of App Marketing. Later on you can think about App Store optimisations, direct marketing, advertisements etc. A little about AppStore Optimisation you can find in this blog. I found this really useful! K Srinivas, President (B2C) Airtel On Airtel Money Hope i could help! Cheers and best of luck for your app!    Embed Quote