★What are the most important marketing strategies for a web startup?We're an engineering focused team and need some advice on how to market our startup thinkpanda.com
I see nobody mention here the power of a good and descriptive domain name as a mean of marketing. A good and descriptive domain name can save you marketing money from the start and in the long run. It is not applicable in all cases but in many cases it is. Everything on the Internet starts with a domain name yet many forgets this. Domain names will be around for a while... What's the difference between Mint.com and Wesabe.com (now dead)? Mint.com launched later than Wesabe yet Mint won the "war" (both were  personal finance services). What does Mint means (one of the meaning is referring to finance)? What Wesabe means? Which one was easier to keep in mind? What's the difference between Diapers.com and Huggies.com? Diapers.com launched not long ago yet it is on the first position on Google for "diapers" (Huggies being a well know diapers product and it's on the Google's second page). What's the difference between Candy.com and Hersheys? The same as above. A good domain name can get you a instant market share, lowering you marketing costs. Yet few people are understanding this and those who understood and still understand are called "cybersquatters" because of this. You can see all kind of startups which funky names which doesn't mean anything, and they do not even sound good...Xobni, Thoof, Yoono, Diigo, Trippydoo, Mzinga, SocialThing, Wakoopa...I mean, what are those founders thinking?? Don't they think for the masses? Don't they want as much audience as they can? How can you attract mass audience with a names like these? Do they think  people will remember the spelling when they are entering them in the browser?? Do they apply the spelling rule or even the phone rule? (if somebody on the phone can get your domain right from the first time then it means the domain is pretty good) Maybe they should listen to this fragment from Jason Calacanis, Steve Huffman and Marco Zappacosta: http://www.domainnoob.com/blog/2... and this one http://www.domainnoob.com/blog/2... Coming back to this question..I don't mean to be harsh...but I went to the site ThinkPanda.com and I couldn't tell in several words what they actually do. Not even after watching the video (no sound) I couldn't tell much. Is ThinkPanda the best name for their service  they could come up with? Ok, I understand they are maybe in alpha or beta...but I hope they'll reconsider their domain name. Yes, maybe the domain they thought or thinking of having cost too much...but maybe the price of NOT having it will cost even more in the long run. Not always you have to pay money to get a good domain name (Mint.com domain wasn't acquired with money but with equity in the company).    Embed Quote