★What are the best iPhone app marketing strategies?Besides of P.R. (Mashable, RRW, etc.), review sites, and fortuitously getting featured in iTunes.
So here is the story: It was our   first app and since we  are just a bunch of  students ,that means we  didn't had any money to advertise. However we managed 150$.(use of dollars instead of rupees is important when you are giving an interview since it makes it look more authentic. Because you have to deal with a lot of online transactions.Almost all of them are done via paypal,or credit card.) 1.   The selling point for our app was the UI/UX. And for us the presentation was everything.We knew we were short on budget,and we wanted to convert every  click into a download (i mean there is a high probability that if a person clicks on the link,he may not download it because of poor screenshots) So good,professional looking screenshots were important.So for that we needed a photoshop professional (although the guy designed the app himself,he isn't very good at photoshop) so we hired a guy from Hire Freelancers & Find Freelance Jobs Online(the cheapest among other freelancing websites like odesk,elance etc). We paid the guy 50$ for 5 screenshots We then hired a guy for the video. Now if you don't know how most of the videos are made,you may end up paying 150-400$ there are websites like codecanyon.com from where you can buy templates for virtually everything(this website has many sub websites one of them sells videos) So we purchased a 25$ template,hired a guy for 40$ to do the changes to it. So the whole video was done for 2   we  got fake facebook likes(40,000 likes for 40$ people are real but they don't come to know when they liked the page,there are scripts for fake facebook likes) as we thought it can be used as an audience,but turns out it was a waste,as facebook has changed it algorithms,and a post's visibility only increases if it gets enough momentum(i.e comments and likes).And it is quite obvious that no one would be interested in  a post from a page which they never liked themselves. The post never reached 40,000 people which was our intended target.     3.  We got the description done,ourselves.There are websites for SEO (or ASO ,app search optimization)like sensor tower which can be used for figuring out which keyword to use. 4.  Added 1000+ friends on facebook from my college before the launch 5.  We launched the app. 6.  We gave credit to those people on how they were so supportive and accepted our random friend requests and then sneaked in the download link with  very pretty images.People like to take credits for no reason ,just like they want to feel good and superior and want to be  a part of something, without any reason,we just exploited it. 7.  The early downloads and reviews were quite important 8.  They reviewed and downloaded. 9.  Just after we launched it,the guy changed his schedule and started sleeping 9 hrs in 2 days .i.e 4.5 hrs a day,with 3 hrs of sleeping shifts.  i searched for lists of websites which review android apps.Sent them a copy pasted message and often making intentional mistakes while typing the subject  like "Android 'ApP' Review",to get their attention as you are not the only one sending them emails. we tried to make it look as professional as we  could.But not tried to keep the message friendly.I posted them 100 each day. 10. Spamming on facebook groups.The post here doesn't have to be professional and the screenshots should not look professional,if they are ,(these screenshots were differnt from the ones one the app page)  you will give an impression that your app comes from a company and it won't appear as a personal request but like an advertisement which you don't want.I posted them 100 each day 11. Sending messages to youtubers to review it and then posting on their new videos ,asking people to try it and asking the channel owner to review it.I posted them 100 each day or maybe more. 12. Posting  on reddit,forums, qoura etc.     We  did this for 20 days.  The rest of the downloads were all organic(means they were due to people searching for a music player etc,rather than clicking somewhere) 13. Now the app is  getting 2000+ downloads per day on average (for the last 15 days).All of them are organic. As of now,(i.e 12th october,the app stands at 87,921 downloads Currenlty when you search for a  "music player" our app ranks at the number 13. And it is the only app within the top 20 with a range of 50,000-100,000 range. All other apps have atleast 1/2 million downloads.With the maximum at 500 million.    Embed Quote