★What are the best marketing strategies that start ups could learn and execute?
Please understand your value offering AND be able to explain it very briefly. Ya ain't mean nothing to nobody When you're a startup, "ya ain't mean nothing to nobody". You have to be able to explain what your product/service is and why it's important/interesting very succinctly. Get your value prop down. Then test it, talk to people. Get out of your damn hole I've done consulting for startups who haven't spoken to potential customers in weeks. Suicide. Seriously. Every startup begins with a general product direction that's (hopefully) based on a compelling consumer need. But, that need must (must) must be verified and refined through interaction with potential users. Get out of your hole, get social, and talk to people about your product. If you're not comfortable talking about your product specifically, talk about the use case that your product is meant to fill. For example, I've been helping out a startup that's developing in the digital contact exchange area. Because this is a new area, I suggested that when they talk to prospective users, talk about the usage scenario, i.e. conferences, exchanging business cards, etc. What do people love/hate/cry about there? If there were to be a digital alternative, what would it look like? What would it have to do? Just observing people in a usage scenario can lead to awesome insights too. Develop your brand; develop your following In other words, what do you stand for? Your not just building a better e-mail client, twitter app, etc. If that's where you start, you're boring. What do you stand for? Do you believe that time is the most important asset? Do you believe that digital communication needs a revamp? Start with your emotional/belief base. Communicate that first - and then communicate why your product fulfills that. This is how you develop a following with loyalty. You won't develop a tribe around a better app, but you will develop a tribe around a belief/stance that the app fulfills. etc. Of course, the actual tactics of SEO, online PR, social marketing, etc. are important but, IMO, they're secondary - and easier to learn. Get the above down first. It's hard - but essential. It will be your platform for your marketing tactics.    Embed Quote