★What major elements comprise a good online fashion marketing strategy?
For the last two decades, the fashion industry has been in a state of transition due to pressure from globalization, the need to reduce cost, technology advancement, and increased customer requirements. The fashion market has evolved from mass to segmented fashion where the expectations of customer vary. Technology has increased the customer’s requirement because of the spectacular rise in the immediate knowledge of emerging brands. In order to keep pace with these factors, online marketing has become a necessity (Hines and Bruce 259). The major elements of good online marketing strategy are developing a good public relationship, customer focus, and keeping up with technology.   Developing a Good Public Relationship             To develop a solid public relationship is more than just knowing how to talk to the media. It uses competitive insights to make sure that the industry can create unique messaging and conquer audience that are yet to be reached. A good PR strategy adopts monitoring tools that can assist in understanding the overall brand perception and customer’s reaction. It will define clearly the goals of the campaign by helping the industry to understand customers, the messages they want to deliver to them, and what the company wants to accomplish. It can make use of social networking, traditional media, and exhibitions (Smith 47). Social websites, such as Twitter, Facebook, Youtube, and Instagram have formed communities of users with common interests. These sites can harness the collective power of users to advance and notify consumers of the products from the industry (Schlinke and Stephanie 86). Regular placements on traditional media can enhance the credibility of fashion brands. Moreover, holding events regularly such as exhibition or fashion show can also be used to spread the brand image and the products to public. Keeping focus on customers              A successful digital marketing does not call for big money marketing but rather dedication and insistence. The main concern for the fashion industry is to connect with their customers through various means, notably allowing the customers to actively participate in the making of their desired productions. For example, Nike allows its costumers to personally customize their pair of shoes. This process conveys a sense of value for the costumers, which in turn translate into the value of the industry (Tălpău and Boşcor 52). Moreover, the fashion industry can effectively notify customers of upcoming products and sales through the use of social networks, with which they can build a base of loyal followers. These loyal customers can be rewarded from a membership program, with which they can enjoy discount, free-shipping and other benefits. Keeping up with technology                The recent technological developments have made competition in the fashion industry fiercer because it has added a digital realm to the existing competition. Technology has improved the methods of displaying products online - marketers can now create animated video of the products. This will enable customers to make faster, better choices from the list of products displayed. Also, body scanning technology can be used to create completely fitted articles of clothing, which in turn makes online shopping no longer a guessing game (Martins, et al. 154). Fashion bloggers can make use of scrapbook or other online tools to promote fashion editorials. Technology reinforces the popularity of brands and increases the speed of communication between the fashion industry and consumers. By keeping up with technological advancement, the fashion industry will be able to build a strong presence in the current business world.    Embed Quote