★What are good marketing strategies for a small business?
A great marketing strategy will be tailored to a business, but despite not knowing your business here's a basic (digital marketing) strategy to start with. Identify your audience and understand your value proposition. So basically who your customer is and what it is that they want from you and why they will do business with you. Once you know that you have the basis of engaging with them online. Build a responsive website that provides an optimal user experience. You should have some advantage here because you've already identified who you're talking to and what they want. Optimise the website by ensuring it ranks for search terms that your target audience will use. Optimise the site to deliver what your audience want in the shortest time and path possible. You can do this by regularly monitoring your Google Analytics - Keep an eye on the Visitor Flow to see what they're doing. Optimise your site to improve its ability to generate real leads - You can do this by using conversion software services such as Optimizely or Visual Website Optimizer. Understand that not all visitors will be ready to make contact with your business so provide them with the information they're after at this early stage and try and hook them so you remain in their thinking further down the path until they do make contact. You can do this by producing content such as blog posts, videos and email newsletters. You can then hook them by asking them to subscribe. Because you know where they engage (remember step 1) you know what social media networks to build a presence. Because you know who they are you will have a good idea of how they like to engage with businesses on each of those social profiles, so talk like they do when they do. Ensure you continue to provide them value. Once you don't provide any value they will unsubscribe or unlike. Let's go back to analytics. Make sure you can correctly attribute the traffic that is driving you business leads. Do this by creating 'thank you' pages when people submit via the contact form or subscribe to your newsletter. Then you will get a better idea of which of your marketing efforts are delivering more business. That will round it up for today...    Embed Quote