★Web Marketing: How do I create a digital marketing strategy?What do you suggest as a process?
A digital marketing strategy is vital for a business to grow, and succeed.  Here's the process I recommend: The 5-Steps to Designing a Digital Strategy: The First Step - Where are you today? The Second Step - Finding Your Ideal The Third Step - Mapping Out Your Plan The Fourth Step - Getting Your Hands Dirty The Fifth Step - Recap & Review The First Step - Where are you today?At this step, you want to analyze your current Digital Sales Funnel. Look at each stage of the funnel.  What do you currently have implemented?  What are you missing?  Is there anything working particularly well, or poorly? Consider your advertising efforts.  What do you invest in, both offline and online?  What's your CTA, or call-to-action (in other words, whether it's a billboard or Ad on Facebook, what do you ask viewers to do?  Visit your site?  Call in?)?  Is that CTA what you really want? How about your marketing message?  How do you represent your brand?  Do you speak to what makes you unique, and what makes your ideal customers love you? Finally, do you have analytics set up?  If not, do this now!  Just visit Google Analytics and get started.  This will be great at helping you analyze your digital sales funnel and marketing efforts while setting benchmarks. The Second Step - Finding Your IdealThis is where things start to really get exciting. First of all, who is your ideal customer?  You need a detailed profile of exactly who that is.  Think of the customers that you love to work with, that love working with you, and that make mutual financial sense to work with. Now, I want you to describe them personally and professionally.  Write down demographics, including age, gender, occupation, education level, location, and so on. Next,  write down what their motivations are.  What would compel them to buy?  What motivates them to go to work each day?  What emotions, good and bad, are associated with your product/service? Finally, how do they make their decision?  Who else may they need to check with before deciding, whether that's a wife or CFO?  What triggers exist throughout their buying process that can turn them on, or off? When you have that complete, you should have an ideal customer profile ready to go.  Now we know who to target! Next, your vision, goals, and milestones.  This is a fun exercise, but very important as well. Think about your vision.  Where do you see yourself and your company in 3-5 years?  You can start off just thinking financials.  But then, I want you to keep asking yourself, "but why do I really want that?"  Do it a few times.  You may see yourself going from "Boosting revenues by 300%" to "Being able to take an extra two weeks of vacation each year with my family."  It's your vision and future, so make it count. Now what goals will get you there?  Your goals should be about 12 months out and support your vision.  They should be significant and focused on moving towards your vision without yet accomplishing it. Again, are there financial metrics you can use?  How about personnel?  Systems put in place?  Investments made?  Any other accomplishments? Try to end up with 3-5 goals. Finally, what milestones do we need to reach?  Think around 6-months out.  You want to end up with three milestones per goal, so a total of 9-15.  Feel free to spread them out on your timeline, e.g., 3-months out, 6-months, 9-months. Your milestones lead to your goals, so keep them as measurable, short-term objectives that your team will aim for. Now you should have a big vision and a reasonably well-established path to get there.  Congrats! The Third Step - Mapping Out Your PlanAt this step, we put pen to paper and figure out what we're really doing here.  This is your action plan! What's your competition up to?  See what's working for them, and what isn't.  Compare what you are planning to what you need to compete against.  Can you be on par with them?  Better?  Can you put together a plan to crush them?  (I bet you can!) Take ideas from the leaders in your industry.  It doesn't matter if you're a solopreneur or 5-member startup.  Look at the leaders, the multimillion and billion dollar companies in your space.  How do they position themselves?  What types of marketing do they use?  What do their ads say?  They spent millions on market research, and it's there for you to enjoy free. Now, the tools, tactics, and techniques to move you from current to ideal.  For this, look at your Digital Sales Funnel again.  Where did you need to improve?  Where is the greatest opportunity? Take each stage separately and figure out what options make the most sense to reach your milestones, goals, and vision, as well as what makes sense for your ideal customer. Here are the stages of the digital sales funnel: Generate Demand Capture Quality Leads Nurture Leads Convert Leads into Customers Close, Deliver, & Satisfy Referrals and Follow UpRemember, "simplicity is the ultimate sophistication" (Leonardo da Vinci).  Focus on a few things you can be great at rather than trying everything possible.  That's how you'll find success. The Fourth Step - Getting Your Hands DirtyOkay now we're getting started - seriously! First, consider what you need to learn or invest in.  How can you be prepared to make sure this is a total success?  Do you need outside help from freelancers or an agency?  Does your team need training? Now, what numbers do you need to achieve to move from A-to-Z.  Is there a sales figure?  Revenue increase?  Leads generated?  Make note so you and your team keep it in mind during this process. Last-minute preparation!  You did set up Google Analytics, didn't you?  That's how we can track progress.  Do you have advanced tracking set up, with UTM parameters and goals?  What do you have going on for email marketing analytics, if you're using that medium?  Have you installed heat map software, like Crazy Egg, SumoMe, or Inspectlet? The Fifth Step - Recap & ReviewIt's all over!  Sort of... Do you even know when your campaign ends?  Let's really think about this.  If the deadline isn't clear to you, I'll give you my recommendation.  You may have heard marketing takes 9-months before it starts to work, but that was before the digital age.  I'd suggest in three months, you do a serious review of the results.  You can end your campaign in as little as two months or as much as nine months.  So best may be: 6-months. What worked out for you?  And what didn't?  And how would you adjust for next time?  Such simple questions are actually incredibly powerful!  These are the only three you really need to improve your marketing.  It covers everything you need to know. Here's the final step of the final step: start over. That's right, go back to the first step and do it all again.  It'll be easier this time, I promise!  But, every step is necessary as you, your goals, your customers, your methods, and everything else in the process is subject to change. These are the five steps I've used in working with business owners and marketers, as well as what I taught others in my book.  Everyone seems to like the simple but effective process it provides.  Please let me know if you have any questions!    Embed Quote