★What are the highest-impact inbound marketing strategies for SaaS companies?A lot of time can be spent on inbound marketing (e.g., writing blog posts, conducting webinars, building a Twitter following, etc.). What are the highest ROI activities for an early-stage SaaS company to be involved in?
Make really really good contents , thats the only adivce i can give you. Becaue after all everything marketing activities starts from content itself.And when talk about strategies there alot of and im going to write down a few . 1.Email Marketing One of the most oldest but still most preffered , according to statistics still 16%of leads coming email marketing. 2.Google Adwords There is  no doubt Google Pay per Click Ads (PPC) are one of the fastest and  effective lead generation tool, currently available in web. But due to  its huge success, the keywords are highly competitive and it is very  difficult to get the user to reach our website, as the resellers or  other affiliates advertise for the same brand as well.Still gets only 2% leads from this. 3.Social Media One of the emerging media for inbound marketing , before social media was used only for brand awareness. Now it is slowly changing into lead generations by using other technologies like click to call.Most preferred ones are Facebook, Google,Twitter,Linkedin,Google+,Pinterest etc. 4.Landing Pages Landing pages play a crucial role. It should be made according to different keywords for that also alot of new companies are in the market like unbounce. 5.Inbound calling platform Its high to use such technologies for visitors to make call from the website while browsing. It has advantages for both visitor and the business.For a visitor he can call the business for free and even without a mobile phone is a great thing and for business they can track where did the call come from , recorded voice etc .Alot of new companies have such technologies and one of the most innovative product is "BounzD" These are different strategies coming to my mind , if you got anything to add or any suggestion. You are most welcome :) Martin    Embed Quote