★What is the abc of Android app marketing strategy?What are the basic things about android apps marketing that every developer should know. What are the bare basic things that a developer can do to promote his apps...
This is a question which has been asked in many forms on Quora. Since this is a fresh question let me add my 2 cents. Before you jump into figuring out what you should do to market your app try to first understand how you want your app to grow. Do you want your app to grow organically through viral features (Viral apps) or do you want your apps to grow through paid user acquisition? Once you decide among these two growth models you can choose your marketing strategy. For Viral Apps - The most important marketing strategy for viral apps is obviously a high viral coefficient. All you efforts should be to improve your virality. A lot of peoole think that apps become viral due to luck. That is absolutely wrong. Viral features are a science and you can learn about some standard viral features for apps in this app marketing wiki - Marketing Features for Apps. If you want more in depth details feel free to check out the DIY App Marketing Course which I teach. For Paid User Acquisition Apps - For these type of apps all you need to do is to try out each and every channel which lets you advertise to your target market and then choose the one which gives you the lowest cost per user. Of course this growth model will work if your cost per user is lower than the money you can make from each user. Now that you know the most core marketing strategies for your app. Lets us look at a few other which are important. You can refer to the various topics from the app marketing wiki to understand each of these in detail: Understanding App Ranking Apps/Pricing - Wiki App Growth Engines Understanding App Virality Implementing In App Purchases Marketing Features for Apps Diverting Downloads from Competitors Getting Blog Coverage for Apps Promoting Through a Press Release These are just a few of the topics which are important to somebody marketing their apps. Another cool resource which hundreds of app marketers use is the Free facebook group exclusively created for app marketers - https://www.facebook.com/groups/appentrepreneurs/    Embed Quote