★What are the most important marketing strategies for a web startup?We're an engineering focused team and need some advice on how to market our startup thinkpanda.com
Create a comprehensive marcomm (marketing and communications) plan. Start by whiteboarding a list with bullet points for annual goals that are qualitative, and then go back and make them quantitative (grow visits by X percent or Y number, grow Twitter followers to Z, etc) and calendar each event (with reminders). Consider this your 'wireframing.' For examples of this sort of calendaring work flow, ask a friend in editing or social media to share their editorial calendar. Many will be happy to do so. As you calendar, be sure to assign a person to each task, and have weekly marketing "scrums" just like you would for engineering project management. I suggest using a shared Google Calendar and Google docs. If your marcomm scrum is every Friday at 2pm, drop the analytics you'll need to track and evaluate success (or failure) right into the description box of that calendar. The workflow might look something like: Check compete.com traffic. X % growth w/w, m/m. Check Google Analytics account. Measure bounces, countries, pages per visit, etc. Check Twitter account. Delta in followers. Delta in direct messages. How many RTs of our stuff this week? Check Facebook. Delta in friends. Events: how many attended and how many event related tweets, blog coverage. Demos given, how much coverage (by whom) with URL. And so on. The marcomm plan can be company oriented or product oriented or both. The voice/culture of the founding team should come through loud and clear. Check out the Posterous posts by Garry Tan and Sachin for a great example. But you guys are doing just fine: You've got a great sense of humor, interesting graphics, and links. Your 'flavor' will transmit (if you let it; too many startup teams speak in stale, process-oriented tones on social media sites in particular - just consider your content breakdown to be 50% company, 20% product -or reverse product and company if you have only 1 product -15% team, and 15% personal, or something like that). First calendar up those big bullet points and then begin to fill in the calendar week by week. It's a good idea to have basic weekly action items like "state of the product" blog posts on Posterous, or "inside perspective from the team" tweets, plus Facebook updates. Each marcomm item should have relevant channels too - (email, print, web coverage, Twitter, etc). In an early team, you can split these up according to who uses which channel most often already (I love Twitter and loathe Facebook for example so I use that channel far more often and it makes sense to delegate Twitter channel updates to me). Email me or DM me on Twitter and I'll be happy to share links of some examples with you.    Embed Quote