★How important is content in a digital marketing strategy?
Content is NOT essential in all digital marketing strategy. This is the Digital Business Transformation Experts - iONOLOGY  Digital Strategy quadrant. The X axis talks about the size of a market a business targets. The Y axis talks about how the customer feels about a brand. Brand in the inner box do better with content marketing.  Brands outside the box typically use other tactics for marketing. For example, position #2 (Cold & Exclusive) could be a business that produces air pressure monitors for truck tyres.  There are 212 truck manufacturers in the world.  They are all easily contacted by outbound marketing not inbound.  They don't want to read your blog or your latest post as trucks have 15,000 other parts that are needed in the supply chain. These people just want quality product delivered on time from a reliable vendor at the right price. Position #6 (Hot & Exclusive) could be an arms defence manufacturer, dealing with the military.  They are not trying to attract customers via 'content marketing'.   Global military expenditure stands at over $1.7 trillion in annual expenditure. Position #4 (Cold & Mass Market) could be your electricity or gas company.  They attract customers principally on price followed by ease of self service, followed by brand recognition, typically achieved with Above the Line advertising.  http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Below_the_line_(advertising). Position #8 could be Apple, they ain't too hot on blogging or social media for that matter! Innovation drives their PR.  They don't create the content, the community does. These are not exceptions we are talking about here.  Many businesses are too utilitarian for customers to care about 'their content'.  Many are too specialist for inbound marketing which content is often used as a tactic.  Many are too broad to use this online tactic and resources are still better spent on advertising and sponsorship. It's not for everyone.  Content marketing is just another marketing tactic.  It's not strategic in its own right and therefore there is no such thing as a 'Content Marketing Strategy' in the same was as a Housing Redevelopment Strategy doesn't then have a 'digger strategy'; the tool isn't strategic...but I digress...    Embed Quote