★How should I begin research on a content marketing strategy?
I remember sitting in the Business of Software conference in Boston in 2011, listening to Dharmesh Shah speaking about Content and Inbound marketing, and thinking.. wow.. this guy is giving me a whole new vocabulary to explain things that we have been doing in our startup for the last 2 years. The thing is, we had been doing "post and pray" content marketing. Only later did we start implementing content marketing strategy. I think Chelsea Baldwin started heading in the right direction, so I'd like to expand from there. If you're going to begin research on a content marketing strategy, you should first identify the elements of the strategy that you plan to research. Content Strategy is an organized 5 step process that covers the following elements: 1) Goal setting and deciding which metrics best track the effectiveness of your content marketing program. An example of goal setting is covered here: Best Practices: How to build a content marketing strategy and inbound marketing strategy for your product or SaaS startup (in the Early or Growth Stage) 2) Choosing and clearly describing the target audiences that you will create content for. I like to use the exercise of creating personas for different types of buyers, users, and influencers (analysts, media, etc). It really answers the question: Who will we build all this content for? Best Practices: How to build personas for your Content Marketing Strategy 3) When you understand your goals and your audiences, you start to think about conversion. Let's use the example of converting a non-identified, non-visitor into a visitor, an identified visitor (marketing qualified lead), an engaged visitor (sales qualified lead), and finally a customer. This person is going through their buying process, and there are 3 stages to that process, sometimes called the Buyers' Journey. Your strategy will describe the needs of your buyer at each stage of that journey. What content will help turn our visitors into customers? Best Pratices: How to Build an Inbound Marketing plan using the Buyers' Journey concept 4) Now you start thinking about your team. What team structure can we afford, and what roles are involved in a team? How do other major players organize their marketing departments, and where does content marketing fit? Decide how to structure your content marketing team and marketing organization * For this post, I interviewed the Chief Strategist of the Content Marketing Institute (Robert Rose), and the CMO of HubSpot (Mike Volpe) 5) Design your framework (create a style guide, plan your content conversion flow, choose your content mix, decide where you should post content to best achieve your goals - based on your target audience personas and their buyers' journies, and decide on how you'll organize the whole process of ideating, creating, posting, sharing, and interacting). * Blog post in progress :) Coming soon! * If you have examples of a framework that works for your organization - please share with me at david@revenify.com! Does that help? Good luck in your research!    Embed Quote