★What are the best iPhone app marketing strategies?Besides of P.R. (Mashable, RRW, etc.), review sites, and fortuitously getting featured in iTunes.
I think there is a gap that needs filling in these answers, and the gap is how to get the volume of users you need to get to the top of the App Store. If you do not advertise, you might as well not get into the pure-play app business. Why is advertising important? Users discover their next new app by searching in the app store and by looking at app charts. The rank of your app also affect how high your app will be visible in the top search results. To get to the top ranking you are up against stiff competition: large multibillion dollar companies such as Pandora, Zynga, King.com, Supercell and many others are fighting for the top positions in the app store to be visible to their audience and to get new users. So let's face it, unless you are building something ridiculously viral as yo! app or have the power of a large well-known brand that has brand recognition and existing user base, becoming successful in the app economy means spending a lot of money on advertising. By advertising your app you climb higher into the app store ratings that take into account the number of downloads, in-app revenue, number of reviews and an average rating of the app, as well as some other parameters such as number of uninstalls. Having the highest number of downloads is very important for ranking high up the charts, so more users can find your app and pay for in-app purchases or generate revenue for you in any other way. How to get many installs? Incent installs This is why some developers buy low-cost incent installs just to show volume, never expecting someone who install the app because they wanted to have a few extra gems for their game to interact with your app. Here is how it works: a person is shown the ad within the game and is offered to download the game in exchange for gems. This is not a "legal" practice according to the rules of the app stores but this is how the incent installs work. What is more acceptable is to offer someone a coupon in an online or even offline shop in exchange for the install or any other action. One can get incent installs for 30 cents or less. Developers only get those to show volumes to App Store to take them into account for the ranking. Non-incent installs Non-incent installs are the downloads by the users who saw the ad about your app and decided to check it out without any compensation or motivation. The non-incent installs mean real users that are likely to spend money on your app and cover your development and marketing cost. How much the non-incent installs cost you depends on your marketing skills. Some amazing professionals can target ads so well on Facebook that they get CPI of $0,5. But you probably just get a few hundred users at this price, if your targeting is impeccable. If you are really good, you are looking at $1,2-$1,5 per install. So to get your advertising going you should consider: 1. Hiring a few marketing managers. Their job will be to access major ad networks, prepare and place ads within those networks, create banners etc and monitor the ad performance on each of the networks. Here is a list of 129 Mobile Ad Networks. To choose from. 2. If you are in a rare position to be a nicely funded company with millions to spend on marketing, go to one of the marketing agencies that will spare you the hunt for mobile marketers. Try Applift or Trademob. 3. If you have budget limitations, and time constraints, work with an automated service such as AppInTop to place ads in all ad networks simultaneously, auto-create ad campaigns, banners and subsequently optimize the ad sources to stick with those that send real paying users at the lowest CPI (optimization based on user lifetime value). How many downloads do you need? Depends on the country you target, on the category of your app and the ranking. If you want to get to the top 10 utilities in France, you will be looking at a little over 1700 installs per day to get to the top 10 free apps for iPhone, or over 2100 if you are in the travel category. How much will it cost to get to the top charts? So if you get CPI to $1,5, then your daily marketing budget would be 1719*$1,5=$2578,5 to get to the top 10 free utilities app in France, and $3190.5 for the top 10 free travel apps. Aside from answering questions here on Quora, at AppInTop.Com - Mobile Advertising System we also produce mobile app marketing podcast (our transcripts are published on PocketGamer and MobyAffiliates). Another source of regular educational materials is our newsletter, and our upcoming book. Register here to get weekly updates on mobile app marketing techniques.    Embed Quote