★What are some recommended content marketing strategies for beginners?
For me the basics are quite simple actually. Stop thinking about content marketing as some kind of technique and start thinking about it with your common sense social instincts. Here's what I mean: - When you meet someone for the first time, it's common courtesy to ask their name, what they do and then stop and listen. Same for content marketing. Start listening. Or as Chris Brogan calls it, develop bigger ears. Just start by listening to the conversations around you - your competitors, your future customers, your industry folks in general. Make notes of what's interesting, which stuff engages you, what items you click through, what kind of traction the content is receiving, etc. - After you've met someone and listened for a while, they would customarily ask you "and what about you". It's now your turn to say something interesting about yourself and drive the conversation forward. Similarly, with your content, your aim is to tell a story. But not just any story. Your aim is to tell the story of YOU. It could be *you* the person or *you* the brand - really its all interchangeable these days. When you tell your story, your aim is to create interest, so you want to perhaps use an example from your life to demonstrate why you do what you do and where you're currently at. Now go and put your story on your website's About Page. - My third tip for beginners is to create content for a specific person. You can't go wrong with this. Don't try to guess who your audience is. Don't even conduct focus groups or send out surveys. Identify the one person - preferably a real person - to talk with. Imagine this person is nodding, smiling, shaking their head, interrupting you to ask questions... Now create content for just this one person directly. When you do this, you get immense clarity and define your audience automatically. As a beginner, start with these. There's obviously more, but it's important to treat content marketing as simply as possible to avoid overwhelm. It's not a new form of marketing - it's still just people talking to other people. If you can remember that, you're unlikely to go wrong.    Embed Quote