★What are the best marketing strategies that start ups could learn and execute?
The first thing you want to do is go through branding. Too often, the people who develop a startup's brand put up images and words they simply think are cool, not taking into consideration their internal drivers (the company's product, mission, vision, goals, target audiences, and employee perceptions) and external drivers (all outreaches to their audience, as well as how the public perceives what they do). You can pay for branding, but if you are strapped for cash, simply decide for yourself what kinds of questions you want answered, and use a simple survey tool to get them answered. Ask yourself and your team questions like: Why are you in business? What does your business do? Who are your customers? Who are you biggest competitors? What is your product? What is the biggest problem your product is solving? Where do you see the company in 5 years? How would you describe your company culture?  If you have no customers yet, start with these types of internal drivers so that everyone on your team is, at least, on the same page. Once this research is complete, you can look at how you want to present yourself to the public. You should also be able to glean your market segments from this exercise and create some customer profiles, which will help you target and message to each segment appropriately. With those building blocks in place, you can develop appropriate marketing materials. At the bare minimum, these may include (depending on your product): 1. A website and mobile website or app 2. A sales presentation 3. A brochure 4. A best practice on how your product will offer value (continue to build this content as your business takes hold, as these are your best selling points!) These 4 simple things will make you look professional, have a sales pitch, and show value. Next, think about an integrated 6-month marketing plan based on your budget. Marketing outreaches include: Email Direct mail Social media Events (either as attendees, speakers or booth hosts) Web events Advertising Media (press releases, article pitches and placement, radio, tv)Create a mix of paid and unpaid outreaches. Regardless of what you can or can't afford, just make sure your marketing is integrated: it takes up to 7 touches for something to sink in for you audience, so if you run a campaign, make sure your outreaches are consistent with content and graphics, and spread across several mediums. Whatever you do, find a way to capture an email. Technology you should have to support your efforts should include a CRM system. One I've recommended for small clients is InfusionSoft, but there are many others. As you begin to build a client database and to track who opens your emails, you can create a sales funnel that will narrow to actual sales. Don't expect one email to result in a sale; instead, keep narrowing the field through multiple touches until you can pick up the phone and call someone directly - or better yet, they call you. After a sale, make sure you have a good customer retention plan, with ongoing customer communications and training. Keep those clients happy and continue to document the value they find in your product. Bring them together to share best practices, and move your way forward to the leader in whatever industry you've entered!    Embed Quote