★What is the most underutilized marketing strategy for consumer internet startup companies?
The most important thing that a startup should do from the start, and maintain throughout its life, is to develop a strong brand.  It may seem useless at first, as it is not an immediate ROI driver, but a strong and consistent brand will pay off in the long run as your brand becomes a 'household name' in your industry. Some important brand elements: Company Name (should give your audience an idea of what you do) Your Logo (should be memorable and apparent on every piece of media that your brand is; should have its own distinct colors) Tagline (something that portrays the visionary sales point of your product [but doesn't necessarily have to explain what you do] -- why would people use your product?  The tagline should answer that) These are all things that CEOs and co-founders can think up over a weekend, and will only cost time (which is very valuable).  For the tagline, it could be helpful to try to think of what it is about your product that caused potential leads to actually sign up for your product. The next thing that you should consider is brand scaling - making your brand seem bigger than it is. Some useful tactics for this: Social Media - This is NOT underutilized, though it is seldom used correctly. Make conversations, spread your ideas, and help other people out.  This will make your brand seem cool to a high volume channel, and can eventually lead to: Evangelizing.  Encourage your audience to spread your word.  Hootsuite does this well.  No matter what kind of business you are, if you ask your viewers/clients to recommend you to a friend/colleague, they most likely will.  You just need to ask the right way. Ad-Targeting.  ReTargeting (disclosure: I work for ReTargeter) is the best way to make your brand seem like it is bigger than it is and spends more money than it does.  This allows you to solely advertise to the visitors of your site, so you're not using impressions up on people who don't actually care about your brand just a little bit.  You can have your ads show up on the most popular, brand safe sites, and only to your audience.I hope this helps.  Obviously, there are a tons of tactics, and strategies that go along with them, that can be taken, but branding well, and spreading your brand's message, is the most important one to me.    Embed Quote