★What are the steps to building content marketing strategy?
Step 1 - Create an editorial calendar Create an excel doc or table that plans out the next 3, 6 and/or 12 months of marketing activity for your business or client. Firstly, include seasonal events such as Christmas, bank holidays, the start of summer, etc. Research your client’s industry. What important events are taking place that you should know about? Major conferences? Report release dates? Government rulings? Special awareness days? Confer with your client. Get as much information from them as possible with regards to important business days, company milestones in the upcoming year, product launch dates, scheduled sales, new service offerings, and any of their own marketing plans. Sometimes the client will think certain bits of information are irrelevant, when they could actually be something to centre a piece of content around, so make sure to press them for all possible angles From this information, try to extract themes or campaign ideas. Check with the client to see if there’s something in particular they want to focus on, e.g. push their new kiteboard range in August. These themes or campaign ideas will help inform the plans for your content marketing pieces, as well as the other digital channels. Step 2 - Brainstorming Gather your team around – preferably with representatives from each of the digital channels you will be utilising for the client, as well as your creative geniuses. From the information that you have gathered, you’ll need to create campaign ideas that can be used for a content marketing piece, and will integrate with the other channels. Things to consider: What resources are at your disposal? Do you have a designer who can create an amazing infographic for you? What kind of content marketing campaign do you want to run? User-generated, where you create the idea and customers come up with their images or vines? Or do you want to provide an informative infographic or entertaining presentation? How long do you want the campaign to run? One week or three months? This ties in closely with the above point. Who do you want to target? How will your content marketing piece be marketed across the different digital channels? What will need to be signed off, and by when? Budget? Final approval? How will you measure success?For the rest of the plan, take a look at this resource: A Guide to Implementing a Content Marketing Strategy    Embed Quote