★What are the best iPhone app marketing strategies?Besides of P.R. (Mashable, RRW, etc.), review sites, and fortuitously getting featured in iTunes.
Contrary to popular belief, the core of the success for the app lies in marketing rather than the design or development of the app. A very simple (but well made) app that is cheap to make, but well marketed, could provide better return on investment than a more extensive (and expensive) app that has just been added to the Market. App marketing requires a multi-faceted approach that is coordinated and coherent. You have to create a great app and consistently promote it through as many channels as possible for a shot at success in the app store ecosystem. App marketing is an activity that starts even before the real marketing for the app could start. Right at the planning stage, one needs to get in the shoes of a marketer. In this paper we are going to cover the various opportunities for marketing that app developers can use and increase their ROI. The Pre-Development Stage The pre-development stage is the base from where you start your journey. It is said that well begun is half –done. 1] IDEA The first step we need is an idea that inspires us. If you yourself don’t have a strong belief of the idea, how would you spread the enthusiasm to other? Think Novel and Think differently. When one idea has already become successful, there is minimal chance that a clone too will repeat the success. Nobility, innovativeness and solutions to an existing problem have the best chances to succeed. Hence you should make sure that your app either solves an existing problem or if the problem has already been solved then provide an intuitive or unique solution. 2] RIGHT ECOSYSTEM Each actor who is part of your app development process- developer, designer and even the sales team need to be chosen with due diligence. Don’t wait until the last minute to find a developer. Start early and take our time to find the right person or firm. Otherwise it will cost you. Figuratively and literally. 3] DESIGN Create a wow app, Everything else will fall into place. The war of apps is fought on user experience. Make sure that you are well prepared. Develop a small but solid app and launch it. Gather feedback. Once you know what the audience liked and yearn for, plan for phase 2 accordingly. When you focus on brilliant design, your product becomes your marketing. Online Marketing Techniques Online Marketing can help you reach to audience worldwide. With upto 100% of your target audience spending most of the time surfing the internet, an online presence and availability is a must have. 1] WEBSITE The main reason to have a website is to provide an easy way for the users to find you, learn about you and research about you. Even today, people search more on the web than on the phone. There is ample chance that people will hear your app name and then Google it. Here they need to land on a page that makes them feel comfortable and create confidence to download and try the app. Remember you don't need a giant website for your business, just a simple site that tells about you, your plans and how app works. 2] VIRAL VIDEOS A successful viral video can help brands engage with consumers on a much larger scale than a TV ad, and is much cheaper to produce. Once the video is shared among hundreds and thousands of people, it becomes “viral”. Viral videos are a great way of getting away from the interruption of pushing messages at people and instead using entertainment and an emotional connection to encourage consumers to pull your message to them. 3] BLOGGING Blogging about your app is an efficient and effective way to enhance your profile. The blog should usually describe the overall experience behind creating the app and the enhancements you wish to do. It’s a way to communicate your ideas to your customers and engage them in your business. The followers on your blog are the ready market to reach out. Turning Consumers to Brand Ambassadors. Reward influencers A small number of fans are responsible for a very large percentage of your traffic. These are your influencers, and should be recognized and rewarded for the every time they talk about your brand on any of the social networking sites . Provide incentives Every customer wants to feel special, and one way to make them feel special is to give them something exclusive. Bonus levels and reward points will act beneficial in this strategy. Turn usage into a game People love to compete and they love to win. That competitive, gaming instinct can drive consumers to share your content and bring lots of new folks back to you. Let them co-create value Giving fans the ability to choose which version of a product should be offered, or to vote for the discounts or special offers they want to receive, helps ensure they’ll share it. I will be happy to discuss more on it. You can shoot me a mail at vish.s@mindbowser.com    Embed Quote