What is the most humane deed you have ever witnessed?
When the police shot my kitten Ferdinand. (This is an odd story, and your probably thinking, "yeah, no shit", but bear with me) I was 13 and home alone, just me and my kitten Ferdinand, doing laundry. I put a load of clothes into the dryer, and went back into my room to continue lip synching to Mariah Carey Anyways I recall hearing a clunking noise as the clothes were drying, but I didn't pay to much attention to it at first. After a while the clunking noise was starting to get annoying and I figured there was a shoe or something in there. When I opened the dryer I saw Ferdinand! He was making a horrible noise and his neck was bent all the way backwards and there was blood coming from his mouth. I panicked!! He was suffering!! I didn't know what to do!! He must have hopped inside as I was putting the clothes in the dryer.  I called 911. Crying.. "My cats in the dryer!! His neck is broken!! He's screaming!! Please help!" The dispatch officer didn't quite know what to say. At first she was very dismissive and told me that all the officers were busy on calls and that there was nothing to do about an injured cat. But I kept calling. Crying that my cat was screaming.. I was in such hysterics that she finally agreed to send an officer out to do a welfare check on me and take the cat away. When the officer arrived I answered the door and started telling him "kill my cat please kill my cat!!" He said "calm down, calm down miss, take me to the cat and I'll take it away with me, I can't kill your cat, calm down.. What happened? " I took him to the laundry room and he could hear Ferdinand screaming . When he saw Ferdy with his neck bent backwards and blood everywhere and that horrible shrill screaming.. He was almost as hysterical as I was! He immediately took Ferdinand outside into the yard and i heard a gunshot. Then silence. I collapsed by the back door and started sobbing. The officer came back in and kneeled down and gave me a hug. He told me he wasn't supposed to discharge his weapon like that, but that he didn't know what else to do. I thought that it was the most humane thing I've ever witnessed because the officer risked getting in trouble to end the extreme suffering of my poor kitten Ferdinand. So yeah... The cops shot my kitten . 