What are the best family tree websites?
I’m not really sure about what services could be used in a truly collaborative fashion – meaning, how the user interface is designed and data can be stored and edited by a group of people.   When it comes to building family trees and collaborating, I prefer to do it in the old-school method. I will review other peoples’ trees and use them as a guide to help confirm lineage, but each branch should be supported by documentation. Sources should also be clearly identified and absolutely under no circumstances should branches be copied and pasted directly from an unsourced tree to “your tree.”   I’ve interacted with relatives on various branches of my family and it has all been pretty low-tech and heavy on sharing the primary documents…mostly large packets or folders of information/pics/headstones/newspaper clippings, etc. We’ll send copies of actual paperwork and hand-built trees back and forth and one person will take initiative to compile it and send out the master tree to the extended family.   Of course, collaborating with other people does not diminish the need to do this standard research. But, I think the question here is how to store the master files, allow different users to participate, and present the tree effectively.   I think there is one straight-forward method that can be a good starting point for creating a collaborative…ancestry.com. (I know, I know…there are a lot of bad trees out there…but, hear me out). If you, or those you are collaborating with, can post a really GOOD tree, with numerous documents proving lineage for each generation and their sources, it can be organized into several visually stimulating formats. If you are posting dozens and dozens of primary documents (with sources and attribution), other people with the same lineage can build off of that. If they find something that you don’t have they can post it to their tree and it can be researched further (and then added to your tree if the documentation is solid).   I don’t know if a truly collaborative interface would be of utmost importance to be straight with you. In some cases it is good to have an administrator of the tree or the person that takes the lead in compilation, organization, and presentation. 