What is the weather like in St. Louis, MO?
I think that Jeff's answer is a bit on the negative side.  I've lived in Missouri my entire life (first KC when I was younger, then Columbia, and now St. Louis). The summers are hot and humid and my lest favorite season.  There are plenty of watering holes and such, but there are usually quite a few days where the air is still and it's just a sauna.  But that doesn't stop people from doing the normal summer things.  Swimming at the pool, enjoying the parks, lakes, and trails that dot the area, grilling out, etc. The winters over the past 20 years have been actually very mild compared to when I was a child.  It does get cold, but it hardly ever snows, and when it does it's usually under 2 inches and melts the next day.  There are exceptions, of course, but that's been the norm for a while now.  Last winter was unusual in that we had 4 or 5 heavy snows and one snap where it was bitterly cold for about two weeks.  The worst part about winters here is that it's usually too cold to do anything normal outside, but there's not enough snow to really enjoy winter activities like cross-country skiing, or snowshoeing, or anything like that.  A guy I knew who moved here from Minnesota couldn't understand why everyone complained about winter until he lived through one and was bored to tears because he couldn't snow-mobile, ski, or anything like that.  Then he understood.  Personally, it doesn't bother me.  I'll take being able to drive without chains on my tires any day to skiing... The spring is short, but there usually is somewhere between two weeks to 6 weeks where the weather is beautiful featuring blue skies with occasional rain, mild temperatures, and plants blooming.  It usually doesn't last long before the temps get up to the 90s though, even if it's just for small bursts with 80's in-between. Autumn is my favorite season of all here.  The colors are beautiful, the nights turn cool with a slight crispness, the days get shorter, and you can physically feel nature beginning to slow and hunker down for the coming winter.  It's awesome.  The perfect time to go apple picking, hiking, biking, jogging, etc.  I love just going on long drives down country roads and looking at the trees.  This time of year also seems to be when a lot of local festivals are, so that's nice. So, to make a long story short (too late), the answer to your question is that the weather here varies a lot.  If you can handle hot humid summers, and the occasional cold harsh winter, then you'll be able to take the worst that St. Louis can throw at you.  (Outside of the occasional tornado, of course, but that's another story...) 