What is the best way to build tree houses?
If you already know how to build a wooden structure, here's what you need to know to build in trees. 1. Trees grow. You need to leave space between your tree house and the tree. Anything that restraints the natural growth of the tree will either break or kill that part of the tree. Professional tree houses usually leave several inches of space between bark and structure. To do so, you need treehouse attachment bolts (TAB). I used this one: Original Garnier Limb. 2. Trees move. If you want to use more than one tree (or large branch) for support, your structure can be fixed to only one of them. The other attachment points need to be mobile. This is even true if you build close to the ground: The movements are smaller, but the forces can be all the more destructive. Sliding brackets or suspended attachment points solve this problem for you. 3. Trees compartmentalize. This is a fancy term for the phenomenon that trees treat several nearby wounds as a single large wound. If you hammer a plank into a tree with a bunch of nails, the tree will let that area die. It may rot and fall out. You should build your tree house with the smallest number of attachment points (= wounds) that give you sufficient stability. 4. Trees die. A tree house will always be more expensive than an equivalent house on the ground, because it has a shorter average lifespan. At some point, the tree will die, either by itself, or by growing into your structure. This also means that, on average, a tree house consumes more resources than an equivalent house on the ground, and therefore may not be more environmentally friendly. There are also books on treehouse construction (such as Home Tree Home). However, if you already know how to build wooden structures, the four points above will get you far. Before you start, you also want to learn how to safely climb trees (I love The Tree Climber's Companion), and you need good judgment about the health and strength of the tree that you are considering for support (local arborists can help you out). 