What is the best Porcupine Tree album?
Although there can be no such thing as the 'best' Porcupine Tree album (they're all equally amazing!), after a long time of regularly listening to them along with Steven Wilson's solo albums and side projects, I find myself wanting to listen to songs from 2000's Lightbulb Sun. Well, why Lightbulb Sun? It was at that point in Porcupine Tree's history when their music was more rock-oriented, so to speak. Compared to their more recent albums like Deadwing, Fear of a Blank Planet or even The Incident, the sound on this album is much more direct to the listener. What appealed to me the most though, was the simplicity of the album. For example, the second track of the album, '4 Chords That Made A Million' is driven by an extremely catchy guitar riff through an effect-laden tone. The title track and album opener, 'Lightbulb Sun' too features a prominent guitar riff during the ever so catchy chorus that makes the song what it is. The music throughout the whole album is so simple, yet so beautiful. The lyrics aren't deep or complicated. In fact, they're almost akin to something a fifth or sixth grader would write! Allow me to quote an example from the title track. "The sun is a light bulb A candle's a treat The curtains stay closed now On my little retreat And I'll only take medicine If it's followed by sweets A sickly pink liquid That puts me to sleep ... My head beats a better way Tomorrow a better day And I can watch TV While I'm wrapped up in bed And mother makes sure that I'm watered and fed" Aren't they just beautiful? There's a feelgood factor about the whole album. Every track is equally memorable, but if I were asked to name five songs that I'd prefer to listen to over the others, they'd be: Lightbulb Sun, Shesmovedon, Last Chance To Evacuate Planet Earth Before It Is Recycled (yes, that's the name of the song), The Rest Will Flow and Russia On Ice. As for the instrumental performance, it's up to Porcupine Tree's usual high standards. As I've often thought, I feel that Steven Wilson is an extremely underrated guitarist. Phenomenal stuff on this album, (and well, every other PT album), especially on 'Shesmovedon'. While Chris Maitland isn't the musical genius that is current PT drummer Gavin Harrison, he is solid throughout the album and along with Colin Edwin (another massively underrated musician/bassist), makes a spectacular, consistent rhythm section. Being a bassist myself, I feel that it's my duty to throw Colin Edwin a special mention here. A member of PT ever since they became an actual band from a Steven Wilson solo project, he has delivered basslines that fit each song like a hand in glove. He may not be a Geddy Lee or a Flea but the work he puts in really garners more appreciation. Basslines in a PT song are pleasing to my heart! 