What were the best movies of 2011 and why?
I'm going to give the answer I'd give for the films I think were all-around the greatest movies, the ones to rank as the "best" for artistic quality, technical quality, and other such aspects relevant to perhaps nominating for awards for "Best Picture."  I'm also including, in some cases, sheer overall greatness as entertainment, powerful character arcs that capture the imagination, etc, so there are some films that were blockbuster summer films on the list as well. Keep in mind, this list is based on my feelings about it right now, but to be honest only a few of these remain firmly rooted in their spots on the list, and most of them move up or down in ranking at different times, plus some excluded films will pop on the list depending on how I'm feeling at another time etc. And this isn't 100% "in order," although the top three or four or five are probably pretty much in that order (and the top two are almost definitely in that order). The Tree of Life Drive Bridesmaids The Artist Rise of the Planet of the Apes Moneyball Take Shelter Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows Part 2 The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo The Descendants Some films, like Contagion, 50/50, and Thor were hard not to include, but shaving the list down to 10 required leaving off some others I'd love to have included. My list of "favorite 10 films of 2011" would be rather a bit different, especially in terms of the order of ranking, FYI. EDIT:  I am shocked at myself for leaving off Beginners, one of the best and most moving films I saw all year. The acting is great, the writing and directing are superb, and it had one of the most emotional impacts of any film I've seen all year.  I'm not sure which film to remove from the list in order to put this one on, though. Quite a dilemma... EDIT #2:  I posted my "best of 2011" list over on Forbes, and posted my picks for the Oscar nominations as well, but hadn't come back to amend this answer. So I did want to note that I finally saw Hugo (in 3D) and LOVED it.  If, as I'm 99% sure will be the case, The Tree of Life isn't nominated for Best Picture, then I leave heavily toward Hugo as the film that I'd vote for as Best Picture and I have to think it's among the top three strongest contenders. A beautiful film, and the recreation of old silent films was fantastic -- this is yet another film that demonstrates how perfectly 3D can work as a very good tool for filmmakers. Trying to convey to modern audiences how magical those old first films were can be difficult, but when you hear about how audiences were frightened by the film that showed a train pulling into a station (the audience actually jumped aside as if the train might come out of the picture and hit them) and then this film shows that moment and the 3D makes that train really seem like it's coming at you, you get to experience a bit of what it was really like in those early days. It was a brilliant use of 3D by Scorsese, and the subsequent portrayal of other lovely old films with such sharp colors and in 3D was terrific. I am really starting to suspect that the race for the Oscar is down to Hugo, The Artist, and The Descendants. EDIT #3:  We Need To Talk About Kevin is one of 2011's best films. I rank it in the elite category of top-five best of the year. I've made enough changes at this point that I'm revising the list entirely, so this is my new list of the best 10 films of the year: The Tree of Life Melancholia We Need To Talk About Kevin Drive Hugo A Separation The Artist The Descendants The Girl With The Dragon Tattoo Beginners This was a very tough call, because I had to leave off some films I REALLY loved and that are among my absolute favorites of the year. But if I try to really focus on the films that are just overall the very best on every level, I think this has to be my list for the time being. Definitely a very difficult list to cut down, though. Updated 206w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Heidi McDonald, Nick Manteris, and Adam Mordecai