What is the best Porcupine Tree album?
Deadwing is the best album as a whole based on the listenability of the album from beginning to end, of the quality of each song for individual play, and based on the number of songs that make for excellent live performances. I hear a lot of people say that Deadwing is a good album for new fans, but isn't their favorite, and that they are more fond of some other albums for such-and-such a reason. This bugs me, and I think from the perspective of marketing music like Porcupine Tree to new listeners, it's important to have an album with both a trendy theme and with tracks that are both intricate and strong classics, but also are easy to listen to. Although the tracks are easy to listen to, I always notice something new about the songs and about the album. It doesn't get old despite its simplicity and complexity. There are 10 tracks on this album, although the 10th track is a bonus track, but it is only 5 minutes long, while still having an amazing guitar solo. So, the number of tracks on the album are few enough to appreciate each and every song individually, but still large enough that there is a variety. Also, the lengths of the songs vary, but none of the tracks are excessively long or short... the longest track Arriving Somewhere But Not Here peaks at around 12 minutes, is the 5th track of the album, and fits the central theme of the album. This song is also one of the strongest songs that Porcupine Tree has ever written. The lengths of the songs vary, half of them exceeding the 5 minute mark. Since Porcupine Tree's genre of music tends to have epic, long tracks, it's impressive that half of the tracks are shorter, but that you don't really notice this until you stop and think about it. This also makes for great music videos, with the shorter songs. You can see some of these videos on Lasse Hoile's video site. I think one of the key reasons why Deadwing is debatably the best album that Porcupine Tree has ever produced is because so many of the songs on the album are incredibly strong. I can't even think of a song on the album that is weak. Track 2, Shallow is one of the few tracks that you wouldn't expect to hear live, but this track also makes great radio play (in Europe and the UK). Track 9, Glass Arm Shattering is one of the tracks you probably wouldn't expect to hear live, but it is a great track to end the album with, and flows fantastically after track 8, The Start of Something Beautiful, which happens to be a classic PT favorite and one of Porcupine Tree's strongest tracks, ever. You probably wouldn't expect to hear track 1, Deadwing performed live, but you never know... and this song is epic and really introduces you into the theme of the album. You might expect to hear track 6, Mellotron Scratch live, but probably not... this song is great and unique in and of itself though, because it has a certain euphoric sound that is strong and desirable to new fans, and also sits quite well right after Arriving Somewhere But Not Here, and right before Open Car, which has a completely different more cacophonous sound. All of the other songs are fair game to expect to hear live, and likewise are absolutely incredible to see and hear live. To say that 6 out of 10 songs on an album make for both AMAZING live performances and for AMAZING album play is quite a compliment to the album and to the band. Not to mention, the fact that all 10 songs on the album are amazing, incredibly strong songs on that album itself is a huge compliment to the band. There aren't many albums out there that I could tell you the name and the order to of all of the songs on the album, but Deadwing is such a strong and memorable album, that I think most fans could tell you the name and order of Deadwing's tracks. Also, the length of this album is perfect... it sits around the 1 hour mark. It's not too long or too short, so you can listen to it from beginning to end without it being disappointing based on its length or lack thereof. Also, if you go to a Porcupine Tree concert, you don't know what songs you'll end up listening to, but you can bet you'll be listening to at least 3 of the songs from the Deadwing album, and these will likely be some of the songs you are most excited to see. Additionally, the live visual effects that Porcupine Tree pairs with the songs during live performances are great, especially for the songs from the Deadwing album. The Arriving Somewhere concept just makes for incredible visual and sonic effects. Also, there's been word of a movie being made based on the Deadwing album, but its production has been stalled for some time (several years), because of a lack of funding. How cool is that though... Deadwing has a strong enough theme as a concept album, that it makes for a movie plot? If I had extra money right now, I would fund that film. A lot of people think Lightbulb Sun is the best album, and I do think Lightbulb Sun is one of Porcupine Tree's best albums and has awesome album artwork. The reason why I don't think Lightbulb Sun could qualify as the best Porcupine Tree album is based on the critique that this album gets more depressing as the album goes on. Track 1 is Lightbulb Sun, which is hopeful and nostalgic... but the latter tracks in the album, like track 9, Russia on Ice, and track 10, Feel So Low, complete the album with a very pessimistic feel, despite their musical greatness. Steven Wilson orders the songs in his albums based on the order that he wrote the songs, but even despite this... unfortunately Lightbulb Sun, despite its excellence, just isn't the best Porcupine Tree album for this reason. Also, Lightbulb Sun's album artwork (as in its album cover) is great, but the artwork that comes with this album is very limited... Deadwing's album artwork is more extensive, so from that perspective is superior comparitively. The Incedent is Porcupine Tree's most recent album, and Steven Wilson tried to make it so detailed that people would always notice something new about it, after listening to the album several times. I think this was a mistake in some regards though, because it is so detailed that it is overwhelming, so it's not the strongest Porcupine Tree album from that respect... not to mention Porcupine Tree albums are always very intricate and detailed whether or not this intricacy was a conscious effort in the production process. Fear of a Blank Planet exceeded the number of album sales compared to Deadwing, but Fear of a Blank Planet's concept isn't necessarily what people want to listen to on any given day. Deadwing definitely has a more mainstream and widely accepted concept for an album, despite the fact that Porcupine Tree is anything but mainstream. Fear of a Blank Planet's EP, Nil Recurring has some of the strongest Porcupine Tree songs ever... but Nil Recurring is an EP after all. It only has 4 tracks. What Happens Now? is one of the strongest Porcupine Tree tracks ever published. Find a live video of What Happens Now? on youtube... unbelievably great. So there you have it... That's why Deadwing is the best Porcupine Tree album to date. It doesn't have to be your favorite, but it is definitely the strongest album based on the album's total value, based on an array of factors and considerations. 