What were the best movies of 2011 and why?
So, I've just been asked to answer my own question...lol...I didn't answer yet because my list isn't finalized, I have too many more to see. I'm editing this list as I see more films, so if you're following this question, you'll be notified of the edits. Films I've yet to see which could influence my final list: The Land of Blood and Honey Take Shelter Drive Shame My Week With Marilyn Albert Nobbs 50/50 Films I've seen that could deserve a Best Picture Award: Hugo The Artist: Believe the hype. This will win awards. It will be a tough call for me to choose between this and Hugo in most cases. I loved everything about it, and I'll be very surprised if we don't see an appearance of Uggie the Dog at the Oscars. The Descendants Girl With the Dragon Tattoo Tintin Films I've seen that could deserve at least a nomination (win, unlikely): The Help Super 8 Moneyball Midnight in Paris Films I've seen which I know are good but I'm not sure yet where they go (will depend on other films I haven't seen yet and where those go): Contagion Rise of the Planet of the Apes Potter/Deathly Hallows Rango Films I've seen which other people are crazy about which I don't think were "all that:" War Horse: Pretty cinematography, well directed...but had pacing issues, was soppy and overwrought. Didn't like it. Someone else asked me if I thought this means Spielberg is on the fade. Because he also directed Tintin this year, I'm going to say no, with the caveat that he needs to take a break from war movies, now. Tree of Life: Visually stunning in parts, but I'm gonna have to agree with the people who booed. It was agonizingly slow and pretentious, and I'd describe it as Stand By Me meets the crazy-ass part of 2001, or else, the film they showed the people who were waiting to be euthanized in Soylent Green. Malick was clearly trying to get philosophical and ask big questions, but, I'm at a loss as to what the answers were, or even what the questions were. Maybe you have to be religious to get this, or to like it. I don't know. I didn't like it. J. Edgar (mediocre film with one stand-out performance) The Iron Lady (again, mediocre film with one stand-out performance...Meryl Streep, I believe, will win a Best Actress Oscar.) Ides of March Bridesmaids Beginners (mediocre film with one stand-out performance) Films I've seen which were horribly, absolutely underrated: Crazy, Stupid Love The Debt Updated 211w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Nick Manteris