What facts about the United States do foreigners not believe until they come to America?
There are a lot of rational answers that focus on a lot of well-earned American oddities.  We know them, so I want to talk about what my friend, Pascual, saw when I brought him back to the USA that he just found difficult to believe.  American institutional obsession with sports.  He tells me that his parents rarely ever watched him play soccer.  Sure, families came, and they especially came if the local team was in a championship, but mostly its kids and the players.  When I took him passed a local "sports park", there were sports for girls and boys, both soccer and baseball, and thousands of people walking around while each sport was taking place.  He was stunned to see just how athletically involved entire families were, and how we made a day of it.  My sister was in the Softball championship and we went to every game, all the way until mid July and he enjoyed every bit of it (he was/is a good looking guy and got a lot of attention from the ladies, so I'm sure that's part of it), but he was constantly floored by how ENTERPRISEY the whole enterprise was.  Drinking age.  He couldn't get over that we had a drinking age and that it was enforced so strictly. Night life.  He knew that American clubs shut down early, but he was stunned to see people heading out at 8pm and being done at 1am (in Spain you don't even really get out until around midnight and the clubs stay open all night). Circumcision. It was a topic that--oddly enough--came up a few times.  Sure, we'd seen each other naked, but there was an entertaining conversation with him and my friends and both sides were a little stunned by the prepucity of the other.  Questions abounded.  It was amusing (I was a bystander, having already lived in Europe and asked/been asked all the questions). Boobs.  He insisted that American women had larger breasts.  Like many romantic, straight Spanish men, Pascual is/was not perversely attracted to the female form, but just mesmerized by it.  I had to keep him on a tight leash when we went to my sister's softball games. Horrible American driving standards. We weave in and out of the lanes on the highway.  We aren't as "right justified" as they are in Spain.  In Europe, getting a driver's license is an ordeal, filled with registered "behind the wheel" time with a licensed instructor, tests, tests and more tests as well as rigorously enforced driving etiquette rules.  Nothing like that in the states.  I have to say, I sympathized with him.  Our driving standards suck. Just how clean the USA is. He didn't know what to expect and--frankly--Spanish people didn't have the best community anti-littering policies back then (prolly do now).  No trash on the roads in Ohio (or very little) and he was privileged to see a hefty ticket being handed out for littering.  Hamburgers.  After eating hamburgers (real ones, not Micky-D's), he was not surprised at all why Americans were so fat--we just have damned bad-for-you-but-tasty-food-in-massive-sizes. 