What are the things Civil Engineers know while others don't?
1. Narmada Canal A water depth of 15 cm (6 inches) was released into the main canal of the Sardar Sarovar project and it reached the end of the canal which is located at 460 kilometers away from its origin. This is only possible when the loss due to friction is overcome by gravity and canal is perfectly lined and prismatic. 2. If your house is not shaking during earthquake, run out of the house or else you are most probably going to die. In case of earthquakes, shock-waves pump a tremendous amount of energy constantly during the whole event into the building through the foundation. This pumped energy should be dissipated out of the building be moving which causes loss of energy in terms of generating some inertial forces, along with some extent of cracking so that it can go into that nonlinear zone and dissipate energy. 3. Wear and tear of roads in summer This happens not just because of rain. Actually the damage in road starts during high temperature during summer. Asphalt which has pretty low melting posing and its viscosity changes drastically with increase in temperature, loses its grip with the crushed stones and road starts weakening up. Now in monsoon as those stones are already lose, water penetrates in and slowly these stones get stuck to moving vehicles and the failure of road starts. 4. The tallest building possible to build is 8848 m Yes, it it equal to the height of mount Everest. We know that the soil beneath our feet is capable of talking the load of that giant and there is nothing which is taller than that till date. So we can surly make a building as tall as mount Everest, provided that we have that sum of money. 5. Earthquakes and Tsunamis Earthquakes near Japan and eastern countries can create tsunamis as it is a normal fault while earthquake near the coast of Chile and west coast of USA will not generally generate Tsunami. So the Tsunami showed in San Andreas movie is an inaccurate information. There are chances of Tsunami in Alaska but not in San Francisco and that too not at this extent. 6. Change of tracks by trains Trains and their switch between tracks is always taught to civil engineers in second year. It is pretty simple and cool thing to learn. Instead of explaining I would share a lovely video. 7. Post-tension slabs flow a similar concept to hanging clothes on ropes of your balcony To which extent the tendons should be stressed depends on the amount of loading applied on the slab. So if you want your clothes to be hanged without sagging and they are all jeans, make sure to tighten up the rope so that it does not "deflect" 8.  Spillways You know why we create a water jump at the end of the spillway? To extract all the energy from the flowing water. If we do not do this, then it will erode all the soil in downstream of the dam which will result in dangerous amount of loss of strength in dam and it may fail causing many cities to submerge. Also this reduces the velocity of water which then takes longer time to reach cities giving people slightly more time to reach for higher grounds. 9. Even small amount of force can cause a giant to collapse It is not necessary that if the structure is big it means that it can resist higher forces or it is designed to do so. No. Even winds at 40 mph can cause the whole bridge to wobble and collapse under the stresses. This was due to turbulence created by the wind and the deck was not stiff enough to resist that turbulence. 10. Chimneys and suspension cables have rough edges so that they do not sway violently in winds. Something like this simple can reduce violent sway of chimney just because air loses a lot of energy in forming small vortices around it. It is called vortex shedding analysis. 11. Cement, Concrete and Mortar are three different things. If they would have been same then we would not call it with three different names. 12. Never hang a huge photo-frame on the back wall of your bed. Hanging a photo-frame at the back wall can create serious injuries and many times, death. During earthquake there are chances that the frame may disengage and fall right on your face when you are sleeping. So better change the place right now. This is not a good idea. 