Why hasn't the United States switched to the metric system?
I am a fan of the Metric System.  But . . . WHY.  Um - WHY would the US change? Seriously - what's in it for the US to change?  Better integration with the rest of the world?  99.999% of US citizens don't integrate with the rest of the world.  And if foreign companies are selling stuff to the US - then they can jolly well make it in the US's sizes. And if the US exports, it's more likely to be technology, or methods, or processes - which don't involve units. Change is hard.  People need a good reason.  Perhaps, NECESSITY, and no choice. HUMAN SCALE.  The United States Customary System (USCS), like the Imperial systems before it, is designed on a human scale.  The Metric System or SI is not. The inch (size of the last section of your thumb), the foot (literally), yards, rods, chains, furlongs, and miles, teaspoons, tablespoons, ounces, cups, pints, quarts, gallons, bushels, barrels, ounces, pounds, tons - all are based on units you can hold in your hand, that are actually used in daily life.  All units relate to each other by simple multiples and fractions.  (As long as you can do fractions!)  For thousands of years, civilizations have done arithmetic and measurements with various multiples between convenient units (as USCS does), from Babylonian time and angles to (old) English money. The metric system is (on purpose!) not related like this.  One standard is selected in each category, and all others are related on bases of 10 or, more commonly, 1000.  There are litres, and there are millilitres.  Though, technically, deciletres exist, in practice those are the only units of volume.  The fact that a cup of tea or a pint of beer does not exist in any convenient unit does not perturb the metric system.  You can have a 200 ml cuppa, or a 500 ml pint.  But the USCS has a handy unit for each. Bread is a pound.  Coffee is a pound. "A pint is a pound, the whole world round."  (except for metric countries)    (It's a little inconvenient that an ounce, a pint, and a gallon differ between US and UK.  But if you're drinking a pint, it all seems about the same, after a while.) Fahrenheit temperature covers the usual temperature range for temperate climates from 0 to 100 (0 in the coldest day of winter, 100 in the hottest day of summer).  (Of course, your temperature may vary.)  Fahrenheit has about twice the resolution of Celsius or Centigrade (in integer degrees).  (So do pounds compared with kg.)  Celsius or Centigrade measures 0 to 100 for water, from freezing to boiling.  If you aren't heating water, how is this useful?  Fahrenheit is MUCH more useful for humans living in temperate climates, and not bad elsewhere. CONVERSION.  The United States has legally converted several times to the metric system - but the conversion has never "stuck" and been favored and adopted widely.  One reason is that the SI was not taught as a "new language" - but as something to be converted.  We (I was a child in the 1960s and 1970s, learning loads of Metric Conversions) did thousands of unit conversions. Unit conversions are a lot of arithmetic.  Not particularly useful, and lots of work.  Uninviting.  THIS is most US citizen's perspective of "The Metric System" - unit conversion arithmetic.  They'd rather not. Now it COULD have been introduced like immersive language training - JUST DO IT!  (To borrow a phrase from Nike.)  The US could have "gone cold turkey" - converting all at once.  There would have been great pain - but it would have passed, like a surgery.  Rather than converting, the US could have just started using all new units.  (Akin to being immersed in a foreign language, rather than translating every word and phrase.) But nothing other than part of the beverage industry actually changed.  (2 liter sodas, liter water, etc.  The alcohol industry changed over -- kind of.  They changed units but not sizes.  1/5 gallon of liquor turned into 750 ml.  1/2 gallon of liquor turned into 1.75 liters.  A 1-1/2 ounce shot turned into 50 ml.  750 ml and 1.75 l aren't used around the world - but it *IS* metric.  And, of course, the classic 12 ounce can has NEVER changed.) So - for most of the US - the "metric system" was not a system of units, but a math problem, best avoided. STANDARDS.  It isn't really about a system of measurement, as it is about standards.  If the home building industry took the ubiquitous "2x4" lumber (which is 1-1/2" x 3-1/2" x 8') and measured it in centimeters (3.81 cm x 8.89 cm x 2.4384 m) - no one would notice.  (As long as there was a simple name, like "2x4".) But if you change to a new standard, for example, nice round numbers 5 cm x 10 cm x 2.5 m, then every house has to be redesigned, ceilings will be a different height, walls will be a different thickness, studs will be spaced differently, repairs require adaptation of new parts to old designs, etc. The standards are NOT a part of the SI or metric system - but they ARE a part of fitting into a world-wide system of commerce.  And they would require a MUCH larger change than merely using SI to measure existing standards. EVERY industry has dozens or hundreds of standards that all require at least unit conversion - and perhaps rethinking, redesign, and adoption of foreign standards. MOTIVATION.  When French astronomers started to measure the Earth to establish the metre (1792-1799), there were more than 10,000 units of measure in use.  Yes, there were common words, such as "pound".  But a pound was different in every market town (and defined there).  And a pound was different for different goods -- a pound of feathers did NOT weigh the same as a pound of lead.  And a pound differed from year to year - if the wheat crop was good, a pound of bread was larger than in years when the wheat crop was poor.  An acre represented the space an ox could plow in a day -- but an acre of poor, hard land was not the same size as an acre of rich land.  A barrel of ale was a different volume than a barrel of beer, or of wine, or herring.  Not to mention differences between French provinces, English counties, German principalities, etc. As trade expanded outside individual market towns, Europe NEEDED common measures, and the metric system was an answer. But the US has a nice, single, cohesive, non-decimal system of measurement.  It doesn't have the motivation the French had in the 1790s. http://smile.amazon.com/gp/produ...  (Ken Adler, "The Measure of All Things: The Seven-Year Odyssey and Hidden Error that Transformed the World") WHY METRIC?  The Metric System isn't all that great. -  Yes, you get to change unit magnitudes by shifting a decimal point.  And you simultaneously lose other multiples than 10. (Divide 100 meters of rope into three parts.  (33 meters, 333 millimeters, and 1/3 millimeter).  Divide 100 yards of rope into three parts, and you get 100 feet each.) -  But you get units less intuitive than USCS units.  See Human Scale, above. -  And metric units are just as arbitrary as USCS.  What's special about a kilogram or meter?  Nothing in particular.  (See next) SI is not "better".  It is certainly different.  And some prefer it.  It is ubiquitous in other parts of the world.  But there is NO objective reason that it is "better". - AND IT IS WRONG.  Great argument was laid out between nations as to what should be a proper international unit -- for example, not the length of any one particular ruler's foot.  So, the circumference of the Earth was chosen.  (Specifically, 1 metre = 1/10,000,000 the quarter meridianal circumference of the Earth - the distance from Equator to North Pole.) (The 1-second pendulum was a counter-proposal, and easier to measure, but eventually the fraction of the Earth won out.) The distance couldn't be measured in the 1790s, but it could be inferred by the relationship between an angle of the Earth (e.g. 1 degree of latitude) and the distance of that angle.  But at what elevation?  (Sea level?)  Estimated at which latitude?  (London?  Paris?  Madrid?  Berlin?  Washington D.C.?)  And measured along which longitude? Eventually, 45 degrees latitude (midway) was chosen, as best averaging the Earth's equatorial circumference and polar circumference. Started by the French monarchy, but surviving the French Revolution, captivity in Spain, and myriad other hazards, two astronomers measured enough of France (Calais to Barcelona) to measure the Earth - and specify the metre. Except for one thing. Jean Baptiste Joseph Delambre successfully measured the northern half.  Pierre François André Méchain measured the southern half. But Méchain made a grevious error just as he started - and then concealed the error.  Delambre didn't learn of it until the "preliminary" metre had already been released to commercial use.  And then he, too, concealed the error, lest the public support for this new measure be lost. To this very day, a meter is "a little short" of 1/10,000,000 of the quarter circumference.  It should be nearly 2 mm longer (0.2%) in order to match the Earth's quarter circumference that Delambre and Méchain intended.  As a result, the circumference of the Earth is not exactly 40,000 km - it takes more meters to go around.  According to Space.com, it is 40,008 km along the meridians, and 40,075 along the equator. THOMAS JEFFERSON.  Thomas Jefferson (as US Secretary of State) was the US scientist corresponding with others around the world to develop a common system of measures.  The US had already decimalized its currency, and in 1790 he was assigned to investigate decimalizing the new country's weights and measures.  As former ambassador to France (succeeding Franklin), he was quite familiar with proposals for a new system in France.  When the French had not yet defined the meter, Jefferson drafted a decimalized system for the US - the FIRST decimal system that integrated time, length, volume, and weight, and was scientifically based (on the length of a 1-second pendulum at 45 degrees latitude).  That was the FIRST metric proposal debated by the US congress, and it was debated for several years. In 1795, when the Northwest Indian War was settled, the US need an immediate answer for how to survey the territory.  But Jefferson left his work as Secretary of State, and in 1796 ran for President.  (Becoming instead John Adams' Vice President.)  Jefferson's successor was more interested in an immediate answer to survey the Northwest Territory, and less interested in scientific measurement systems, decimalization, and the integration of all systems of units.  The English mile (based on Gunter's Chain) was formally adopted in 1796, giving the US a common measure with Britain for inches, feet, yards, rods, chains, furlongs, acres, and miles.  (The US also adopted British pounds and ounces (avoirdupois and troy), though not stone.  Units of volume also became standardized in the US - but England had not yet picked one single gallon measure.  When it did - it picked differently.  The US in 1796 picked the English "wine gallon" of 231 cu in. [3" x 7" x 11"], and, in 1824, the British picked 10 pounds of water (nearly the ale gallon) to define the imperial gallon.  Imperial is a bigger gallon, but a smaller ounce, than USCS.  With ten pounds but only eight pints in a gallon, it was no longer one pound per pint.) - Andro Linklater, "Measuring America: How the United States Was Shaped by the Greatest Land Sale in History", 2003 - Thomas Jefferson, "Plan for Establishing Uniformity in the Coinage, Weights, and Measures of the United States", July 4, 1790 (A truly fascinating document!) http://avalon.law.yale.edu/18th_... WHY?  Did I mention, WHY change at all?  Most US citizens are perfectly happy in their blissfully ignorant use of the USCS.  They have no idea of the great wonders that would await them if they only let go of the antiquated mess and adopt the system used by civilized countries.  But they're blythely happy.  Hmmm. 