What does it feel like to become a millionaire?
The answers here are thoughtful, but I haven't seen one that reflects my experience of having lived across all three class-strata.  Middle Class:I was born into a middle-class family.  My parents were employees of the US Government in the weapons program, we lived in a 2,000sqft house on an acre of land facing a beautiful lake nestled in the foothills of Colorado. I remember still my parents had three savings accounts, one for long-term, one for Christmas and one for Vacations.  As a result, my brother and I always had everything we needed and most everything we wanted.  We would often go on weekend ski trips to Breckenridge or Beaver Creek, my younger brother and I were privately educated in Christian schools that were known for academic rigor. My sophomore year of high school, I transfered to a local public school to play on a more competitive football team.  I immediately recognized the delta between my cognitive capability and those of my peers.  Around this same time I also learned the definition of the term "Open Campus" so I spent most of my time "checked out" of the campus through the Gifted and Talented program and working on my passion: computers, specifically at Packard Bell in Golden, CO. For my class' "Senior Superlatives" I was named "Best Dressed" and "Most Likely to be a Millionaire".  Interestingly, the judges made the joke that I would inherit my million. People always thought my brother and I were very wealthy due to our parent's generosity.  This seemed funny at the time, but would not be particularly meaningful until later. Wealthy: Fast forward from high school 7 years, I am a young single dad emerging from a broken relationship with my high school sweetheart.  I had been making low six-figures a year as an junior executive for the world's largest management consulting company. It was then that I met my first mentor, a wealthy man with an 8th grade education.  This person owned an exotic car dealership in Houston and drove a Ferrari 360, which I had inquired through a friend about buying. He was very blunt, asking how much I made.  I proudly told him $130K!  He looked at me skeptically and informed me that I could not afford to buy his car even if I paid cash for it. I'm not sure if I was more irritated or intrigued, but this interaction sparked the next phase of my life where I was wealthy.  The reading of three books prepared my mind for what was to come: 1.  Think and Grow Rich 2.  As a Man Thinketh 3.  The Science of Getting Rich A series of events required that I relocate from TX back to CO.  I obtained my first Ferrari (a 1984 308 QV) and joined the local chapter of the Ferrari Club where I was exposed to greater echelons of wealth, and more importantly met my 2nd mentor. He was an easy guy to like, from WI- a music major who made his money in the markets short-squeezing bears.  He and I clicked due to our mutual involvement in martial arts.  Through this relationship, I took my small startup company public. This skyrocketed my effective net worth to around $45m.  I upgraded my Ferrari to a 355GTS and bought my younger brother an Aston Martin DB7 Volante.  I lease optioned a large house in the best-part of town and decided that I would purchase it ala Larry Ellison with stock increases (why use principal?) My distributions were planned and automatic.  Money would be swept from my brokerage account into a checking account like a weekly miracle. The best part of being wealthy was that I felt that I could be as generous with people as I always felt in my heart I needed to be.  I gave what I thought was a large amount to different charities, started a bid at $15,000 for a charity date with a movie star (I was outbid at $30K, but ended up having a nice relationship with her and her family anyway). None of my "true friends" from back in the day had to pay for anything, so in a way it was like we ALL made it.  It was wonderful. Sure there were a few "hangers-on" but you can stop-loss those quickly with a watchful eye and advice from true friends. One thing I miss from this time was my household manager: Beatrice.  She took care of everything: taking my children to school (in a Jaguar) cleaning up our nightly after-party mess, cooking, running errands, scheduling my day.  She was wonderful.  She later gave me the best compliment that I'd ever received when we got back in touch on Facebook:  "The true measure of a man is how he treats the person who can do nothing for him." Anyway, at the peak of my hubris, a market anomaly happened. Poor: In response to the market anomaly, we took the company private- selling it to an entity in the Pacific Northwest.  As you might imagine, my paper wealth evaporated overnight.  I was left with a not-insubstantial cash balance, but was in a fear-of-loss mindset.  I felt poor.  Every expense I looked at as my lifeblood seeping from my body. I now had an enormous house payment, a Range Rover lease, a Jaguar lease and a lifestyle to pay for.  So I began liquidating hard assets to cover the monthly nut.  In retrospect, this is one of the stupidest things I ever did. I sold my beloved 355GTS and the Aston.  All the while putting money into the house and the other non-tangibles, including several thousand per month in child support payments. My then-significant other left, and hit me with attorney-fees.  All told, the cash balance I had lasted about 18 agonizing months. I moved out of my mansion, into my little brother's unrented condo that had been trashed by the previous renters. ------ The really great thing has been the reboot.  I have an awesome life with an excellent wife (who brought me out of my mess with her unwavering support). I have a new company with fantastic clients, and a great core team.  We have more than enough money now (we don't live in a mansion or own a Ferrari anymore) but we do have nice vehicles and a comfortable living arrangement.  I came back from spending an impromptu week in FL yesterday, soaking up the sun and playing in the waves of the Atlantic. In the end, it's all about spending less than you earn.  I'll feel truly rich when I make $100K per month in PASSIVE, reliable income.  Not there yet, but have a nice start. Oh, and I want Beatrice back.  Not for me, but for my wife.  :) Updated 208w ago • View Upvotes