How should I prepare for statistics questions for a data science interview?
In terms of the specific topics I think others have handled them quite well.  What I will focus on it how to get through the interview. My strategy when interviewing candidates was to find a place where my background and theirs overlapped.  I'd then ask a series of technical questions targeted to that area.  So my first piece of advice would be to find out who you will be speaking to and where you might have some common ground.  Make sure you know that area well.  I have interviewed candidates that have failed here.  For example I remember interviewing a PhD in Statistics that waxed lyrical about her regression skills but was not able to explain R-squared. Once I have asked a series of technical questions I would usually get the candidate to select a statistic or concept in that area and explain it to me as if I had no background in mathematics or statistics.  This is because we needed to feel we could put our people in front of non-technical stakeholders and that they would be able to convey complex ideas clearly.  So my second piece of advice would be to learn how to convey complex concepts without resorting to jargon or assumed knowledge.  I had one memorable guy that explained geodesics using the chairs in the cafe we were in. He was great. Finally don't expect it all to be technical.  You're being assessed on what you know and how you convey it but you're also being assessed on how you'll fit into the organisation.  You can't do much about that bit other than be yourself.  Be clear on what your motivations are.  Why do you want the job? What needs does it meet for you.  That way when you're asked a hypothetical question like "how would you sell this job to a good friend that has the same background as you?" you won't blurt out that it's the pay, or that you get to work with a great team that you have not met.  You should be able to answer knowing what boxes it ticks for you and what boxes you tick for the organisation. 