Which is the most underrated state of India? Why ?
It's Karnataka my friend. People know Karnataka by the capital city, Bengaluru. I think you know why :P but to say the least there is a lot more to Karnataka than Bengaluru. I am not covering any aspect of Bengaluru in this answer to let you know more awesome places in Karnataka. Tourism is the most underrated aspect of Karnataka as it is stuck between the party paradise Goa and god's own country Kerala. Karnataka government is to blame here partly as it never endorses her beauty using a famous personality unlike Gujarat, Rajasthan. Let's begin the Journey of Karnataka: One state. Many worlds. photo by Jasvipul Chawla Pardon me for not mentioning photo credits to all the pics, all the photos are taken from Google Images. Jog Falls: Jog Falls is the second highest plunge waterfall in India and is worth a visit during monsoons. Murudeshwara: Temple on the beach makes it a perfect family destination. Scuba diving at Netrani Islands: Pic credit: Neil Kumta: Gokarna: Mahabhaleshwara temple in Gokarna houses what is believed to be original image of Lord Shiva's lingam (Atmalinga). Om beach, Gokarna: Can you identify the Om symbol? Yana rocks: Hidden Jewels of the Western Ghats. Unchalli Falls, Sirsi: Devbagh beach, Karwar: Dandeli: for the adventurists. Godachinmalki falls, Belagavi : Gokak Falls: Gol Gumbaz, Vijayapura: Architectural beauty that houses the Whispering gallery. Ibrahim Roza, Vijayapura: Bara Kaman, Vijayapura: Bidar: Where the famous Bidriware is made. Badami, Aihole & Pattadakal: For Architecture lovers. The Hampi: Ruins of vijayanagara empire. Chitradurga Fort: Onake Obavva Madhugiri Hill Trek: Asia's second largest monolith. Elevation at 3,930 ft. Nandi hills: *Real Clicks* altitude - 4,851 ft. Skandagiri (Over The Clouds) Night Trek: altitude - 4,430 ft. Kotilingeshwara, Kolar:  This temple houses the largest Shivling in India at 108 feet and a 35 Feet tall Nandi statue and is said to have 91 lakh shivlings installed by devotees (as of August 2015) over an area of 13 acres and the count in increasing day by day. *SKIPPING BENGALURU* Kaveri River while running through Karnataka makes these gorgeous waterfalls. Shivanasamudra Falls: First Hydro electric power station in Asia. Gaganachukki Falls: Bharachukki Falls: Shravanabelagola: Gommateshvara Bahubali - 57 ft- Largest monolithic stone statue in the world. An important pilgrimage centre for Jains. Melukote Rayagopura: Somanathapura, Belur & Halebidu: For Architecture lovers. Sakaleshpura: Mysuru: Mysuru Palace: Karnataka State Festival: Mysuru Dasara KRS dam & Brindavan Gardens: Venugopala Swamy Temple: Hoysala architecture. Picture credits: Ashwin Kumar Bandipur National Park: Largest number of tigers in a reserve in India. Himavad Gopalaswamy Hills: Madikeri (Coorg): Also known as Scotland of India. Golden Temple: Buddhist Monastry. Iruppu Falls: Chelavara Falls: Thadiyandamol Hills Trek: Nagarahole National Park: Kumara Parvatha Trek: One of the hardest trekking routes. Mangaluru: Tannirbavi Beach: Maravanthe Beach: Chikkamagaluru: Mullayyanagiri: Highest peak in Karnataka at 6,330 ft. Z point, Kemmannugundi: Kudremukh: Picture credits: Ullas B.T Hanumanagundi Falls: Kapu beach, Udupi: St. Mary's Island, Udupi: Agumbe: The Cherrapunji of the South. Onake Abbi Falls (Top View). Kodachadri Trek: at 4,406 ft. When naming Freedom Fightors of India, hardly any Karnataka personality is recognized. Here are the few. Kittur Rani Chennamma: 33 years before the National Uprising, queen of princely state Kittur in Karnataka led an armed rebellion against the British, and lost her life in the end. Sangolli Rayanna: Rayanna was born on 15 August 1798. He was the army chief of the Kingdom of Kittur ruled at the time by Rani Chennamma and fought the British East India Company till his death. Rani Abbakka Chowta: Rani Abbakka Chowta was the Queen of Ullal who fought the Portuguese in the latter half of the 16th century. The Portuguese made several attempts to capture Ullal as it was strategically placed. But Abbakka repulsed each of their attacks for over four decades. For her bravery, she came to be known as Abhaya Rani (The fearless queen). She was also one of the earliest Indians to fight the colonial powers and is sometimes regarded as the 'first woman freedom fighter of India'. Keladi Chennamma: Keladi Chennamma was the Queen of Keladi Kingdom (1671-1697) in Karnataka.  During her reign of 26 years, she repelled the advances of the Mughal Army led by the infamous Aurangzeb from her military base in the kingdom of Keladi located in Sagara. She also rendered a trade agreement with the Portuguese involving commodities like pepper and rice. She was given the epithet "the Pepper Queen or Raina da Pimenta' by the Portuguese. Tipu Sultan: also known as the Tiger of Mysore was a ruler of the Kingdom of Mysore. Tipu expanded the iron-cased Mysorean rockets and wrote the military manual Fathul Mujahidin, considered a pioneer in the use of rocket artillery. He deployed the rockets against advances of British forces and their allies in their 1792 and 1799 Siege of Srirangapatna. Karnataka's contribution to Science & Technology: In order N. R. Narayana Murthy, C. N. R. Rao, M. Visvesvaraya and Raja Ramanna. Karnataka's contribution to Art forms: Dance: Yakshagana (Shown in the above pic), Veeragase, Kamsale and Dollu Kunitha. Music: Hindustani: In order Bhimsen Joshi, Gangubai Hangal and Puttaraj Gawai. Carnatic: In order Purandara Dasa and Kanaka Dasa. Purandara Dāsa (1484–1564) is a prominent composer of Dasa sahithya, a poetic form of the Madhwa philosophy. He is widely referred to as the Pitamaha (father) of Carnatic Music in honour of his significant contribution to Carnatic music. Kanaka Dasa (1509 – 1609) was a poet, philosopher, musician and composer from modern Karnataka. He is known for his Kirtanes and Ugabhoga, compositions in the Kannada language for Carnatic music. Contemporary: In order C. Aswath, Raghu Dixit, Vijay Prakash (Jai Ho fame) and Annavru Rajkumar (actor). Karnataka's contribution to Sports: In order Prakash Padukone, Venkatesh Prasad, Javagal Srinath, Anil Kumble, The Wall Rahul Dravid, B. S. Chandrasekhar, Gundappa Viswanath, Syed Kirmani, Arjun Halappa (Hockey), Rohan Bopanna, Mahesh Bhupathi, Pankaj Advani (Billiards), Ashwini Ponnappa, Vikas Gowda (Discus throw) , M. R. Poovamma (athletics) and Girisha Nagarajegowda (Paralympic silver medalist). Karnataka's contribution to Literature: Karnataka has rich languages which include Kannada along with varied dialects like Konkani, Tulu, Beary, Coorgi. Kannada language has recieved 8 Jnanpith awards  just behind Hindi with 10 Jnanpith awards. In order R. K. Laxman (Common man), U. R. Ananthamurthy (J), Chandrashekhara Kambara (J), Vinayaka Krishna Gokak (J), K. Shivaram Karanth (J), D. R. Bendre (J), G. S. Shivarudrappa, S. L. Bhyrappa, Girish Karnad (J), Masti Venkatesha Iyengar (J), Kuvempu  (J), Poornachandra Tejaswi, D. V. Gundappa, M. Govinda Pai (first Rashtrakavi title by the Madras Government) and B. G. L. Swamy. * (J) indicates Jnanpith award recipient. Karnataka's contribution to Indian Cinema: Directors: In order Puttanna Kanagal (N), Shankar Nag (N) (Malgudi Days fame), Upendra (actor), T. S. Nagabharana (N), Nagathihalli Chandrashekhar (N), Girish Kasaravalli (N) and Baraguru Ramachandrappa. * (N) indicates National award recepient. I would recommend you guys to try Upendra (actor) 1990's movies. He is one of a kind director in India. Actors: In order Rajkumar (actor), Vishnuvardhan (actor), Rajinikanth, Aishwarya Rai Bachchan, Deepika Padukone, Anushka Sharma, Anushka Shetty, Prakash Raj and NataBhayankara Vajramuni. Karnataka's contribution to Economy: Karnataka is called as the cradle of banking in India. This is because seven of the country's leading banks, Canara Bank, Syndicate Bank, Corporation Bank, Vijaya Bank, Karnataka Bank, Vysya Bank (Now Kotak Mahindra Bank) and the State Bank of Mysore originated from this state. In order Vijay Mallya, Kiran Mazumdar-Shaw (Biocon) and Azim Premji. Other Notable Personalities: Shakuntala Devi : The Human Computer. Major Sandeep Unnikrishnan: Ashoka Chakra. "Do not come up, I will handle them" Field Marshal Cariappa : Anonymous' answer to What are some of the amazing facts about the Indian Army? General K.S. Thimayya: General Kodendera Subayya Thimayya, DSO was a distinguished soldier of the Indian Army who served as Chief of Army Staff from 1957 to 1961 in the crucial years leading up to the conflict with China in 1962. Gen. Thimayya was the only Indian to command an Infantry brigade in battle during the Second World War and is regarded as the most distinguished combat officer the Indian Army has produced. Saalumarada Thimmakka: Saalumarada Thimmakka is an environmentalist from Karnataka, noted for her work in planting and tending to 384 banyan trees along a four-kilometre stretch of highway between Hulikal and Kudur. Her work has been honoured with the National Citizen's Award of India. Karnataka State Road Transport Corporation is under-rated. KSRTC provides one of the best transport services in the country.  KSRTC has the largest fleet of Volvo buses among state owned transport companies. KSRTC bus: Airavata Club Class: Fly Bus: Airavata Bliss: BMTC: My love BMTC Vajra: Karnataka food is surely under-rated. Savour these authentic delicacies from Karnataka: BisiBele Bath: Mysore Masala Dosa: MTR Rava Idli: Mysore pak: Mysore Bonda: Davanagere Benne Dosa: Dharwada peda: CCD from Bengaluru: Akki Rotti: Tatte Idli: Girmit Mirchi: Maddur Vade: Belagavi Kunda: Uniqueness of Karnataka: Karnataka produces 53% of the India's coffee produce. Coffee production in India Karnataka has the most number of tigers in any state with 408 tigers. Tiger reserves of India Karnataka Khadi Gramodyoga Samyukta Sangha located in Hubli is the only unit in India that is authorised to manufacture and supply the Flag of India. Mysore Paints and Varnish Limited located in Mysore is the only company in India authorised to produce the indelible ink, which is used in the elections to prevent people from voting multiple times. Mysore silk: Karnataka produces 9,000 metric tons of mulberry silk of a total of 14,000 metric tons produced in the country, thus contributing to nearly 70% of the country's total mulberry silk. Sandalwood grown in Karnataka is of the highest quality and is highly prized by the perfumery and soap industries worldwide. Karnataka along with J&K are the only states with state flag (Unofficial in Karnataka). I know I have still missed out on a lot of things and lot many personalities. Feel free to suggest an Edit. If you are interested in knowing more of Karnataka tourism: Sharath Hiremath's answer to What are the best places to visit on a 3-day trip in and around Karnataka? I hope this answer changes your perspective about ನಮ್ಮ ಕರ್ನಾಟಕ. Thanks for the long read :) Updated 3w ago • View Upvotes