What is an intuitive explanation of overfitting?
Let's say you attend a symphony and want to get the clearest, most faithful sound possible. So you buy a super-sensitive microphone and hearing aid to pick up all the sounds in the auditorium. Then you start "overfitting," hearing the noise on top of the symphony. You hear your neighbors shuffling in their seats, the musicians turning their pages, and even the swishing of the conductor's coat jacket. When you're at a concert, there's both the symphony and the random noise. Fitting a perfect model is only listening to the symphony. Over-fitting is when you hear more noise then you need to, or worse, letting the noise drown out the symphony. Talking about this in a more technical sense, in any dataset we have the signal and the noise. Let's say we're trying to predict sales in December for successful retailer. The signal is how seasonality, upwards trends, and consumer sentiment affects sales numbers. The noise is just random variation that occurs that doesn't have anything to do with our predictors. When we do prediction, we want to identify the signal. We want to identify what the seasonality effect is. We want to identify how consumer sentiment effects our sales. We want to understand our upwards trend in sales. There's no use in trying to identify the noise since the noise will change every month. Our predictions will be the most accurate if we can model as much signal as possible and as little noise as possible. This is why R^2 is a bad metric to use to identify predictive power - R^2 measures how much of the signal AND the noise is explained by the model. Unfortunately, it's hard to always identify what's signal and what's noise. This is why practical applications tends to favor simpler models, since the more complicated a model is the easier it is to fit to noise. Quantitative hedge funds rely on very simple techniques like regressions and shun complicated techniques (like many ML algorithms), to try to achieve understandable models that have the highest prediction capability. For more thoughts on how to best separate the signal from the noise and prevent overfitting, check out How can I avoid overfitting? Wikipedia also has a good summary of the topic: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ov... Updated 19w ago • View Upvotes