Are 80% bounce from Google PPC and 60% bounce from Bing PPC normal?
There is no such thing as a bounce rate that is too high - in general. Now, depending on how your site is laid out and whether or not your visitors are converting, bounce rate could tell you that your landing page is or isn't working. People, too often, refer to one metric, in a chain of tracking data, as being good or bad. However, it's not that simple. Here is an examples which proves this. We'll assume only a landing page and thank you page - to keep this simple. 1) Users come to the website from paid clicks and are presented with a landing page which is relevant and in line with the users' expectation. 2) The product which is offered on the landing page is of the highest quality and is designed for only high rollers. 3) Bounce rates are in the 80% range. However, 20% fill out the short form on the page, which requires the users' name, email, and age, in order to get more info on the $3000 training course. 4) After the sales team contacts the 20%, they close %10. This equates to a 2% conversion rate. This is a very common model for thousands of lead-gen websites and, as you can see, also extremely profitable for our example company, who is paying - based on $10 per click - $1000 for the clicks which are yielding $6000 in sales. Keep in mind that this company may likely have a competitor that adheres to this exact lead-gen model, yet offers a similar product that is only $400. Based on the same results, this competitor would be in the hole $200. Often, it is tough to weed out certain demographics from coming to your landing page. Our fictitious product that caters to big spenders is a perfect example of this. If they could only figure out a way to stop low ballers from coming to their page, their bounce rate would likely go down. On a side note, if the intention were solely to reduce bounce rates, a company could simply add a non-committal button to the landing page, with a "get started" sort of message, And voila! Our fictitious company could instantly lower their bounce rate by 30%. But, does this change their product offer, target audience, and their sales team? Not at all. This clearly depicts the importance of looking at the whole data set. One metric, on its own, will take you down a non-actionable spiral. Hope that helps. 