If you could make an army using 1 ton of any animals for a battle to the death, what would your army look like?
This is a variation on a conversation my friends and I have been having for years. I've thought about it a lot, and it is quite a complex question. The challenge is selecting animals that will fare well against almost any other animals, and unlike Chia Leong, I'm going to assume I can't give the animals very strict instructions that they will follow line for line. ~1500lbs — The core of my army is definitely going to be ants. They are inherently organized unlike most other creatures, and also able to take down and eat animals that are much, much larger, which will be important in this battle. I suspect one type of ant would be better than a mix, and I'm thinking either Bulldog Ants (Myrmecia) or Bullet Ants (Paraponera). These are generally large ants and would fare well against another army of smaller ants, if my opponent is thinking similarly to me. Some of these ants will be winged as well, which should help out. Their incredible numbers will make them very difficult for the larger, 'scarier' creatures to kill, and they will likely overwhelm almost anything. ~300lbs — Where I think the ants might struggle is against animals with a thick skin/armor and a taste for insects, namely mid-size lizards. To try and cover my bases, I'll probably throw a few very large, predatory birds into the mix, such as Golden Eagles. Birds are still relatively light, so it would be an efficient use of weight. This would hopefully deal with any creature that might pose an immediate danger to my foundation of ants. ~200lbs — Finally, as a defensive safety net, I'll throw in a small giant clam, or some other heavily armored mollusk. Unless my opponent is suspecting it, they probably won't have an animal that is capable of harming it. That's my army. EDIT: After thinking a bit more, I think I'm going to swap out a few hundred pounds of the ants for a large, aggressive stinging insect, like Japanese giant hornets or Tarantula hawks. I think they would do a good job of dispatching ants if my opponent takes a similar approach. Updated 133w ago • View Upvotes