The College and University Experience: What is it like to major in physics?
It was fun but unsettling. The best way for me to explain this is in relation to other subjects I've studied, e.g. chemistry and biology. Chemistry in high school I didn't like because it all seemed so arbitrary. We had to memorize what ions precipitated other ions, what colors different inorganic complexes were, how to balance different redox reactions -- but no deeper logic behind this. But as I learned more and more, it appeared to me more and more beautiful, because I could see how the observations connected back to physics in thousands of ways (electron pushing, orbitals, all manner of approximations, etc.). It was like a forbidding pool of water that turned out to have a beautiful coral reef submerged just beneath. Biology again started off as memorization, but I was fortunate enough to have a high school teacher who introduced us to DNA and operons and computer-like concepts, and I got hooked on all the basic principles that could explain the diversity of life. Evolution made sense. So many connections back to chemistry. And so many subfields springing forth -- immunology, neurobiology, molecular machines -- so many stories. Like a grand tree branching endlessly upward. Physics though. This was the one I liked best in high school, because it was based on math, and I was good at math. And it made sense, all the equations were just one step away from math, the vectors added up, the divs and grads and curls were pretty, the differential equations were solvable. Even sophomore and junior year, learning about waves, and quantum mechanics, and statistical mechanics, it was all very nice. But then -- they started taking perfectly nice sensible equations I liked and made them more abstract. Classical mechanics used to make sense! As did electrodynamics. But suddenly you've got these tensors everywhere, and these variational principles, and instead of straight out equations of motions you get these metrics and invariants. It was like playing around in a swimming pool, and diving downward, and then realizing the water was now dark, and the walls were expanding outward like in an upside down funnel. I lost my nerve, swam back up, and became a chemist. But sometimes I wonder if I had just dove a little deeper, would I have been able to explore a wonderful world? It seems like the sort of place one could lose one's self for a long time. I like what I am doing now, but I always wonder what I might be missing out on in Physics (granted I feel that way about a lot of fields these days). 