What facts about the United States do foreigners not believe until they come to America?
Okay, so I know that there's loads of answers here, and I couldn't read all of them, so I'd probably be repeating some points. I'll mention that I'm from India and that I'm writing from an Indian point of view, and what struck me as unusual based on what notions I'd built up after watching so much Hollywood and TV series. Dependence on GPS - I knew people who went to office everyday since the past 5 years and could not tell their way without a GPS. It was amazing! I made some friends there and they were so impressed that I could tell my way back to their home without help from a GPS. (Asia-Pacific Business and Technology Report) Cashless Society - Coming from India, where we just need cash because cards are not accepted at most places, I was really surprised by the cashless system in the US. Every place accepts credit cards. Even a small picnic I went to, which had an entry fee, had some sort of mobile app and a device attached to accept credit cards. It was amazing. (Redirect Notice) Obsession with Tanning - I am adding this one late, as I had forgotten previously. In India, we have an obsession with "fair skin". Skin lightening, skin whitening, anti-tan...so on. In US, it was the oppostie. Every block has a tanning salon and drugstores have tanning creams and sprays instead of anti-tan ones available here. I thought it was fairly screwed up that in every part of the world, the cosmetics industry makes a way to make money off of people's insecurity. EMIs for everything - It's like the people there live on EMIs. Cars, phones, everything. And even the lower middle class can afford this stuff. It's like everyone has an iPhone. Which also reminds me of the extremely bad coverage that AT&T provided. I'm used to better coverage in India. Almost forgot! Worst part was being charged for incoming. Calls and messages! It's like a nightmare for Indians. Baby Car seats, Strollers - The extremely confusing rules and regulations that pervade America were already too much, but the emphasis on car seats and strollers was something new. I don't think there's any such thing as a car seat in India. And parents carry their children mostly, most people can't afford strollers here. Also the cost of childcare in US is astounding because of these things that keep adding up. (Redirect Notice) Tipping - Enough has been said about this, but I hated it too, so I'll include it. Specially for services like a haircut. So I pay you for cutting my hair.....and then I tip you because you were gracious enough to cut my hair?! Public Toilets - Indian public toilets are usually in unmentionable conditions, and this was a refreshing change. Specially because half the stuff was automated. I remember thinking at first, that Americans are so lazy, they don't want to flush their toilets :D Cashiers talking to you - Every cashier will greet you with "How are you today? You find everything okay?" with a smile, and you're quite thrown off the first few times. Also, I had this really great cashier at Harris Teeter give me discounts because I always checked out at his counter :) Really nice people! In general also, people were extremely polite, and many just complimented you too! (Redirect Notice) The above point reminds me, that Americans find it very odd if people use different words than them, like British English for eg. people looked at me funny when I asked where the "Chemist" is (Drug Store). Biscuit (Cookie), Billing Counter (Cashier), Coriander (Cilantro), Petrol (Gas) are others. Awesome Traffic - Coming from India, I found it amazing the way traffic behaved without any intervention from traffic policemen. Just everyone following the rules. It was a bit bad in NYC, but not even comparable to where I live right now (Kanpur, India). People don't try to cut you off. People let pedestrians cross. Also, the parallel parking is really efficient! The roads are so well maintained, and the scenery is always beautiful. Speed limits - The US has really high speed limits for us people following the metric system. The highest speed limits are around 75mph or 121 kmph which seemed like gross overspeeding to me. But it contributed to great drives! (Google Image Result for http://d1jlczrezgss9n.cloudfront.net/wp/wp-content/uploads/2012/09/texas-highway.jpeg) General Safety - I was travelling in Manhattan, late night Subway, when a group of loud, drunk people entered, and we were kinda scared. Immediately at the next stop, two NYPD officers entered, and stood at the doors until they were in the car. It was awesome! I felt pretty safe overall, which I didn't even expect to. Quality of chocolate - It's just not as good. Sorry folks, but a Hershey bar is the most overrated thing I ever tried. And the Kit Kat was horrible. The chocolate was oily. Yes, oily. I have no idea why. (This reminds of my trip to Walmart. I knew it was big. I just didn't imagine it would be this big! The astounding variety of pretty much everything is just overwhelming) Incredible wastefulness - I was aghast at the amount of stuff people wasted every single day. Food, electricity, water, paper......in India, we reuse stuff until it can only be thrown away. But on the positive side, recycling is big there, so I guess it is mitigated in part. Obsession with fitness - I saw loads of people running/jogging on the sidewalks. A lot of people I knew cycled or ran marathons for 50 miles plus. This was a stark contrast though, to the average person I saw who was usually overweight. (I attributed it to insane portion sizes, as mentioned in an answer. I always ate the same sandwich for lunch and dinner) (Google Image Result for http://www.mylifefitness.com/wp-content/uploads/2013/07/run_0.jpg) McDonald's not upto the mark - This was a shocker for me. McDonald's is like one of the best known brands of America, and the quality was arguably worse than what I get here. And I'm non-vegetarian. The burger doesn't resemble it's pictures at all. One (really bad) choice for vegetarians, and that was it. I went there once, and didn't want to go again. On the other hand, Starbucks seemed totally worth the hype for me. They have great coffee. Patriotism - The flag was everywhere. Literally. I came to know students are supposed to pledge allegiance to their flag since Kindergarten.! (I can't fathom how they pronounce allegiance). On the other hand, they are blissfully unaware of the rest of the world (A high school kid thought Taj Mahal is in Washigton DC). But I loved how all students were involved in some sort of extra curricular activities or the other. (Google Image Result for http://photos1.blogger.com/blogger/4373/1753/1600/Picture%2520011.0.jpg) The awkward public transport experience - It's just so bad I can't even say anything. (Not the big cities) My outings were severely cut short due to this. Cabs were insanely expensive. And I could kill cab drivers who asked for tips on top of that. Monotonous Cities, Cookie-Cutter Homes - This is my personal view, but the Downtown areas of almost all cities looked similar. Give or take a few things. The suburbs all looked the same. I was so weirded out by the Cookie Cutter Homes, which all looked like the same person had built it. Also, it was amusing to know that all the construction was wooden. Sound traveled too much. And I hated the weird landscaping. It seemed the whole country is sloped. Even apartments were built on slopes. I found it very funny. In India, each city looks different. Vastly different! (Wikipedia) Street Performers - The street performers around Union Square, Times Square were really entertaining. And I was amazed how much money they collected. I saw people give 20s. I doubt Indian street performers would ever see that kind of money. (Google Image Result for http://pooponmyhands.files.wordpress.com/2013/05/street-performing.png%3Fw%3D584) Religion - I always thought that America must be very laid-back about religion, like Europe, but that was not true. And one of the weirdest things I encountered was a Jewish person (in the black suit) preaching to us on the subway to believe in God, and Apocalypse or something, and giving us "Trillion dollar" notes with this stuff written on it. I think I have written too many points already. All the points are based on my experience and perception. If you don't agree with anything, feel free to talk to me about it in the comments.! :) PS. I was very excited to know that almost everyone I met knew about IITs. "It's like the best school in India, right?? I watched a documentary!", and I was like "Oh yep, it is!" :P Updated 82w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Siddharth Bhattacharya