What are the key characteristics of Norwegian culture?
Here's one key part of Norwegian culture: Do anything to get a job in government. That way, you'll be set for life - you can never get fired, have no performance goals or deadlines, never work overtime, get the best retirement plan, and on top of that, you even get to rule over the idiots who didn't get a job in government (and who pay your salary!). A risk-free, stress-free life in the richest country in the world, could you ask for more? From a population of 5 million about half have jobs. An amazing 666.000 of those 2.5M work in the government, or a quarter of all jobs! Of course, you can also add the second best option, which is to be unable to work, which also pays a very solid and reliable salary. That's another 600.000. Yet another popular option is to work for the oil industry. That is yet another 600.000. Offshore workers work 2 weeks then have 4 weeks off, and they make at least double the salary of onshore workers. Make $150.000 as a plumber or electrician. If "drill, drill baby" is not for you, you could always get a job in the weapons industry, the 7th largest exporter of weapons in the world. Enjoy designing Weapons of Mass Destruction in the daytime and take the family skiing in the evening! The stupidest thing you can do in Norway, is to be an entrepreneur or a housewife. Those are the only two professions that get you absolutely no subsidies. Entrepreneurs are despised as a result of the typical egalitarian Norwegian views, where nobody should think they could be better than anybody else. (Football players, winter olympians, reality stars and glorified karaoke singers are somehow exempt from this rule). After all, entrepreneurs could end up being successful, so let's make sure we make their lives as miserable as possible! Leave alone the fact that half the jobs in 2020 will be in companies that don't even exist yet... If you want to start a business you have to use your savings, which you already paid half in taxes. Then if you manage to hire someone, they charge employment taxes from day one. Housewives are despised because the ultra-strong womens lib in Norway think that all women should have a job - just like the men, and not waste their time at home. Better get a job in the government and get an au-pair from the Philippines to take care of the kids! If you have a job when you get pregnant, you get a whole year off with full pay. Housewives, on the other hand, get a measly one-time pay per birth which is smaller than the cost of basic baby gear. Updated 64w ago • View Upvotes