What is the most annoying thing about the USA to a person from another country?
Edit: when I originally answered, this question was worded differently. My answer is about negative ways people from the U.S. are perceived internationally, not about the annoyances of being an expatriate in the U.S. For the latter question, I agree that tipping, sales tax, and absence of the metric system are the main irritations. Americans (except immigration officials) are, in my experience, more welcoming and helpful to foreigners than most other nations, and are rarely overtly arrogant in person. Original response below: In a word -- arrogance. Aggressive and naive patriotism combined with ignorance about, and lack of interest in, the rest of the world. Examples: the assumption that the rest of the world also thinks America is the best country on earth. The conviction that anyone who doesn't agree with American policies (and want them imposed by force if necessary) is at best uneducated and at worst a terrorist. Adulation of their President and 'democratic' process, and the faith that this provides equality of opportunity when data clearly show that American society is one of the most unequal, violent and unhealthy in the Western world*. The casual use of the word 'America' to refer to the USA when it rightfully describes Canada, Mexico and all of Central and South America. But it seems to me, most of these sins are committed equally by some other nations. They're just more irritating when the USA does them, the same way a big dog is more annoying (and dangerous) than a small one when it jumps on you and barks. *Edit: Here's some data supporting these assertions. Inequality: The US ranks 16th (List of countries by inequality-adjusted HDI) Violence: The US ranks 100th (Global Peace Index) Health: The US ranks 37th in quality of care and 1st in expenditure (World Health Organization ranking of health systems in 2000) Inequality of opportunity: Harder for Americans to Rise From Lower Rungs Updated 93w ago • View Upvotes