Are some people better than others?
Bob and Eddy. Bob is a doctor (and a firefighter on the weekends) who gives half his salary to charity. Eddy is a petty criminal who never lifts a finger to help anyone. What does it add to say that Bob is better? Let's see! Let's say it together. Ready? "Bob is better." Okay, now that we've said it, let's see what has changed in the world. Here's the post-saying it situation: Bob is a doctor (and a firefighter on the weekends) who gives half his money to charity. Eddy is a petty criminal who never lifts a finger to help anyone. That's strange. I was expecting ... I don't know ... Bob to be emanating some sort of glow or something. Hm. Well, just for the heck of it, let's try saying that Eddy is better. Ready? Go! "Eddy is better." You know, maybe we shouldn't have done that. I hope we haven't messed anything up. I'm scared to look. Okay. Here goes! Let's see what has changed: Bob is a doctor (and a firefighter on the weekends) who gives half his money to charity. Eddy is a petty criminal who never lifts a finger to help anyone. Weird! So, if labeling one guy as "better" doesn't change anything about either of them, what does it do? I guess it's just an expression of our values. We value Bob more! Hold on a second. Huh? Who are you? I'm Schmarcus, and I'm taking over your post to say, "Hold your horses with all this 'we' business." Speak for yourself! I prefer Eddy. But he's a criminal! So? I like criminals. I think they're better than doctors (and firefighters). You're weird. Okay. I accept that. I may be weird, but I still exist. And the fact remains that, to me, Eddy is better than Bob. You're wrong. Based on what? Do you have some sort of machine that objectively measures which person is better. No, but trust me. If I take a poll, 99% of people will agree that Bob is better. Oh, I see. You mean better according to the majority of people. Sure. I agree with that. The majority values Bob more whereas I value Eddy more. Yep. But you said I was wrong. Do you define "wrong" as "the minority opinion"? Er. No. I guess not. It just seems like you're ... wrong. I mean clearly Bob is better. He helps people. I agree he helps people. But I don't happen to value that. So, to me, Eddy is better. Unless you're defining "better" as "helps people." If you are, you're really just being tautological. Saying Bob is better because he helps people is (by that definition) saying that he helps people because he helps people. He's just better, dammit! According to whom? The Universe? God? Are you making a religious claim? No. I'm not religious. Then it must be according to some person or some group of people. Yes! Everyone except you! I've already agreed with you about that. If you want to use the word "better" to mean "the guy most people value more," I'm cool with that. Knock yourself out. It changes nothing about Bob and Eddy, and it changes nothing about the fact that I prefer Eddy to Bob. So you're saying that if you were sick or your house was on fire, you'd call Eddy? No. Of course not! That would be stupid. I'd call Bob. Ah! See! So you agree that Bob is better. Oh, I'm sorry. I've been misunderstanding you all this time. You are talking about which one is the better doctor and firefighter. I agree with you that it's Bob. I wondered from the get-go why you provided no context for "better." You didn't say according to whom, and you also didn't say at what. Better at what? Turns out, you meant "better at doctoring and firefighting." You're right. Bob is better at that and Eddy is better at being a criminal. Um... So if I have an ingrown toenail, I'll go to Bob and if I want a bank robbed, I'll go to Eddy. Do you really think words like "better" are meaningless? Did I say that? I don't remember saying that. In fact, I distinctly remember saying that, as far as I'm concerned, Eddy is better than Bob. But you think it's all just subjective. Don't you? Um. I don't know. I mean, it really feels like Bob is better. To you. To me it really feels like Eddy is better. But it seems like something beyond me. It feels objective. As does my feeling. I agree that this stuff feels objective. It feels profound. It feels cosmically true! And you discount that feeling? Not at all. It's very important to me. It's the difference between a value and an opinion. Both are subjective, but one feels subjective while the other doesn't. Values are much more powerful. My opinions tend to change. My values almost never do. They're a core part of me. A part the conscious me can't even reach in terms of feeling like their author. Which is why they seem to be objective.  And it means nothing to you that everyone disagrees with you? I didn't say that. It's very meaningful to me. I wish they didn't. Well, if you wish that, why don't you just agree that Bob is better. Then you'll be in accord with everyone else. Do you mean lie and say that I believe it, just to keep the peace. Sure. I guess I can do that. But it will be a fib. I think Eddy is better and I can't really do anything about that. Maybe one day I'll change my mind, but at the moment, I haven't. I can't force my value to change, just as I can't force myself to like broccoli or hate chocolate. You make everything complicated. I kind of wish you didn't exist. Yeah. I get that a lot. Updated 65w ago • View Upvotes