When will it be too late to stop Global Warming?
If ice is absent from the arctic and antarctic, it will be too late to change the climate back.  Here's why: * Even if we are able to sequester enough CO2 (by planting 100 billion trees per year, to offset anthropogenic carbon release, for example) the rate of carbon uptake by trees will lag planting by a few decades.  EDIT: 1.4 trillion trees per year is a better estimate. [1] * Polar ice has a stabilizing effect on the climate, and provides the temperature for some of the air masses which circulate -- Large systems of circulating air are called cells, and there are three per hemisphere: Hadley Cell, Mid-Latitude Cell, and Polar Cell. [2,3] Loss of polar ice will mean the disruption of atmospheric circulation, and will lead to catastrophic storms, and an end to civilization -- since civilization relies on agriculture and trade. [4] Agriculture and trade rely on regular rainfall (without floods or droughts,) and stability. As such a scenario approaches, it may still be possible to make artificial glaciers -- but only in areas where the ambient temperature is already below the freezing point of water. [5] Once the polar ice is gone, we will have no real power to make artificial glaciers, and any sequestration method we try will take some time to lower the temperatures.  The result will be catastrophic storms. Here is a major unknown:  How much ice is needed at the poles to maintain the atmospheric circulation cells as they are?  And so -- the impetus to act earlier than later. In summary: * The amount of polar ice needed to maintain stability in our current climate is an unknown, and a source for uncertainty. * Once the polar ice is gone, it is too late to stop global warming. Please forgive any errors or mistakes in the above -- and do point them out if you find any! I'm a graduate student in geology, and happy to change my views according to whatever data there may be which I've not yet seen :) (Edit: I've now graduated and am a geoscientist.  Note that some of the above is based on (1) the surmise that the polar cell stability is based on the ice at the poles, and (2) the surmise that a disruption in the polar cell circulation will disrupt global rainfall patterns.  I think both of these are reasonable assumptions.  The time scale of the assumed effects is unknown.  The Paleocene-Eocene Thermal Maximum (PETM) was a period in which the global climate was much warmer than it is now, and the warming was quick, as it is now.  The stratigraphy (rock record) of that time includes thick marine sequences of highly weathered rock (kaolinite) implying intense storm activity on the nearby continent as the climate changed..) Another EDIT:  Also see this article, which does a decent job of presenting several means of creating artificial ice in the Arctic. [6] Citations: [1] The 100 billion trees figure is from this article: Sucking CO2 from the skies with artificial trees I've done my own calculation and a more reasonable number is 1.4 trillion trees per year (offsetting 14 billion metric tons of carbon equivalent released each year, taking up 10 kg per tree).  I don't know that a decadal lag will occur.  Uptake might be faster. [2] Here is a description of the effect on climate from interstadials -- brief periods of warming: Latest Quaternary North Pacific surface-water responses imply atmosphere-driven climate instability [3] For a description of atmospheric circulation, here is a relevant Wikipedia entry: Hadley cell [4] Here is a paper which shows the possibility for economic collapse from catastrophes related to climate change: MIT Press Journals - Review of Economics and Statistics - Abstract [5] This article describes one process for making artificial glaciers: Mongolia bids to keep city cool with 'ice shield' experiment [6] Zhou, S., and P. C. Flynn. "Geoengineering downwelling ocean currents: a cost assessment." Climatic change 71.1-2 (2005): 203-220. https://www.researchgate.net/pro... Updated 1w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Patrick Waickman