What are the key characteristics of Norwegian culture?
The organizational studies scientist Geert Hofstede has a system of measuring cultural differences which he developed for IBM. The idea was that cultural differences in expectations and values might cause challenges for businesses like IBM, so it would be a good idea to try to get to understand them better. On Hofstedes' axes, Norway scores especially low on "Masculinity/Feminity" (which is probably better termed traditional gender roles) and "Power distance". The first means (as far as I understand it) that achievement and success is not at all highly valued in Norway compared to other countries, compared to comfort and convenience - only Sweden scores less on this metric. Norway is, in short, not the sort of country where student rankings would ever be published, and if they were, it would not be a big deal where you fell on it. Norwegians are also less inclined to want to risk established comforts (in order to gain more). The phenomenon which is called "downsizing your life" in the US is sort of a collective norm in Norway. The second, power distance, is about how much social inequality people tolerate. Norwegians tolerate comparatively little social inequality. As one National Geographic writer put it some years ago (about Denmark, but nonetheless): shop assistants will look you straight in the eyes. If you're wealthy and successful, you may or may not be admired, but people will hardly ever act deferential to you because of it. On the other Hofstede axes, Norway is fairly on the middle of the tree. That means that Norwegians are farily individualistic as opposed to collectivistic or clannish, and have an average tolerance of uncertainty (neither the "mañana" attitude of some countries or a strong need for decisive statements and accurate timetables). There is also a fifth dimension Hofstede added later, "Long term orientation", but I'm unsure what to make of that. Norway is fairly normal for a western country on it anyway. Hofstede used questionnaires and statistics to disentangle these axes, but all in all I'd say it corresponds pretty well to both what foreigners and Norwegians would say. Updated 146w ago • View Upvotes