Which is the most underrated state of India? Why ?
It is Kerala , not Keral like many would say. Many people in India, call Kerala as just  Keral, leaving out the 'a' at the end. People of other states in India call Mumbai , Kolkata and Chennai without having any issues. But no one prefer to say the name of the capital of Kerala, Thiruvanathapuram. Not that we make much hue and cry about it. ​ But saying our capital's name the right way will make many Malayali's smile and welcome you into their hearts. It is not like we are trying to  make you say 'Alappuzha' and 'Ambalapuzha'. We understand that non-Malayalis can't make the sound 'zh'. Not a rant. Okay! Now that my opening for the answer  is complete, please read through my point by point reasons as to why Kerala is underrated. 1. Underrated Police force If you have heard of the infamous Bunty Chor, the thief on whose acts of crime the movie 'Oye Lucky Oye' was based on, then you would know that he was caught in 2013. Do you know who caught him? The Kerala Police. Kerala Police is well known for the highest crime reporting done among the states of India. Every small and minor violation of law and order is given a FIR. Besides in Kerala, which has the highest car accidents per year per sq. km., the police was able to bring down the total car accident incidents by 66% in four years by bringing in hi-tech products and better policing procedures. While rest of India still suffer from the Naxalite issue, Kerala Police is the only state police force in India that actually wiped out Naxalites in their home state. They were able to solve the Naxalite problem by using targeted force and a huge network of local informants. Kerala Police  always involves the people constructively in order to solve any issue in the country, and the way Naxalism was removed from the state shows that. This participatory nature of policing can be seen in the Satymeva Jayate video below, where you can see the "Jan Maitri" Police force that meet up with locals and interactys with them to know of any issues seen in their areas. A People’s Police | satyamevjayate.in     2. Underrated in Food ​ Being the only big state in India where per capita meat consumption is the highest the Kerala cuisine, especially with the strong presence of beef and coconut, isn't famous like Punjabi, Mughalai and Udipi cuisine.  Heavily influenced by Ayurveda , the vegetarian cuisine in Kerala is perfect for anyone who wants to have a healthy vegetarian diet. The vegetarian cuisine uses no malai/cream, uses less ghee and oil, and is mainly stir fried, boiled  or steamed. Yet Kerala's vegetarian dishes are not even considered by anyone though they are most healthiest dishes one can find in India, unlike the famed North Indian vegetarian dishes. 3. Underrated model of development Kerala model of development is the bedrock that inspired UN to come up with the HDI parameters that is used to measure the social development of a region. Yet in light of the PR success of Gujarat Model, Kerala model of development is not given the due respect it needs. ​ Kerala tops among the states on implementation of various poverty alleviation schemes and participatory democracy Though not much emphasis is given on industrial development, the first world indices shown on social parameters is something that need to be emulated in rest of India. There are no slums in Kerala and no poor people sleep on the road. Some kind of work is given to the people, ensuring they can live a life of dignity. 4. Underrated beauty ​ Raja Ravi Varma aptly captured the essence of Malayali women. Whether it is the dark, dusky or  wheatish complexioned women he painted, he did justice to the beauty of  the Malayali women  on the canvas. The idea of beauty in Kerala is, not just the hourglass figure that  is obviously seen, but also the eyes, which are shaped like that of the fish, and hair, which are nurtured to be very long by using the Neelabhringadi oil. The use of gold jewellery is not to be missed either.with the  dangerous fixation Malayalis have for gold. Besides should also transcend the physical aspect. The interest we got in culture adds further to the beauty. ​ Yes Vidyabalan is a Malayali. Priyanka Chopra is quarter Malayali.  John Abraham is half Malayali. We Malayalis therefore  look fabulous. But mainstream media in India shows Indian beauty as a fair skinned North Indian person when there are equally beautiful people in the South, especially  in Kerala. 5. Underrated in political representation. Being a relatively small state with a smaller population, Kerala only gives 29 MP seats to the Parliament and therefore Kerala doesn't figure in receiving national spotlight because of it. Unlike UP, Maharashtra and  West Bengal, we can't strong arm the Central government to give more funds and support for many projects and decisions in favour of Kerala. Though we gave many ministers, the state is still underrepresented in central politics. 6. Underrated in movie industry ​ Drishyam poster Mollywood though makes critical dramas and comedy movies, the much bigger Kollywood and Bollywood takes all the spotlight because of the bigger market and budget seen. Though we got movies such as Manichitratazhu, Drishyam, Ambedkar, Ramji Rao Speaking etc. that get dubbed or remade in the bigger film industries yet most Indians aren't aware of Mollywood movies. Our actors, such as Mohanlal and Mammooty, and directors receive critical acclaim and national  awards yet they are in the shadow of the Khans and Rajinikant. If you say you appreciate the contribution Mallu porn industry made, prepare yourself to read a mouthful from me.!! :). No I am serious. Updated 30w ago • View Upvotes