What are some remarkable facts about Switzerland?
Switzerland is also known as Confoederatio Helvetica, which explains the abbreviation CH. Examples: identity papers, licence plates or the web tld .ch Switzerland has a population of about 7.4 million Switzerland is a landlocked country but has more than 1,500 lakes. 70% of Switzerland is covered in mountains Switzerland has amongst the highest rate of cannabis use in the world. Use of cannabis is forbidden but it very common to see people smoking. Switzerland has four national languages including French, German, Italian and Romansch. Women did not gain the vote at federal level until 1971, and they are still underrepresented in political life. Wikipedia: Women's suffrage in Switzerland Switzerland lags behind most Western European countries in many aspects of sex equality. There is no, so called, president of Switzerland. The Federal Council is the seven-member executive council which constitutes the federal government of Switzerland and serves as the Swiss collective head of state. Each year, one of the seven Councillors is elected by the United Federal Assembly as President of the Confederation. Wikipedia: Federal Council (Switzerland) The Swiss currency is not the euro, but the Swiss franc (CHF). The Swiss bank note are well know for their security features. The company Orell Füssli mandated by the swiss national bank to print the notes print also other bank notes for other countries like Singapour and Israel. Wikipedia : Swiss franc By law, you need to buy a liability insurance sticker for riding a bicycle on public roads. They’re planning to abolish it Switzerland is a direct democracy. Voting in Switzerland is the process by which Swiss citizens make decisions about governance and elect officials. Voting takes place over the weekend, with emphasis being put on the Sunday. Approximately four times a year, voting occurs over various issues. Voting material: Wikipedia: Voting in Switzerland The swiss army knife has been popularised be the TV-Show "Mac Gyver" all over the world. Switzerland now produce variants of it for other armed forces like Germany or Malaysia. Switzerland has mandatory military service that concerns all male Swiss citizens, with women serving voluntarily. The structure of the Swiss militia system stipulates that the soldiers keep their own personal equipment, including all personally assigned weapons, at home. Updated 141w ago • View Upvotes