What does it feel like to become a millionaire?
You probably already know the answer to that question. You probably already are "rich". You just haven't put it in perspective. The rich largely have no concept of what it is like to be anything other than the way they are, and may not even fully appreciate that they are "rich". Rich is often just someone who has more than you. To really understand what it is to be rich, you need to understand what it is to be poor, and realize that that is not your situation. Growing up in a diplomatic family, I have always seen these extremes. I would live in large homes with many servants in which we had frequent high level parties. One such house later became a Swiss embassy. At the same time, I lived in developing countries where whole families would live on the street outside. On one level, I knew we were really just middle class back in Canada. But I knew that on another level, we were rich beyond dreams for so many people.  I never went hungry. I always knew that there would be the finest medical care if I was sick. I never had to clean anything. I had a whole government infrastructure backing my safety. It is hard to really appreciate it when no one you know doesn't have the same. Even much later, I still am learning to appreciate these things more. For instance, as I delve into the childhood of my girlfriend here in Vietnam I realize how incredibly rich I am and was. She is a normal person, much like you or me, if you met her today. But when she was a child her life was so much different (and yet not that different from most of the world). She never had a toy when she was a child. Not one. Think about that! Sometimes, there was not enough food to go around, and her older brother would go without eating so that she could eat. When she was bitten by a dog she had to travel for hours on a bicycle to get to a doctor, and didn't get a rabies vaccination. And even today, most of her family is very poor, and they fight and squabble bitterly over a couple hundred dollars a month. Think about how your life today and in the past was so completely different from that life. Updated 242w ago • View Upvotes