What does it feel like to become a millionaire?
Well, it is awesome of course. Here is the secret about money: every time you get some new money in your pocket, whether it is a thousand, million, or billion dollars, you still have all of the things you had before, plus you have a whole lot of new things. When I made my first significant cash through a startup IPO, I maintained all of the things in my life that I loved: family, friends, hobbies, books, movies. None of these things changed, and none of them had to. I didn't drop cycling to take up yachting. I didn't dump my poorer friends to go find rich ones. I didn't dump my wife to go find a hot young golddigger. No one I know is foolish enough to think that those things bring happiness. But we also got a whole lots of new things: Security that we would always be able to take care of my family. We'd always have a decent place to life, money for school, and healthcare. Freedom to make life and career decisions not out of fear, but out of opportunity. Travel - my family can go anyplace, and we have been all over and are still going. Social - we never miss an event because we can't afford a babysitter or a car to take us there. We can host parties at our house. We can take long ski or wine country weekends with friends. Family - we can see our extended family whenever we want, including travelling with them. Health - not being able to afford a gym or healthy food is no longer an excuse. We are in the best shape ever. Charity - we get a lot of satisfaction out of donating to and working with many nonprofits. Sure, lots of folks who have money are miserable, but most of those folks would have been miserable anyway, with or without the money. But yes, there are some pitfalls that trip many people up: Complexity - loading up on vacation homes, boats, and art and wine collecting can add a whole lot of complexity to life without providing much satisfaction. It seems like a good idea at the time, then you find yourself on the phone on a Sunday yelling at your family office because the bookkeeper they hired let the liability policy on your boat lapse. Smart rich people say, "never buy what you can rent." Keep it simple. Bankruptcy - some rich folks ramp up their spending to match their newfound wealth, quickly run through their cash, then find themselves bankrupt and poorer than the guy sleeping on the street. This is the "Dennis Rodman effect" (A ‘broke’ and ‘sick’ Dennis Rodman is way behind on his child support payments). Douchery - some folks make money, put on airs, talk down at their poor ex-friends, try to ape how "rich people" act, and make asses of themselves. They then find themselves estranged from friends and family. The best way to avoid these pitfalls is to not f---ing do them. Otherwise, it's all good. Updated 147w ago • View Upvotes