What makes Bangalore the best city to live in India?
One of my friend asked me, Y uh love bangalore, its nt ur home town. Y uh support Bangalore. Brother, here is ur answer, Y i love my NAMMA BANGALORE 1. The Weather Did you know Bangalore is located higher than the hill station Dehradun! No wonder the metropolitan city has epic weather throughout the year.You can roam around the city without breaking a sweat more often than not. 2. Most Women Empowered City Bangalore is by far the safest city for women in India.The women are more empowered than anywhere else in India, they are not afraid to take up unconventional jobs like that of a bus conductor or a cab driver, making it safe for women 24*7. 3. Incredible Bus Service The BMTC carries approximately 43 lakhs of passenger daily, yet the system is seamless.The bus connectivity in Bangalore is epic and unmatched to any other city in India. 4. The Best Dosas at MTR/CTR/Vidyarthi Bhawan We can go on and on about this one, but we would rather let the dosa do the talking.Visit any of these places and experience awesomeness!. JUST TRY IT..!!! 5. One Of Those Few Cities That Appreciates Art In All Forms Bangalore is one of the few cities left in India which appreciates all art forms. Bangalore has pretty awesome theater circuit. Bangalore also loves its dance forms.Visit Nrityagram Dance Village for a never seen before experience. 6. Richly Painted street walls and good looking public spaces Bangalore is a clean city, people love their art and that is pretty evident from the rich in graffiti streets.The public spaces are also well maintained. 7. Technology And Start Up Capital Bangalore is the ‘Silicon Valley’ of India. It is the IT hub of the country and the home of many upcoming startups in the country.If you’re an engineer than you probably have an awesome career awaits you in Bangalore. 8. Rich In Heritage If you think Bangalore is only an IT hub then you are wrong my friend, the city also has some pretty awesome and beautiful heritage sights that will transport you to a different era.Try a heritage walk in Bangalore and you will be amazed by its richness. 9. Work Hard Party Harder FYI Bangalore has the highest number of Pubs in Asia.Bangalore loves to work hard and party harder and the with the new deadlines, an average bar hopper is not complaining at all. 10.Bangalore Aero Show Aero Indiais a biennial airshow and aviation exhibition held in Bangalore India at the Yelahanka air force station. It is organized by Defence Exhibition Organisation, Ministryof Page on defence.itis second largest air show in the world after Paris air show. 11.Garden City of India Bangalore is rightfully known as the “Garden City of India”. Owing to the pleasant climate and topography, greenery and the presence of many public parks and gardens. The important ones are Cubbon park, Lalbagh, Coles Park etc 12.The City of Lakes Lakes in Bangalore city in Karnataka are numerous, and there are no rivers close by. Most lakes in the Bangalore region were constructed in the Sixteenth century by damming the natural valley systems by constructing bunds. 13.Least cut-offs Bangaloreans experience least electricity cut-offs among all the major cities, giving them the true feeling of living in a metropolitan city. No wonder, Bangalore was the first Indian city to get electricity. 14.The People. Bangalore has countless people living as paying guests, people of Bangalore are very pleasing and welcoming.Because even if you don’t know Kannada, you can get by in most of Bangalore because most people can converse in English. 15.Paradise For Music Lovers 16.Low Crime Rates Bangalore, a city with least crimes among all other metro cities. 17.Career Opportunities. Bangalore is the IT hub of India. Even all major startups are being incorporated here. Lakhs of jobs are being created in Bangalore not just in technology sector but all major sectors. 18.Education. Bangalore boasts of top institutes like IISc, IIM etc. and has world class educational institutes from primary education to higher education. 19. Overnight Journey There are many good places to make out in and around Bangalore. With an overnight journey (even less for some places), you can go to places like Goa, Kerala, Ooty, Kodai Canal, Joga Falls,Humpi etc. I hope uh got d answer y i love bangalore.... info source:- wiki 