What is the most annoying thing about the USA to a person from another country?
Ridiculously less paid leave!! Let me start with an extreme statistic. The statutory requirement for minimum leave (enforced by the government) for the US is a grand total of, yes ladies and gentlemen, ZERO. While the graphic below is evident enough, you could also look up the Wiki reference here: List of statutory minimum employment leave by country, arrange all the 81 industrialized countries in ascending order of leave and find that there exists only one country with ZERO. No obligation to give your worker any paid sick leave either. Yes, you heard that right.. a whopping 79% don't even get paid sick days [1]. Larger and nicer organizations offer slightly more leave and educationally privileged workers are able to demand a few more days. However, the average vacation (paid leave, of course) is 12-13 days [2,3], lower than any other OECD country. Those numbers include very senior employees. While this does not include the dozen federal holidays, you really can't choose those timings so can't flexibly plan an extended 'vacation' around them. But guess what? Most Americans aren't complaining about it ... "57% working Americans had up to two weeks of unused vacation time at the end of 2011" [4]. I don't complain about it everyday either, but as an international person, I would rank it at the top of overall annoyances with the system**. How am I supposed to visit my folks in my home country, which by the way takes 24 hours to get to one-way? And make sure the kids (for those who have 'em) get enough parent-time on vacation or otherwise? And have time for myself to travel to new places? ALL in 12 days?! ** From an idealist's standpoint, that is. Personally, as a graduate student, I have been able to take 1-2 months off, depending on the year. Time off is also my top priority when negotiating a job, as a sanity check. But we're talking statistical and future prospects here.. [1] Are U.S. Employers Obligated to Give their Employees Paid Sick Days? [2] Average Vacation Days by Country [3] Annual leave [4] The Only Advanced Country Without a National Vacation Policy? It's the U.S. 