What is the most annoying thing about the USA to a person from another country?
I've spent about half my life growing up in India, and came to the US as an undergraduate student. For the most part, I think the US is a far better place to live though some things still strike me as odd: Medical care: High cost of medical care, and a long lead time to get medical appointments. Also they make you sit around and wait for a doctor and then the doctor shows up and talks to you for less than 5 minutes and then disappears. I am a statistic to the medical system here. In India, I have gone to a Doctors clinic when it was a holiday, and the Doctor was also doubling up as the receptionist, and in addition to attending to the issue I went to him for, he also spent a lot more time getting to know me. Legal system: Overly litigious law system, that can lead to entire cottage industries such as patent trolls to thrive. Note that this has lots of benefits too, just saying that with the benefits there are some serious negatives. This is also a contributor to high health care. Immigration: Immigration can be a schlep. I say this from two perspectives: one from the side of the pain I suspect on the whole the US is far better than any country around, though given how it's already sold into the idea of how immigration is a way to absorb talent from the rest of the world, there is a lot of friction here that felt too high. It's harder than it needs to be from an employers perspective as well. Thirdly, there primary users of the visa system are using them for "body shop" consulting gigs vs. the companies who are really hiring folks for strengthening the country's talent pool for the long term. Do you support the immigration reform? Food: I find a lot of American food bland. Thankfully I live in the Bay Area which has no shortage of diverse cuisines. Lack of some types of authentic Indian food, and lack of good Indian food period. Snail mail spam: You get a lot of snail mail spam in the US. Though India has lots of SMS spam to compensate. Defense spending: The portion of our taxes that goes into defense spending is insane. Guns control laws: As someone never born here, the parts of the law that make it easy for people to have guns is something that I've never understood. The most of the rest of the world gets by fine without it. No Cricket: I don't play or watch cricket, though this is a complaint that I've heard from many other Indians. General education requirements: College here ( or at least mine ) forces too many general education requirements that long term are mostly useless. Come on, I'm here to be an engineer. Can't I just take all classes in my major ? 