If you could make an army using 1 ton of any animals for a battle to the death, what would your army look like?
There must be a reason our species is on top of the food chain. I considered using 1 tonnes of humans but realized that without our tools (weapons, anti-venoms, gear, etc) 10 humans don't make that great an army. For that matter an army of a single type of animal will be straight up countered by another species. After thinking a lot, I arrived at the conclusion that  a mixed platoon of poisonous animals and heavy animals (Due to the 1 ton restraint I don't think heavy animals are much of an option) given there is no  friendly-fire and the animals are highly trained could take out a lot of unprepared combatants. Btw, I am shooting for bonus points hence, no flesh-eating bacteria or Botox or other shenanigans (insect size and above only) Choosing the animals: Since deep sea is not a valid terrain we lose a lot of venomous species like the box jellyfish, blue ringed octopus and the stone fish. :( Snakes: The infantry, agile, mobile, fast acting venom. These  would make up the bulk of my army. The taipan are considered the most venomous of snakes, but are not aggressive at all hence I rejected that notion. Black mambas on the other hand are fairly poisonous and really aggressive 150 kgs of black mambas ought to be enough. These alone will be able to take out an army of canines,  felines, rodents. These will also act as anti air though not as much as the next animal on the list. Tree-Dart frogs (Grenade,mortar units, anti-air and much more)  - These will get highly effective as the battle drags on (OP mentioned the arena growing smaller). Two reasons why I decided to chose tree-dart frogs: 1) To deal with insect armies. They will literally eat your ants, locusts and other critters they can fit in their mouth for lunch. 2) Sacrificial: Any animal that take a bite from these frogs is in for a surprise. (Caution: ingesting these frogs can cause side effects like mild stomach ache and death in a matter of seconds). Also if swallowed whole, not only will the swallowing creature die a painful death the tree frog will walk out like a boss. 100kgs of tree dart frogs. Falcons and eagles: Each weighs around 750gms to 1kg they are not meant for air-to-air dogfights but intended to deploy the para-military forces given below. 200 of these are definitely enough, which will weigh about 150kgs. Brazilian wandering spiders: These are highly poisonous and really really aggressive, they do not spin webs and sit in them. They f*** shit up while moving a lot (hence the name). They have a span of about 13-15cms hence I am sure my avian forces can carry 2 at a time so 400 of these will pack quite a punch if deployed perfectly. I am not so sure about their weight, I am sure that it'd be pretty less. (50kgs of these) Just in case they weight quite a alot. One bird will be only deploy one spider hence 200 more birds might be req. (buffer 150kgs) This combination will take out all sorts of animals of big size. I thought quite a lot about having sniper equivalents in the animal kingdom but to my knowledge there aren't any species of animals that can kill from that far, so I let that idea go. I was left with around 500kgs and couldn't think of any other species of animals that would improve my army. So I decided to ride into battle with my war-unicorn, I weigh around 70kgs that leaves not a lot for the unicorn (maybe its a small unicorn) but we don't know how much exactly they weigh, do we now? :P Apart from providing occasional warcrys this might also increase the morale of my units. Updated 132w ago • View Upvotes