What should US travelers know about visiting Bangalore?
A few more points: a. You will be able to get by with English in a vast majority of situations (shopping, work, travel etc.) b. Credit cards are accepted in most shops and hotels. However, it is good to carry some cash for smaller expenses. I think about Rs. 2000 (approx USD 40 to 50) in the wallet should be enough at any time. In any case, ATMs are ubiquitous and you can get hold of cash at any time. c. You will get used to seeing cows on the road. It is a standard part of the Indian (and Bangalore's) scenario. d. Traffic can be a big pain. So ensure that you plan your local travel well. Autos (the dominant local public transport) are available in plenty. These are three wheeled vehicles (also known as tuk tuks in other countries). Some auto drivers can be rude. Before you get in, check if he will go by the meter. If not, look for another auto. If you prefer taxis, then you will need to call them on the phone and provide them with a pickup address. You will not be able to flag a taxi (as you can do in NY). It is a good idea to get the taxi company's phone numbers when you land at the Bangalore airport. e. Indian food is spicy. If you do try local food, expect it to be spicy. Its a good idea to carry your favourite antacid with you. f. Medical facilities are pretty good. There are excellent hospitals. It is easy to procure OTC drugs if you need them. g. Like all major cities, cell phone and internet connectivity is quite good. h. Have a local contact's phone no. at all times. You never know when you need it. i. If you are going to stay for more than 180 days (and you are not an Indian citizen), you need to register with the FRRO (Foreigner Regional Registration Office) in Bangalore within 14 days of arrival. See this link http://www.immigrationindia.nic.... . j. Bangalore does not have much of a night life. Most of the city shuts down by about 11 PM. k. People are generally nice. But do not expect them to do things on time. If you want something done, do follow up (e.g. call the taxi driver 15-20 minutes before the assigned time once again - you will received the driver's cell no. as a text message when you book the taxi). If I think of anything else, I will post later. 