What are the things Civil Engineers know while others don't?
Thanks for the A2A Bharadwaj Nitw Almost a wide range of specializations are considered in other answers. I'll share particular stuff from materials and structural engineering perspective that might be of interest. Firstly, I'd like to share some things which people think we know but we do not. - We DO NOT know how our buildings stay together - We know cement is the primary binding agent (C-S-H actually) but which forces are responsible for this adhesion is unknown to concrete scientists. - We DO NOT know the basic structure of our primary binding agent (C-S-H). Whether it is crystalline, amorphous - granular, continuous is unknown. (Disclaimer: Some recent experiments have provided some results that provide some insight into it but no consensus is reached) - We DO NOT know what happens when cement comes in contact with water and how the reaction proceeds and which steps govern the reaction. That is an awful lot of stuff that we don't know so now moving to the stuff we know. - The difference between displacement, deflection and deformation and the importance of each. - In the event of an earthquake, taller (flexible) buildings perform better than smaller (rigid) buildings (although not always, depends on frequency of EQ. Thanks for pointing it out Abhinav Vadrevu) - The importance of ductility - That every structure that is designed can take 50% more of such load. There is something called factor of safety and it varies from 1.25 to 1.6 depending on our control of materials. - We encounter heterogeneity like no other engineers do and it is multi fold (environment, materials, loading etc) and that is the reason why we do not have highly reliable models (statistics is not a very good friend of ours) - The pyramids were not built with stone but artificial stone viz. concrete !!! - There is something called 'size effect' which factors in significant difference between the tests we do at the laboratory and the performance we obtain on field and this is why, full scale testing is often recommended for important structures - We are not able to effectively model our fluids (wind for skyscrapers, water for dams, spillways etc.) and model testing is the only way we can make sure our design is adequate. Updated 13w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Bharadwaj Nitw