What are the things Civil Engineers know while others don't?
1. Concrete is the second most consumed material on the planet by humans. On an average, three metric tonnes per person is produced annually. (btw, first is water) 2. Concrete is an erratic material. Most of the time, we don't know why it behaves the way it does. But, you don't know that we don't know, so we pretend to know. (Sorry for bursting the bubble my civil engineering comrades. :p) 3. ​Soil is fine. Water is fine. Soil+Water is...well, f***! ​ 4. Steel loses most of its strength during fire even with a temperature well below its melting point. This is one of the main reasons why the World Trade Center collapsed on 9/11. The 9/11 conspiracy theorists ignore this simple fact and just babble about the jet fuel fire not being hot enough to have melted the steel and ignorantly deduce that the collapse was a result of controlled demolition. ​5. The lines you see on concrete roads are actually cracks created along a straight line by us purposefully so that the concrete doesn't crack on its own elsewhere and look shabby. ​6. There are moments at intersections when all the signals are red. This usually lasts for 2 seconds after every green cycle to facilitate clearing of vehicles from the junction. In other words, during this all-red phase, you can actually jump the red light without risking a collision, provided, of course, you are the only one doing it. (Disclaimers: 1. Please do not experiment this, it's very dangerous, not to mention an offence; 2. This all-red phase may not be functional at all signals) ​7. While negotiating a curve or an intersection in your car, there is only a short length of roadway that is visually accessible to you. However, we have designed that length so that it's adequate to avoid a collision based on your body's reaction time. However, this distance is not sufficient if you are listening to music because it increases your reaction time, meaning you are more likely to crash into that oncoming vehicle or a tree if you are enjoying your favorite music. Happy Journey! ​8. Indians not following lane-discipline is actually a good thing. It increases the capacity of the road because of more efficient movement of mixed traffic and hence causes less traffic jams than if they were disciplined.** ​9. Flyovers don't solve congestion, they only relocate it to somewhere downstream/upstream. ​​10. High speeds don't cause accidents, different speeds do. To illustrate, a highway with only cars, all moving at 160+ speeds is less prone to accidents as compared to the one with cars, trucks and other vehicles with variable speeds even if the speed does not exceed 100. ​​11. We would be able to save a lot of tax payers money in the construction and maintenance of public sewer systems if people took shit at different times during the day instead of everyone doing it in the morning. The sewer pipes are currently designed for three times the average flow of sewage to accommodate just that few peak hours of the morning rendering the system redundant at other times. ​12. We can literally treat the sewage to an extent that it becomes as good as a bottled mineral water. Here's Bill Gates drinking some fine treated sewage: ​13. And finally, any building can collapse. Any time. We don't design buildings to not collapse. We just make them less probable. The ceiling that you stare at while laying on bed, may come crumbling down while you are asleep. Good Night! ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- **Edit 1: Some people are finding it hard to appreciate point no. 8 about undisciplined lane manners being a good thing. I respect your opinion. I feel it's a wishful thinking though. We expect something to be true just because it's nice. But physical laws do not share our prejudice. It is what it is. Having said that let me elaborate on that point. I am not implying that breaking traffic laws is good. I'm just talking about this specific case applicable to countries like India, Thailand, Malaysia etc., i.e. maintaining a lane discipline will cause more traffic delays. If India, however, had only cars on its roads like in the US, following lanes systematically would have been beneficial. But, India has a mixed traffic with enormous volume of two-wheelers. The two-wheelers currently squeeze into the space between the cars and clear the intersection quickly at green signal. This results is passing of more vehicles per hour i.e. the capacity of a road increases and hence the delay decreases. I am not condoning the act. I agree that we need to incorporate substantial traffic measures that would make people's lives better. Thanks. Edit 2: I've grossly exaggerated point 13. Updated 5w ago • View Upvotes