Are some people better than others?
No.  No one is better than anyone else.  And even if they were, it'd be impossible for any of us to tell. Some people are more valuable to the community than others. Consider Alexander the Great , aka Alexander III of Macedonia.  He was tutored by Aristotle, and he ascended to the throne at 20, when his father the King was assassinated.  By 30, he'd created an empire that extended from Greece to Egypt and into Pakistan.  He was undefeated in battle, and has become a myth and a legend amongst all subsequent military commanders. Good?  For the Greeks and Macedonians, sure.  For everyone he conquered, probably not so much. He was an excellent military commander, apparently.  But was he a good man?  Perhaps for his time; so does that mean he engaged in regular activities of his time, which might be considered as really, really awful when placed against contemporary values and practices? We don't know. If you plucked a gang member and convicted felon from the streets of Detroit and placed them into an entirely new setting, would they stay not-as-good a person as, say, a physician? A physician who cheats on his taxes and who doesn't give to charity because he feels he's done enough already?   Or because he gives to his church, the church of the ziti monster that he created for the tax deduction and leads? Let's say the offense that our gang member was convicted for was drug dealing, and specifically pot.  Pot is legal in several states in the US (although it's still federally illegal - so complicated!)  Is this gang member still a bad guy or is he a businessman that simply ran afoul of the law?  What if he put 10 kids in his neighborhood through college with his drug profits- does that make him "better" than the drug dealer who doesn't send kids to school?  Or better than you?  JayZ, immensely successful and apparently generally considered to be a "good man" used to deal crystal meth.  Who is he better than?  Me?  I never dealt crystal meth, and I don't make $100mm a year, nor have any musical talent. Which of the two of us is better? I don't think any one is "better" than any one else; but I do believe some people have a greater impact on others, than others.  I also believe a very few people are evil and twisted, like serial killers who are not military commanders like Alexander the Great or Genghis Khan, although Khan was a brutally violent and possibly psychotic man.   Some people are richer, more attractive, have a higher IQ or live in a fancy neighborhood.  But does that make them "better"?  Nah.  I don't think so.   The things that might make someone appear to be a "better" person today might be the same things that make him a loser tomorrow. Everyone thought that TV presenter Jimmy Savile was a wonderful man, raising millions of pounds for charity over the years in the UK.  When he died, it was revealed that he had been a sexual predator, and responsible for hundreds of cases of rape and sexual abuse, with victims including children (of both sexes) and the mentally ill or institutionalized. Rumor has it that when the time comes to go to Heaven or Hell or somewhere in-between, God takes repenting sinners ahead of saints - and we are all sinners*.  The key is to not be a hypocrite (Savile definitely failed this test): Matthew 6:2, NKJV. "Therefore, when you do a charitable deed, do not sound a trumpet before you as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may have glory from men. Assuredly, I say to you, they have their reward." Luke 16:15, TLB. "Then He said to them, 'You wear a noble, pious expression in public, but God knows your evil hearts. Your pretense brings you honor from the people, but it is an abomination in the sight of God.'" Matthew 23:27-28 “Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! For you are like whitewashed tombs which indeed appear beautiful outwardly, but inside are full of dead men’s bones and all uncleanness. Even so you also outwardly appear righteous to men, but inside you are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness" The Bible makes it clear; we humans are not to judge, it's only for God to judge.  We mere humans cannot tell whether or not someone is "better"; whether what they do and why they do it is because they are righteous people with great integrity or because they have a personal agenda, are hypocrites, or "may have their glory from men."   The argument that someone is "better" than someone else, objectively and substantively, rarely works.  I might like someone better, and so might you; but that's very different from whether they are fundamentally better people than others.  We just can't tell, at least not until after we've had the Big Reckoning and the real truth has a chance to settle and out. *The Bible is a good and interesting read, once you get past all the "Begat" business; when I was Roman Catholic I read it, and I liked it, and I still do. 