What should US travelers know about visiting Bangalore?
I just returned, and I'll share my impressions about what I learned and would tell others in my shoes who are Americans visiting Bangalore for the first time.  (Some are my photos, some were shared with me and might not be from Bangalore itself, but are indicative of what I saw.) Getting the travel documents in order.  Prepare to do this weeks in advance.  You need a visa to get into India.  Getting a visa is a snap if you do everything perfectly as they ask.  If not, however, it is a total hassle.  Fill out the online form.  Make sure you have an address in India to indicate on the form.  Make sure you have the appropriate letters (i.e. if going on business you need a letter from your US company and the Indian company, and they have to match).  You have to give the visa service your passport, and they mail it back when they glue the visa in the passport.  You also need passport photos for the visa. Give yourself a day to rest before you start work.  Travelling 24 hours on two or three flights will knock you out.  If you can, travel a day early and get acclimated.  The jet lag is uncanny.  International flights tend to arrive and leave at the most inconvenient hours -- e.g. 2 or 3 am. Get a dedicated driver if your company will pay for it.  Don't rely upon public transportation unless you are a backpacker and are looking for the adventure into chaos. The airport is about an hour drive to the city. It is very difficult to walk around the city.  The sidewalks are all broken. This is one of the better sidewalks -- many are worse.  You have to look where you go, or you will fall. I took this picture outside my hotel room. Crossing the street is a big and crazy experience.  Seriously. You'll rarely find a crosswalk or a street light. You literally have to weave through traffic and hope you don't get run over. They will not stop for you.  If you are in middle of the street -- the cars, auto-rickshaws (3-wheel tuk-tuks), motorcycles, and buses will not stop for you. You have to move.  Best bet, wait for a small crowd and go with them. Prepare by playing Frogger for many hours.  If you cannot beat the high-scores in Frogger, then you will not be able to cross a street. Here's me trying to cross the street. The traffic does not stop. http://www.facebook.com/v/243450... Drivers beep a lot. Everything is a beep.  Beep. They don't use turn signals, they don't slow down for you. Beep. They don't use the lanes.  Beep beep.  If there is space between you and the car next to you, it will be taken by a tuktuk or a few scooters. Beep. Traffic was unreal, more chaotic that Manhattan, Paris, or Tel Aviv -- seriously. (Someone sent me this picture, it's not from Bangalore, but it illustrates the point.) People will stop on the side of the road and answer to the call of nature.  Don't be surprised to see people urinating on the side of the road. Men, and sometimes women. (I took this picture on the way to work). Maybe this was only near my hotel and work, but it was pretty typical to see piles of garbage on the sidewalks too. Sorry to be so blunt, but the city is a dump and needs to be cleaned up. The country-side in India is much nicer.  I could not bring myself to eat at any street vendor. I was cautioned not to drink the tap water. I did not open my mouth in the shower, or use tap water when brushing my teeth. The standard of hygiene is quite different than what I expect in the US. I took a bunch of anti-bacterial towel-lets with me and used them frequently. I did not get ill during my visit. Take some flushable wipes with you. Although most places will have western toilets with toilet paper, some will not. I was at a conference earlier this week -- and the conference center bathrooms don't have toilet paper -- just a little spigot to wash your left hand after you are done. I'm simply not accustomed to this. on a related note, you don't shake with your left hand. People are generally nice and helpful.  If you look lost, people will gladly help you if they can. I found people to be quite friendly everywhere I went. Hotels and offices have tons of security guys in front of them.  I did not get the sense that they did much.  There was a metal detector in front of my hotel, but walking through it was optional.  It never beeped either.  I'm not sure why you see so many security guys. None look big or scary.  Security seemed lax to me. Although many people in Bangalore are good with English, many are not that capable. The more educated professionals know English well. But the less educated classes do not. Getting from place to place can take time. The traffic is maddening. The local coffee is undrinkable. Milky coffee will form a scum if you leave it for a minute.  Take some real coffee with you. A note about tea:  (I love tea).  India produces some of the finest tea in the world.  Tea lovers can visit tea estates in the countryside and get the best of the best Darjeeling, Assam, and other locally produced flavored Indian teas.  However Indians tend to overbrew the leaves resulting in making their tea more bitter than it needs to be.  They compensate with sugar - lots of it.  The sugar crystals I found did not dissolve very well either.  My recommendation:  Get high quality tea and brew it properly to enjoy the best black tea you'll find anywhere. Be flexible with time.  Indians tend to be.  If you book too many back-to-back events, your plans will unravel. Notice that people honor hierarchy. If the boss is in the room, the subordinates will not talk. There is no nightlife. People hang out in front of buildings. I'm not sure why.  I did not get the sense that there is violent crime at all.  No thugs. But you will find people hanging out at all hours -- just there. My hotel had a lounge and bar, one night they had a small live band.  It works if you want to hang out with colleagues. Expect to be taken advantage of if you go shopping at a tourist trap. You are a tourist and will be treated as one. They mark everything up, since they pay-off the driver with a commission for bringing you to the shop.  Don't expect the right to return things. I found Bangalore Center to be modern and well-stocked with stuff you could buy. Mother Earth was pretty nice also.  The Airport gift shop with Inida Souvenirs was just OK -- not much particularly special there, IMO. You'll see cows on the side of the road.  Not many, but they hang out.  Dogs too.  I did not see any monkeys, but I did see squirrels and some brightly colored birds. The trees are lush and pretty, the buildings less so. "Namaskar" is the local "thank you". [strike]I don't think it is Hindi, rather it's Kannada (the local language).[strike] (it is Hindi)  "Namastey" is the better-known greeting. (just an alternate) I found that most people simply greet and thank in English. [This is incorrect based on a comment (below), Namaskar is also Hindi, also a greeting. -- sorry -- I'm confused please clarify this for me.) Get a local mobile phone.  People like to SMS -- especially if you are coordinating your driver, etc.  And get your driver's mobile number and the digits of his license plate.  Everyone is always on the cell (this is not my picture but it illustrates that 1. people are on the phone and 2. clever ways to talk and drive. Expect to pay for wi-fi.  "Free" Wifi options require you to share your mobile number, and I'm not sure what that means in terms of getting SMSs all day. I found Google Maps to have inaccuracies. I did not find Yahoo! Maps to be much better (even the new one that just came out recently).  Although people I was with preferred it to Google since it gave directions in the same way the locals do. (Disclosure: I work for Yahoo!) On TV you can see crappy 70's movies, lots of Bollywood music videos, reruns of Friends and Home Improvement, and preachers of various local flavors of Hindu and Muslim denominations -- some with prayer services (which looked like pouring milk and flower petals on black statues, then waving candles in front of them). Hotels are very reasonably priced.  Some are very nice inside. I did not find convenience stores or drug stores anywhere. So pack some imodium, rolaids, tylenol, etc. with you. Locals wobble their heads when they talk.  See What are all the meanings of the Indian head wobble? I have to add that Anon User's answer is absolutely correct and an important additional facet to note about your visit.  There is poverty -- and it is difficult to fathom.  And the poverty is located everywhere, including right next to expensive places.  As a result, I left BLR with the feeling that you learn to dull your senses to other people's needs.  And this is sad. I had an interesting trip -- the meetings at work were fantastic, some of the social experiences I had were wonderful, but I felt the city was a dump. Sorry for being so blunt and negative about that part, but I'm just sharing my opinion. Updated 12w ago • View Upvotes