If you could make an army using 1 ton of any animals for a battle to the death, what would your army look like?
Finally I've found the time to answer this question. This answer is built around the meaning of 1 ton, meaning 1 metric ton, or 2,205 lbs. One Uniform ArmyOne mosquito weighs around 2 milligrams. There are  453.6 grams in a pound, thus, 226800 mosquitoes in a pound. See where  I'm going with this. I have 2,205 pounds to spend. My uniform army would  consist of 102,740,400 malaria infected Asian tiger mosquitoes,  infected with the bot fly as well. With this size of an army, I need no strategy. I will let nature play it  out. Diverse ArmyThis  section is dedicated to a combination of different types of animals  used in my army. Let me break each section down by role. **[I  will state the population of the animal, followed by the animal name,  and then its average weight pulled from Wolfram, or Wikipedia (for the  mosquito's weight, I had to use another source).] Biological Warfare 1,000x -Golden Poison Frog- 2 grams 20x     -Spitting Cobra- 4 pounds Total: 84.4 lbs Distractions 80,530,000x -Malaria and Bot Fly infected Asian Tiger Mosquito- 2 milligrams Total: 355.1 lbs Ground Forces 15x -Mexican Beaded Lizard- 5.5 pounds 21x -Wolverine- 32 pounds 15x -Black Mamba- 3.5 pounds 5x   -Komodo Dragon- 155 pounds Total: 1582 lbs Special Purpose 10x -Skunk- 7 pounds 10x -Peregrine Falcon-2.35 pounds 5x   -Albatross- 18 pounds Total: 183.5 lbs Grand Total: 2,205 lbs StrategyHere  is my strategy. I do not have phases. Instead, I have groups of units  that work together. These groups have animals that have purposes that  will be used when necessary. I will be commanding these units in  real-time, as this is more realistic than turn-by-turn phases. The  Distraction group is the most important group. It consists of Asian  Tiger Mosquitoes, which are known to carry many diseases. I have further  specified the two diseases this insect will carry. One is Malaria, and  the other is the Bot Fly parasite. Both affect animals other than  humans. This tremendous number of mosquitoes will definitely be a  nuisance to the enemy. Even the animals that will consume these  mosquitoes will feel the effects of the diseases. Female  Mosquitoes have been known to drink blood up to 4 times their own body  weights. If this is true, and about 16.1% of my army is mosquito (half  female and half male), at least 710 pounds of blood will be sucked after  all of the females (excluding the males for accuracy) after the first  bites. While  this distraction is going on, I will have my Air Force flying around.  It will consist of 5 Albatrosses, and 10 peregrine falcons. These  Albatrosses will carry two spitting cobras each. One cobra per wing. The  end of each cobra's tail will be tied to the other cobra's tail, but  not too tightly, as a crash landing will enable them to untie  themselves, living more, thus killing more. Each Albatross will carry 10  Golden Poison Dart Frogs. These frogs will aim for the larger animals  first. Guarding these Albatrosses from  enemy air force will be the peregrine falcons, who will be escorting the  transport. Two falcons per Albatross. The other two falcons will be  used as extra firepower, almost like the hellfire missiles. They will be  flying above ground, waiting for my particular use for them. Ex: Albatross one's escort party is outnumbered. Reinforce. These awesome birds will definitely be useful weapons, as they will reach top speeds at over 200 mph dives. Next  up are my ground forces. It consists of small Mexican Beaded Lizards,  Komodo Dragons, Wolverines, and Black Mambas. The Komodo Dragons are for  killing larger animals, such as Wolves or Pumas, but also for ambushing  lions. The purpose of four is to surround each large animal separately.  The weakness is that it can only pick on the larger animals one by one,  and each must stay in the group. Hopefully, this can happen more easily  as the mosquitoes are biting. The smaller lizards are more for stealth purposes, sneaking up with agility upon their enemy. The  Wolverines are meant to act as formidable enemies. They are vicious and  fearless creatures. I remember reading somewhere a wolverine was able  to take down a Grizzly, but I can't find the source. This is definitely a  valuable asset to my military arsenal. The  Black Mambas are meant to crawl under any animal that might be burrowed  in their shells, or hiding in curled positions. They are also fast so  it may be possible a mamba can sneak up to a larger animal. [I want to note that the scales on the reptiles make it more difficult for insects to bite or sting them] The  Striped Skunks are there to act as manipulators. What I mean by that is  that if a large animal is approaching, the Skunk will be able to spray  the enemy, mess up it's carefully planned charge, or even drive back  enemies. UnitsHere are how my animals will be organized. Air Force 1 unit= 1 Albatross, 2 Spitting Cobras, 10 Golden Poison Dart Frogs, and 2 Peregrine Falcons. Tactical use= 2 reinforcement Peregrine Falcons Ground Force 1 unit of 4 Komodo Dragons 1 unit= 4 Wolverines, 2 Skunks, 3 Black Mambas, 2 Spitting Cobras Stealth 1 Mexican Beaded Lizard, 5 Golden Poison Dart Frogs ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Percentage Distribution, by pounds, of each group of animals by classification. And  that is how my army would look. This strategy did not take into  consideration any aquatic fighting. Since the fighting is an arena, I  would think spectators would want to see the actual fighting, not guess  what is happening under the water. But I hope you found this answer entertaining. Answering it was even more entertaining 