Which is the most underrated state of India? Why ?
When it comes to the list of most underrated states of India, I think JHARKHAND occupies the topmost position in that list. I hail from a small city of Jharkhand and I have met people who don’t even know if such a state exists in India. Either they call it Bihar or “Dhoni ka gaon” (village of M.S. Dhoni).I wonder how can someone call a state a village. Jharkhand has given a lot more than the Odi-captain of Indian Cricket Team to India. People perceive Jharkhand as land of naxalites, corruption and goons. These are some of the facts about Jharkhand which I think most of the Indians hardly know. 1. The name “Jharkhand” means "The Land of Forests".Jharkhand accounts for 40% of the mineral resources of India. The rankings of Jharkhand in terms of its minerals in India are: Iron ore (1st), Coal(3rd), Copper ore (1st), Gold (Rakha Mines (6th), Mica(1st), Bauxite(3rd), Graphite (8th) , Kyanite(1st) , Chromite(2nd), Asbestos(1st) , Thorium (3rd). The major minerals found are : Coal,Iron Ore, Gold, Silver, Cobalt, Nickel, Bauxite, Manganese, Limestone, Chromite, Felspar, Quartz/Silica, Sand, Granite, Fireclay, China Clay, Apatite, Asbestos, Barytes, Titanium, Dolomite, Mica, Garnet, Kyanite, Bentonite etc. ​ Apart from these, Jharkhand also has Uranium mines in Jaduguda and Narwa Pahar and ranks 1st in India in terms of Uranium availability. Jharkhand presently has 63 coal mines (26 underground, 37 open cast) which come under Central Coalfields Limited (CCL). ​ 2. Industries in Jharkhand 1. Largest Steel plant in Asia, Bokaro steel plant, Bokaro. (Based on area,  Bokaro Steel Plant was once considered to be the largest steel plant of  Asia. ) ​ ​ 2. First iron and steel plant in India was established in Jamshedpur (Jharkhand) ​ 3. Largest fertiliser factory of its time in India (since shut down) at Sindri,     Dhanbad. Biggest explosives factory in Bokaro, Jharkhand.  First ,methane gas well at Parbatpur, Jharkhand. 3. Apart from Industries, Jharkhand also has many well established and reknowned colleges and universities of all fields like engineering, medicine, management, agriculture, law etc. Some of them are: IIT-ISM Dhanbad (Established as the very first Indian School of Mines in Dhanbad. It is considered to be one the best mining institutes in India and world.) ​ Birla Institute of Technology, Mesra, Ranchi (Considered as one of the best private engineering colleges in India. It was established in 1955 and has produced many technocrats and leaders since then. It also has a Rocket Sciences department which is not commonly found in other colleges of India.) ​ IIM-RANCHI (one of the 13 Indian Institutes of Management which are considered as the best B-schools in India and world) ​ XLRI-JAMSHEDPUR (considered as the best privately managed Management Institute of India and always secures a position in top 5 in the rankings of B-schools.) RIMS- one of India's biggest medical college NIT JAMSHEDPUR (National Institute of Technology, Jamshedpur was established as Regional Institute of Technology in 1960 and is considered to be one of the best NITs in India.) 4. Agriculture ​ Agriculture is the main stay for the 80% of rural population of the state. Agriculture is their employment and primary income generating activity.The cultivable land resources of the state has good potential for higher production of horticulture and forest products. The soil is young and has high capacity of fixation of humus. The forest provides sufficient biomass to feed its soiling. Due to lesser resources for irrigation, the farmers rely on rains for this purpose. The major cultivation of the state is rice. 5.Geography, and flora and fauna Most of the state lies on the Chota Nagpur Pleateau, which is the source of the Koel, Damodar, Brahmani, and Subarnrekha rivers, whose upper watersheds lie within Jharkhand. Much of the state is still covered by forest and has the highest percentage of land covered by forests in India. Jharkhand has a rich variety of flora and fauna. There are various National Parks and the Zoological Gardens located in the state of Jharkhand which present a panorama of this variety. Animals like tigers, elephants, bisons, wild boar, pythons, spotted deers, rabits, foxes, langurs, blue bulls etc are found in the state. Jawaharlal Nehru biological park is a large Zoological Garden in Jharkhand. It has many animal and bird species, spread over 80 hectares (200 acres), including an artificial waterpark with boating facilities. ​ ​ 6. OUR CULTURE AND PEOPLE Jharkhand has a population of 32.96 million, consisting of 16.93 million males and 16.03 million females. The sex ratio is 947 females to 1000 males. The population consists of 28% tribal peoples, 12% Scheduled castes and 60% others. The overall literacy rate is 66.41% . Famous foods and cuisines Dhuska ( my favourite ) Handia- the local Adivasi Brew 7.TOURISM WATERFALLS (Jharkhand has been blessed by nature with many waterfalls. Some of them are illustrated below.) Dassam Falls Hirni falls Hundru falls Jonha falls Jharkhand also has a number of destinations known for generating the real sense of adventure. The state possess lots of scope for many adventurous activities like paragliding, Water Sports & Parasailing. (pic: water sports at Khandoli dam, Giridih, Jharkhand) Ropeway-at-Trikut-parvat Tatanagar Jubilee Park Burudih Dam Netarhat (referred to as the “Queen of Chotanagpur”, it is a popular hill station famous for its view of sunrise and sunset.) Babadham Temple, Deoghar (one of the twelve Jyotirlingas. according to beliefs, Ravana worshipped lord Shiva at this site and offered his ten heads as a sacrifice to get the boons.) Chhinnamasta Temple (temple is famous the headless deity of Goddess Chinnamasta which stands on the body of Kamdeo and its Tantrik style of architectural design) Naulakha Mandir Jaggannathpur Temple (built by the king of Barkagarh Jagannathpur Thakur Ani Nath Shahdeo, during 1691 , similar to that of Jagannath temple of Puri) Patratu Valley 8. CONTRIBUTION OF JHARKHAND TO INDIA JAIPAL SINGH MUNDA (captained the Indian field hockey team to clinch gold in the 1928 Summer Olympics in Amsterdam) apart from him, Jharkhand has produced many world class hockey players. ARCHERY:- players like Jhanu Hansda , Purnima Mahato and Deepika Kumari Bollywood:- Director Imtiaz Ali , Indian Idol contestant and actor Meiyang Chang , Actor R. Madhavan, Actress Priyanka Chopra , Tanushree Dutta , Singer Shilpa Rao etc. Revolutionaries:- Birsa Munda Sidho-Kanho , Devendra Prasad Gupta etc. Military and police:- Randhir Prasad Verma , Ashok Chakra, Lance Naik Albert Ekka, PVC (1942–71) CRICKET:- KIRTI AZAD , SAURABH TIWARY, VARUN AARON and last but not the least "THE CAPTAIN COOL" M.S. DHONI at the end ... JAI JOHAR !!! JAI JHARKHAND !!! Updated 18w ago • View Upvotes