The College and University Experience: What is it like to major in physics?
Jay Wacker's answer above is great, but to add a perspective of a recent physics undergrad: Social: There are stereotypes about phsyics students, and while these may accurately describe the mean of the population, there is tremendous variance in the personalities and preferences of the group - I met many of my best friends in physics classes. Given the collaborative nature of many physics courses, you end up spending a lot of concentrated time with this group of people, which is terrific for bonding. While meeting your physics group to work on a problem set might mean you go out and party less, I found that the friendships I made in these contexts went a lot deeper than those I formed going out. Timing/Scheduling: Your week will likely start to be formed by the schedule of your physics assignments. I.e. if you have a General Relativity problem set due on Thursday and a Statistical Mechanics set due Tuesday, every week you will likely be working all of Monday night, recovering on Tuesday, working all of Wednesday night, recovering on Thursday, focusing on other work/social things Friday-Sunday. I kind of liked this, it helped me relax when I needed to relax and focus when I needed to focus. Extracurriculars: You will still have time to do non-physics things of course, but you can't do everything. I.e. if you want to row lightweight crew and direct a musical, you might want to re-think that Physics courseload. It is a commitment and because of the regular nature of the work it's not something you can put off (you can't just jump in during the middle of a course and start reading whatever is going on that week). This means to the extent you involve yourself in other things you will need to be disciplined about how you do it. Intellectual: It's amazing. Through most of recent human history, the clergy felt that it held the secrets of the universe in its knowledge of God, and studied it among themselves feeling as if they were communing with some higher power. I am not a religious person, but learning physics is about as close to a spiritual experience as I've had. If you're doing it right you should feel a) in awe of how cool the universe is and b) extremely lucky to live in the tiny fraction of human history in which we have some idea resembling an understanding of it. It's pretty remarkable: the universe has been around for billions of years, and assuming there is no other intelligent life (at least none we know of), this is the first 100 years - that is 1/100 millionth of the universe's lifetime - in which some part of the universe can understand what is going on. Also there is something very cool about reading a page in a textbook, struggling to understand it, working through a problem, and then realizing it took a great physicist a lifetime to work out what you just learned. It's also quite useful. Even if you never do physics again, the ability to work through problems in a systematic way is valuable in a lot of contexts. Options afterwards: It's nice to feel you can do what you'd like afterwards. The signaling advantage of doing well in physics leaves open lots of possibilities. Friends of mine from physics are now pursuing the following: Law school, software startups, greentech, business school, trading, policy work, and of course Physics PhDs. 