If you could make an army using 1 ton of any animals for a battle to the death, what would your army look like?
First off, let me just say that this is a phenomenal question because no other question has made me this excited about 'shopping' for animals by the pound on Google/Wikpedia. Anyway, my army would consist of: 1,000,000 Africanized bees (at 0.0005lb a piece = 500lb). Economical, deadly, aggressive. 40 porcupines (at 20lb a piece = 800lb). Spiky, defensive. 35 mongooses (mongeese? lol) (at 6lb a piece = 210lb). Highly immune to several types of venom, adept at killing snakes and insects. 16 honey badgers (at 25lb a piece = 400lb). Strong, deadly, able to burrow and purportedly 'doesn't give a shit'. 1 baby hippopotamus (87lb). Adorable, has a big mouth. 1 immortal jellyfish (2lb (?)). Biologically immortal. Let's call him Jimmy. a metric fuckton of plankton (1lb). Jellyfish food. Ready? Go! Phase 1 The moment the battle starts, everyone needs to get into position. The porcupines form a defensive circle. The mongooses hide within the circle of porcupines, like spearmen behind shields, if you will. The honey badgers burrow a porcupine-sized hole in the centre of the circle, while the baby hippo starts to salivate. Jimmy and the plankton reside in the baby hippo's mouth, swimming about in its saliva. The Africanized bees are on an all-out rampage, killing everything around them. A few minutes later... Phase 2 The honey badgers have successfully created a long tunnel, about 10 ft deep. They evacuate the tunnel, and the baby hippo empties the contents of its mouth into the hole. At this point, the baby hippo's job is done. Well done, baby hippo. Just sit back and relax. But watch out for those tree-dart frogs. I hear there's about 100kg of them jumping around. One brave porcupine leaves his post, walks up to the centre of the circle and plugs the hole like a cork. (At Mike Wilhelm's suggestion, this valiant individual shall be known as 'The Corkupine'. Thanks, Mike.) The honey badgers close up the hole, then join their mongoose friends. Refer to the expertly-drawn diagram below for an overview: Phase 3 Let's take the worst-case scenario and assume that my bees, porcupines, mongooses and honey badgers have all been killed. The opposing army is highly unlikely to have an animal small but deadly enough to fit through the tunnel to kill Jimmy. Since Jimmy has biological immortality, it can just survive on the plankton indefinitely until the other army dies of starvation. Victory! Updated 119w ago • View Upvotes