Which database should I use for a killer web application: MongoDB, PostgreSQL, or MySQL?I'm working on killer web application, and I am really interested and worked with MongoDB. Is it a choice to choose MongoDB as a premier database? Or Is it better to use MySQL (with MongoDB/Redis as secondary)?
"Killer web application" doesn't really accurately describe what kind of data you're planning to store or what you're planning on doing with it. It's a little vague, so this answer won't give you a direct answer, but it might help change your thought process a little bit. A database is very important, no doubt, but you should know that it won't give you any starting advantage choosing one over the other. It is only when you begin to scale you will have to make some decisions, but this is a situation you won't find yourself in for a very long time. Is your web application write heavy or ready heavy, or does it fall in the middle? This will determine not only what indexes to setup, but whether you normalise, denormalise or choose a NoSQL solution. What kind of data are you storing? Is it relational or highly dynamic unique items that cannot be pigeon-holed to a particular schema? A good example of relational data is a social network like Facebook. A user has many comments, photos, friends, groups and interests. An example of non-relational data is storing documents or analytical information. Will you be working with location/coordinate data? PostgreSQL and MongoDB are both great at working with GPS coordinates and distances. MySQL on the other hand can, but has some severe limitations and is arguably not currently ideal for working with distances. What kind of hosting environment will you be using? If you're using a Windows server for example, you probably will lean towards Microsoft SQL Server (MSSQL). My advice would be to stop focusing on the database, just choose whatever you know you will be comfortable using. My personal recommendation without knowing the context or requirements would be MySQL or PostgreSQL. Both of these databases can scale VERY easily and can take a hammering before even needing to be scaled. While MongoDB is great, it does have its limitations, especially if you need ACID compliance or proper true transactions or have a predominantly relational schema. 