How can I become a good programmer at online judges?I am currently working in Indian IT industry.I have always wanted to work for a product company.I have a good command on C programming and a hint of JAVA. I wanted to get started with competitive programming in order to prepare for interviews of these companies. What should be the right path of preparation? Also do I need to learn C++ or JAVA or should I continue programming in C?
Since you have good command over C and hence you'll be able to solve almost all the problems but I would still recommend to learn atleast another programming language like Java or Python or Haskell etc.. and learn it well, I mean very well, I often helps. C doesn't have much inbuilt useful libraries and hence can put forth before you an arduous amount of work to do while implementing many data structures which are mostly useful in solving programming challenges. There are a few things you should know and have command over them well, they are :- 1. Very good concepts of Data Structures. and Algorithmic approach to a problem and algorithm thinking. 2. Good with file manipulation. 3. Good command over at least one programming language which in your case is C 4. Read a few books on programming challenges. 5. Search Google on how to solve a problem and how to approach any problem and solving it. 6. Last but one of the most important concept, that is a good command over mathematics. Knowing mathematical theories often helps in programming and solving challenging problems. You can see my answers on these questions too, and they will help you a lot too :- How should I prepare myself for coding competitions? What resources should I consult and what language should I focus on? Animesh Shaw's answer to What are the milestones that I can keep for myself for becoming a successful programmer, to keep checking if I am on the right path or doing things fast enough? Animesh Shaw's answer to What should I do to be comfortable with algorithms? Other links which will help you a lot :- What are the best resources for preparing for the IOI? How can I improve my competitive programming skills? What are the most learner-friendly resources for learning about algorithms? Good luck :) 