Which database should I use for a killer web application: MongoDB, PostgreSQL, or MySQL?I'm working on killer web application, and I am really interested and worked with MongoDB. Is it a choice to choose MongoDB as a premier database? Or Is it better to use MySQL (with MongoDB/Redis as secondary)?
Originally Answered: What is the best storage solution for building a "news feed" - MongoDB or MySQL?We've build such a system for the second largest online fashion community. After reading many articles it seems as though Redis and Cassandra are the most commonly used storage layers. Redis is easier to get started with. However Cassandra is: Cost effective due to storage on disk Easier to shard Personally I think Cassandra is an ideal fit for the push based feed systems. Getting the implementation right is a bit tricky though, our tips: Cassandra >2.0 Use datastax/python-driver smart trimming tschellenbach/Feedly unlogged batch inserts DataStax CQL 3.0 Documentation We've open sourced our approach. Its called Feedly and available on Github (Feedly) I think it's currently the largest open source solution aimed at this problem. From the same team there's also a hosted API available on https://getstream.io I found the following articles very helpful while setting up our architecture: Twitter 2013 Redis based, database fallback, very similar to Fashiolista's old approach. Design Decisions for Scaling Your High Traffic Feeds - High Scalability - Etsy feed scaling (Gearman, separate scoring and aggregation steps, rollups - aggregation part two) Facebook history Django project, with good naming conventions. Atom Activity Streams 1.0 (actor, verb, object, target) Quora post on best practises Quora scaling a social network feed Redis ruby example FriendFeed approach Thoonk setup Yahoo Research Paper Twitter’s approach Cassandra at Instagram PS. Rick Branson are you sure Facebook uses a pull based approach for their feed. I would assume they do a fan-out to a temporary feed. And compute the aggregated and relevancy feed afterwards. But you maybe have some inside knowledge? :) 