What is the strangest coincidence you have experienced?
Coincidence #1: Attending University of Florida, I began research on my senior project in Computer Science. Since this was in the pre-Internet era, I used the library. I went into the Engineering Library and consulted Computer and Control Abstracts, a huge index of published literature in the computing field. From there, I identified four articles that might be helpful in my project of choice. I was able to find three of them in the vast holdings of the Engineering Library, but they didn't really pan out. The fourth sounded much more promising, but I couldn't find it. It was in the Journal of Artificial Intelligence, Volume 4, number 6, published by the North Holland Publishing Company. I had never heard of the journal or the publisher before.  I was very impressed by the huge number of periodicals available in the long corridors of floor-to-ten-foot-ceilings of the engineering library, but I didn't see that journal. I consulted the reference librarian. She confirmed that the UF engineering library didn't subscribe to that journal. She also said it wasn't in the main library buildings across campus, but maybe Florida State had it, and I could get it on an interlibrary loan from them in 6 weeks or so. (That would be totally useless to a student with a due date.) I wasn't really sure what to do next -- I really needed a starting point for this project. I had a class scheduled the next period downstairs. It was a computer science class, but not the same one for which I was researching. I went straight there from the library. I mentioned my research to no one. I was barely seated at my desk in class, when a friend of mine walked in and without a word put a magazine on my desk. It was -- The Journal of Artificial Intelligence, Volume 4, Number 6. I was speechless. I somehow managed to ask where he got it. He said a friend of his had written off asking about subscribing. He had found it way too expensive for a student, but they had sent him a sample issue -- this was it.  Anyway, the friend had lent it to him and he just thought I might be interested in it. The article was everything I had hoped it would be. I completed my senior project successfully. Coincidence # 2 This story is from before web-based genealogy research became feasible on the internet. I had never done any genealogy research on my family. One day I was in my local library in Florida, which had a modest genealogy section. I began to browse the genealogy stacks at random with the intent of becoming familiar with the available genealogy resources. About the second document I picked up was an unbound collection of photocopied pages stapled together entitled A Compilation of the Descendants of [omitted] and [redacted]. I had never heard of any family connection to those surnames. However, I opened it up at random, and saw my mother's name! She was one of those descendants. So, in my first five minutes as a genealogist, seven generations of my ancestry was revealed. This was not a local hometown document. It was from Georgia and mostly about Georgia and I was in Florida. I proceeded to photocopy the pages so I would have it at home. On getting home with the copy, I saw a faint image of an address label on the title page. It was the name and address of my great aunt in Atlanta! She had been dead 10 years at that point, so I was not able to ask her how this came to be. Apparently, she had possession of a previous copy of this document at one time. She had never said anything about genealogy to my mom or to me. I can only suppose that she had sent a copy of this document to my local library in the hope that we would become interested in genealogy sooner or later and find it. If so, it worked! Why she wouldn't have sent us a copy directly I don't know. 