Could you summarize the action of the first 4 seasons of the 'Game of Thrones' TV series?
{this 6,000-word summary will get you crudely up + running} {as long as this is, you wouldn't believe how much stuff I've omitted} {it is written from the TV-show standpoint, but I mingle a little book-mindset} {I strongly advise that you watch the preceding 4 seasons, for hints + context} {your homework, now, is to identify Jon Snow's mother w/o web-searching} =-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-= The continent of Westeros is a bit like the Colonial American States -- its rich lands (comprising 7 or 8 major kingdoms, each with their own ruling noble houses, some allied, some opposed) have been settled (and re-settled) (and conquered) (and re-conquered).  Most recently -- a few hundred years back -- the ancient proud sorcerous Targaryens (pale-skinned, silver-haired, dragon-riders) flew across the great sea to take hold of this realm with its scattered, fractious lesser peoples. The Targaryens fell prey to dilute bloodlines, inbreeding, and the dying out of their dragons.  The last royal Targaryen -- Aerys, forty years old, wizened before his time, and quite delusionally/homicidally insane -- became such a hated and pitiable monarch (reminiscent of King George III) that some of his lesser lords rose up in rebellion. Though no overt value judgement is made on "good" versus "bad" sides, you could see the colonial rebels as "the good guys" (tall, powerful, bearlike jovial Robert Baratheon of the coastal heartland, his boyhood friend, lean dour honor-bound Ned Stark of the icy north, and distant noble mountain-elder Jon Arryn, who served as a sort of father-figure and mentor to both men).  Their rebellion was ultimately successful, though not without great cost (many thousands slain, including Stark's father and sister, many nobles dispossessed from their lands, outright bloodshed and murder in the capital when mad King Aerys Targaryen decided he would sooner burn the city with medieval napalm rather than surrender it to rebels).  Tall powerful Robert Baratheon actually slew Aerys' firstborn son, gallant and introspective Rhaegar Targaryen, in single combat on the field of battle, hating him for having 'stolen' his intended fiancee (Ned Stark's sister Lyanna) from him. Robert Baratheon = jock = Vultan of the Hawk-People, from Flash Gordon Ned Stark = grim, honor-bound = any of Clint Eastwood's Western roles Jon Arryn = old, proud, wise = 60% Thomas Jefferson, 40% Ben Franklin Aerys Targaryen = The Madness of King George, or maybe Vlad Tepes Dracula Fast-forward 18 years.  Aerys Targaryen is gone -- but two of his children (timid teenage Daenerys and megalomaniac crazy-like-his-father Viserys) were shipped across the sea to foreign Europe-Mediterranean lands, where they live in exile.  Robert Baratheon (and his House Baratheon) has risen up to rulership, but Robert was better at fighting wars than sitting a throne, so the realm is passing into debt and disarray.  Many of Mad King Aerys Targaryen's former loyalists and sycophants are still at court (having been pardoned or overlooked in the rebellious turnover), including ruthless masterful Tywin Lannister (and adult children, one of whom married King Robert, the other of whom stabbed Mad King Aerys in the back before he could give the command to burn the capital city), ambitious manipulator Petyr 'Littlefinger' Baelish (who tried to marry into a higher noble house, but was rebuffed because of his low-ranking birth), and mysterious spymaster Varys the Eunuch. Tywin Lannister = Edward Longshanks from Braveheart, or Doctor Doom So.  The Game of Thrones HBO series begins. Season I Wise old Jon Arryn has died unexpectedly, either of sickness or poison.  Fat drunken King Robert Baratheon, realizing that he isn't such a good ruler, and that enemies and betrayers are all around him, rides north into the winter-lands to ask his old boyhood friend Ned Stark to take dead Jon Arryn's place as Robert's second-in-command ("Hand of the King").  A great deal of reminiscing and my-god-what's-happened-to-us-since-our-youth happens, notably, the realization that Robert loathes his arranged-wife Cersei (daughter to Tywin Lannister), and still mourns the loss of his intended bride (Ned's sister Lyanna), who was "taken" by Rhaegar Targaryen during the rebellion, later dying.  Ned Stark has six children of varying motivations and temperaments, some courtly, others rebellious and wild.  One, named Jon Snow, is not his pure-blooded issue, and has mysterious origins (not even Ned's wife knows his past).  Another, an impish boy named Brandon, climbs a stone tower and sees Tywin's children (Cersei, Jaime) entangled in incestuous lovemaking.  Jaime throws Brandon from the tower, where he lands, broken and paraplegic, but does not die. Tywin's son Jaime = a cocky Lancelot, or Prince Charming from the Shrek films Tywin's daughter Cersei (now queen) = Sharon Stone from Basic Instinct Tywin's younger son Tyrion (unloved dwarf) = a more sympathetic Richard III Ned Stark reluctantly leaves his northern winter-kingdom (and comatose son Brandon) to escort King Robert down to the warm southern capital and serve as his second-in-command ("Hand of the King").  Fat, drunken Robert makes it quite clear that he intends for Ned to do all the 'hard work' of rulership, while Robert drinks and fornicates his way into an early grave.  Ned takes his two daughters with him -- Sansa, who is weak(er), impressionable, and wants to be 'a southern lady,' and Arya, who is wild(er), less ladylike, but seemingly closer to her father's heart.  A series of misadventures unfold;  Ned does not much like the socialite capital or its courtly intrigues, and Tywin Lannister's seemingly-treacherous family have eyes and ears everywhere.  King Robert's children are nothing like him, and Robert's biological heir (firstborn Joffrey Baratheon-Lannister, meant to marry Sansa Stark), in particular, is a cruel/selfish monster. King Robert's son Joffrey = Caligula, or Harry Potter's rival Draco Malfoy Sansa Stark falls in with the southern court, their feminine hairstyles, and their needling gossip.  Arya Stark takes sword-fencing lessons, and abandons her ladylike lessons in favor of sneaking around the castle's secret passages.  Ned Stark's wife Catelyn, back in the frozen northlands, receives a secret note from her sister that the Lannisters may have poisoned wise noble Jon Arryn, because of some rivalry, or because of something Arryn knew.  (This note triggers a series of misadventures that spark hostilities between Ned Stark's house and Tywin Lannister's house;  fat drunken King Robert is caught in the middle, between his best friend and his wife/father-in-law, and proves not to be a very upstanding or resolute man anymore.)  The capital is certainly made out to be a treacherous, miserable place. Concurrently, through discussions with courtly figures including knights, financial-master Petyr 'Littlefinger' Baelish, and spymaster Varys the Eunuch, Ned Stark also happens on the same Jon-Arryn-was-poisoned conspiracy, and, chasing it down still further, determines that wise old Jon Arryn had been hunting down fat drunken King Robert's many illegitimate children (born of prostitution and peasant-romances).  It is ultimately revealed that all of Robert's 8+ bastard children are dark-haired, just like Robert himself, and that his three golden-haired "biological heirs" are in fact not his own, but the product of secret sibling incest between Tywin Lannister's children Jaime (a knight of the highest order) and Cersei (who is of course Queen and married to King Robert himself).  The near-revelation of the secret incest caused Queen Cersei Lannister to arrange for Jon Arryn's murder via poison.  Fat drunken King Robert still does not know that the children are not his true biological issue, and, if he were ever to learn, might well fly into a child-and-mother-murdering rage. Just as Ned Stark puzzles through these clues to solve the murder/secret-incest mystery, all-out bloodshed erupts between House Stark (wolf-sigil) and House Lannister (lion-sigil).  Ned Stark's wife Catelyn finds dwarf Tyrion Lannister on the road and holds him prisoner (but not for long, Tyrion cleverly talks his way free).  Tywin Lannister's cocky swordsman son Jaime finds Ned in the capital, demands retribution for his dwarf-brother's capture, and kills several of Stark's men, badly wounding Stark's leg in the process.  Things come to a head nearly simultaneously when fat drunken King Robert dies in a boar-hunting accident.  Ned Stark tries to reveal cruel boy-prince Joffrey's true bastard heritage to the court before Joffrey can be crowned king, but the court (and treacherous out-for-myself Petyr Littlefinger) turns against him, and Ned is beheaded as a seditious traitor, leaving his two daughters to uncertain fates in the viper's-nest capital without their father... Sansa Stark = Marcia from the Brady Bunch Arya Stark = Mathilda from Leon (The Professional), or a young Femme Nikita Meanwhile, far across the sea, exiled Viserys Targaryen and his timid sister Daenerys Targaryen attempt to buy themselves an army of 20,000 Mongol riders (so as to retake their rightful throne in the land of Westeros).  Viserys marries young Daenerys to the Ghengis-Khan Mongol warlord by way of "payment" for his army.  Three ancient dragon-eggs (stone, never hatched) are given to Daenerys as a wedding gift.  The arrangement between Ghengis-Khan and Viserys soon unravels, due to Viserys' madness, insecurity, and greed;  the Ghengis-Khan warlord kills Viserys with a pot of molten gold, and, improbably, a genuine affection grows between learning-to-be-strong Daenerys and her proud but devoted Mongol husband.  The Ghengis-Khan warlord dies of infection following a heated battle, and Daenerys loses her third-trimester baby;  overcome by grief and vengeful remorse, Daenerys burns her husband in a great funeral pyre, along with the woods-witch midwife who cost her her child.  Though Daenerys walks into the funeral pyre, she is not burned.  The dragon-eggs hatch in the colossal blaze, Daenerys emerges unscathed, and dragons live again in the world. Viserys Targaryen = a blond version of Emperor Commodus from Gladiator Daenerys Targaryen = a less confident teen-aged Queen Elizabeth Khal Drogo = Ghengis Khan mixed w. some Lieutenant Worf Klingon dignity Ned Stark's mysterious bastard son, Jon Snow, hated by his 'stepmother' Catelyn Stark and having nowhere to go, swears his life to service at Hadrian's Wall.  The Wall is a half-starving ragtag band of exiled nobles and work-release pardoned criminals, but Jon makes a few friends, and gets word of an ancient inhuman enemy in the sinister icelands, whom the Icy Wall Night's Watch were sworn to fight, if only they could remember that enemy, or the stories from so many thousands of years ago... Season II Cruel boy-king Joffrey Baratheon-Lannister's rule has put the kingdom into a desperate state;  the boy reigns like a bloodthirsty Roman emperor, and even his mother (haughty Queen Cersei) cannot control his unpredictable whims.  Lion-Lord Tywin Lannister, grandfather to Joffrey, seeing the deteriorating court situation, sends his hated but brilliant dwarf-son Tyrion Lannister to serve as interim regent and advisor to the boy-king.  Varys the Eunuch spymaster and Petyr 'Littlefinger' Baelish remain scheming and manipulating in the background all the while -- one man seeks to serve the realm via the best info-gathering and puppet-maneuvering possible, while the other simply seeks to throw it into chaos, so long as he can be "the winner" and "one of the beautiful people." Petyr Littlefinger Baelish = Oliver Cromwell, or Hans Gruber from Die Hard Varys the Eunuch = Francis Walsingham, spymaster to Queen Elizabeth The frozen north-lands (House Stark, Ned Stark's family) are hungry for revenge.  Ned Stark's just-coming-of-age firstborn son, Robb Stark, calls the entire population of Canada + Alaska + Nova Scotia to his banner, vows to overthrow the murderous Lannister regime, and is crowned "King in the North" by his followers.  Robb Stark fights many skirmishes against the Lannister forces, and wins nearly every battle, improbably forcing them back, and even taking swordsman Jaime Lannister prisoner for a short time.  Though supreme in the war-room and battlefield, young proud Robb Stark exhibits certain naive/honor-related behavioral missteps -- he sends word to his recently-rebelled-and-defeated Viking-Pirate neighbors, asking for their help, but the Viking-Pirates instead take the opportunity to move their raiding ships inland, taking several northland castles, including Robb Stark's own fortress of Winterfell, while the young wolf-lord is out marching with his army.  Much personal tragedy ensues. Robb Stark = Jed Eckert, leader of the Wolverine rebels from Red Dawn Dead fat drunken King Robert Baratheon has two still-living brothers (hard, humorless Stannis Baratheon, and well-dressed, ostentatious Renly Baratheon), both of whom resent the Lannisters, suspect treachery, and seek the kingship for themselves.  Stannis, who lives on a desolate island fortress with a few thousand men, welcomes an exotic foreign fire-priestess into his kingdom, who seems to wield genuine power and prophecy, and who quickly wins 'King' Stannis and many of his people over to her cult-like religion.  Charismatic man-of-the-people Renly, who lives on the mainland, marries another noble house (Mace Tyrell, Lord of House Tyrell (flower-sigil), and his beautiful daughter Margaery Tyrell, and cunning gossip-schemer grandmother Olenna Tyrell comes as part of the package), and gathers nearly 100,000 men to his army. Stannis Baratheon = ruthless black-and-white Javert from Les Miserables Melisandre = Myca (the Asian woman) from The Crow, or a hotter Yoko Ono Renly Baratheon = Aramis or D'Artagnan from The Three Musketeers Margaery Tyrell = Anne Boleyn, or possibly Mary Boleyn Mace Tyrell = largely unimportant character, Harry Potter's Uncle Vernon Olenna Tyrell = the Lady Grantham (Maggie Smith) from Downton Abbey Both surviving Baratheon brothers (Stannis and Renly) make plans to march on the capital and depose boy-king Joffrey Baratheon by force.  Tragically, neither sibling much likes the other, so they inexplicably decide to meet on the battlefield instead of allying to take the capital together, or arguing who has the better claim to kingship.  Renly outnumbers Stannis' island troops by at least three-to-one, but, on the evening before their two armies clash, red-fire-priestess Melisandre sends a dark sorcerous shadow like an angel of Death into Renly's camp, where it thrusts a shadow-blade through Renly's steel-armored chest, killing him instantly.  Left without clear leadership or 'righteous purpose,' most of dead Renly Baratheon's 40,000+ troops swear allegiance to hard humorless Stannis Baratheon's banner and fire god.  Though Stannis' moral compass is now in question, his victory gives him an army capable of taking boy-king Joffrey Lannister's capital. Cruel crazed Joffrey Lannister is not faring well as ruler.  His people are starving, living in squalid chaos, and fearful of an approaching (Stannis) armada.  They hate boy-king Joffrey, whisper rumors of his incestuous origins, and throw rocks at him and his personal guard.  Clever dwarf Tyrion Lannister does what he can to gently guide the capital -- building a chain-gate to trap ships in the harbor, preparing caches of medieval napalm to burn invaders, even taking command of the notoriously-disloyal City Watch via replacing its corrupt leaders -- but it may not prove enough against Stannis' twenty thousand.  The Baratheon army arrives, meets with some resistance at the outside waterway, then makes its way into the harbor, where much (but not all) of its naval force is trapped and burned in a horrific napalm-fire.  The remaining infantry nearly takes the capital -- during the chaos, dwarf Tyrion leads troops to defend the walls himself, and is nearly killed by one of boy-king Joffrey's bodyguard (ordered to make it look like Tyrion died in the battle), but, by mischance, survives and is facially disfigured instead.  At the very last moment, a third force reaches the city gates, led by patriarch Tywin Lannister and his newly-persuaded Tyrell allies (who have joined with Lannister after the confusion following Renly's death).  Stannis' army is crushed and routed, and the barely-surviving capital turns its attention to reconstruction. Now-Dragon-Queen Daenerys Targaryen, abandoned by a goodly chunk of her Mongol-riders, leads her remaining number in a desperate cross-country trek across the (Asian) desert wastes.  Many die along the way.  She ultimately finds a rich merchant-city, Qarth, peopled by exotic riches and strange otherworldly magics.  Daenerys is welcomed as an oddity (especially her dragons), but quickly becomes something of a novelty-target for wealthy merchants and would-be suitors.  The blue-lipped Warlocks, in particular, hunger for her power, ultimately luring her into a mystical labyrinth where she will be locked away forever, her essence devoured by the undead phantom-rulers.  Daenerys breaks free from this trap, gains various prophetic future-insights which she does not yet fully understand, and begins to build a small power base (ships, servitors, soldiers) with which to sail/march through Asia.  Her dragons are small, but growing. Jon Snow = Peter Pevensie, the older brother from the Narnia series Jon Snow grows into manhood and responsibility atop the Icy Wall as a Night's Watchman.  Jon quickly realizes that his noble-born heritage sets him apart, and, worse, gives him an instinctual sense of pride and entitlement.  He slowly overcomes these obstacles, befriending some of the men (notably corpulent scholar Samwell Tarly) and gaining favor with the Wall Commander's staff.  Jon repeatedly clashes with the grizzled and denigratory Master-of-Arms, who calls Jon traitor and bastard;  the insults worsen after news of Ned Stark's arrest and execution reaches the Wall.  Jon lashes out with near-murderous anger, and is on the verge of irrevocable disciplinary action, until one fateful night, when two long-dead corpses of Night's Watchmen rise, zombie-like, with pale skin and inhuman blue eyes, killing all in their path.  Jon destroys one zombie with fire, saving the Wall Commander's life in the process.  Jon's status begins to rise as a result;  when the Wall Commander decides to ride forth into the icy far-north with 300 men, he hand-picks Jon Snow to accompany him, and, when famous Watch-ranger Quorin Halfhand goes on a special splinter-reconnaissance mission, he also requests Jon as a companion.  This splinter-mission goes terribly wrong;  all are killed by an army of wild ice-land tribesmen, save for Jon Snow, who pretends to go over to their side, and is brought far north into the encampment of the Wild-Tribes Northern King. Unbeknownst to Jon, the Wall Commander's military convoy is attacked by icy-Nazgul White Walkers, who summon an army of dead zombie-animated corpses from the soil of a dozen battlefields, kill most of the 300 Night's Watchmen (leaving only ~600 back home to guard their 300-mile Wall), and begin marching southward to civilization... Season III Stannis Baratheon escapes the failed siege of the capital, but has little remaining prospect to continue a war with his scant remaining forces.  He is all but despondent.  His single remaining trump card, fire-priestess Melisandre, begins to pull him further into the fire-god's service, persuading him of the necessity for blood sacrifice, filling leeches with noble blood before throwing each into the fire, naming "So dies the pretender king Robb Stark, so dies the pretender king Joffrey Baratheon-Lannister, so dies the pretender king Viking-Pirate Balon Greyjoy..." The Lannister family (led by boy-king Joffrey Lannister-Baratheon) regains its hold on the capital city.  Their new friends and allies, the flower-sigil House Tyrell, are superficially cooperative, but clearly have their own priorities and agenda.  Monstrous cruel Joffrey decides to marry recently-widowed Margaery Tyrell, instead of Sansa Stark (who has remained a 'political prisoner' in the capital these long months, and is frequently abused/humiliated as repayment for her brother Robb Stark's continued rebellion in the icy northlands).  Dwarf Tyrion Lannister recovers from his near-mortal wound, but is no longer second-in-command advisor to the King, and fears other schemers may come to finish him off.  Patriarch Tywin Lannister resumes his position as second-in-command "Hand" (advisor) to King Joffrey (doubly convenient, as Tywin is Joffrey's grandfather), but grows increasingly frustrated at the chaos and incompetence in the court, and at House Tyrell's growing ambitions.  Sansa Stark is married to scarred-dwarf Tyrion Lannister, partially as a cruel joke and partially for her familial claim to the northern lands, including Castle Winterfell... but Sansa wields more strength and cards-close-to-chest cunning than others might suspect, and Tyrion's compassion/dignity prevents him from taking his young bride's virginity without her consent.  Despite their opposed circumstances, Sansa and Tyrion begin to develop a cautious distant regard as they come to know each other better. Proud knight-swordsman Jaime Lannister, prisoner of Robb Stark and the Northern Army for many months, is freed from captivity by Robb's mother Catelyn Stark, upon swearing an oath to find and protect Catelyn's lost daughter(s).  To escort and protect Jaime (and possibly to hold him to his vow), Catelyn sends Brienne, a freakishly tall and strong but unattractive woman who is nearly without match as a fighter, but who has no place in the world as either "knight" or "noblewoman."  Brienne initially holds Jaime in contempt, going so far as to duel him to a stalemate/victory when provoked;  over time, however, she glimpses a deeper quality in the callous, prideful swordsman, and, when she and Jaime are captured by savage northern mercenaries (who amputate Jaime Lannister's legendary sword-hand by way of comeuppance), Brienne comes to protect the once-proud cripple, persuading him that he will eventually return to greatness.  After much cathartic suffering and travail, both Brienne and Jaime make their way back towards the southern capital, to uncertain futures. Brienne = Maggie (the Hilary Swank boxer) from Million Dollar Baby Robb Stark ('The King in the North') and his armies grow increasingly desperate -- though still powerful, they are constantly on the move, and, following the Viking-Pirate sack of their ancestral castle (Winterfell), now lack a home-base to return to.  Robb and (his mother) Catelyn Stark devise a plan to win new allies (House Frey, a somewhat-hillbilly and overpopulous middling noble family in the muddy river-lands) via marriage pact.  Elaborate negotiations follow, Robb must marry Girl X, Robb's relatives must marry House Frey relatives Y and Z, etcetera.  With this new alliance and fortress and supply lines, Robb Stark's chances seem greatly improved... until Robb, while on the war-campaign, falls in love with another woman, marrying her and thus breaking his marriage-pact with House Frey.  Robb loses his extra troops and the goodwill of House Frey.  Only by begging their forgiveness and agreeing to make further concessions does Robb regain an audience with Lord Walder Frey of the River-Crossing... but, by this time, cunning Tywin Lannister has written secret letters to House Frey, and Robb's army/family are lured into a wedding celebration ("The Red Wedding"), putting down their swords for the happy ceremony.  Nearly all the Starks and allies, including Robb Stark and Robb's mother Catelyn Stark, are slaughtered while host Walder Frey looks on in amusement.  The Rebellion in the North is ended. Stubborn, tomboyish Arya Stark managed to slip away from the capital in the aftermath of her father Ned Stark's execution.  She has been traveling the countryside in various company for many months, first with a caravan of new recruits (pardoned criminals/murderers) headed for the Icy Wall of the Night's Watch, then with a pseudo-mystical cult of Robin Hood freedom-fighters, and lastly with a prominent soldier from the capital city, burn-scarred, self-loathing Sandor Clegane (called 'The Hound').  She sees many things during her travels -- a red priest who claims to worship the God of Fire (like fire-priestess Melisandre), a rueful, duty-bound knight who dies seven times, but who rises from death (revived by the Fire God) each time, an otherworldly assassin, who speaks with a philosopher's world-view, and who gives her a special exotic coin paired with a passphrase ('Valar Morghulis, all men must die') as thanks for saving his life -- she even encounters one of dead fat drunken Robert Baratheon's illegitimate children, a strong, likable apprentice-blacksmith named Gendry, though she never learns his true parentage or identity.  Ultimately, passed from group to group, Arya Stark tries to make it back to either her father Ned Stark's ancestral dwelling (Castle Winterfell) or her mother Catelyn Tully-Stark's childhood home (Castle Riverrun, built on a three-way river delta), or to some other relative. Some fragments of the northern forces still survive.  House Bolton (a cool-headed lacking-social-grace family, who practice an age-old practice of skinning their enemies) steps up a notch or two in the regional succession.  Roose Bolton, patriarch of House Bolton, takes command of the Northern remnants, with thanks from his new Lannister allies.  Roose Bolton's illegitimate son, a monstrous (deeply-psychotic) young man named Ramsay, has taken one of Robb Stark's boyhood friends (Theon Greyjoy, taken as foster-child and 'political prisoner' from the Viking-Pirate family) as a pet, alternately brainwashing and skinning/torturing him.  Much gruesomeness ensues. Roose Bolton = Joseph Mengele, or a more patient cool-headed Magneto Ramsay (illegitimate) Bolton = Alex DeLarge from A Clockwork Orange Theon Greyjoy = Edmund Pevensie from the Narnia stories, and, later, Gollum Young Dragon-Queen Daenerys Targaryen begins to carve her way through Asia.  Her hundreds of followers become thousands.  She "buys" an army of pain-immune Fremen warriors via trickery, and conquers (frees) numerous slaver-cities, adding the grateful newly-freed slaves to her growing armies.  Her name becomes widespread legend to not-yet-conquered Asian cities... a sort of female Ghengis Khan, by repute. Night's Watchman Jon Snow, feigning allegiance to the Far Northern Wild Tribesmen, is taken to the heart of the massive northern-tribal army, ruled by a long-ago defector from the Night's Watch named Mance Rayder.  Mance is fair-minded and well-mannered, far from the untamed barbarian others have come to expect.  He explains to Jon that the ancient enemy (the Others, the White Walkers, the Nazgul-creatures of ice and pallor and ancient death-magic) is rising in the ice-lands, killing and zombifying all in their path, and that even his barbarian armies cannot stand against them.  Mance Rayder and his wild-tribesmen intend to march south, to the massive 700-foot Hadrian's Wall, and gain passage through it to the safe(r) southlands,  away from ancient ice-Nazgul undead monsters, or die breaking the Wall in the attempt.  Despite his noble birth and solemn vows of service to the Night's Watch, Jon is partially swayed by Mance's charisma and unexpectedly noble purpose;  his situation grows still more complex when he falls in love with a wild red-haired tribeswoman named Ygritte, and wonders if he can truly ever go back to the Wall... Season IV Reconstruction and solidification of power continues in the southern capital.  The time draws near for boy-king Joffrey Baratheon-Lannister to marry his new intended bride, Margaery Tyrell of the flower-sigil House Tyrell, sealing an alliance between the two houses. Cersei Lannister (Tywin's daughter, Joffrey's mother, once-Queen wed to now-dead fat drunk Robert) begins to feel her situation eroding, no longer fairest in the realm, passing from 'queen' to 'queen dowager' when the next generation takes the throne, no longer trusted or held very highly by her domineering father Tywin, beset on all sides by young rivals such as flower-queen Margaery Tyrell.  Cersei falls further into drink, anger, and indiscretion, welcoming young knights and servitors into her bed. Dwarf Tyrion Lannister maintains an uneasy 'truce' with his bride Sansa Stark, wanting to love and protect her, but all to keenly aware that his paternal House (Lannister)'s wartime maneuvers have essentially killed, ruined, and routed most of Sansa's family, including her father, mother, and brother(s).  Tyrion turns more and more frequently to his longtime mercenary companion Bronn and traveling courtesan Shae, spiraling through pits of self-loathing, craving love and affection from anyone (his father, his sister, his new bride, his well-paid whore), all too keenly aware that the individuals with whom he surrounds himself only stay because of the coin he pays them, that his favorite outthink-the-nobles-of-the-court game is merely another manifestation of his own loneliness and lack of belonging.  Tyrion's education and inner morality make him the "best" of a "bad [Lannister] breed." Knight Jaime Lannister, sickly, bedraggled, and missing his sword-hand, makes his return to the southern capital.  Jaime begins the long road to recovery, regaining his strength, taking left-handed swordsmanship lessons in secret, and begins to reflect on his misspent life and deeds.  He still lusts for his twin sister Cersei, and the incestuous love they have shared since childhood, but now suffers some inner conflict and repentance, due in no small part to brave Brienne's efforts and inspiration by example.  Brienne, having passed through three masters' service (now-dead King Renly Baratheon, now-dead Lady Catelyn Stark, now-safely-returned peer Jaime Lannister), and having no place in this southern capital, strikes back out on the road, in an attempt to keep her promise to Catelyn and (hopefully) find Arya, Sansa, or both. Brandon Stark = an obvious insightful-yet-mischievous Harry Potter analog Young Brandon Stark has survived the capture and destruction of Castle Winterfell.  Though lacking the use of his legs, Brandon travels with and is protected by a ragtag bunch of unlikely companions -- Jojen and Meera, a brother-and-sister pair of bayou born swamp-dwellers loyal to the northern nobles, Hodor, a simple-minded but phenomenally strong goliath of a man, and Osha, a wild-tribe-born woman who bears the kingdom no particular loyalty, but who has taken a liking to the gentle young boy.  Brandon's entourage makes slow progress, carrying their crippled companion;  they see many terrible things in the north, dead men rising to walk again, half-civilized men in the frozen outlands who betray one another, bed/marry their daughters, and leave their boy-children out in the snow for the ice-Nazgul White Walkers to take as tribute, sorcerous crows who fly as if controlled by some far-off intelligence.  Brandon's own innate powers begin to awaken;  he dreams prophetic future-dreams, cultivates the ability to see through (and eventually bodily possess) animals, including his wolf-companion, and eventually even gains a new mobility through 'riding' (possessing) simple Hodor's mind and body.  All the while, Brandon is called north by a mysterious otherworldly figure -- a pallid magician, an impossibly-old albino imprisoned within a tree, a three-eyed raven who promises that, though Brandon will never walk again, he can teach the boy to "fly."  Brandon travels ever northward, seeking out this new Yoda-Dagobah tutelage... The day of boy-king Joffrey's marriage to Margaery Tyrell finally arrives.  Hundreds of nobles from many distant lands attend the lavish extravaganza -- notably Oberyn Martell, desert prince of the southern Arabian kingdom of Dorne, who harbors a decades-old grudge against House Lannister (Tywin in particular) for their terrible murders and treasons committed during the last days of Mad King Aerys' rule.  Oberyn Martell and dwarf Tyrion Lannister strike up a short-lived witty rapport;  Oberyn proves himself equal to Tyrion in his studies and intellect, but thirsts for blood and vengeance to such a degree that it approaches life-threatening recklessness. Oberyn = a mix between Inigo Montoya + young Khan (Ricardo Montalban) Joffrey weds Margaery (making many cruel jests about his dwarf uncle Tyrion in the process), and drinks from the wedding chalice... only to choke, turn purple, and die of a rare terrible poison.  The poisoner's identity is not initially known.  Many (including Joffrey's mother Cersei) believe Tyrion Lannister to be guilty.  Tyrion is locked in a prison cell, and subjected to a farcical trial, where witnesses (even his paid-prostitute Shae) are brought out to falsely affirm the dwarf's guilt.  Enraged and whipped into a no-one-loves-me-no-one-realizes-what-I've-done-for-them frenzy, Tyrion rejects the court's right to judge him, instead requesting trial by battle.  Monstrous 7-foot-tall Gregor Clegane ('The Mountain') stands as champion for the kingdom;  dark, arrogant Oberyn Martell ('The Viper of Dorne') unexpectedly volunteers as Tyrion's champion, partly out of regard for Tyrion, but mostly out of spite for Tywin Lannister.  Oberyn and Gregor fight a terrible duel.  The desert prince uses a poisoned spear, impossibly whittling away Clegane's defenses by slow attrition and wounding him in numerous places before piercing and pinning the giant to the floor, screaming "You murdered my sister" all the while.  Only for a final moment, seeking to squeeze a dying confession out of his fallen opponent, does Oberyn hesitate for a vital second;  Gregor reaches up from the floor, pulls Oberyn closer, gouges his eyes out, and crushes the prince's skull with his gargantuan armored fist before falling into a pain-filled poisonous coma himself.  Tyrion is declared the loser (only just barely) and sentenced to death. Sansa Stark escapes the capital, aided by seemingly-friendly minor nobles, in the chaos surrounding boy-king Joffrey's death.  She makes her way (is led) to a ship anchored off-harbor;  master cloak-and-dagger manipulator Petyr Littlefinger Baelish (who harbors various unhealthy desires concerning teenage Sansa, memories of Sansa's mother Catelyn Stark, and his own wish to become "one of the beautiful, powerful people") is revealed to be her anonymous savior, and part of a multi-person conspiracy to poison Joffrey (because "the Lannisters were getting too powerful").  Sansa begins an incognito life disguised as Petyr's illegitimate daughter.  Petyr and disguised-Sansa travel to dead Jon Arryn's mountain castle, meeting with dead Jon Arryn's widow Lysa Arryn (Lysa is Catelyn's sister).  Petyr woos and weds Lysa as yet another step towards inheriting/ruling progressively more of the kingdom -- but Lysa is emotionally unbalanced to the point of endangerment, continuing to breastfeed her stunted grade-school-aged son Robyn, harboring delusional jealousy for her now-dead sister Catelyn, and implicating Sansa as "a seductress" who wants to steal Petyr away.  A life-or-death confrontation ensues, where crazed Lysa threatens to throw Sansa down the mountain to her death.  Petyr steps in to defuse this situation, assuring Lysa that she is in no danger, then pushes his crazed noble bride (Lysa) off the ledge himself.  Again Sansa finds herself in a dangerous trust-no-one position;  she begins to re-invent herself as a social chameleon and would-be manipulator, learning from Petyr Littlefinger's example. Dragon-Queen Daenerys Targaryen conquers still more Asian cities.  She halts her forward progress, upon realizing that the people still do not love her (some cities revert to slaver-practices in her absence, other cities enact cruel slave-tortures as publicly visible acts of defiance), and that she is merely conquering (despoiling) without instilling actual lasting leadership.  Further, her three dragons have grown large enough to carry and feed from livestock;  the largest of the three, terrible black-skinned Drogon, has gone so far as to snatch and devour an Asian child.  Horrified at the dragons' monstrous potential, and disheartened by her own failure to sway the common people's hearts and minds under her rule, Daenerys locks her two dragons deep underground (the third, Drogon, having flown away and escaped), and resolves that she will cease her campaign, instead remaining in the city of Meereen with her armies as a benevolent and just ruler.  She attracts the romantic attentions of an irreverent mercenary, Daario Naharis;  a flirtatious sexual liaison unfolds. Dwarf Tyrion Lannister sits in his cell, awaiting his morning execution, but is rescued by his brother Jaime Lannister, who has broken from his father's yoke ("I don't want to be your son, I don't want to be your heir"), and seeks some measure of redemption by 'doing the right thing' and freeing his brother.  Jaime takes Tyrion into secret passages beneath the capital, where spymaster Varys the Eunuch hides, ready to smuggle Tyrion across the sea to a far-off land -- but Tyrion does not follow meekly with this plan, instead tracing the secret passages upward into the castle's lofty towers, intending to confront his father Tywin's disapproval.  Tyrion gains entrance into Lord Tywin's bedchamber, and is shocked to find courtesan Shae in his bed, awaiting Tywin's amorous return.  It is the proverbial final straw;  Tyrion strangles Shae in an Othello-esque diorama, takes a crank-fed crossbow from the wall, and, finding his father Tywin Lannister sitting on the toilet, exchanges a brief unkind father-son dialogue before killing his father with two shots and fleeing in Varys' smuggler ship. Jon Snow, still feigning allegiance to the wild-northern-tribes (and fooling everyone but red-haired Ygritte, who doubts Jon's loyalty but still loves him), travels south with an advance group of wild-tribe scouts, who climb the Icy Wall, infiltrate the lands beyond, and plan a massive flanking ambush on the surviving Night's Watch guardsmen.  Jon realizes he cannot go along with the wild-tribes' plans any longer;  he breaks from their ranks, kills a couple of tribesmen, and, after a tearful confrontation wherein Ygritte, realizing they can never be together, riddles Jon with arrows but cannot quite bring herself to kill him.  Jon Snow, terribly wounded, rides back to the Wall, arriving hours ahead of the wild-tribes to warn his Night-Watch comrades of the upcoming ambush.  With Jon's help, the remaining Watchmen fight off the ambusher scouts, then successfully defend a much larger (thousands upon thousands of) frontal tribe assault.  Twelve-foot-tall ogres and wooly mammoths join this battle for the Wall.  Many of Jon's friends die in this conflict;  Ygritte herself is shot dead by a young Watchman's arrow.  Mance Rayder promises to break the Wall and kill Jon Snow with his next assault, but, at the last moment, his disorganized tribal forces are broken, run down, and scattered by a body of well-armed heavy cavalry, led by Stannis Baratheon, who has decided (and been persuaded by his men) to "show his noble worth and leadership" by riding northward for a just and valiant cause.  Stannis still brings the fire-priestess with him, however, showing that his ultimate purpose and allegiance remain mingled, to say nothing of the atrocities he will commit to win a final victory. Tomboyish Arya Stark narrowly evades tragedy after tragedy in her cross-country trek.  She nearly catches up with her older brother Robb Stark at Castle Frey (the site of the murderous "Red Wedding"), but fails to gain entrance into the castle until the fateful celebration, when it becomes clear something is terribly wrong, and barely escapes alive with the Hound (Sandor Clegane).  She rides with Sandor to the mountainous Arryn-castle, seeking her aunt Lysa, but learns of Lysa's death via "suicidal jump" some days prior.  Finally, out of options, she rides, hopeless, with self-loathing soldier turned mercenary Sandor Clegane, until Sandor finally succumbs to his numerous wounds and infections suffered along the dangerous trip, and can ride no more.  Sandor begs Arya for a merciful death, but Arya does not oblige, instead looting his purse, leaving him to pain and fever, and riding to the coast in an attempt to buy passage on an ocean-bound ship.  The dusky-skinned foreign captain refuses her meager monies, until, remembering the assassin's words, Arya produces the strange iron coin and says "Valar Morghulis, all men must die."  The captain, recognizing and terrified by this utterance, apologizes and gives her a cabin on his ship, which travels eastward to the exotic merchant-and-magic-filled land of Braavos... Season V {I'm not gonna detail this here, OP has seen it already... maybe later} 