What is the strangest coincidence you have experienced?
I have two examples of very strange coincidences. To start the first story, I must first tell you that I currently reside in my home state of Wisconsin. My family and I went to Hawaii last year, along with my parents and my wife's parents.  We rented a great house on the North Shore of Oahu... something we do now and then together.  Our backyard was the open beach and ocean.  It was off season for North Shore surfing, so the water was perfect for snorkeling.  We went pretty much every day.  I was exploring one of the closer reefs and had ventured out a little further than I normally did.  The coral reef about fifteen feet below me was beautiful.  Plenty of places to explore.  I took a deep breath and went towards the reef, exploring some deeper valleys, when I saw something floating in the water nearby. I swam to it and then realized that it was a cardboard box.  I went up for a breath, went back down, and saw it floating with the current above the reef.  Curious, I grabbed it and saw that it was open.  Nothing inside.  My eyes went to the shipping label (If memory serves, it was a UPS box) and to my astonishment, it was labelled for Wisconsin... where my and my family lived.  Perhaps a reminder that paradise is wonderful, but home is home.  Or just one of those strange coincidences in life.  And now for a more odds defying coincidence that still baffles me today... As mentioned before, I grew up in Wisconsin.  I graduated high school in 1994.  I really didn't keep in contact with my best friends from that era.  We had all moved on to different parts of the country.  In particular, I had a close knit group of two best friends.  We rock climbed together endlessly.  Hugh out.  We had many other friends, but we were the closest knit.  One of them, Mike, had left for college and we had never kept in touch after graduation. It was now summer of 1999.  Email wasn't a big thing back then.  Facebook was still many years away.  I hadn't seen from or heard from Mike.  We were living our lives.  My then fiance (now wife) and I were on a trip to Colorado with my parents.  It would be our final time with them before we moved from our home state of Wisconsin to California to pursue my career in film (As mentioned, I later moved back to Wisconsin in 2006).  We traveled through Colorado in my parent's SUV.  The Rockies.  Estes Park.  Vail.  Aspen.  Etc.  A great family vacation.  We made our way to Telluride, Colorado, a beautiful little mountain town famous for skiing and snowboarding, as well as many surrounded celebrity ranches and homes.  But make no mistake, if you've ever been there, it's pretty remote overall once you get into the actual town.   A huge waterfall overlooks Telluride.  From the first picture, you'll see the town in the distance within the valley.  You can take a great 4X4 trail up the mountain and towards the top of the waterfall (Next to the house).  It's a long trek.  Very remote.  Anyway, so we're driving up this trail.  The view is exactly what you see from the first picture above.  As we continue driving towards the top to then go hiking past above the waterfall, we come across a group of some young hikers, maybe close to a dozen, hiking down the trail we're going up, in a single file line.  We drive slow as we pass.  Some smiles.  Some nods.  Until I lock eyes with the last hiker.  He looks up to me, I look up to him, and to our equal shock, we realize who we are each looking at.  It's Mike. My best friend from high school.  A guy I hadn't seen since moving away from our home town a couple months after graduation.  We stared at each other, shocked.  "Mike?" He looks at me, then my parents, and says, "Ken?  The Miyamotos?" I got out.  We freaked out together a bit.  I introduced him to my wife-to-be.  It turns out he was a youth guide for an Adventure company, taking some youth out for a week long venture in the mountains.  What are the odds?  After five years with no contact, no word?  It really got the adrenaline going.  Time stands still in those moments.  It's actually kind of freaky. We talked for a bit and then went our separate ways.  I didn't see him again until our 15 year (??) High School reunion.   A strange coincidence indeed... 