What should I pack for a cruise?
Tons of great answers here. I'm all about carrying the minimal amount you can get away with, and living off the land. Too many years motorcycle touring and road trips in small sports cars, I suppose. However, that blows up in a BIG way when you get on a cruise ship, which means your options for acquiring things as you need them are pretty limited... For me - and I have never taken a cruise, so take this with a grain of salt - the issue would be not so much clothes, as that's pretty obvious (and Garrick Saito has done a spectacular job addressing). But I do advise checking with the cruise line you're contemplating for their dress code - yes, they do exist Royal Caribbean International Dress Code Carnival Cruise Line Dress Code Disney Cruise Line Onboard Dining Attire For me, it would beabout the stuff I'd want to have with me to pass the time... because there's a lot of it. Internet? Probably not available, and if so not fast, and certainly not cheap. Books? Yeah, OK, load up the Kindle app with literally everything I can think of, from stuff I want to read and haven't found time to pure mindless fluff. Music? Pretty much the same. Probably add stuff that demands attention, rather than just "background noise" since I'll have a chance to give that. Games? I would expect to have opportunity to play everything from the stereotypic shuffleboard to cards, chess, what have you with other passengers, I think I'm good on that front... I don't "do" sun, so I wouldn't be spending any time lounging on the Lido deck, but a dip or two a day in the pool would probably be in order. At least one, maybe two, swimsuits. Towels? Nah, the boat has that covered... And camera - as Tom Byron points out, one that you know inside and out, because you'll want to be able to use it with ease and facility for those once-in-a-lifetime shots. Bring extra batteries and/or charger, plus memory cards, too. More than you think you'll need. Beyond that would depend heavily on (a) where I'm going, (b) who I'm going with, and (c) why I'm going. Clearly, something like Insight Cruises: Educational Travel is waaay different than say motoring around the Caribbean. Bon voyage! 