What should I pack for a cruise?
Answering this question starts getting interesting when you talk about the differences between packing for a cruise as opposed to packing for a vacation when you stay at a typical hotel. Dramamine or whatever works for you.  No matter how resistant you are to sea sickness, nasty enough waves can make you hate life. Waterproof sun block, and a tube of after-sun lotion (with aloe) for when you screw up with the sun block. You are at the mercy of the ship's designers to get the power outlets you need, so make sure you have a couple of power strips with long cords. Think layers with the clothes.  On a boat, temperature can change dramatically.  While the warm sun might make you want to expose some skin, the minute those clouds come out and that breeze picks up, suddenly you'll be wanting a coat.  You should have something for a few days of 30F/15C higher and lower than what you expect. A swimsuit and maybe goggles. Flip-flops/water-friendly sandals with good traction. Sunglasses Gym clothes, if you want to go for a jog on the deck or work off the buffet desserts. Whatever you can wear that lets you be comfortable in rain.  A lot of excursions seem to be rain or shine, so unless you want to eat the cost of the excursion, be prepared to do ziplining through a downpour.  That includes keeping your wallet and camera equipment dry. A lightweight camera you won't hesitate to take everywhere, to take pictures of the towel animals, along with a ziplock bag to keep it from getting wet if necessary. If you wanted to take a picture of wildlife, you'll need a big heavy camera with a long/telephoto lens. A memory card for your camera with lots of space.  They'll probably have some on board in case you run out, but it's nice to avoid the high prices. A phone with a good data roaming plan. A watch.  It's possible you won't bother having your smartphone on you, due to the lack of reception.  It might not even keep proper time.  You'll still need some way to know when that event you want to attend is coming up. Clothes for a fancy dinner, if the cruise has them. Earplugs, for noisy people in the hallway. Your passport, if the cruise and/or any of its excursions are international. Printouts of order confirmations for everything you paid for. Printouts of available activities, and perhaps a map and/or list of highest Yelp-rated locations for any of the places you're stopping. A couple of good books.  Cruises these days charge you left and right for active entertainment, but it sure is nice curling up at a cozy window with a gorgeous view and get lost in a great adventure. Speaking of books, if you're lucky enough to be a Quora Top Writer, lil' Luna gots a lil' suggestion for ya! 