What is the best short story on 'social issues'?
"Hello Maa? I'm getting married." "Hello, Maa?" "Rajeev, is that you?" Her sweet voice filled my ears. It had been a while since I had last called. Working in a software company in USA had its downsides. "Yes, Maa. I got a new number. How have you been?" "How have I been? You haven't called me once in two weeks and now you ask me how I've been?" Fake indignation filled her voice. Ah, mothers! I smiled. However tensed I might be, talking to her always made made me feel better. I regretted not calling her for the past fortnight. But I was caught up in... stuff. "Maa, listen," I said, interrupting her. "I am getting married." "But all you brats think is... Wait, what? Did I hear you right? You... You are getting married?" Her voice changed the tone immediately. "Oh my God. Sudhir, come here. Rajeev has finally decided to get hitched. Sudhiiiir! Oh God, this man is always in the washroom. Oh my God. Finally! Rajeev, I am so happy. Listen, I don't know anything. You have to come here. We need to see your future life partner. Do you get me?" "But, Maa..." I tried to interrupt. She needed to know the complete story. "But nothing. I'll talk to you when you get here after three days. Bye. Sudhiiiir..." I heard her shout before the phone clicked. I sighed. I knew it was about time I told her, but I was nervous. I sincerely hoped that she would accept Alex. I felt a hand on my arm. I looked up to see Alex smiling. Seeing that smile warmed my heart. Three days later, and here I am, back to Kolkata, with the familiar aroma of fish and curry coming from our neighbours' kitchen. Home sweet home. I was back after two years. I rang the doorbell and waited heavy heartedly. Maa had studied only till fifth grade and had never been out of Kolkata. I don't think she would understand me. "Comiiiiing," a mischievous voice shouted. Rinku- my lovely sister. She opened the door and even before I could take her in, I was enveloped in her arms. "Bhaiya, everyone has been waiting for you since ages. Thakur Maa, Moushi, Papa, Dada, Maa. Even Raman from next door has come over." "Rinku, get aside. Let me have a look at my son." A somewhat wrinkled lady, with a few gray hairs, now emerged from the door. "Rajeev, God, you have skinned so much. I will have to fatten you. But we will see all that later. Where is my bahu?" "Outside, near the taxi. Alex," I called. Already, the murmuring had started. 'Foreign girl.' 'Not an Indian.' I took a deep breath as Alex appeared. All the murmurings stopped. You could hear a pin drop. Alex was a guy. And I, was gay. Nobody spoke for a moment as understanding dawned on each one present there. I looked from Thakur Maa to Moushi to Papa and finally, to Maa, waiting for someone to react. I held Alex's hands. He must be more frightened than me- being in a foreign atmosphere with a probably hostile family. Maa spoke first. "He is more handsome than you." Everyone laughed. I gave an uneasy smile as I looked from one person to another. Not a single negative reaction as I had been expecting. Maa stepped forward and hugged Alex. "Hello, I am Surbhi, Rajeev's mother, and welcome to our family." I could see Alex grinning as he hugged Maa back. Maa looked at me. "What did you think? We wouldn't accept you?" I nodded sheepishly. "I might be a fifth class pass, but I know more about love than anyone else. Come on in. We need to start preparing for your wedding." I nodded enthusiastically. Today, a hardly educated woman had taught me a lesson that even Harvard couldn't. I picked up my bag and followed them inside. Read more at Merlin's Beard * Inspired by this beautiful video here: Updated 15w ago • View Upvotes • Not for Reproduction