I am going to be in Dallas for only 3 more weeks. What do I have to do before I leave?
Full disclosure: I'm a Fort Worth native, so my suggestions will be biased towards the west side of the Metroplex. Also, I took the liberty of interpreting the question as referring to the entire Metroplex rather than Dallas proper. Places to Eat Baker's Ribs is the best BBQ place in Dallas. You can't go wrong with their brisket, pork ribs, or hot sausage. As a fellow Texas expat, let me assure you that the best BBQ outside of Texas doesn't even come close to anything I've enjoyed within the state. Baker's Ribs (note the quality of a BBQ joint varies inversely with the quality of their website) You'll want to stop at North Main BBQ on your way to the airport. You might also want to fast for the 48 hours prior to your visit. They serve up some of the best ribs that I've ever had on an all-you-can-eat buffet including quality brisket, sausage, chicken, and other meats that I don't remember because I was too busy stuffing myself with ribs. Those ribs were so damn good that I couldn't resist buying a rack and stuffing it in my carry-on to California. The TSA lady was not amused. North Main BBQ Joe T. Garcia's in the Fort Worth stockyards is more than a restaurant; it's an experience. It has become such a staple of Fort Worth restaurant dining that it acquired all of the buildings surrounding the original restaurant just to keep pace with demand. Go for lunch on a nice day so that you can enjoy eating in the garden, which alone is bigger than some San Francisco neighborhoods. I believe they technically have a menu, but do yourself a favor and just ask for "the dinner," which includes enchiladas, tacos, guacamole, nachos and rice and beans. Joe T. Garcia's Mexican Restaurant Uncle Julio's serves the best fajitas in the world alongside excellent all around Tex Mex. This is another not-techincally-limited-to-DFW suggestion (which actually comes as news to me. I certainly hope they continue their expansion and follow me to California), but this place is not to be missed. Their chicken fajitas, quail, sopapillas, and margaritas are all to die for. Uncle Julio's Fine Mexican Cuisine Del Frisco's is, hands-down, the best high-end steakhouse I've ever been to. Not  technically limited to just the metroplex, but its Dallas and Fort Worth  locations are two of only a dozen or so. DelFrisco's Double Eagle Steakhouse Reata is a unique fine dining establishment that serves southwest dishes featuring meats like venison and antelope. Excellent cocktails as well. Reata Fort Worth Restaurant Things to See and Do The Sixth Floor Museum where JFK was shot. The Sixth Floor Museum The Dallas Cowboys Stadium in Arlington. Technically not the biggest football stadium in Texas, but let's not hold that against the most impressive stadium in the NFL. Even if you can't catch a game there, the tour is available most days and is worth it. Go see Pat Green or any other show at Billy Bob's in the Fort Worth stockyards. Two step with your wife to live Texas music while you still can. The World's Largest Honky Tonk The Dallas Aquarium is surprisingly good, especially given its distance from the oceans. Dallas Aquarium If the time of year is putting you in the mood for ridiculous, over the top, Texas-sized displays of Christmas spirit, take a bit of a drive out east and visit Santa Land, "the original drive through Christmas Park." Someone annually converts their property into a giant drive through display of lights which I hear is incredible. I guarantee you won't find anything like it outside of Texas. Drive thru Christmas Park & Christmas Theme Park: Christmas attractions & lights This list ought to get you started. Enjoy the rest of your time there, because you'll certainly miss it. 