Do recovering people in Alcoholics Anonymous have to consume their life with only talking about that part of their life?
Your situation is typical. And if you are not an addict, yourself, it is difficult both to understand and to communicate at the same level as your b/f. You should also be aware that he is still a "newbie," and like many others, his recovery is his primary focus; he will speak of it often. In later years, his thoughts and his conversation will include, once again, more "every day" material. Finally, you should be aware that alcoholics are advised to be extremely careful about new romances or marriage in the early months and years of their recovery. But one thing you CAN share with him is the Serenity Prayer, which makes sense whether one is an addict, or not. That can be a kind of pivotal bit of wisdom for you both. Meanwhile, if the relationship is one you value, you may want to read and learn as much about AA and addiction programs as you can lay your hands on. Bill W's "Big Book" is not a bad start; the stories are compelling narratives of misery, recovery, backsliding and the historical development of AA and other 12 step programs. And you might want to consider joining Al-Anon, which will not only give you some deeper understanding and appreciation of the alcoholic's life, abut also better equip you with the vocabulary and memes shared among those who affectionately refer to one another as "you old drunk." Your immersion may also, and more valuably, lead you to some self-discovery. All of us are possessed of some addictive behavior of one kind or another, together with narcissistic behaviors that go along with it. When you find yours, you'll learn how it might be destructive in your relationships and even your sense of self-worth. And, like your boyfriend, you will also realize that you are and forever shall be, "recovering." This might serve as a great bond between the two of you -and it could also indicate that you both would do better apart, then together. Regardless of outcome, brutal self-honesty is essential, and, in the end, rewarding. I wish you the best. 