Which is the most inspiring Hindi poem you have come across?
Ramdhari Singh ‘Dinkar’ (1908 – 1974) was a poet, essayist, and academic, considered to be one of the most important modern Hindi poets. Born in Begusarai, Bihar, Dinkar was influenced by such poets as Iqbal, Rabindranath Tagore, John Keats, and John Milton, and translated the works of Tagore from Bengali to Hindi. Writing mostly in Veer Rasa (a notable exception being Urvashi), he emerged as a poet of rebellion in the days before Indian independence as a consequence of his nationalist poetry. Initially a supporter of the revolutionary faction of the Indian national movement, Dinkar later became a Gandhian. ​However, he considered himself to be a ‘Bad Gandhian’ because of his support for sentiments like indignation, revenge, and anger amongst the youth. On account of the nationalistic and patriotic tone of his compositions, he was hailed as a Rashtrakavi. The present poem – Shakti aur Kshama – is a rather peculiar lesson in diplomacy/human relations and extols the futility of mercy at the hands of a weakling. Dinkar seems to be of the opinion that virtues like patience, tolerance, and forgiveness are appreciated only in those who can, when the hour calls for it, bring down their terrible wrath on their enemy. Later on, as a corollary, I interpreted it to mean that humility serves its purpose only when one has the wisdom or talents that one can be modest about. रामधारीसिंह ‘दिनकर’ द्वारा रचित शक्ति और क्षमा क्षमा, दया, तप, त्याग, मनोबल सबका लिया सहारा, पर नर व्याघ सुयोधन तुमसे कहो कहाँ कब हारा? क्षमाशील हो ॠपु-समक्ष तुम हुए विनीत जितना ही, दुष्ट कौरवों नें तुमको कायर समझा उतना ही। अत्याचार सहन करने का कुफल यही होता है, पौरुष का आतंक मनुज कोमल होकर खोता है। क्षमा शोभती उस भुजंग को जिसके पास गरल हो, उसका क्या जो दंतहीन, विषरहित, विनीत, सरल हो। तीन दिवस तक पंथ माँगते रघुपति सिंधु किनारे, बैठे पढ़ते रहे छन्द अनुनय के प्यार- प्यारे। उत्तर में जब एक नाद भी उठा नही सागर से, उठी धधक अधीर पौरुष की, आग राम के शर से। सिंधु देह धर “त्राहि-त्राहि” करता आ गिरा शरण में, चरण पूज, दासता गृहण की बंधा मूढ़ बन्धन में। सच पूछो तो शर में ही बसती है दीप्ति विनय की, संधि-वचन सम्पूज्य उसी का, जिसमें शक्ति विजय की। सहनशीलता, क्षमा, दया को तभी पूजता जग है, बल का दर्प चमकता उसके पीछे जब जगमग है। -- रामधारी सिंह ‘दिनकर’ [A rather unflattering translation in English that has been shamelessly copied from http://pragmatic.nationalinteres....] Shakti aur Kshama by Ramdhari Singh ‘Dinkar’ Mercy, resolve, tact, tolerance You’ve tried everything and some But O my king of men When did Suyodhan succumb? The more forgiving you were In your humane compassion The more these rouge Kauravas Pegged you as cowardly ashen This is the consequence Of tolerating atrocities The awe of machismo is lost When one’s gentle and kindly Forgiveness is becoming of The serpent that’s got venom None cares for the toothless, Poisonless, kind, gentle one For three days Lord Ram kept Asking the ocean for a passage Sitting there he petitioned Using the sweetest words to engage When in response there was Not a whisper from the sea A raging fire of endeavour Rose from Ram’s body The ocean took human form And supplicated to Ram Touched his feet, was subservient A slave he had become Truth be told, it’s in the quiver That lies the gleam of modesty Only his peace-talk is reputable Who is capable of victory Tolerance, forgiveness and clemency Are respected by the world Only when the glow of strength From behind it is unfurled 