What are the best lyrics you have ever heard in a Bollywood movie song?
Bollywood is an industry that produces more than 200 movies and more than 1200 songs annually. We have a very old and rich musical history. In light of that, it is difficult to pick only one song for its lyrical genius. So here are few good examples: 1. Mera kuch samaan - Ijaazat The lyrical genius of Gulzar overflows in the lyrics of this song which is a plea for closure from a lover after a break-up. Mera kuch samaan tumhare paas pada hai, Saawan ke kuch bheege-bheege din rakhe hain, aur mere ek khat mein lipti raat padi hain, Wo raat bujha do, mera wo samaan lauta do. Pathjhad hain kuch, Pathjhad mein kuchh patton ke girane ki aahat kaanon mein ek baar pahan ke lautayi thi, Pathjhad ki wo shaakh abhi tak kaanp rahi hai, Wo shaakh gira do, mera wo samaan lauta do. Translation: Some of my stuff is lying with you. Some moist days of monsoon, and a lonely night wrapped in a letter of mine. Extinguish that night and return me my stuff. There are also some (moments from) autumn. I had once encased the sound of falling leaves in my ears, and presented it to you. That lonely, dry branch is still shaking. Snap that branch and return me my stuff. 2. Panchi nadiya - Refugee The movie was fine, but the music and the lyrics were too beautiful. Akhtar Sahab manages to perfectly capture the emotions that most people feel when they think of India, Pakistan, and the unfortunate separation. The same sentiment also resonates with anyone who has felt the effect of borders, prisons, and many other invisible lines and boundaries that divide people. Panchhi, nadiya, pawan ke jhonke; koi sarhad na inhe roke. Sarhadein insanon ke liye hain, Socho tumne aur maine, kya payaa insaan hoke? Translation: Birds, rivers, and the wind; there is no border that can hold them back Borders are only for humans So tell me, what have we truly accomplished by being human? 3. Kinare - Queen One of my favorite movies of the 2010s, Queen's music is mesmerizing. The song Kinare is a beautiful, inspirational melody that lifts you up and makes you believe in yourself. (A)Gar maanjhi saare saath mein, gair ho bhi jaayein, Toh khud hi to patwaar ban, paar honge hum. Jo choti si har ek nahar, sagar ban bhi jaaye, Koi tinka leke haath mein, dhoond lenge hum. Kinare! Translation: Even if all the steersmen of life become strangers, We will ourselves become the oars and cross this river. And if this river becomes the ocean, We will find something to cling on to and find The shore! 4. Lag ja gale - Woh kaun thi My favorite romantic lyrics are from this 1964 classic. Lag ja gale, ki phir ye haseen raat ho na ho. Shayad phir is janam mein mulakat ho na ho. Pas aiye ki ham nahin aayenge baar-baar  Baahen gale mein daal ke ham ro lein zaar-zaar  Aankhon se phir ye pyaar ki barsaat ho na ho. Translation: Come embrace me, for who knows, if we will ever have such a beautiful night again. For who knows, if we will even meet again in this life. Come closer my love, for I will not come oft again. Embrace me in your arms so that I can cry my heart out. For who knows, if we will ever be able to cry again. 5. Roobaroo - Rang de Basanti If you are ever feeling down, or insecure, there is no song better to help you pick up and rekindle the fire within you. Aye saala Abhi-abhi hua yaqeen Ki aag hai mujh mein kahin Hui suba, main jal gaya Suraj ko main nigal gaya Roobaroo roshni hai! Translation: Hey you! I just realized that there's a fire within me. When the dawn arrived, I engulfed the flaming sun, And now, there's light effusing from every pore of my body. 6. Chhod aaye hum wo galiyan - Maachis A song about leaving behind your home, your love, and a piece of you. Chhod aaye hum wo galiyan. Jahan tere pairon ke, kanval gira karte the. Hanse to do gaalon mein, bhanvar pada karate the. Teri kamar ke bal pe, nadi muda karti thi. Hansi teri sun-sun ke, fasal paka karti thi. Translation: We have deserted those streets. Where your feet (like lotus flowers) used to tread. Where dimples formed on your cheeks, whenever you smiled. The curves of your waist were like the meanders of the river. And the crops were ripe with the sound of your laughter. 7. Ye kahan aa gaye hum - Silsila Another gem by Javed Sahab, Kabhi kabhi is the perfect love tribute. ये रात है या, तुम्हारी जुल्फे खुली हुई है है चांदनी या तुम्हारी नज़रों से मेरी राते धुली हुई है ये चाँद है, या तुम्हारा कंगन सितारें है, या तुम्हारा आँचल हवा का झोंका है, या तुम्हारे बदन की खुशबू ये पत्तियों की है सरसराहट, के तुम ने चुपके से कुछ कहा है ये सोचता हूँ, मैं कब से गुमसुम के जब के, मुझको को भी ये खबर है, के तुम नहीं हो, कही नहीं हो मगर ये दिल है के कह रहा है, तुम यही हो, यही कही हो Translation: Is it night already, or are these the trusses of your dark hair? Is it the moonlight, or your eyes shining bright that have cleansed my nights? Is it the moon, or that silver bangle on your wrist? Are these stars, or just the end of your saree? Was that a breeze or a waft of your fragrance? Is it the rustling of the leaves, or did you just whisper something quietly? These are the thoughts running in my mind, while I sit here heartbroken. Even though I know you are not here, you are nowhere But my heart still says that you are here, somewhere near. I think I should sleep now, so I will stop. But keep looking, there are some real gems out there. Updated 32w ago • View Upvotes