How do I make a fresh start in life?
I am about to turn 24 in a few days. I have also missed a lot of opportunities in life. I have wasted four years of my life in a college degree that is of little use to my job right now. I have made multiple attempts to start something of my own but have failed due to lack of focus. I have spent countless hours on facebook and other social networks just to get the social approval from my so called friends there. I have wasted my time cramming subjects and writing assignments that did nothing to increase my knowledge.  I have made huge travel plans to other countries but have never had the courage to visit them due to the risks involved. I have neglected my health and body for quite a long time as they were not on my priority list. But now I have realised it is time to change. I have made a few changes in my life and have started doing certain things that have made my life a lot more meaningful. 1. Reading Inspirational Books: Don't think that you are the only one facing problems in life. Everyone has his or her own set of big or small problems. But that should not stop you from giving up. A lot of successful people have a rag to riches story. They have also faced a lot of failures in life but have been able to succeed due to their never give up attitude. Reading about the lives of such people can give you a lot of confidence required to make a fresh start in life. Reading allows you live multiple lives in a short time.  You can take the relevant ideas from the books and apply them to your own life. I have read a lot of books during the past one year and the teachings from these books have improved my life a lot. Now whenever I face a problem for which I do not have a solution I pick up a book about someone who has faced the same problem in the past and try to apply the same solutions to my life. More often than not these solutions work.  Some of the books that have impacted me a lot are The 7 Habits of Highly Effective People Rich Dad Poor Dad Zero to One Choose Yourself! Quiet: The power of introverts in a world that can't stop talking 2. Creating a plan for  life: A lot of times we are stuck in life because we do not have a definite plan of what we want to accomplish. If you have specific goals for your life it becomes easy to focus on them and reduce the surrounding noise. It is important to always keep a list of goals you want to achieve in a particular stretch of time. Your goals must be measurable. If you plan to lose weight, your goal must sound like "Lose 20 pounds in three months, so that anyone can measure your progress.  Try to read your goals at least once in a day. Don't limit your goals to small leaps. You can have certain breakthrough goals like increasing your income from 100,000$ to 1 million$ in 5 years. Break these big goals into smaller tasks and convert these tasks into to-do lists.  As you keep on striking off the tasks from your list you would begin to see that these big goals will also seem like achievable in the near future. Another powerful technique you can use is the power of visualisation. Start believing in your mind that you have already achieved your goals. If your goal is live in a grand house, then start imagining the house of your dreams in your mind. Affirm it by saying that you are already living in this mansion. As you keep on visualise your goals daily, your subconscious mind becomes tuned to these goals and you would start taking steps to make progress toward them. 3.Believe in yourself: After a lot of failures in life, it becomes hard for a person to believe in his abilities. It is easy to lose confidence in oneself and become depressed. But keep in mind that a strong belief can move mountains.If you do not have a belief in yourself, nobody is going to believe you. It is important to think positively even in the worst of times. Successful people look for opportunities in areas where you lease expect them. If Steve Jobs did not have a believe in himself Apple would not have become the most valuable company in the world and we would have been deprived of some of the most beautiful products. Henry ford was able to build a billion dollar empire by his strong belief. Just take my word and start believing in your abilities. A lot of things would start falling in place if you keep faith in yourself. 4. Take 100% responsibility for your life:  I have met and interacted with a lot of people from diverse backgrounds. A lot of them have the habit of blaming others for whatever bad happens in their lives. My relationship cannot work because my wife is not willing to listen I cannot go for higher studies because my parents want me to work I cannot leave this job because my family wants me to live in this city. I do not have time for my health or travel because my boss makes me work long hours I do not have enough friends because people are mean towards me.And the list of excuses goes on and on. I also had the same habit for quite a long time. Recently I read a book The Success Principles by Jack Canfield. He talks about the importance of taking full responsibility for your life. The only person who has full control over your life is you. Your decisions and responses to events shape how your life turns out to be. Successful people don’t blame others for the things that happen in their lives. They believe in doing things instead of whining and complaining. They shape their lives according to what they want it to be. If you stop blaming others for the things that happen in your life and start focussing on stuff that matters, the negative feelings will not arise in your mind and you will be much happier. On the other hand, if you keep on complaining about the smallest of the things you will never achieve mental peace. Let go of this complaining habit and build a habit of doing things. If you are having problem with you work hours, talk to your boss about it. If your relationship sucks, try to improve it or end it right now. Don’t neglect you health as it will come to bite you afterwards. Start making things happen in your life. Yes, you will have to take some risks but I guarantee that results will be worth the risk. 