What should I pack for a cruise?
I'll tell you what I would pack (I am male, by the way).  I cannot comment on what a female should pack. I've been on five cruises, so I'll start off by saying that you want to dress for your destination.  If you're going on an Alaskan cruise when it is freezing cold, obviously bring a nice warm jacket and long-sleeved clothing.  Leave all that stuff at home, if you're taking a Caribbean cruise in the middle of the summer. Most of the time, the dress is casual.  In warmer climate, I found myself wearing shorts, a t-shirt and flip flops/tennis shoes most of the time. Most of the cruise lines have a 'formal' night, where everybody gets dressed up.  If you don't bring a coat and tie, you'll feel out of place on formal night.  One year, I decided to leave my coat at home and just wear a dress shirt.  I thought that was good enough, but when I entered the dining area, I was offered a jacket (they didn't make it seem like an option for me to refuse the hospitality).  Some guys (and gals) go all out on formal night, even bringing a tuxedo with them.  If you don't want to lug around at tux through the airport, a shop on board will happily rent one to you. It's fun to hang out at the pools (usually, there are two or more), have a drink and bask in the sun.  Obviously, you should have a pair (or two) or swimming trunks.  Towels are provided, so don't bulk up your suitcase bringing one. The dress usually transitions from very casual to a little more dressy, as nightclubs, bars and the mini Vegas-style theater open.  Dress pants, dress shoes and dress shirts are probably the most appropriate and commonly worn.  Of course, you'll always have some bozos walking around in shorts that just don't get it that they're sticking out like a sore thumb. I don't like to bring a ton of clothing with me while traveling, so if you're like me, you can bring maybe three or four days worth of clothes and wash them on board, if your cruise extends beyond that.  Laundry detergent is available at a nominal fee.  There is also an iron available. If you plan on working out at the gym, bring your workout clothes. As for any shore excursions you have planned, the clothing described above should be sufficient.  If you have some special excursion planned, need special equipment and are adamant about not renting it, of course, you'll need to bring that with you. I'll assume you've traveled before and have a list of toiletries you'd normally pack, so I won't go into any specifics here. All of the cruise lines I've traveled with require no cash while on board.  An account is set up before you go, which gets cleared with your credit card upon completion of your journey.  Any ancillary items you can purchase on board gets put onto your account, which may include things like alcohol, shore excursions, fine-dining up charges, gift shop purchases and so forth.  The only reason you 'might' want to carry cash is because you want to gamble in the casino, but I'm sure there are other ways to get cash while on board. Don't forget sunglasses, sunscreen, medication and your travel documents (passport, visa, tickets, etc.). I think that about covers it.  Happy cruising. Updated 51w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Anonymous