What was the ragging scene in IITs back in 1980s-90s?
My parents graduated from IIT Kanpur in the 80s. "Ragging" was done for all incoming students, including the 5-6 girls that came to the institute. The ragging "standards" were different for the two genders, with basic questioning for the girls by mostly male seniors. From what I understand, general ragging wasn't too intense, they were too "educated" to be intense, lol. In any case, there was this one incident which my parents fondly recount. My dad was two years senior to my mother. In the batch which my mother joined, there was this really stellar girl who all the seniors had heard about. There was this guy, notorious for ragging, in my dad's batch who had heard about her, and decided to bring her to earth. The ragging was done pretty early on in campus, and a stressful environment was intentionally created. Guy : Tumne kya top kiya hai life mein? (What great stuff (top = cannon) have you done in life?) Girl : Maine classical dance kiya hai, main gaati hoon, sports bhi khelti hoon (I have done classical dance, I sing, play sports occasionally) Guy : Ismein badi baat kya hai, woh to hum sab kartein hai. Kuch naya batao (What's the big deal in this, we all do this. Tell us something new) Girl : Meri hawa XYZ hai (My JEE rank (hawa = AIR) is XYZ) Everyone starts laughing Guy : (while laughing) Ismein badi baat kya hai, humaari sab ki rank isse acchi hai (What's the big deal in this, all of our ranks are better than this [this was a lie]) Girl : Aur kuch nahi hai (I have nothing else) Guy :  Yahan to mere paas tere se acchi hawa hai, tere se zyada dimaag hai, tere se zyada presence hai, tere se zyada dost hai. Tumhaare paas to kuch bhi nahi hai. (I have a better rank than you, I am smarter than you, I have better presence than you, I have more friends than you [so random, because he probably didn't know what to say]. You have nothing.) Girl : (interrupts, out of the blue) Mere paas maa hai! (Essence of the famous dialogue captured here) Everyone in the room is silent. The girl is red, has no clue why she said that. The seniors pretend to look angry but they are stunned. Guy feels totally embarrassed. This becomes campus news, the spunky fresher who stunned the seniors. Fast forward two years. They started dating. Got married. I wonder how they tell their kids how they met. 