What do you think every Indian should know about your state/union territory?
I'm from Odisha And having travelled to various parts of the country, I can say people have really wrong notions about my state. My answer would be an honest effort to abate their wrong perceptions as much as possible. Odisha has a history spanning a period of over 5,000 years. Before Kalinga it was named as Udra or "Odra Desa". Odissi, also known as Orissi , is one of the eight classical dance forms of India. It originates from the state of Odisha, in eastern India. It is the oldest surviving dance form of India on the basis of archaeological evidences. The classic treatise of Indian dance, Natya Shastra, refers to it as Odra-Magadhi. 1st century BCE bas-reliefs in the hills of Udaygiri (near Bhubaneshwar) testify to its antiquity. It was suppressed under the British Raj, but has been reconstructed since India gained independence. Artists like Sudarshan Pattnaik and Manas Kumar Sahoo have made the country proud all over the world.        A major turning point in world history took place in Odisha. The Kalinga War that led emperor Ashoka to embrace non-violence and the teachings of Buddha was fought here in 261 BCE. Ashoka the Great On the other hand in the 3rd century BCE, in the eastern part of Odisha, Kalinga flourished as a powerful empire under the Jaina emperor, Kharavela. He ruled all the way down south to include parts of the Tamil country. He built the superb monastic caves at Udayagiri and Khandagiri Caves. Udayagiri and Khandagiri Caves. Dhauli hills are located on the banks of the river Daya, 8 km south of Bhubaneswar in Odisha (India). It is a hill with vast open space adjoining it and has major Edicts of Ashoka engraved on a mass of rock, by the side of the road leading to the summit of the hill. Dhauli hill is presumed to be the area where the Kalinga War was fought. The Rock Edicts found here include Nos. I-X, XIV and two separate Kalinga Edicts. In Kalinga Edict VI, he expresses his concern for the "welfare of the whole world". The rock-cut elephant above the Edicts is the earliest Buddhist sculpture of Odisha. The stone elephant shows the animal's foreparts only, though it has a fine sense of form and movement. King Jajati Kesari I of Kesari or Soma dynasty of Kosala united Kosala and Utkala into a single empire. He is also supposed to have built the first Jagannath Temple at Puri. Ratha-Yatra or The Car Festival is one of the most auspicious festivals of the country. The festival commemorates Lord Jagannath's annual visit to Gundicha mata's temple via aunt's home. People gather in lacks to witness this event. Jagannath Temple at Puri in India is said to have the largest kitchen in the world. This kitchen feeds thousands of devotees every day. The kitchen prepares food for 100,000 people on a festival day and for about 25,000 on a normal day. The applique work of Pipili is probably most well known handicraft in Puri and surrounding area. Each and every family of here are engaged themselves in this applique craft. This is the livelihood of most people here. The famous Lingaraja Temple in Bhubaneshwar was started by Keshari dynasty King Jajati Keshari III and completed by his son Lalatendu Keshari in the 10th century. King Narasimha Dev is reputed to have built the magnificent Konark Sun Temple. Although now largely in ruins, the temple may have once rivalled the Taj Mahal in splendor. Orissa was conquered by Raja Raja Chola I and Rajendra Chola I of the Chola dynasty in the early 11th century. The Nandankanan Zoological Park is a very popular zoo visited by over 2 million visitors every year.                  Similipal National Park is a national park and an elephant reserve situated in the Mayurbhanj district in the Indian state of Odisha. Bhitarkanika National Park is a national park located in the Kendrapara District Odisha in eastern India. The park is home to the endangered Saltwater Crocodile (Crocodylus porosus), White Crocodile, Indian python,King Cobra, black ibis, darters and many other species of flora and fauna.                 Nila Madhaba Panda, the award winning film maker, identified for his movies such as "I am Kalam" and "Jalpari" is from Odisha. Sona Mohapatra is an Indian singer, music composer and lyricist. She was born in Cuttack, Odisha, she is popular in India, she has performed in concerts across the world and has been featured in albums, singles, concert webcasts, music videos, Bollywood films and advertisements. Sona is a singing sensation born in Cuttack, Odisha. SAIL- Rourkela Steel Plant (RSP), located in Rourkela, Odisha the first integrated steel plant in the public sector in India, was set up with German collaboration with an installed capacity of 1 million tonnes in 60s. Subsequently, its capacity was enhanced to 2 million tonnes. RSP is one of the unique steel units under the SAIL umbrella with a wide variety of special purpose steels. Updated 97w ago • View Upvotes