Is the current racism against whites in South Africa in any way justified because of the history of apartheid?
Dear Anonymous, I wish you had included your name, it would have felt personal. Anyways. Racism is never justified, but there is not where I want to go. There is definitely subtle racism. There is still racial division among the groups. And I would say that black people are not really over the past. We name call whites, Umlungu, speak our native language in their midst yet complain immensely when they speak their native language in our midst. We seem to have an illusive picture of their lifestyle which is not really real, we even fail to see white people as people, the white has to feature somewhere. Find a bunch of black people talking about white people, we annihilate everything about them, their habits to white habits, even if we secretly do some of those things, e.g pick up running in the morning, you have white habits. Crime: I find that here in Kwa - Zulu Natal, i will speak of where I'm from only, the crime is more brutal when it is to white people than others. there is this theory that white people have more money than black people, and those past pains always brought forward when topics of dating, violence etc comes up. e.g. "he is white we can steal everything and he will replace it." Really???? The areas targeted and experiencing the most violent crimes are what is known as white areas. Yes they steal cars in Morningside and all, but it is rare that the violence be that extreme, but go to Hillcrest, they throw in raping your daughter and wife while you watch, and try defend yourself you are in jail brother.. so watch and learn is the point.. There was a story of another black guy who experienced the same but did not go to jail, same self defense.. mmmh Guess Black people learnt bad habits, I hope they can get over them soon. It is not all of them though, I have met a large number that does not really care. They see crime as crime, white or not. For one to receive tomorrow, one must give up today. We can't keep holding on if we want to grow. AS Joan's suggestion please let me tell you a little bit about the crime. Morningside is what used to be a white area that has a growing number of street adults, prostitutes, squatter living in decent flats (rent sharing, the rent is still high, and many of us black people love Champagne in a beer budget.). Hillcrest is an area in Kwazulu natal more up the hills, it has big houses yet some of that property cheaper than Umhlanga but still holds its glory for those that still live in the past. This area is still very white and has some Indians too. The case of crime is a difficult one to answer. It is easy to say that these are mostly committed by black people, but that would not be far. The black population is bigger than both whites and Indians in South Africa, so its tricky. What I have found is that especially in Hillcrest most of those crimes are committed by black people. I do not believe these people see the whites as people really. The hate is still very much there on both ends. For some reason those crimes become very violent, it seems to me the something triggers the anger within the people involved and if there is an opportunity one will die (mostly the criminal after causing pain I would think), and then the killer faces jail time. In Morningside the people are more mixed, many interracial relationships, for some reason the crime there is more smash and grab but no real violence, although I did get stabbed by a black girl (a prostitute) just because she can, so its tricky. In the Indian community there is a lot of family killing or spouse killing and all for money. 