What do people think about Nagpur?
I am living in Nagpur from around last 6 years. Born in Bilaspur, Chhattisgarh, lived there for 11 years of my childhood, and then lived in many different districts around Nagpur. So what I think about Nagpur. First of all, the language of almost all people is well mannered and not rough(like of Mumbai). Once I have gone to Mumbai, and was very tired after long journey. Stepped out CST Station, looking for some Snacks in nearby stalls. 1 seller over there looked at me, and said "Lo, Ek aur thakela aa gaya" (One more tired came). I felt very bad. I also many times travelled to Nagpur by train, and looked for the some light nashta(Snacks) outside railway station. The usual treatment I got from the nearby hawker outside the station is, they are all inviting me so enthusiastically as if they are offering snacks and food in free. Some of the hawker have their men right on road asking to have snacks/food to every passerby. Nagpurkars are very helpful people, and they literally come to your help, when in need. Ask for addresses, and you will get the detailed answer. Nagpurkars are generally simple people, not much show off, however, Nagpur is fastest growing city in India in terms of number of Crorepatis (millionaires). Nagpur is very clean and green, and more than half of its roads are bliss to ride on, because of heavy greenery on both side, and also in the divider, huge number of roads, not much traffic etc. I don't care whether or not Nagpur has Mcdonalds or any other famous food chains, and I think, that could not be reason to consider Nagpur less modern, or less developed. Actually Nagpur is well developed city. One thing to note is that, even if Nagpur don't have world famous food chains, but Nagpur is the HQ of snacks company, the  Haldiram's which exports its product around the world . I think this is more prestigious to have world level snack manufacturer than not having the McDonalds. Nagpur serves its food to the world, while other Indian big cities are served by the foreign fastfood giants. There is a difference. You might also have heard about Dinshaw's Ice Cream. Things to know about Nagpur. Though known as Orange City, but it is also a Green City, having number of trees similar to number of people in Nagpur. Nagpur is surrounded by Tigers i.e. 7 National Parks, Tiger Reserves. Nagpur has highest literacy rate in India among cities having more than 2 million population. I observed that people from Nagpur are very less likely to ask for dowry, and thus marriage or caste related crimes are less here. Nagpur people are thoughtfully very matured and humane than many metros like Mumbai and Delhi. I feel that Mumbai, Delhi or even Pune do not come close to Nagpur in terms of Humanity and goodness. Nagpur has highest growth of number of millionaires in India. Nagpur houses the zero milestone of India, and also one of only two diamond crossing (a type of railway crossing) in India. It has both railways and roadways linking India's North to South and East to West. Ever heard about "Night Air Mail Service"? It is a air mail service in which planes from Mumbai, Kolkata, Delhi & Madras used to reach Nagpur Airport at night, unloaded, sort mails out as per which is going to what direction, loaded in the planes and back to where they came from. This is a sight to see for Nagpurkars, but this sight cannot be seen now. It is started in 1949 and ended in 1973. So, I have discussed all i.e. roadways(zero mile), railways (diamond crossing) and Airways (Night Air Mail Service). That is all roadways, railways and airways. This is to say that, Nagpur is real centre of India, by all means. Below is the picture of Night Air Mail service routes, and Diamond crossing, and also Zero Mile Pillar. This is called as Diamond Crossing This pillar is a zero mile pillar of India The whole point is to say that, Nagpur is a centre city of India. Nagpur is rich in almost all the resources anyone can think of, whether it is a mineral resources, agricultural resources, forest resources. energy resources, tourism resources, transportation resources or any other resources. Nagpur is recently became very important, to the world, because right now the chief minister of Maharashtra is from Nagpur, thank God. Nagpur is right now going to be a major hub of education and aviation industries, as IIM already in Nagpur, and also AIIMS and IIITs may come in future, and there are many aviation related industries coming up in Nagpur including Anil Ambani's Helicopter manufacturing unit. Thank You 