How do I make a fresh start in life?
Hi friend, I'm in my late twenties & have asked this question to myself many times so far. Luckily, I've been able to find an answer every single time. Let me tell you about myself in brief. I lost my mom when I was 4 months old, never got a chance to live with my dad. My maternal grandparents are my mom-dad. Cleared high school with flying colors & secured 5th position in school. Life took a U-turn & senior school performance dropped. Could not clear engineering college entrance examinations for two consecutive years after finishing school. I hit back, secured a good rank & took admission into a government engineering college. Was doing well in college, but unfortunately lost my dad when I just crossed 20. I hit back again, studied hard & secured a job with a reputed MNC. Had a good start with my career & cleared the training program with top rank. Life got stable, but something else was waiting to happen. My girl friend had to marry someone else due to inter-caste issues. We were together since early college days. Depression hit again & I could not eat properly for a month. I bounced back, worked hard & switched to a better paying job. After working for three years, I looked back & saw that a lot of things "just happened to me", but it was "me" who had to "bounce back" every time. The army for which we all wait for to rescue us, never came. Our families can just support us emotionally. Reading blogs/books & watching inspirational videos can help us to some extent, but, what we need is "motivation from within". What we need is "will power". We need to know what our life is & how we want it to be. I quit my job last year & now working on my start-up business. It feels like a roller coaster ride everyday, but guess what... I'm lovin' it :) Few months back I wrote a blog post & sharing it with you below. I'll be glad if it is able to make a little difference to your life. So, here it goes... How do we define life? Many of us would say life is what we do all day long. We go to the gym, spend time with our family, talk to our friends, read books, go to work and do countless other things. New things are added to the list as we grow older & few are discarded. At every stage of life we set priorities for everything we do. Setting the right priorities help us focus on things which need attention, but there are times when we unknowingly neglect others things. One such example is people neglecting their health for their work. They spend 8 hours in the office excluding travel & yet have no time for their health. Some people are so active socially that there are chaos in their own families. So, where do things go wrong? Do we fail to set the right priorities? Are 24 hours a day too less for us to live a balanced life? After being in this situation for quite long, I feel the reason is that we fail to look at the big picture of our lives. Some of us only see work, not just in the office, but some of us bring it home as well. Some of us only see our social life, not to mention the time we spend on socializing over the Internet that we’re least bothered how are our siblings doing! So what is this big picture? Let me share some of my personal experiences which helped me discover the big picture of my life. Before quitting my job with an American MNC few months back I was required to work in multiple shifts. This was done to maintain some overlap with our US counterparts. For a few months all went good, but after some time my biological clock got disturbed. I started getting stressed, overworked, not being able to get enough sleep. To top it all I increased by junk food intake. The doc said  I maybe inviting some serious health issues soon. He advised me to get enough sleep & a balanced diet along with light exercise. So, following his advice I started sleeping more (8 hours!). For a while my health started to improve, but on the other hand the work which I used to bring home (yes the office time wasn’t enough!) could not be completed. I started negotiating project deadlines, but it did not help much. I simply had more pending work every day! This was just a small example when I was unable to balance between my health & work. Even my social life suffered a lot. Not to mention, I got dark circles which almost kill your personality. I was simply not living life to its fullest. Something somewhere was missing. After pondering over my situation for a few days I asked myself a question – Does a near-perfect life exist? And if it does, can we define it on paper? Can we measure its progress? I went on to find the answers. After all the thought process, I started categorizing everything I did all day. For example, sleeping, eating, exercising, meditation come under the “health” category.  Making money, managing personal finances, learning about investment options come under the “wealth” category. The way you dress up, talk & walk come under the “personality” category. Your interaction with your friends & colleagues come under the “networking” category, and so on. All these categories put together define our life. As we grow older, more categories are added & some existing ones are discarded. So, being in my late twenties, I was able to define my life as  a set of 12 categories or areas (not in any priority / specific order) : Health Relationship / Romance Business / Day job Wealth (Asset & cash-flow management) Spiritual knowledge The home I live in (all the comforts) Family Network (Social & Professional) Leisure (all the fun, travelling, reading, adventure) Personality (the way I dress-up, walk & talk) Life skills (the way I handle stress, failures & success) Education (financial education, business knowledge including management skills) Each of these areas is an important part of my life. If I focus only on my business & neglect my health, I’ll have problems in the long run. If I only focus on building a strong social & professional network & don’t spend much time with my family, I’ll still have problems. My life would be near-perfect & balanced if I manage to handle all these 12 areas well. This answered my two questions that a near-perfect life exists & it can be defined on paper. However, the third question still remains – Can we measure its progress? We can never tell if something has changed today if we do not know what it was like yesterday. Hence, to answer my third question, I attached two things to each of the 12 areas – “current state” & “desired state”. The “current state” of an area tells me how am I doing at present in that area. For example if I talk about “health” area, then the “current state” in that area can be how much my weight is, what is my waistline, my vitamin levels, etc. The “desired state” of an area tells me how I want my life to be in that area. Again, taking the example of “health” area, the “desired state” can include statements about how I want my health to be – my desired waistline, my desired vitamin levels, etc. The “desired state” of the “Relationship” area can include a description of how we want our relationship with the present or with a future life partner if the current relationship is not working or has already ended. I was amazed to learn after a few days that a similar concept exists in Feng Shui as well. They have something called a “bagua map” which is a grid of 9 areas – Wealth, Fame, Health, Family, etc. So, now I was convinced I’m on the right track. After putting all these “areas” along with their respective “desired states” in my “Wishbook” for this year, I’m able to take control of my life to some extent & continue to get better every day! Now I know what my life would look like 6 months down the line. This reminds me of two lines from the Victorian poem Invictus by William Ernest Henley : 