After introducing yourself to a stranger, does the other person often get the pronunciation of your name wrong?
Ken Miyamoto's answer takes the cake on this page for sure. But I thought that I'd chime in on the whole name mispronunciation bit. My name is Caroline, like Caroline Kennedy. One of my cousins calls me Carolina, like the state, and has taught his daughters to also call me Auntie Carolina. These things are fine, since I go by Carolina in Spanish-speaking regions. But it gets trickier... Most people, when reading my name, will call me Carolyn. I will politely correct them and say "CaroLINE" (yes, with tall man lettering like that :) ). A large number of people have decided that my name is Catherine or Kathryn when I introduce myself or will recall my name as Catherine the second time around. One HR person, upon never hearing me called Carolina by any other person nor ever being in a situation in which anybody spoke Spanish around me, persisted in writing emails addressed to "Carolina", which, by the way, may have resulted in a few emails going astray, since our emails were firstname.lastname. And then I will confess here on Quora that my name is not Caroline like Caroline Kennedy, but actually Caroline with the French pronunciation, due to the French influence on my family. My sister is named after the symbol of the French Republic.  Most Americans have a hard time with the voiced uvular fricative [ʁ], though. The only time that I have ever had somebody call me by my actual first name outside of France or my extended family was when Steve Kreft (Faculty, Research & Teaching: Kelley School of Business: Indiana University Bloomington) called me that when I walked in during econ office hours. And it's probably really because his wife is French. So that's the story of my first name. My last name is even trickier. My last name is the sinecized version of the Chinese last name Liu. In Vietnamese, this is Lưu, but in America it's just spelled Luu. Many people misspell my name as "Lu" which is ok and understandable. It's also been spelled Lou and Loo, which are less ok, especially given that the latter means something else. I've had people write down my last name as Lw, which doesn't make any sense. I've had someone certain that I was Hawaiian and that the pronunciation of my last name as Lu'u (not the same as Vietnamese above, thanks). The [edit: okina] is not the same as an accented u and this person tried to say that my name was definitely Lu (pause) u. It's not. I've also had it pronounced Loo-oh (ok, if you're seeing it as "Lou", I guess) and Lah-oo, which again, doesn't make a ton of sense. My last name is just pronounced loo. So easy, and yet so apparently difficult. Updated 89w ago • View Upvotes