Do you believe babies are born atheist, and do you believe atheists never convert? How can these two beliefs coexist?
The claim, made by far too many atheists, that we are born atheist, is a fallacy. To an atheist, it might sound cool but it's just plain wrong. We are all born blank slates: ignorant, not atheist. I originally bought into the ‘born atheist’ myth because I liked the idea and it had a nice ring to it. But it only took a little introspection to see that it appealed to me out of atheist bias. I realized it’s ridiculous to attribute belief, of any kind, to newborns. Atheism is about lack of belief. Right? So, what does it mean to believe something? verb (used without object), believed, believing. to have confidence in the truth, the existence, or the reliability of something, although without absolute proof that one is right in doing so: Only if one believes in something can one act purposefully. verb (used with object), believed, believing. to have confidence or faith in the truth of (a positive assertion, story,etc.); give credence to. to have confidence in the assertions of (a person). to have a conviction that (a person or thing) is, has been, or will be engaged in a given action or involved in a given situation: The fugitive is believed to be headed for the Mexican border. to suppose or assume; understand (usually followed by a noun clause): I believe that he has left town. Clearly, no matter how you look at it, newborns are years away from being able to believe anything (much less, an abstraction like gods). So, I reasoned, we're not born atheists, we're born agnostics! But it only took a little introspection to see that this too appealed to me out of bias. I realized it’s ridiculous to attribute knowledge of any kind to newborns. Agnosticism is about lack of knowledge of gods. Right? I mean, what does it mean to know something? verb (used with object), knew, known, knowing. to perceive or understand as fact or truth; to apprehend clearly and with certainty: I know the situation fully. to have established or fixed in the mind or memory: to know a poem by heart; Do you know the way to the park from here? to be cognizant or aware of: I know it. be acquainted with (a thing, place, person, etc.), as by sight, experience, or report: to know the mayor. to understand from experience or attainment (usually followed by how before an infinitive): to know how to make gingerbread. to be able to distinguish, as one from another: to know right from wrong. Archaic. to have sexual intercourse with.verb (used without object), knew, known, knowing. to have knowledge or clear and certain perception, as of fact or truth. to be cognizant or aware, as of some fact, circumstance, or occurrence; have information, as about something. Clearly, no matter how you look at it, newborns are years away from being able to know anything (much less, an abstraction like gods). So, I reasoned, we're not born agnostics, we're born ignorant! You have to know something about a thing before you can believe anything about it. And, for newborns, that takes years. So newborns can't be atheists or agnostics. Of course, if I had never heard of concepts like gods, religions, atheism and agnosticism, it would have been my default position that we're all born ignorant. It was only bias that confused matters in the first place. Imagine the first cavemen. They had no language. They had to develop enough language to contemplate life before they could conceive of immortality or souls, much less, gods. Now imagine, much later, the first person to conceive of the concept of gods. No human before him could have been a theist, an atheist, or an agnostic because these concepts are predicated on the concept of gods . . . which didn't yet exist. It's the same way with newborns. They first need to develop language and learn key concepts, like gods, before they can be labeled theists or atheists or agnostics. Updated 35w ago • View Upvotes