Has Narendra Modi brought "achhe din (the Good Days)"?
I don't know what is the entire definition of "Acche din" for us Indians.. We seem to be the worst when it comes to being patient but let me tell you what's changed and that's more than welcoming than ever.. People are taking ownership after Modi has taken charge, i see this whole country as a big giant Company and each department has taken a task which should be accomplished. 1) Just like CEO's visit client (various countries) to bag the deal/ Funding and persuade them to give the project/funds to them and invest in their company, similarly he is on a visit to various countries so that people could invest in India and no wonder India was touted as World's most preferred destination for FDI toppling china in 2015. (Although it makes me cringe when people say he is on world tour) India emerges top FDI destination leaving behind China, US in 2015 2) He has directed everyone in government office to come at 9 am sharp and take ownership of the task assigned. Coming to point 2 , i myself experienced it multiple times as directed below: Scenario 1: I was signing up for digital locker (digitallocker.gov.in) initiated by Government of India and faced few issues in doing the same and sent a mail to support team at 1:58 PM as evident by below screenshots and voila, within next 20 minutes i saw a very professional sounding mail popping in my inbox. Scenario 2: I am pretty active on the website mygov (MyGov: A Platform for Citizen Engagement towards Good Governance in India) and also would request everyone to register yourself on the same as this is a very good website giving ample opportunities for indians to be part of this revolution and considering it's government website (We have seen how they were in the past), it's a breath of fresh air. so, i was unable to share the contest on Facebook and hence mailed the web maintenance team To my surprise, even they replied very promptly. Scenario 3: have a look at this website localcircles (LocalCircles - Social Media for Communities, Governance and Urban Daily Life) and register to the circles you want to contribute: we were asked on how to improve the garbage issue and what changes needed in the coach. my input was below: they accumulated all inputs and used it to devise a whitepaper which was then shared to railway minister and you could see my input being duly acknowledged in point 4. Also, the recent news about revamped coach design which were trending by tweet of Railway minister .. if you drill down on the changes incorporated, you can find many similarities in the whitepaper and actual coach design. so my only request is to please support the government by taking active part in the initiatives being taken on mygov / localcircles rather than sitting on FB and commenting and you won't have to search for "Acche din" and you would start seeing  another angle when you could co-relate the changes happening (via newspapers etc) which you gave inputs to and got implemented.. is this not "Acche Din" ? It's your country and the onus of change also lies on us. We have seen what bad governance can result in and it almost took us back by 15-20 years comparing to other countries like china and we need to pull up our socks rather than cursing (easier way out) 