Will less than perfect vision disqualify you from becoming a fighter pilot or combat aviator in the US Navy?
what kind of less than perfect?  This is the latest in a nutshell for all Naval Aviation fields: Page on med.navy.mil Guide - OCT 2014/Complete_Waiver_Guide_141006.pdf Page on ow.ly Front seat of an FA18, near perfect uncorrected.  Backseat RIO, almost anything as long as it's corrected to 20/20.  Anyway, it's all in the PDF. Accepting Lasiks correction is completely at the discretion of the Flight Surgeon.  (There are minor touch-ups, and major vision overhauls.  There is also a huge difference in quality of work and of healing--The $500 special at JiffyLube & Eye Care special might not be the bargain you thought).  Being in the Navy or at Annapolis and otherwise fit has a good deal of bearing on whether or not Lasik is okay.  Off the street, you gotta be Superman's Superman..period.  Not just physically but academically, athletically, & mentally. Remember that for the best candidates the Navy can find, the washout rate for high performance fighters is still close to 70%.  That's a major outlay in cash, time and training for iffy eyes when they have so many perfect specimens to chose from. But there are many "combat aviator" positions other than attack fighters (you probably have a better chance of being an NFL quarterback than piloting a Navy hot rock).  There is no greater challenge than leading a flight of Wild Weasels into a hot valley for purposes of drawing hostile fire of rockets, AA & radar locks, the backseat guys are the stars in that world. And the vision requirements get a bit loser with lower performance aircraft and rotorcraft.    Flying a SeaStallion full of SEALs into a foreign country at 2 ft above tree tops at night can be pretty exciting.  As can extracting a shot up Marine patrol in a H60 for Dust Off duty.  A carrier landing with an S3, E2 or C-2 COD is still a tricky trap on a dark night and a stormy sea.  You'll still make the same spectacular fireball if you impact the back of the carrier.  C130s, P3s (now P8s), C-5 and C-17s gives you real training in "heavies" that will put you at the head of the line for the Major Airlines. 