What is it like to take CS 145 at the University of Waterloo?
I'm assuming that you're about to enter the university and are considering taking the advanced version of the first year computer science class; the easiest thing to tell you is that it's fantastic. You probably want more detail though. The professor for the advanced sections (CS 145 and CS 146) is Prabhakar Ragde, and he is the person that pioneered the entire BCS degree at the University of Waterloo (see Computer Science at Waterloo: the new Scheme of things). Additionally, he designed CS 115, CS 135, and of course CS 145. It is really easy to tell that he is passionate about providing the highest quality education to the students he teaches. Also, he is particularly good at picking out only the absolute most critical parts of all the things you can learn to ensure you grasp a full understanding of the material. Because of this, he is able to take his time explaining the most fundamental parts of the course, and can move forward at a really good pace. You really dive about twice as deep into learning functional programming in CS 145 than you do in CS 135. He has a lot of great essays on teaching: https://cs.uwaterloo.ca/~plragde... Aside from the professor, the course itself is great. You start with the basis of defining what 'plus' actually is, and you get a sense of how to write a basic proof, and soon afterwards you are writing programs in Racket being careful of time and space complexity. Once you are past generative recursion, functions as first class citizens, and higher order functions, you then get into more of the advanced stuff. When he taught in Fall of 2012 that included Treaps and AA Trees, Red Black Trees, Priority Queues, Combinators, and lots more interesting stuff. The takeaway though, is that this is a course that will be challenging, that will give you assignments where you'll spend about 80% of the time thinking about a solution and 20% of the time implementing it, and that you will leave with a really good foundation in functional programming. Aside from the content, you'll also meet lots of really smart and interesting people in this class, and because it will be a smaller total class size than the other offerings, it will likely be more fun. I highly recommend it. (P.S., Prabhakar actually wrote a paper on this course and why it is the way it is; it's called Mathematics is Imprecise, http://arxiv.org/pdf/1301.5076v1...) 