After introducing yourself to a stranger, does the other person often get the pronunciation of your name wrong?
My first and last name are both problematic. People butchered my first name, especially people with English as their mother tongue. If they don't stumble in the first try, it will often be pronounced as Adiya, Aditaya, Ada etc etc Many times I decide to save them the trouble and introduced myself with my nickname, Adit or Adi. The syllable 'tya' seems to be the one that throws people off. Oh.. and my surname of course. A minority expect that 'Ca' be pronounced like 'Car' when it's supposed to be like 'chai'. Another group of minority will say Casandraputra or something like that. People will butcher it even when they've read it beforehand. Those seeing it for the first time would just mutter ummm how do I say this. Priceless remark from people #1: One girl I just met said "What? Your name is Kamasutra? That is like totally cool.". I don't even bother replying to that response because to her credit it was a little noisy. Or I'm just comforting myself. Whatever. And to compound that my name sound somewhat Indian, even to Indians. And it is Indian. Just do a google image search for Aditya and you'll see. (Aditya Birla - Indian conglomerate) Chandrasekar, Chandragupta are well-known Indian names, some people just extrapolate that fact to my last name.  And just like what happened to Ken Miyamoto, people have a certain expectation of matching faces with names. I am clearly an ethnic Chinese. If I meet a Chinese identifying me as Chinese some will be totally baffled at my name. Added to that, the fact that I don't really speak Chinese baffle them even more. To them I'm a weird enigma. If I meet an Indian, some will say, "Why do you have an  Indian name?' Priceless remark from people #2 An interviewer has insisted that I have entered the wrong interview room before I showed him my identification. One of the two interviewer was of Indian descent himself and probably was expecting an Indian-looking guy entering through the door. But I came in. Unlike Ken though, I do not have close Indian ancestry that I know of. My name came through Sanskrit, which is an ancient language root to many Indian languages. And Sanskrit is heavily borrowed by Indonesian and Javanese. People from Singapore/Malaysia tend not to be confused less as they are more aware of my background. I am a Chinese with an 'Indonesianised' name, my original surname is 曾(zeng). And sad to say in terms of languages my German right now is definitely much better than my Chinese. For more info on 'funny' Chinese Indonesian names, see Why do Chinese people in Indonesia have an Indonesian name, while Chinese people in Malaysia and Singapore have a Chinese name? Chinese Indonesian surname 