Failure: How is life after failing in the 'IIT JEE' examination?
Many deserving people have experienced the pain of not qualifying for one of the IITs, or missing out on one because of not getting the stream or course they wanted. It feels crushing in the moment, which is expected given that people keep aside their normal lives for years together with that one goal in mind. In constantly preparing for the JEE, grinding an image and giving a special place to its result are major components of the coaching process. The detrimental effects of this are a larger-than-life valuation of the entrance. While it is understandably important to make JEE an important goal in your life while you are an aspirant, it is exactly this sort of sanctimonious veneration that is leading to the decimation of intellectual quality in this country. The remorse of not getting into an IIT will die with time, and a few months in whatever college you enter will serve to balm your short-lived scars. In the long run, you have got to understand that JEE is just an entrance examination for a Bachelors Degree. Where you go and how your life will be is ultimately only minimally affected by whether you crack the JEE. The hype surrounding JEE is just a baseless construct strengthened by social pressure, parental expectations and media titillation. In a year's time you will probably understand that your fixation with JEE was just a passing phase of life, and there is ultimately much more to life than that. At 18, life has barely begun for you, regardless of what status this one exam holds in your mind. At this point I will be blunt and urge you to grow up and think logically, to give this one event in your life the right place and importance, aside from the external influences that have shaped its image for you. Think clearly for once, and you will realize how ultimately insignificant this one event is in the grander arena of your life. Lots of people have failed to make to an IIT, and this holds no bearing on the general quality of their lives or their probabilities to succeed. The regret comes only from the specter of a pedestal in your mind, and with your college life will bring greater challenges and more significant worries. Believe me, IIT-JEE is just the beginning, and the battles and journeys that lie ahead will be much more valuable and meaningful in your life. I am going to enter my third year, and while we still wistfully make passing comments about what might have been if we had made it to an IIT, we have all moved on with our lives. What you think is narrow minded, and you are not to blame, for your thinking has been conditioned as such to prepare you for the rat-race, but I urge you to think rationally, pick yourself up and bury the past. In view of the mountains you are about to face, IIT-JEE, you will realize, is a molehill. Life begins now. Make sure you get up and grab the reins, rather than dwelling in misery about paths not taken. All of us had dreams regarding IIT, and they were shattered, a feeling akin to what you are feeling now, but trust me, our lives our fundamentally just the same. I am still pursuing my dreams of physics outside studying electronics, still quizzing, singing, writing, reading and learning. Not being at an IIT has not changed the fundamentals of my existence, and the sooner you realize that it will not change yours, the sooner you can start living and building in this totally new phase of life. Believe me, life moves on from all sorts of loss, and this loss is absolutely nothing in the grander scheme of things. I have made amazing friends, experienced amazing things, and been part of glorious conquests and humble defeats all the same. Life is a wondrous battle regardless of these insignificant labels that we as institutionalized fools put on simple things, and this nation is definitely going to the dogs for the same. It is just a degree. Realize that and start looking to the newer horizons that await you. Updated 109w ago • View Upvotes