What are the best lyrics you have ever heard in a Bollywood movie song?
There was a time when I dismissed the song lyrics if the music was good, and that's when my mother made me listen to Tere bina zindagi, a song about estranged lovers from the movie Aandhi. Let's all take a moment and hail the genius that Gulzar sahab is. The pain and love between the two couldn't be better explained: Jee mein aata hai tere daaman mein sar jhuka ke hum, rote rahein, rote rahein. Teri bhi aankhon mein aasuon ki, nami toh nahi? Tere bina zindagi se koi shiqwa toh nahi Shiqwa nahi, shiqwa nahi, shiqwa nahi. Tere bina zindagi bhi lekin zindagi toh nahi Translation: I feel like putting my head in your lap, and cry, and then some more Are your eyes are wet with tears too? Except for you, I have no other qualms with life, But without you, was my life worth it? Aj din chadheya from Love Aaj Kal, wins out due to the pure child-like simplicity of the lyrics, when the boy asks God for his love (we have Irshad Kamil to thank): Maanga jo mera hai, jaata kya tera hai? Maine kaun si tujhse jannat maang li? Kaisa khuda hai tu, bas naam ka hai tu, Rabba jo teri itni si bhi na chali! Chahiye jo mujhe, kar de tu mujhko adaa Translation: I asked for what's mine, what do you have to lose? I didn't ask you for heaven, did I? What sort of a God are you, just a namesake, If you can't even get this done! Please give me what I desire.. One of the best lyrics since I began understanding lyrics, were penned down by Jaideep Sahni for Pankhon ko, from Rocket Singh: Salesman of the Year: Dil ki patang chaahon mein gote khaati hai Dheel toh do, dekho kahan pe jaati hai Uljhe nahi toh kaise suljhoge? Bikhre nahi, toh kaise nikhroge? Udne do, Udne do Hawa zara si lagne do, soya tha ab jagne do Pankhon ko hawa zara si lagne do... Translation: My heart, like a kite, plunges into the desires, Leave it free, let's see where it goes.. Unless you get tangled, how will you untangle (your life) Unless you shatter, how will you shine? Let it fly, let it fly, Let it grace the wind, let it awaken from it's slumber. Let your wings grace the wind... 