After introducing yourself to a stranger, does the other person often get the pronunciation of your name wrong?
I have problems with both my first and last name.  First and foremost, my first name is Ken.  For whatever reason, a majority of the time when I introduce myself to a stranger, they think I say "Kent".  "Good to meet you Kent." "What's up Kent?" "Hey Kent." "Ken, actually.  K-E-N."  I say with a polite smile as I boil inside.  I'm not sure if it is the way I talk or what.  I do have a slight mumble when I often speak.  Or I speak too quick at times, which perhaps adds the sound of a T at the end.  Who knows? Then we have my last name.  Miyamoto. Now, if I had a nickel for how many times a telemarketer on the phone has butchered my names, well, I wouldn't be rich because a nickel doesn't go as far as it used to, but I'd have a shitload of nickels.  Mie-a-mato Mie-a-moe-toe M-moto You name it.  For the record, it's pronounced: Mee-yah-moh-toh Now when I meet somebody in person, it gets even more interesting.  If it's a prearranged thing and they've read my name beforehand, then see the above for examples of them butchering it.  If I meet them and then tell them my name, it seems as if their whole brain shuts down.  Here's why.  So Miyamoto is clearly (to most) a Japanese name.  You tech guys and gals, and especially you gamers out there, will read the name and likely picture this face to go along with it...    This is, of course, my father Shigeru Miyamoto.  Famous Nintendo producer and game designer.  And I'm kidding about the father part.  If I was his son I'd be playing the Wii right now swimming in money.  Anyway, you get the picture (pun intended), right?  People see the name Ken Miyamoto and they expect to see an Asian man.  Dark hair.  Dark skin.  Well, my name is Ken Miyamoto (K-E-N Mee-yah-moh-toh), and this is what I look like... "What, you mean that bald, Norwegian guy wearing the hoodie," you say? Yes.  So measure a person's expectation of either reading my name beforehand OR hearing my name in the moment, add a touch of confusion, mix in a couple mental double takes, sprinkle some skepticism, and top it off with a moment of "You're f***ing with me, right?", and you'll get an idea of what I experience a majority of the time when meeting people.  Some people even think that Miyamoto is actually Italian... as in "Hey-o, I gotta meatball-o in my hand-o and my name is a MeeaMoto."  As if I look Italian.  I'm 1/4 Japanese.  My father is half.  My grandfather was full.  So it's something I deal with almost daily.  But it's fun.  I understand the Miyamoto part.  I've come to terms with it.  But f***, dude, K-E-N. ;) Updated 123w ago • View Upvotes