What do you think every Indian should know about your state/union territory?
Uttar Pradesh 1) Not all Bhaiyyas from UP are doodhwalas (milkmen) or gangsters. UP has produced a lot of notable people who excelled in their respective fields. Right from the prehistoric age when Valmiki and Ved Vyas wrote Ramayana and Mahabharata. Tulsidas, Surdas, Kabir, Nizammudin Auliya were born in UP. It was the home to rebellions like Rani Laksmi Bai, Mangal Pandey, Chandrashekhar Azad, Bismil. This state produced leaders like Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi and Rajiv Gandhi. Even in the cultural or literary or sports field, it produced people like Pandit Ravi Shankar Ustad Bismillah Khan, Munshi Premchand, Birju Maharaj, Amitabh Bachchan, Nargis, Priyanka Chopra, Raju Srivastava, Dhyan Chand, Subroto Roy etc. 2) Hindu Mythology According to Hindu legend, Rama of the epic Ramayan reigned in Ayodhya. Lord Krishna was born in the city of Mathura. The epics Mahabharata and Ramayana describe the Gangetic Plains. 3) Politics The city of Allahabad was home to leaders like Motilal Nehru, Purushottam Das Tandon, and Lal Bahadur Shastri, besides being home to Prime Ministers like Jawaharlal Nehru, Indira Gandhi, Lal Bahadur Shastri, Vishwanath Pratap Singh and Rajiv Gandhi. Infact 8 (out of 14) of India’s prime ministers have been from UP. It sends 80 out of the 543 members of the lower house of Parliament. 4) Crime Uttar Pradesh appears to be the most crime-infested state,according to the National Crime Records Bureau, Uttar Pradesh is the 'fifth-most safe' state in the country to live in (due to high population hence low crime rate). Indian states and territories ranking by crime rate 5) Population One out of every six Indians is located in UP. It is the world’s most populous sub-national entity. If it had been an independent country, it would have been the fifth largest in the world in terms of population after China, India, the US and Indonesia. Brazil has fewer people than UP though its land area is 35 times bigger. 6) Tourism Uttar Pradesh ranks second in domestic tourist arrivals with more than 226 million. To list a few tourist attractions, we have Taj Mahal, one of the seven wonders of the world in Agra, UP attracts a lot of tourists from overseas. Kumbh Mela, organised in every 12 years attracts a lot (over 10 million Hindu pilgrims) of people across the banks of Ganga in Allahabad. I myself belong to Allahabad and though I have never attended Kumbh, I have seen the huge preparations going on for Magh Mela held every year. Varanasi is populated with Hindu pilgrims all round the year. Infact, UP has the most number of places of worship with a count of 265,270. 7) Cuisines If you are a food lover, especially non-veg (just like me), you have no idea of what you are missing unless you visit the capital city of UP, Lucknow. Kebabs, Biriyani, Keema, Nihari, Kulcha and what not. Lucknow is a foodie's delight. Not to forget Petha from Agra and Peda from Mathura. 8) Festivals Holi is celebrated in most parts of India. But there is a unique way of celebrating the festival of colours in Mathura. Lathmaar Holi is what it is known as. Here women chase men away with sticks. Males also sing provocative songs in a bid to invite the attention of women. Women then go on the offensive and use long staves called "lathis" to beat men folk who protect themselves with shields. 9) Sports Buddh International Circuit in Greater Noida, UP hosted India's first Formula One Grand Prix. 10) Education Jagadguru Rambhadracharya Handicapped University (JRHU), a private University in Chitrakoot, is the only university exclusively for the disabled in India and the world. UP has 6 of the 20 oldest universities that still stand tall. Some that date back to the 19th century include: Aligarh Muslim University (1875) Allahabad University (1875) It is sometimes termed as 'Oxford of the East'. Others that were established later are Chhatrapati Shahuji Maharaj Medical University, Lucknow (1911), Banaras Hindu University, Varanasi (1916), Mahatma Gandhi Kashi Vidyapeeth, Varanasi (1921), University of Lucknow (1921), HBTI, Kanpur (1921). 11) Some facts even I didn't know. 5 Facts About Uttar Pradesh Jalesar The next time you see those lovely small cast bells hung around the necks of cows in Switzerland, be sure to ask where it comes from. You’d be surprised by the answer. Jalesar, a small town with a population of around 40,000 in Etah district is known for casting brass bells and exporting it around the world. Shahjahanpur Even decades after Independence, the streets of Shahjahanpur witness a strange and crude convention. On the day of Holi, the festival of colours, people of the town parade a randomly chosen man, almost naked and wearing a garland of shoes, while beating him with brooms. This happens in the presence of senior district officials and even the High Court is aware of it, but somehow it has escaped a ban. Muzaffarnagar The Jat-dominated district in western Uttar Pradesh has the highest per capita income in the state. One of its blocks, Shamli, is said to have the highest LIC premiums in the country. The Parijat Tree Roughly 40 kms away from Lucknow, stands the parijat tree, which is supposed to be the only one of its kind in the world. It is known for its flower, which changes colour during the day. Legend has it that the parijat plant was brought down from heaven by Lord Krishna for his second wife, Satyabhama. EDIT: The point 'Education' added. Source: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Utt... Updated 46w ago • View Upvotes