Which are the most common Kannada phrases/ expressions used in everyday life?
1) Ond Kelsa Maadi - Do one thing... No matter what the question is, or what suggestion or direction is being asked of us, we start our reply with this. M S Dhoni might forget to begin his reply with 'Well, of course...', but we will never forget to begin our reply with 'Ond Kelsa maadi' 2) Hoge haakskonde maga! - I got screwed bro! This is used to express one's terrible performance/defeat at anything they ventured out to do. From as silly as failing in trying to lift a heavy box up, to a serious thing getting caught by the policemen for robbery. I hadn't studied anything. I went and wrote the exam! Hoge haakskonde, maga! 3) Mosakke Naasha! - Destruction for Cheating This is usually used while playing our gully cricket. When a batsman cheats by claiming he had reached the crease when he was well run out, and he somehow gets away with it, the most angry guy in the fielding side says this! If the batsman somehow gets himself out in the next 2 balls or so, it is almost taken for granted that he had cheated. Helilwa guru, mosakke naasha! 4) Moorak Muktaya! - It ends with the third one! This is again another popular phrase used in gully cricket. Our gully cricket tosses are more controversial than matches themselves. Most of the times, some excuses like - the coin touched the tree, the coin touched someone slippers, the coin didn't keep rotating on the ground for 10 seconds before falling - all such excuses are given when one side loses the toss. So, the toss is tossed for the second time. This time, the other side feels cheated. This is why there will be a unanimous agreement that the result of the third toss is final. Ad henge guru? Idanna naav oppalla! Innond sati haaki - Moorak Muktaaya! 5) Guru swalpa illu nodtira? - Guru, tend to us please This is used by a lot of us when we are waiting to get our bill from the cashier or waiting for someone to listen to our grievances or to take our coupon and give us food in the food courts. It's both a sign of frustration and of urgency when we say it. But somewhat this makes it sound polite. That's the beauty! 6)Manege banri, bande illa nivu! Esht dina aytu! - Come home, you have never come at all  since a long time :) Every time we see someone whom we know, at the roadside or in functions, we never forget to tell this, even though it's just for formality sake some times. 7) Muchappa, kandidini! - Stop dude, I have seen you since long   Every time someone from our gang of friends comes up with some new resolution and tells he'll definitely do it, we all usually calm him down and tease him by saying this. Doesn't mean we are discouraging him, we tell it just for fun. :) 8) Maneli ella chanaagidara? - Is everyone fine at home? Again, this is asked out of courtesy whenever we meet anyone we know after some days. Three words, and your job of being courteous is done. Talk of being lazy and yet not sound careless, and there we are. 9) Aaraam-aag-iro!- Keep calm This is our Kannada version Keep Calm and do X. No matter in what situation we are in, we cannot but say 'aaramagiro, ella chanagi agatte' 10) Devra mele bhaara haakbitidini - I have stopped worrying and left everything for God to handle. This usage is used by us whenever is something beyond our control, it may be used in serious circumstances when someone is suffering from a fatal disorder, or casually when students come out of exam halls. :P 11) En maga, jeevana hege nadita ide? - What dude, what's going on in life? This is our conversation starter. Doesn't matter if we have talked just one hour before and have been meeting each other everyday, we still begin our conversations by this statement. 12) Neen bidappa. Kelle bekilla - You leave dude. There is no need to even ask you This is used to praise, pamper and boost the ego of the other person, and we use it everyday to tease our friends. Sometimes even relatives come up with this statement just a moment after they ask 'enappa, heng nadita ide odu?" (How is your studies going on?) 13) Coffee tindi aaytenappa? - Have you finished drinking coffee and eating snakcs? Every time someone calls you during evenings, they have to ask this. They will ask this. They may forget to ask what they actually wanted to ask you by calling you, but they'll never forget to ask you whether you have finished your coffee and snacks or not. 14) Kaage haarsbeDa - Don't make the crows fly Every time there is an attempt by one of our friends to give some exaggerated dialogue or fake something, we never fail to use this. I guess this dialogue was from one of the films or serials, I don't know which exactly, but it has become pretty popular. 15) Hang Baa Daarige, magane! - That's how you should come to my way from highway, son! This is usually used casually, when a friend who would have disagreed with your suggestion/idea finally accepts it. Enande aagle? Baralwa film ge? Eegenaytu, bartidya film ge? Hang baa daarige, magane! 16) Eno? MaaDak bere kelsa ilwa? - What's your problem dude? Don't you have any other thing to do? This can either be serious or casual, and it depends on the context. When someone unnecesarily pokes his/her nose into your issue, and you are impatient, you say this on his/her face. Even more common occurence of this phrase is when your mom catches you with laptop or cellphone. Yavaaglu aa haaLad mobile jote ne irtyalla, maaDak bere kelsa ilwa? Baa, illi batte maDsiDu. 17) Apaartha maaDkobedi This is a phrase immortalized by our very own Umesh, in one of his films with Umashree. :P This is usually used when you have been caught in an extremely creepy situation even though you are actually innocent. Ayyo! Neevu enu ankotidiro, idu haag illa! Dayvittu apaartha maDkobeDi! P.S. These are some of the most commonly heard Kannada sentences, and I am afraid it's highly Bengaluru centric. Looking forward to people from other places in Karnataka to come up with the most commonly spoken sentences in their parts of Karnataka, so that we can use those sentences occasionally in our conversations to make it more interesting and fun.  Enu Quora Kannadigare, coffee tindi aayta? :D Updated 26w ago • View Upvotes