Which songs have the deepest lyrics?
I would split the answer into two parts - English and Hindi (Ghazals excluded). English 1. Imagine - John Lennon Imagine there's no heaven It's easy if you try No hell below us Above us only sky Imagine all the people Living for today... Imagine there's no countries It isn't hard to do Nothing to kill or die for And no religion too Imagine all the people Living life in peace... You may say I'm a dreamer But I'm not the only one I hope someday you'll join us And the world will be as one Imagine no possessions I wonder if you can No need for greed or hunger A brotherhood of man Imagine all the people Sharing all the world... You may say I'm a dreamer But I'm not the only one I hope someday you'll join us And the world will live as one 2. Arriving somewhere but not here - Porcupine Tree Never stop the car on a drive in the dark Never look for the truth in your mother's eyes Never trust the sound of rain upon a river Rushing through your ears Arriving somewhere but not here Did you imagine the final sound as a gun? Or the smashing windscreen of a car? Did you ever imagine the last thing you'd hear as you're fading out was a song? All my designs, simplified And all of my plans, compromised All of my dreams, sacrificed Ever had the feeling you've been here before? Drinking down the poison the way you were taught Every thought from here on in your life begins And all you knew was wrong? Arriving somewhere but not here All my designs, simplified And all of my plans, compromised All of my dreams, sacrificed Did you see the red mist block your path? Did the scissors cut a way to your heart? Did you feel the envy for the sons of mothers tearing you apart? 3. Mad World - Gary Jules All around me are familiar faces Worn out places, worn out faces Bright and early for the daily races Going nowhere, going nowhere Their tears are filling up their glasses No expression, no expression Hide my head I wanna drown my sorrow No tomorrow, no tomorrow And I find it kind of funny I find it kind of sad The dreams in which I'm dying are the best I've ever had I find it hard to tell you, I find it hard to take When people run in circles it's a very, very Mad world, mad world Children waiting for the day they feel good Happy birthday, happy birthday And to feel the way that every child should Sit and listen, sit and listen Went to school and I was very nervous No one knew me, no one knew me Hello teacher tell me, what's my lesson? Look right through me, look right through me And I find it kind of funny I find it kind of sad The dreams in which I'm dying are the best I've ever had I find it hard to tell you, I find it hard to take When people run in circles it's a very, very Mad world, mad world, enlarging your world, mad world 4. Jim Morrison - The End This is the end, beautiful friend This is the end, my only friend The end of our elaborate plans The end of everything that stands The end No safety or surprise The end I'll never look into your eyes again Can you picture what will be So limitless and free Desperately in need of some strangers hand In a desperate land Lost in a Roman wilderness of pain And all the children are insane All the children are insane Waiting for the summer rain There's danger on the edge of town Ride the king's highway Weird scenes inside the goldmine Ride the highway West baby Ride the snake Ride the snake To the lake To the lake The ancient lake baby The snake is long Seven miles Ride the snake He's old And his skin is cold The west is the best The west is the best Get here and we'll do the rest The blue bus is calling us The blue bus is calling us Driver, where you taking us? The killer awoke before dawn He put his boots on He took a face from the ancient gallery And he walked on down the hall He went into the room where his sister lived And then he paid a visit to his brother And then he walked on down the hall And he came to a door And he looked inside Father? Yes son I want to kill you Mother, I want to............. Come on, baby, take a chance with us Come on, baby, take a chance with us Come on, baby, take a chance with us And meet me at the back of the blue bus This is the end, beautiful friend This is the end, my only friend The end It hurts to set you free But you'll never follow me The end of laughter and soft lies The end of nights we tried to die 5. Stairway To Heaven - Led Zeppelin There's a lady who's sure all that glitters is gold And she's buying a stairway to heaven. When she gets there she knows, if the stores are all closed With a word she can get what she came for. Ooh, ooh, and she's buying a stairway to heaven. There's a sign on the wall but she wants to be sure 'Cause you know sometimes words have two meanings. In a tree by the brook, there's a songbird who sings, Sometimes all of our thoughts are misgiven. Ooh, it makes me wonder, Ooh, it makes me wonder. There's a feeling I get when I look to the west, And my spirit is crying for leaving. In my thoughts I have seen rings of smoke through the trees, And the voices of those who stand looking. Ooh, it makes me wonder, Ooh, it really makes me wonder. And it's whispered that soon, if we all call the tune, Then the piper will lead us to reason. And a new day will dawn for those who stand long, And the forests will echo with laughter. If there's a bustle in your hedgerow, don't be alarmed now, It's just a spring clean for the May queen. Yes, there are two paths you can go by, but in the long run There's still time to change the road you're on. And it makes me wonder. Your head is humming and it won't go, in case you don't know, The piper's calling you to join him, Dear lady, can you hear the wind blow, and did you know Your stairway lies on the whispering wind? And as we wind on down the road Our shadows taller than our soul. There walks a lady we all know Who shines white light and wants to show How everything still turns to gold. And if you listen very hard The tune will come to you at last. When all are one and one is all To be a rock and not to roll. And she's buying a stairway to heaven. 6. You can't always get what you want - The Rolling Stones Well, I saw her today at the reception A glass of wine in her hand I knew she would go meet her connection At her feet was her footloose man No, you can't always get what you want aaaahhwaw No, you can't always get what you want aaaahhwaw No, you can't always get what you want aaaahhwaw But if you try sometime, you just might find You get what you need And I went down to the demonstration To get my fair share of abuse Singing, "We're gonna vent our frustration And if we don't, we are going to blow a 50-amp fuse", yeah And no, you can't always get what you want aaaahhwaw No, you can't always get what you want aaaahhwaw Well, no, you can't always get what you want aaaahhwaw But if you try sometimes you just might find You get what you need, baby And I went down to the Chelsea drugstore To get your prescriptions filled I was standin' in line with Mr. Jimmy And man, did he look pretty ill We decided to have a soda "Whatcha favorite flavor?", "Cherry red" And I sung my song to my friend Jimmy And he said one word back to me, that was "Dead" I said Oh, you can't always get what you want aaaahhwaw Oh, you can't always get what you want aaaahhwaw Oh, you can't always get what you want aaaahhwaw But if you try sometimes, you just might find You get what you need Oh, you can't always get what you want aaaahhwaw You can't always get what you want aaaahhwaw You can't always get what you want aaaahhwaw You can't always get what you want aaaahhwaw And I saw her today at the reception In her glass was a bleeding man And she was practised that the art of deception I could tell by her blood-stained hands Oh, you can't always get what you want aaaahhwa 7. Wish you were here- Pink Floyd So, so you think you can tell Heaven from Hell, blue skies from pain. Can you tell a green field from a cold steel rail? A smile from a veil? Do you think you can tell? Did they get you to trade your heroes for ghosts? Hot ashes for trees? Hot air for a cool breeze? Cold comfort for change? Did you exchange a walk on part in the war for a lead role in a cage? How I wish, how I wish you were here. We're just two lost souls swimming in a fish bowl, year after year, Running over the same old ground. What have we found? The same old fears. Wish you were here. 8. The Winner Takes It All - Abba I don't wanna talk About things we've gone through Though it's hurting me Now it's history I've played all my cards And that's what you've done too Nothing more to say No more ace to play The winner takes it all The loser's standing small Beside the victory That's her destiny I was in your arms Thinking I belonged there I figured it made sense Building me a fence Building me a home Thinking I'd be strong there But I was a fool Playing by the rules The gods may throw the dice Their minds as cold as ice And someone way down here Loses someone dear The winner takes it all The loser has to fall It's simple and it's plain Why should I complain? But tell me does she kiss Like I used to kiss you? Does it feel the same When she calls your name? Somewhere deep inside You must know I miss you But what can I say? Rules must be obeyed The judges will decide The likes of me abide Spectators of the show Always staying low The game is on again A lover or a friend A big thing or a small The winner takes it all I don't wanna talk If it makes you feel sad And I understand You've come to shake my hand I apologize If it makes you feel bad Seeing me so tense No self-confidence But you see The winner takes it all The winner takes it all... 9. Don't Stop Believing- Journey Just a small town girl Livin' in a lonely world She took the midnight train goin' anywhere Just a city boy Born and raised in south Detroit He took the midnight train goin' anywhere A singer in a smoky room A smell of wine and cheap perfume For a smile they can share the night It goes on and on, and on, and on [Chorus] Strangers waiting Up and down the boulevard Their shadows searching in the night Streetlights, people Living just to find emotion Hiding somewhere in the night Working hard to get my fill Everybody wants a thrill Payin' anything to roll the dice Just one more time Some will win, some will lose Some were born to sing the blues Oh, the movie never ends It goes on and on, and on, and on [Chorus] Don't stop believin' Hold on to the feelin' Streetlights, people Don't stop believin' Hold on Streetlights, people Don't stop believin' Hold on to the feelin' Streetlights, people 10. Brothers in Arms  - Dire Straits These mist covered mountains Are a home now for me But my home is the lowlands And always will be Someday you'll return to Your valleys and your farms And you'll no longer burn to be Brothers in arms Through these fields of destruction Baptisms of fire I've witnessed your suffering As the battle raged higher And though they did hurt me so bad In the fear and alarm You did not desert me My brothers in arms There's so many different worlds So many different suns And we have just one world But we live in different ones Now the sun's gone to hell and The moon's riding high Let me bid you farewell Every man has to die But it's written in the starlight And every line in your palm We are fools to make war On our brothers in arms 11. Eye of the Tiger - Survivor Risin' up, back on the street Did my time, took my chances Went the distance Now I'm back on my feet Just a man and his will to survive So many times, it happens too fast You trade your passion for glory Don't lose your grip on the dreams of the past You must fight just to keep them alive [Chorus] It's the eye of the tiger It's the thrill of the fight Risin' up to the challenge Of our rival And the last known survivor Stalks his prey in the night And he's watching us all with the Eye of the tiger Face to face, out in the heat Hangin' tough, stayin' hungry They stack the odds Still we take to the street For the kill with the skill to survive [Chorus] Risin' up straight to the top Had the guts, got the glory Went the distance Now I'm not gonna stop Just a man and his will to survive [Chorus] The eye of the tiger The eye of the tiger The eye of the tiger The eye of the tiger 12. War Pigs - Black Sabbath Generals gathered in their masses, Just like witches at black masses. Evil minds that plot destruction, Sorcerer of death's construction. In the fields the bodies burning, As the war machine keeps turning. Death and hatred to mankind, Poisoning their brainwashed minds. Oh lord yeah! Politicians hide themselves away, They only started the war. Why should they go out to fight, They leave that all to the poor. Yeah! Time will tell them they are Power Blind, Making war just for fun. Treating people just like pawns in chess, Wait till their judgment day comes. Yeah! Now in darkness world stops turning, Ashes where the bodies burning. No more war pigs have the power, Hand of God has struck the hour. Day of judgment God is calling, On their knees the war pig's crawling. Begging mercies for their sins, Satan laughing spreads his wings. Oh lord yeah! HINDI 1. Aazadiyaan - Udaan Pairon ki bediyan khwabon ko baandhe nahi re Kabhi nahi re.. Mitti ki parton ko nanhe se ankur bhi cheere Dheere dheere.. Iraade hare bhare, jinke seeno mein ghar kare Woh dil ki sune kare, na darey, na darey Subah ki kirno ko rokein jo salaakhein hai kahaan Jo khayalon pe pehre daale wo aankhein hai kahaan Par khulne ki deri hai parinde ud ke choomenge.. Aasman aasman aasmaan.. (x2) Aazaadiyan.. aazaadiyan.. Maange na kabhi, mile mile mile Aazaadiyan.. aazaadiyan.. Jo cheenay wahi, jee le jee le jee le Subah ki kirno ko rokein jo salaakhein hai kahaan Jo khayalon pe pehre daale wo aankhein hai kahaan Par khulne ki deri hai parinde ud ke choomenge.. Aasman aasman aasmaan.. (x2) Kahaani khatm hai Ya shuruwaat hone ko hai Hone ko hai.. Subha nayi hai yeh Ya phir raat hone ko hai Hone ko hai.. (x2) Aane wala waqt dega panaahe.. panaahe Ya phir se milenge do raahein.. do raahein.. Khabar kya, kya pataa.. 2. Zindagi Ka Safar - Safar   Zindagi Ka Safar Hai Ye Kaisa Safar Koi Samjha Nahin Koi Jaana Nahin Hai Ye Kaisi Dagar Chalte Hain Sab Magar Koi Samjha Nahin Koi Jaana Nahin Zindagi Ko Bahut Pyaar Hamne diya Maut Se Bhi Mohabbat Nibhaaenge Hum Rote Rote Zamaane Mein Aaye Magar Hanste Hanste Zamaane Se Jaaenge Hum Jaaenge Par Kidhar Hai Kise Ye Khabar Koi Samjha Nahin Koi Jaana Nahin Aise Jeevan Bhi Hain Jo Jiye Bhi Nahin Jinko Jeene Se Pehle Hi Maut Aa Gayi Phool Aise Bhi Hain Jo Khile Hi Nahin Jinko Khilne Se Pehle Khizan aa Gai Hai Pareshaan Nazar Thak Gaye Chaaraagar Koi Samjha Nahin Koi Jaana Nahin Zindagi Ka Safar Hai Ye Kaisa Safar Koi Samjha Nahin Koi Jaana Nahin 3. Ishwar Allah Tere Jahan Mein - 1947  Earth Ishwar Allah tere jahaan mein Nafrat kyun hai, jang hai kyun Tera dil to itna bada hai Insan ka dil tang hai kyun Ishwar Allah tere jahaan mein Nafrat kyun hai, jang hai kyun Tera dil to itna bada hai Insan ka dil tang hai kyun Kadam kadam par sarhad kyun hai Saari zameen jo teri hai Suraj ke phere karati hai Phir bhii kitni andheri hai Is duniya ke daaman par Insan ke lahu ka rang hai kyun Ishwar Allah tere jahaan mein Nafrat kyun hai, jang hai kyun Tera dil to itna bada hai Insan ka dil tang hai kyun Ishwar Allah tere jahaan mein Nafrat kyun hai, jang hai kyun Tera dil to itna bada hai Insan ka dil tang hai kyun Goonj rahi hain kitni cheekhein Pyaar ki baatein kaun sune Toot rahe hain kitne sapne Inke tukde kaun chune Dil ke darwazon par taale Taalon par yeh zang hai kyun Ishwar Allah tere jahaan mein Nafrat kyun hai, jang hai kyun Tera dil to itna bada hai Insan ka dil tang hai kyun 4. Kuch To Log Kahenge - Amar Prem Kuchh toh log kahenge, logo kaa kam hain kehna  Chhodo bekar kee bato me kahee bit naa jayey raina    Kuchh rit jagat kee aisi hai, har ek subah kee sham huyi  Too kaun hai, tera nam hain kya, sita bhi yaha badanam huyi  Fir kyo sansar kee bato se bhig gaye tere naina Kuch to log .........    Hamko jo tane dete hai, ham khoye hain in rang raliyo me  Hamne unako bhi chhup chhup ke aate dekha in galiyo me  Yeh sach hain jhuthe bat nahee tum bolo yeh sach hain naa Kuchh to log....... 5. Waqt Ne Kiya Kya Haseen Sitam - Kaagaz Ke Phool Waqt ne kiya kya haseen sitam  Tum rahe na tum ham rahe na ham  Waqt ne kiya…    Beqaraar dil is tarha mile  Jis tarha kabhi ham juda na the  Tum bhi kho gaye, ham bhi kho gaye  Ek raah par chalke do qadam  Waqt ne kiya…    Jaayenge kaha sujhta nahi  Chal pade magar raasta nahi  Kya talaash hai kuchh pata nahi  Bun rahe hain dil khaab dam-ba-dam  Waqt ne kiya… 6. Rahi Manwa Dukh Ki Chinta - Dosti [Dukh Ho Ya Sukh Jab Sada Sang Rahe Na Koi Phir Dukh Ko Apanaaiye Ki Jaae To Dukh Na Hoye] (Raahi Manava Dukh Ki Chinta Kyon Sataati Hai Dukh To Apana Saathi Hai ) \- 2 Sukh Hai Ek Chhaanv Dhalati Aati Hai Jaati Hai Dukh To Apana Saathi Hai Raahi Manava Dukh Ki Chinta Kyon Sataati Hai Dukh To Apana Saathi Hai Dur Hai Manzil Dur Sahi Pyaar Hamaara Kya Kam Hai Pag Men Kaante Laakh Sahi Par Ye Sahaara Kya Kam Hai Ham-Raah Tere Koi Apana To Hai (2) O~~~, Sukh Hai Ek Chhaanv...... Dukh Ho Koi Tab Jab Jalate Hain Path Ke Deep Nigaahon Men Itani Badi Is Duniya Ki Lambi Akeli Raahon Men Ham-Raah Tere Koi Apana To Hai (2) O~~~ Sukh Hai Ek Chhaanv....... Dukh To Apana Saathi Hai (2) 7. Duniya Banane Wale Kya Tere Man Mein Samayee - Teesri Kasam Duneeya banaanewaale kya tere mann me samaayee  Kaahe ko duneeya banaayee, tune kaahe ko duneeya banaayee    Kaahe banaaye tune maatee ke putle  Dharti yeh pyaaree pyaaree, mukhde yeh ujale  Kaahe banaaya tune duneeya kaa khela  Usame lagaaya javaanee kaa mela  Gup chup tamaasha dekhe, wah re teree khudaayee  Kaahe ko duneeya........    Prit banaake tune jina sikhaaya  hansna sikhaaya rona sikhaaya  Jivan ke path par mit milaaye, mit milaake tune saapne sajaaye  Sapane sajaake tune kaahe ko de dee judaayee  Kaahe ko duneeya....... 8. Title Song - Kal Ho Na Ho Har ghadi badal rahi hai roop zindagi Chaav hai kabhi kabhi hai dhoop zindagi Har pal yahan jee bhar jiyo Jo hai sama, kal ho na ho Har ghadi badal rahi hai roop zindagi Chaav hai kabhi kabhi hai dhoop zindagi Har pal yahan jee bhar jiyo Jo hai sama, kal ho na ho Chaahe jo tumhe poore dil se Milta hai woh mushkil se Aisa jo koi kahin hai Bas vohi sabse hasin hai Us haath ko tum thaam lo Woh meherbaan kal ho na ho Har pal yahan jee bhar jiyo Jo hai sama kal ho na ho Palko ke leke saaye Paas koi jo aaye Lakh sambhalo paagal dil ko Dil dhadke hi jaaye Par sochlo is pal hai jo Woh dastan kal ho na ho Har ghadi badal rahi hai roop zindagi Chaav hai kabhi kabhi hai dhoop zindagi Har pal yahan jee bhar jiyo Jo hai sama kal ho na ho Har pal yahan jee bhar jiyo Jo hai sama kal ho na ho 9. Aaj Ke Naam - Haider (Taken from Faiz's Intesaab) Aaj ke naam, aur aaj ke ghum ke naam Aaj ke ghum ke hai zindagi ke bhare Gulistan se khafa zard patton ka ban Zard patton ka ban, jo mera desh hai Dard ki anjuman, jo mera desh hai Unn dukhi maaon ke naam Unn dukhi maaon ke naam Raat mein jinke bachche bilakhte hai Aur neend ki maar khaaye huye Baajuon se sambhalte nahi Dukh batate nahi, Minnat o zaariyon se behalte nahi Unn haseenaon ke naam Unn haseenaon ke naam Jinki aankhon ke gul, Chilmanon aur dareecho ke belon pe Bekar khil khil ke murjha gaye hai Unn byaahtaon ke naam Unn byaahtaon ke naam Jinke badan be mohabbat riyaatar se Jo the saj saj ke ukta gaye hai Bewaaon ke naam, Katadiyon aur galiyon, mohallon ke naam Jimke naapaak khashaak se, Chand raatin ko aake, karta hai aksar vazoo Jinke saayon mein karti hai aahob ka Aanchalon ki hina, choodiyaan ki khanak Kaakulon ki mehak Aarzoo mand seeno ki, Apne pasine mein, jalne ki boo Padhne waalon ke naam Aaj ke naam, aur aaj ke ghum ke naam Unn dukhi maaon ke Unn haseenaon ke Unn byaahtaon ke naam 10. O Ri Duniya (Inspired from the original song in Guru Dutt's Pyaasa), Aarambh (Ramdhari singh dinkar's poem), Sheher - Gulaal O o o ri duniya - (2)  Hey o ri duniya  Hey (surmayi aankhon ke pyaalon ki duniya o duniya -2)  Satrangi rango gulaalon ki duniya o duniya - (2)  Alsaayi sejon ke phulon ki duniya o duniya re  Angdaayi tode kabutar ki duniya o duniya re  Hey karwat le soyi haqiqat ki duniya o duniya  Deewaani hoti tabiyat ki duniya o duniya  Khwaahish mein lipti zarurat ki duniya o duniya re  Hey insaan ke sapano ki niyat ki duniya o duniya  O ri duniya aa aa, o ri duniya - (2)  Yeh duniya agar mil bhi jaaye toh kya hai - (3)  Mamata ki dukhri kahaani ki duniya o duniya  Behano ki siski jawaani ki duniya o duniya  Aadam ke hawwa se rishte ki duniya o duniya re  Hey shaayar ke feeke lafzon ki duniya o duniya  O o o o o........    (Ghaalib ke momin ke khaabon ki duniya  Majaazon ke unn inqalabon ki duniya) - (2)  Faiz, firaaqon, saahir o makhdum  Mir ki zauq ki daaghon ki duniya  Yeh duniya agar mil bhi jaaye toh kya hai - (3)  Palchhin mein baaten chali jaati hai hai  Palchhin mein raaten chali jaati hai hai Reh jaata hai jo sawera woh dhundhe  Jalte makan mein basera woh dhundhe  Jaisi bachi hai waisi ki waisi bachaalo yeh duniya  Apna samajh ke apno ke jaisi uthaalo yeh duniya  Chhut put si baaton mein jalane lagegi sambhaalo yeh duniya  Kat put ke raakhon mein palne lagegi sambhaalo yeh duniya  O ri duniya aa aa aa, o ri duniya  Wo kahe hein ke duniya yeh itni nahi hai, sitaaron se aage jahaan aur bhi hain  Ye hum hi nahi hain, wahan aur bhi hain  Hamaari har ek baat hoti wahin hai  Hamein aitraaz nahi hai kahin bhi Wo aalim hain faazil hain honge sahi hee magar falsafa yeh bighad jaata hai jo woh kehate hain  Aalim yeh kehta wahan ishwar hai, faazil yeh kehata wahan allaah hai  Qabil yeh kehata wahan isa hai,  manzil yeh kehti tab insaan se ki tumhaari hai tum hi sambhaalo yeh duniya  Ke bujhte huye chand baasi charaago  tumhaare ye kaale iraado ki duniya  Hey o ri duniya, o ri duniya, o ri duniya Aarambh hai prachand bol mastakon ke jhund  Aaj jung ki ghadi ki tum guhaar do    (Aarambh hai prachand bol mastakon ke jhund  Aaj jung ki ghadi ki tum guhaar do ) Aan baan shaan ya ki jaan ka ho daan aaj  Ik dhanush ke baan pe utaar do) - (2) Aarambh hai prachand  (Mann kare so praan de, jo mann kare so praan le  Wahi toh ek sarvshaktimaan hai) - (2)  Vishv ki pukaar hai yeh bhaagwat ka saar hai  Ki yuddh hi veer ka pramaan hai  Kauravo ki bheed ho ya, paandavo ka ? ho  Jo lad saka hai woh hi toh mahaan hai  Jit ki hawas nahi, kisi pe koyi vash nahi  Kya jindagi hai thokaro pe maar do  Maut ant hai nahi toh maut se bhi kyun dare  Jaake aasmaan mein dahaad do  Aarambh hai prachand bol mastakon ke jhund  Aaj jung ki ghadi ki tum guhaar do Aan baan shaan ya ki jaan ka ho daan aaj  Ik dhanush ke baan pe utaar do  Aarambh hai prachand    (Woh daya ka bhaav ya ki shaurya ka chunaav  Ya ki haar ka woh ghaanv tum yeh soch lo) - (2)  Yaa ki pure bhaal par jala rahe vijay ka  laal  Laal yeh gullal tum soch lo  Rang kesari ho ya mridang kesari ho  Ya ki kesari ho  taal tum yeh soch lo    Jis kavi ki kalpana mein jindagi ho prem geet Uss kavi ko aaj tum nakaar do  Bhigati maso mein aaj, phulati ragon mein aaj  Jo aag ki lapat ka tum bakhaar do  Aarambh hai prachand bol mastakon ke jhund  Aaj jung ki ghadi ki tum guhaar do Aan baan shaan ya ki jaan ka ho daan aaj  Ik dhanush ke baan pe utaar do  Aarambh hai prachand - (3) [Aye ek waqt ki baat bataye, Ek waqt ki, Jab sheher hamara so gayo tho, Wo raaj gajab ki] -2 times Hey chahu aur sab ore disha se laali chaayi re, Jugni naache chunar odhe, khoon nahayi re, chahu aur sab ore disha se laali chaayi re, Jugni naache chunar odhe, khoon nahayi re, Sab oro gulaal put gayo, sab oro mein, Heyyy sab oro gulaal put gayo, vipda chaayi re, Jis raat gagan se khoon ki baarish aayi re, Jis raat sheher mein khoon ki baarish aayi re, Jis raat gagan se khoon ki baarish aayi re, Jis raat sheher mein khoon ki baarish aayi re… Sarabor ho gayo sheher aur sarabor ho gayi dhara, Sarabor ho gayo re jattha insaano ka bada bada, Sabhi jagat yeh pooche tha, jab itna sab kuch ho riyo tho, To sheher hamara kahe bhaisaab aankh mood ke so riyo tho, To sheher yeh boliyo neend gajab ki aisi aayi re, Jis raat gagan se khoon ki baarish aayi re, Jis raat sheher mein khoon ki baarish aayi re- 2 times Sanataa viraana khamoshi anjaani, Zindagi leti hai karwate toofani, Ghirte hai saaye ghanehre se, Rookhe baalon ko bikhere se, Badhte hai andhere pishaacho se, Kaanpe hai jee unke naacho se, Kahin pe wo jooto ki khat khat hai, Kahin pe alawo ki chat pat hai, Kahin pe hai jhingur ki aawazen, Kahin pe wo nalke ki tap tap hai, Kahin pe wo kaali si khidki hai, Kahin wo andheri si chimni hai, Kahin hilte pedon ka jattha hai, Kahin kuch mundero pe rakkha hai, Re re re..re re re re… Hoo hoo hoo hoo…. Sunsaan galli ke nukaad pe jo koi kutta, Cheekh cheekh kar rota hai, Jab lamp post ki gandli pilli, ghup roshni, Mein kuch kuch sa hota hai, Jab koi saaya khud ko thoda bacha bacha kar, Gum saayo mein khota hai, Jab pool ke khambho ko gaadi ka garm ujaala, Dheeme dheeme dhota hai, Tab sheher hamara sota hai-3 times Hooo hooo… Jab sheher hamara sota hai, to maloom tumko, Haan kya kya hota hai, Idhar jaagti hai laashen, Zinda ho murda, udhar zindagi khota hai, Idhar cheekhti hai dahua, Khairaati uss aspataal mein bifri si, Aaankh mein uske agle hi pal, Garam maas ka naram lothda hota hai, Idhar uthi har takraaren, jismo ke jhatpat len den mein uchi si, Udhar ghaav se riste phoonko, door guzarti aakhen dekhe rookhi si, Lekin usko leke rang birange mailon mein gun jaayi, shoti hai, Nashe mein doobe sehan se khoonkhaar chutkulo ki paidaaish hoti hai, Adh nange jismo ki dekho, lipi putti se lagi numaaish hoti hai, Laar tapakte chehro ko kuch shitaani karne ki khwahish hoti hai, Wo pooche hai hairaan hokar, aisa sab kuch hota hai kab, Wo batalo to unko aisa tab tab tab tab hota hai, Jab sheher hamara sota hai- 3 times Hooo hoo hoo… PS: There are just way too many songs with amazing lyrics. I could mention only a few. 