How can DNA analysis reveal a person's geographical ancestry if race doesn't exist?
The problem with 23&me is that they are drawing lines using genetic data in ways that make sense to people based on social/cultural understanding.  That has nothing to do with science. Let me go into detail to explain. Race is even worse than the "Species Debate"...for example...scientist still can't come to consensus over what constitutes a species. Species problem The general rules for "species" definitely do not always apply. "A race" has meaning in a social context. If most people believe women are less intelligent than men, regardless of any science (okay women do score slightly lower on IQ test, mostly for visual/spatial stuff then men, but only about 2 points or so)...if most people believe red hair is a mark of the devil, if most people believe tall people are natural leaders...then it is a "reality" to a great extent, because often what is considered "real" is not objective. I think in our natural human need to group everything "cleanly" we really really go overboard to "make everything fit". Being intellectually lazy is easier, which is why people form stereotypes to begin with...it's faster. Easier does not always mean better. The reality is depending on the criteria you want to use I can easy separate genetically almost all Japanese from people in China, and I can create criteria where I can socially/culturally/and phenotypically divide them into neat groups almost every time. If you are talking about Japanese and Uzbeks, it is even easier. I can do the same with Italians and Russians. I can call these races. I can do the same with a Swede and a Greek. I can definitely do so with a Ethiopian Amharic Christian and a Muslim Senegalese. The point is what we consider a "race" is really a large grouping of diversity that we ARBITRARILY CHOOSE to group together based on what makes sense to us (primarily by what we see or by what we think culturally). Truth is we are all more related to those who lived near where our ancestors lived after the Ice Age. All of us...and the relationship usually gets further from you the more you go in distance. The only time this is generally not true is due to some major land mass (desert, mountain, ocean, etc). Where you want to draw a line to call people "a race" is just random. In America we say Indians and Japanese are "Asians", hence the same race. I think an Indian from Northern India feels no relationship at all to a Japanese person from Okinawa. I bet the average Indonesian does not consider a Mongolian the "same race" but to an American mind they are definitely all "Asian". This is arbitrary line drawing. It just depends on where you want to draw the line. Would it not make sense to say the following based on genetic data, in regard to correlation of total genome... 1) African are one race and non-Africans are one race. 2) Europeans and Middle Easterns group together and East and Southeast Asians group together. 3) South Asians group with Western Eurasians (Europeans and Middle Easterns) more than East and Southeast Asians. 4) Northern Indians and Pakistanis group together, and South Indians and Sri lankans group together. 5) People in Tamil Nadu and northern Sri Lanka group together and Keralians group together. 6) North Chinese group more with Koreans and Mongols more than South Chinese, who can be grouped with Southeast Asians (Chinese being the intermediate group). Are Chinese two races? 7)Koreans, Japanese, and Mongols group together more than they do with Southern Chinese. 8) Vietnamese, Laotians, and Thai group more with Southern Chinese than Cambodians Malays, Indonesians. 9) Uzbeks group more with Middle Easterns and Kyrzgyz more with Mongolians and Chinese (both are still Turkic speaking Central Asians though). 10)Black Sudanese Arabs group with Southern Egyptians 11) Ethiopians and Eritreans group Arabians (especially Yemenis) more than they do with South African bantus (what, but aren't they both blacks???) 12) There are groups in North East India that group more with Southeast Asians than Southern Indian. the point is pretty clear, everything I said, if you look it up is accurate, and I can maintain that they are all "races" that are grouping together. I can claim easily that there is more genetic distance between a Ethiopian and a South African Zulu than there is between a man from Lebanon and an Englishman, therefore Ethiopians and Zulus should be a different "race". I can claim quite easily that Chinese Han are two different races because on average i can separate them and group with them different non-Chinese groups. I can also divide Europe between North Western Europeans (Atlantic and continental), Southeast Europeans (Western Med), Northeastern Europeans (Baltic), and Southeastern Europeans (Balkans/Greece) almost every single time into neat categories (but for some border groups such as Germans, Czechs, Hungarians, Southern French, NOrthern Italians)... Should Europeans be considered 4 races? Why not. I can show you easily on a genetic map they can be divided, categorized, etc. If you say the genetic distance is not big enough. Then define the genetic distance that determines a "race". As I said many times it depends on where you want to draw the lines, and that is arbitrary, it is not "science". The problem is quite clear. Science is not proving existing social norms by drawing lines based on what makes sense to you culturally. Science is defining a replicable problem, gather data, applying theory, and showing a given outcome. There is no agreed scientific concept of race, and different cultures determine "race" in different fashion. They might want to draw the lines differently but can still show "correlation". Therefore there is no agreed definition. If there is no definition then it is not replicable, therefore it is not science. Two African Men Help Diversify the Human Genome Pool | MIT Technology Review 2010 - population geneticist found that two Nambian hunter gathers are more genetically distance from each other than Europeans and East Asians. http://www.pbs.org/race/000_About/002_0 ... -01-06.htm Based on this ask them if every Nambian hunter-gather is a race, and Chinese and Englishmen are the same race. LOL 2003 - JOSEPH GRAVES, JR. talks about why "race" is not a valid scientific concept because it is arbitrary Dr. Spencer Wells, head of the National Geographic, Genographic Project 2010 - "Wells says. "Race, in terms of deep-seated biological differences, doesn't exist scientifically. We are 99.9 per cent identical roughly, at the genetic level. That's actually a remarkably low level of genetic diversity compared to other species of large primates. It represents a population bottleneck event some 70,000 years ago when the population dropped down to as few as 2,000 people. We came back from that, and our genome reflects that."" www.independent.co.uk/news/science/spen ... 93055.html Cavalli-Sforza; The between-population genetic variation observed with 650,000 SNPs on the 52 populations of the HGDP is 11% (Li et al. 2008) with a very small standard error. It becomes 16% for the X chromosome, as is expected if nearly all the genetic variation is due to drift—that is, the role of natural selection is very limited. The ca. 30-year-old estimate by Lewontin (1972) of this quantity (15%) was based on other markers and populations and was a reason to encourage banning the use of the word race in humans. In any case the new value is even more supportive of dropping the word race. (Manni 2010). -Manni, F. (2010). Interview with Luigi Luca Cavalli-Sforza: Past research and directions for future investigations in human population genetics, Human Biology, 82, 245–266. Dr. Cavalli-Sforza: "The classification into races has proved to be a futile exercise for reasons that were already clear to Darwin." Cavalli-Sforza, Menozzi, & Piazza, 1994, p. 19 