What advice do you have for a Brit moving to Silicon Valley?
Congratulations on your move! It's an exciting time. Here are a few thoughts from a Brit who moved to the Bay in 2003. * You can find everything you need on Craigslist: housing, jobs, partners, everything! http://sfbay.craigslist.org * We rented a short term house via Craigslist for 6 weeks while we looked for somewhere to live. Nowadays you could probably find this via vrbo.com or airbnb.com * Get a secured credit card, you will have no credit here and won't even be able to rent a car without using your UK cards. Google "how to build my credit". You might not feel the need for debt as soon as you get here but it will bring forward the day you can get a mortgage if you decide to stay. * Check out CarMax.com for a second hand car. They allow you to return the vehicle if you don't like it and the sales people aren't paid commission. * We tried T-mobile, AT&T and Verizon for cellphones. Verizon had the best coverage, T-mobile the best prices but awful coverage and AT&T just sucks. * Apply for your driver's license ASAP. It's pretty easy but will require a test in California. The longer you leave this the worse your auto insurance costs will be, I couldn't find anyway to get my no-claims bonus applied despite 11 years of a clean driving record. * Let all your UK friends know where you've moved to. I found out two people I knew from home were living nearby but only 1-2 years after we arrived! * Where to live depends on where your office is. We liked Menlo Park (the area between El Camino Real and 101 centered on Willow Road was nice) and Sunnyvale. Find out which areas are to be avoided (we left the area in 2007 and might not be up to date). * Cool places to visit: the vineyards in the Santa Clara mountains; Sausalito (north of San Francisco); Yosemite (long drive but well worth it); Big Basin Redwoods State Park (think huge trees). * Find out where the nearest Farmer's Markets are to you, it's a great way to get decent food and meet a few people too. * There isn't so much a pub culture here, especially with co-workers. Find a few things you like to do (for me it was poker, clay pigeon shooting & wine) and invite folks to events focused on those activities. After a few of these individuals will respond better to dinner or drinks invites. * If you're into gadgets check out Fry's. There are several locations, prices are not the best but it's still an awesome experience. * Sign up for a Costco card and do your weekly shop there. They have great prices & stuff, and not just food but clothing, furniture, liquor, etc. * Sign up for AAA, the US equivalent of AA and the RAC. You get awesome discounts as well as helping you when you break down in the middle of nowhere. * Prices are *not* inclusive here. Sales tax and other charges are levied on almost anything. Those $50 tires? That'll be $100 each after separate fees for taxes, waste disposal, taking the old tires off, putting the new ones on, balancing, and opening the box. At first it feels abusive but you get used to it. * Etiquette: leave your sarcasm or dry sense of humor at home, you'll alternately puzzle or offend people with what would be harmless banter at home. * Activities like telling jokes, swearing or chats lasting more than a few minutes are frowned upon in the workplace more than they were in the UK when I came over. [I've heard this may have changed at home too, I've been gone nearly 10 years.] Limit drinking at company social gatherings, and never have a drink at lunch. * Practice saying "warder" for "water". It's the only word that pretty much every American seems to mishear. Otherwise your accent will be generally appreciated and commented on. * When people invite you over to dinner they mean it, generally they are not just being polite. * Do your research on how to get a green card when on an H1B in case you decide you want to stay permanently. 