I am drinking and driving a lot. What are some things I can do to stop myself?
Give away your car.    Lose your car keys in an elevator shaft, and don't look for your other set, for a while. Uber (company), or cab, (or bike or walk) everywhere.  Get a town car for your dates.  Use a limo, or get a driver with a big black tinted-window Escalade for your club nights.   You say you have the money to fight the "legal" ramifications; use the money here, preventatively, instead. Although you say "The biggest fear that I have would be to hurt others," it's clear that you really don't care about "others" at all, it's all about you.  Otherwise, you wouldn't say: "But I cannot really summon the compassion anymore since I don't care about my life right now. "   How is whether or not you care about your own life at all related to what stupid tragic horror you might cause for someone else, or yourself?  What does your compassion have to do with it?  Your "compassion" is irrelevant.   This is about maturity, and understanding that your lack of responsibility has bearing on others' lives and on society at large.   Grow up. You can still get yourself hammered, and drown your sorrows.  Hang out with all those horrible influences and bad people.  Bummer about the failing software stuff; so sad that you lack a "meaningful companion".   I'd guess you'll fix all that tragedy in your life by continuing to party like a fool, right?  So long as you have that money, there's no doubt that you'll find plenty of enablers.  That's OK; we all have to get things out of our system somehow. But don't drive. Look at this: MADD - Mothers Against Drunk Driving  or this: Drunk Driving Statistics   Watch the videos. Read the statistics and the stories.  Think about people you may know who've been touched by these tragedies.  Maybe go to an AA meeting, at your local church.  I'll tell you who I know: I know a man who lost his 21-yr-old daughter and her three friends when a drunk driver slammed into them when they were stopped at a stoplight, at midnite after a baseball game.  I know a woman whose sister-in-law and friend and their two small children were struck and killed by a drunk driver while crossing in a crosswalk at 2:30 in the afternoon on a Tuesday.  I know a mother who lost her son who was driving home alone from a party and wrapped his car around a tree.   Do you think any of them would give a shit about your failing software business, or your failure to find a "meaningful relationship", or your compassion? Stop driving while drunk.  It's dumb. 