What do you think every Indian should know about your state/union territory?
I am from Maharashtra. We proudly call ourselves Marathi. Me Marathi! Maharashtra is the third largest state of India. It has Sahyadri and Satpuda mountain ranges spread across it. Still a lot of region is plane. Thus, some part of Maharashtra enjoys rainfall for complete 4 months, while some part had worst drought of decades, in 2012-13. Sahyadri Mountain Ranges: We speak Marathi language. And we are really proud of it. Here is a stanza which says the same. लाभले आम्हांस भाग्य बोलतो मराठी जाहलो खरेच धन्य ऐकतो मराठी धर्म, पंथ, जात एक जाणतो मराठी एवढ्या जगात माय मानतो मराठी -सुरेश भट. Translation: We are so fortunate that we speak Marathi. We are truly blessed that we listen to Marathi. We know only one, religion and caste, which is Marathi. In this whole world, we treat Marathi as our Mother.   Various regions of Maharashtra speak different dialects of Marathi. It is found that in Maharashtra, Marathi is spoken in 32-36 different dialects. It is derived from Sanskrit hence is very easy to understand and speak too! Maharashtra has following regions : Vidarbha - (Nagpur and Amravati divisions) - (Old Berar Region) Marathwada - (Aurangabad Division) Khandesh and Northern Maharashtra Region - (Nashik Division) Desh - (Pune Division) Konkan - Coastal area of Maharshrtra. Famous places: Lonar lake: This lake is formed crater formed due meteor. It is one of the biggest such lakes formed due to meteor hitting the earth. Forts : There are numerous forts built by Maratha Empire under the rule of great Shivaji. The remains of those forts tell a strong tale of the history. Yeah, we love, adore, respect and even pray Shivaji as God. Sindhudurg: One of the many forts built by Shivaji. This one is bit different, It is built in the Arabian Sea! Rajgad: Nanded : Gurudwara, Replica of Golden Temple of Amritsar. Aurangabad: Bibi ka Makbara (Replica of TajMahal) Shani shingna pur: A village where nobody locks the doors! Many attempts to build a rooftop over the Shani(Saturn) God idol failed. No logical reasons satisfy the mystery till now. As a superstition all the houses in this village don't lock their doors. The people have tremendous faith in God Shani and follow this 'No lock policy' till date. Konkan: The coastal area of Maharashtra. Malvan: There are many silent and clean beaches in Konkan. This photo was taken at Tarkarli. Other than these there are Ajanta, Ellora caves, many hill stations like lonavla, khandala, Mahabaleshwar. Many national parks find place in Maharashtra. We have Mumbai! The economic capital of India. The city which never sleeps and is never tired. Here are some photos depicting the magnificence of Mumbai. Here is a great photo, I found on Internet. It is of Bandra-Worli Sea link and Mumbai Sky line. The new world class International Airport of Mumbai. Dabbawalas in Mumbai : These people deliver lakhs of Food tiffin boxes everyday. The system is so efficient that it is often compared with Six Sigma level service. It is claimed that Dabbawalas don't make any mistake in delivering the boxes. The chances of mistake are 1 in 8 million deliveries. Many B-schools have case studies on Mumbai's Dabbawala system. Festivals: Ganesh Festival : Lokmanya tilak started the festival publicly in Pune, Maharashtra first. The festival is celebrated on a huge scale today with great enthusiasm. In every house and colony an idol of Lord Ganesha is worshiped for 10 days. Below is the photo of the Ganesh Idol brought at my home for this festival.   LalBaug cha Raja (King of LalBaug, Mumbai): Over the years, many Ganesh Mandals(groups) have formed. LalBaug is one of the prestigious Mandal in Mumbai. People wait for hours to take a look at the idol. This Ganesh Mandal receives crores of Rupees from public as donation in those 10 days. A pic, I captured when I went there. Diwali: It's everywhere. :) This is a photo of Diwali Lamp made by my uncle and his son on ocassion of Diwali. My uncle is quite an artist. :) We also celebrate Christmas and Eid with same enthusiasm and fervor. This photo was clicked at Ramjan dawat by my close friend at his home. People: Shivaji. No, I am not talking about Rajnikant's movie, Shivaji the Boss.:P Albeit, this man is no less than Rajnikant for Maharashtrians. This guy made Maharashtra proud by his vision and leadership qualities. He fought Moghul using Guerrilla warfare and built his own empire. He built several forts in Sahyadri mountain ranges. Over the period of time the forts are losing their sheen. But, the strong structures still depict the strong tale of the great Shivaji. By the way, Rajnikant's real name is also Shivaji. ;) Sachin : Who doesn't know him? (Except Maria Sharapova. :P ) Lata Mangeshkar : Babasaheb Ambedkar, Lokmanya Tilak and Many freedom fighters. The list can go on and I don't want to flood this answer with photos. Food: No, we don't eat only Wada pav. It is a kind of Maharashtrian fast food. Like McAloo Tikki. There are many such fast foods of Maharashtra. 'Misal' is one of those items. We love spicy food. Kolhapuri Misal, Kachori in Shegao, Wadapaw in Mumbai, Baingan Bharta in Jalgao, Surmayi fish in Malvan, Pandhara Rassa and Tambda rassa. Sweets: Lonawla Chikki, Konkani Mewa, Puranpoli, Modak and lot more. Here are some pics which I captured when few of the above items were made by my Mom. Modak: A sweet made for Lord Ganesh festival. A click of it when my mother made it. Puran Poli: My mother is expert in it. I think that's the reason I am so fat and foodie. :) Diwali Faral: This is what we enjoy at the time of Diwali. Don't blame me if you feel terribly hungry. :P Here is a link to excellent answer by Shubham Shinde on Maharashtrian Food. Shubham Shinde's answer to What are some of the must-try dishes of the various Marathi cuisines? We are food lovers. We have all sorts of south Indian food outlets along with the normal ones. You can find almost every type of Hotel, right from North Indian to South Indian cuisine. Shopping: If you are in Maharashtra, you should know Paithani. Its a hand woven sari made in a village Paithan. Hence the name, Paithani. The artwork on a Paithani is so delicate that it takes months to make a complete Sari. The cost is also on a bit higher side. A Paithani can cost between Rs. 10k-50k. We have big malls in Mumbai,Pune cities. As cotton is one of our major crops, we have cotton market in every major city. Some other important things:We have cotton as our major crop in Vidarbha region. But due to unpredictable rainfall many farmers lose their crop. As a last resort, farmer commit suicide as he cant support his family. Lately, the farmer suicide rate reached a 1farmer/day. This is very sad and disappointing. Although, government is providing them many subsidies or loan waivers, the situation is still grim. A single answer is insufficient to tell the magnificence of Maharashtra. This is my humble try. Thanks for reading such a long answer! Jai Hind! Jai Maharashtra! Source: Almost all photos are clicked by me except few. Those few are obvious. Wikipedia MAHARASHTRA TOURISM, The Official Website of Maharashtra Tourism Development Corporation Ltd. Updated 33w ago • View Upvotes