Failure: How is life after failing in the 'IIT JEE' examination?
Another long post it is going to be. TL;DR - Life is about choices/decisions you make and your capability in executing what you chose. Now, being shortsighted, one could consider the happening or not-happening of a particular something to be failure; but trust me buddy, you would later realise, success or failure is too strong a word to attach to your score in such an examination - particularly JEE/CAT. When you grow up and are matured enough to understand it, just make choices which you would want to achieve and which would make your life better when considered over a fairly longer span of time. Choose your heart, not mind - clichéd, but it works. Do take some time off your life every now and then to listen to your heart and to know what it wants. And there would come a day when you will have to and will stop blaming your parents, your education, society, culture and the system for things that happen to you. Well, I will be pretty honest here. I don't fit into this question - I am an IIT alumnus. But I would like to answer this question, since I have failed even after clearing JEE. This part of failing is more about the ups and downs that come in life after JEE. I never failed in studies - not 'coz I was some child prodigy that somebody mentioned in their answer; but 'coz I was just good at it. Not to say that I haven't put in the effort; but I hadn't put in more than 6 hrs a day, ever, to my best knowledge. The problem is, I was never interested in studying in the first place. And if you haven't realised by now, being successful in something has got no definitive correlation with your enthusiasm to excel at it. Before jumping in, few relevant facts first: I come from a rather modest background. I was never a coder in my highschool or  intermediate. In fact I had never used a computer before clearing JEE. And that was the day my father brought home a computer. I didn't fail IIT JEE. I cleared with a sub-500 rank. And being from a state not so forward in education, I was perhaps rank 3 or 4 in the state itself. I didn't get a single F grade or X grade in my undergraduate. And being from one of the departments considered to be quite strict and demanding in terms of academics (not Computer science), I think I fared well enough that I got better than 6/10 on all my subjects and a department rank of < 20/72. Within the next 4 years, I finished an internship on compiler designing and was working with a team on UNIX kernel modifications and LINUX porting. Now, you might be thinking, why the heck is this crazy ass even considering to have failed in life. Well, my dear, that piece of information was not to scare you; rather to set the context regarding how failed one can feel even when the rest of the world considers you successful and might die to be in your shoes. A lot of it has to do with what the world doesn't see. HOW I cleared JEE is still incomprehensible to me. And that's why I said, as I have come to believe, I was just good at it - like somebody might be good at making tea even without ever having put some conscious effort. And WHY I wanted to clear JEE was because my parents were just an average Indian couple - who won't want their son to be anything other than an IITian and won't think twice before scolding the shit out of him and tagging him as a shame to their family as some neighbour or some nephew cleared the same. That's what was the motivation for me to clear JEE - to get rid of it. Having done that, and having landed up my ass in a crazy place where 800+ students were rushing on their cycles from morning till evening to acquire "knowledge" which they can put in the answer papers during exams, I had come to the realisation of what blunder I had done. But soon, I came to reconcile, perhaps, that was the best I could have done. Again, being good at studies, I had no issues in scoring a 9 pointer in the first term. That was 'coz most of those subjects, I had already covered in my intermediate. During the first term, I met few people - some were cool and others were assholes. I even met people who would venture to state that the institute identity card was the "ultimate endowment of your restless effort of the past 16-17 years of your life". And on one occasion, one asshole didn't even stop from claiming that the girl I had a crush on was his girlfriend back in school and he had dumped her. Huh!!.. Start of the next term, the problem surfaced. I got a laptop of my own. Yuppies!!. And with that, I got into what I was born to do - tinkering with computers : to the extent that I would crash Windows and install OS X on a HP laptop by formatting the disk a whooping 27 times in a span of 6 days before I could get stuff to work on OS X. With the laptop, I got unregulated access to the internet and Orkut, where I met girls. Whoa!!. Never knew that some girls would actually like to talk to me - I was pretty much an introvert my whole life. And what better could have happened to me on planet earth, if that girl was the girl I had a crush on. With that happening, my grades started showing up their true nature. The graph below is for your kind and quick consumption. Oh boy! That was such a rocky ride. With my grades dropping (by dropping, I mean a drop in rank from 18/830 to 600+/830), my average Indian parents turned on their BBC radio, about how I must focus on studies and how I would repent for the rest of my lives if I don't give up talking to girls in general or give up considering for committing to a serious relationship. To add a little more spice to it, if that wasn't enough, the girl I had a huge crush on, as it turned out, had a boyfriend and went on to have multiple short-lived relationships all the while I was falling for her and she went on claiming me to be her best friend. Later, I realised and her finally-married-self said, she never really considered of having any sort serious relationship with me. And I made a fool of myself. In a series of events that followed, My grades dropped further. I became known as somebody who would never go to class or would go "only to spend some quality time with his iPod". I got into a growing-to-be-serious relationship with an amateur poet pursuing law. My parents, being themselves, repeated the same sentences, and that worked like a charm. Though it was pretty fucking good a feeling to be in a relationship and that was the only relationship I had with someone completely different, it didn't last. I broke up the relationship. And stopped talking to girls altogether to adhere to what my parents asked of me. In fact, I stopped my life altogether, for a while - stopped talking to friends, stopped doing whatsoever I used to do. Rather I would go in the loneliness of the night to a swing in a children park near my hostel and stay there from 12 to 4. Just so that, I could grasp all that was happening in and around my life. That's about when it hit me. How the hell can some other person(s) manipulate my life just by saying something or threatening me? It has to be something in me - something wrong with me. And after long stares at the chart I attached above, it somehow struck me that I didn't have enough push for things I was doing. And that was the sole problem. That was an epiphany. That day, by that time in my final year, I just decided I will only do things I want to do. Not the things that come at or are thrown at me. I had a few calls from IIM A C (which again I didn't want, but had given the exams before this stark realisation); but decided to go out with few friends to a nearby sea-shore just so that I can spend some quality time with them before parting ways. Before leaving college, I met a girl from my school - somebody I had never talked to. And love at first sight or not, I wanted to be with her for the rest of my life. And I knew I wouldn't ever again meet somebody better than or even as good as her. Little did I know that she hated me to the core of her heart - for her parents had been telling her, "See! How successful he has been! Why can't you study as well as him?" That hate was the push - the impetus. We soon became friends. It just felt great to be able to connect to somebody who could understand you. And somebody who knew thousand times more than me about everything in the universes - arts, biology, history, and what not! (Thanks sweetie pie for your sheer awesomeness.) And from that point, things kind of accelerated. :) Accept it or not, life has a happy ending in store and the sooner you realise what you want, the better it is. And if you think, failing in IIT has or would have some impact on your life, then you don't understand life. It has got no respect for IIT. 