What jargon and abbreviations should newcomer DOTA2 players familiarize themselves with?
A handful of players in DOTA 2 still use terms from the DotA in Warcraft III, so I will include terms from both games. Since there were some copyright issues, and or for other reasons I’m not aware of, they changed the names of some spells, items, hero names, and hero titles. Here’s a list of all possible terms and acronyms I’ve seen used in the games (note that I bolded words that are used the most often and that everything on the left column is related to DOTA 2 and everything on the right is its Warcraft III DotA equivalency). Heroes (to what is currently available in DOTA 2 as of May 20, 2013): Ancient Apparation - aa Anti-Mage - am / Magina Beastmaster - bm / Rexxar Bloodseeker - bs / stryg Bounty Hunter - bh / Gondar Brewmaster - Mangix Bristleback - bristle / Rigwarl Centaur Warrunner - Centaur Warchief Crystal Maiden - cm / Rylai Dazzle - priest / Shadow Priest Death Prophet - dp / banshee / krob / Krobelus Disrupter - Thrall / Far Seer Doom - db / luci / Lucifer / Doom Bringer Dragon Knight - dk / Davion Drow Ranger - trax / Traxex Earthshaker - es / Raigor (es can also relate to Earthshaker's ultimate, Echo Slam) Elder Titan - et / tc / chieften / Cairne Juggernaut - Yurnero Keeper of the Light - kotl / Ezalor Lich - Kel'Thuzad Lifestealer - N'aix Lina - Slayer Lone Druid - sylla Huskar - Sacred Warrior Invoker - Kael / Kael'thas Io - wisp / Guardian Wisp Magnus - magna / Magnataur Medusa - Gorgen Meepo - geo / Geomancer Mirana - potm / priestess Naga Siren - naga (there are 3 nagas in total, however I've only seen "naga" used specifically for Naga Siren) Nature's Prophet - Furion Night Stalker - ns / bala Nyx Assassin - na / anub / Anub'arak / Nerubian Assassin Outworld Devourer - od / obsidian / Obsidian Destroyer Phantaom Assassin - pa / mort / Mortred Phantom Lancer - pl / az Puck - Faerie Dragon Pudge - abom / Butcher Pugna - Oblivion Queen of Pain - Akasha Riki - sa / Rikimaru / Stealth Assassin Sand King - sk / crix / Crixalis (sk is also used for Skeleton King) Shadow Fiend - sf / Nevermore Shadow Shaman - Rhasta Skeleton King - sk / skele / Leoric (sk is also used for Sand King) Skywrath Mage - sw / sky mage / Slark - murloc / nightcrawler Sniper - Kardel Spirit Breaker - sb / bara / Barathrum Sven - rk / Rogue Knight Templar Assassin - ta / Lanaya Tidehunter - th / levi / Leviathan Tiny - sg / Stone Giant Timbersaw - shredder / Goblin Shredder Treant Protector - tree Troll Warlord - tw / Jah'rakal Tusk - Ymir / Tuskarr Vengeful Spirit - vs / venge Venomancer - veno Undying - Dirge Witch Doctor - Vol'jin Items: Assault Cuirass - ac Battle Fury - bf Black King Bar - bkb / avatar Blink Dagger - kelens Boots of Travel - bot (this is also used to represent the "bottom" lane) Courier - bird (also used as a verb meaning to upgrade the team's courier) Daedalus - buriza Eaglesong - Eaglehorn Heaven's Halberd - abyssal / Abyssal Blade Hyperstone - hs Mask of Madness - mom Monkey King Bar - mkb Morbid Mask - Mask of Death Scythe of Vyse - chicken / sheep stick / guinsoo Shadow Blade - Lothars / Lothar's Edge Skull Basher - Cranium Basher Town Portal Scroll - tp Terminology: 1) "aoe" - area of effect; the radius of a certain area. 2) "bottle" - to seal a rune into the item, Bottle. 3) "b" - back; to retreat. A common typo is "bb" or "bbb". When this happens, they are generally freaking out because you are somewhere you shouldn't be. If you see multiple "b's" followed by obnoxious pings, retreat quicker. 4) "bg" - bad game; game was not fun. If a player states bg in the middle of a game, they are either being sarcastic or gave up on the hopes of winning. 5) "bot" - alternative way of saying "bottom lane". It is also used as another form of the AI. (e.g "i only just played a game against bots.") 6) "carry" - A hero that has the capability of wiping out the enemy team and winning the game. Its also seen as "to carry", where someone will purposely pick a "carry (hero that can carry)", so that their chances of winning are higher. 7) "clash" - a fight between both sides of the team involving all players. 8) "creeps" - the waves of units in every lane, also includes the ones in jungle camps. Also called "minions" by those who played League of Legends. 9) "deny" - to have the killing blow on a friendly creep, tower, or hero so you can prevent enemy heroes from gaining the full gold and experience rewards. 10) "disabler" - a hero role whose purpose is to stun or slow down an enemy hero or team. 11) "dps" - damage per second; It is also used to describe heroes whose role is to deal large amounts of damage. 12) "early game" - describes the part of the game that is at the very start. It is commonly called the laning phase, where everyone just sits in the lanes or jungle and obtain gold. 13) "farm" - to obtain gold for the sole purpose of buying strong items. Achieved by killing creeps (minions), towers (turrets), or enemy heroes (champions). (e.g "just farm up.") 14) "feed" - to constantly die and give the enemy team gold. It can either be on accident, or on purpose. "Feeding" can also occur if you do nothing in your lane and let the enemy hero in that lane farm freely. 15) "fog" - the areas you can't see on your minimap or camera's field of vision. 16) "fountain" - the area near the item shop that heals you. It is also the actual building that heals you and attacks enemy units that enter within its attack range. 17) "gank" - to sneak up on an enemy champion to kill them, most situations of a gank means the hero that is being killed is outnumbered. 18) "harrass" - to auto attack or use spells against an enemy hero for the sake of making them lose hit points. it is also seen as "poke". 19) "initiate" - to start a clash 20) "juke" - to trick someone into going another direction while you escape alive (e.g "you just got juked!") 21) "ks" - kill steal; to have a killing blow on an enemy hero that you didn't deserve. it is often also seen as "kill secured", a defense to someone accusing you of ksing them. 22) "last hit" - to hit an enemy creep (minion) or tower (turret) and succesfully making it so that your attack was the killing blow. 23) "late game" - describes the part of the game that is close to ending, generally everyone has full builds, the best items they can possibly get, and where carrys shine. 24) "mia" - missing in action; used to say that someone from their lane is currently not there and may either be trying to kill a hero from a different lane, at the fountain healing and or buying items, or jungling. It is also seen as "ss". 25) "mid" - alternative way of saying "middle lane" 26) "nuke" - to obliterate a target quickly. Some heroes have a role called "nuker", where their job is to nuke. 27) "oom" - out of mana; no mana to cast any spells. 28) "passive" - a heroes spell that is not clickable. Passives are either an aura, a chance on hit effect, or activated by an external value. However, passive can also mean to not be aggressive in a lane (being passive means to just focus on farming). 29) "push" - to force your waves of creep to overwhelm the enemy team's waves of units so that your waves will be deeper in the enemy territory. Some heroes have a role called "pusher", where their main purpose is to push out multiple enemy lanes. 30) "rax" - to destroy the enemy barracks (e.g "rax it") 31) "re" - returned; the enemy hero on their lane is no longer missing in action and can be seen in the lane. 32) "rosh" - short for Roshan. it is also used as a verb, meaning to kill Roshan himself (e.g "they are probably roshing" or "lets rosh"). 33) "tank" - a hero role whose purpose is to take all the damage for the team 34) "top" - alternative way of saying "top lane" 35) "tunnel vision" - to focus on one thing and not pay attention to your surroundings. 36) "secret shop" - the item shop not located near the fountain (it isn't really secret). This does not include the two shops on both top lane and bot lane. 37) "solo" - the player who took a lane by themselves. Generally, the "solo lane" is mid. 38) "skill shot" - a spell that involves a player to aim rather than to just click a target or to have it instantly done for you. 39) "support" - a hero role that is not meant to kill, but to help your team get kills. generally the hero with the most utility spells. 40) "ult" - ultimate; a heroes spell first learned at level 6. It can also be seen as "ss", meaning super special. All of these were at the top of my head, so I wouldn't be surprised if I missed any. In the heroes and items list, I left out terms where their common used name is already a part of their name (e.g lycan is used for Lycanthrope). In addition, the terminology list only contains terms that will teach you the basics of understanding what people say when they talk to you at a "newbie" level. Other terms left out on that list also includes terms used in other games, and should already be known (e.g hp is hitpoints). Updated 141w ago • View Upvotes