After introducing yourself to a stranger, does the other person often get the pronunciation of your name wrong?
Ohhhh boy where do I start. I'm had my last name mispronounced and misspelled throughout my life, up to the point where I can fluently recite the spelling of it to correct people in a phonetically-pleasing manner. "Cal-oh-meer-us" is how I generally pronounce my last name, but when I'm lazy I sometimes say "Cal-oh-mare-us" just because I'm used to both pronunciations of it. But even though this is how I say my name, the odd fact those two are also mispronunciations of my last name - the authentic Greek pronunciation is "Kahl-oh-mee-dees" and only because I'm distanced from my Greek heritage - something I think all third/fourth generations of immigrants suffer from - is why I'm ok with my Anglo-cized pronunciation . Only once did a stranger pronounce the correct, Greek pronunciation of my last name and it was a substitute teacher from high school. I was instantly impressed and he won my admiration straight from the clipboard. The common mispronunciations I've heard throughout my life so far have been: "Cal-oh-myre-us" "Kahl-oh-mer-is" But oh boy, spelling my name is a whole 'nother story. Usually when somebody is searching for my name I have to direct them from looking under 'C' to under 'K'. Often when my name is in a database I simply say "K-a-l-o.." so they can navigate without worrying about offending me. One interesting story about the spelling of my name and how had a big influence on the direction of my life was 8 months ago. I was just starting out college and was curious about joining a social fraternity. I was on the fence because the fraternity in particular had some friends, but also had some questionable people and the house wasn't really clean. During the last part of the bid process (which was more like a sign-up process for my school) they invited me into a really nice room with a rich, purple rug and nicely furnished tables. I sat down with a trio of brothers and they handed me my bid. It was a folded envelope, inside was a stock paper invitation with fancy typography and nice ribbons. I was starting to feel good about joining that fraternity because it seemed they were going out of their way for me to join so I felt special. But one thing caught my eye on the invitation that really rubbed me the wrong way. Where they have the underlined space for your name, this is what they put for my last name: "Calymirzs" To give them some credit they didn't ask how to spell my name, but they were missing entire syllables! At that moment I didn't feel good at all about joining not just that fraternity but any fraternity - I started to see that they didn't care about me specifically joining, and that I would just be just "another brother". I let the bid swim in my sea of paper handouts on my dorm room desk. I didn't "go Greek" (which is ironic because I'm already Greek anyways)  like a lot of kids in my dorm hall did, and as a result I did excellent in school and made the highest grades I've ever recieved. Also one thing I love about my name is you can make fun of it by calling me "Robert Calamari", which is perfect since Calamari is my favorite seafood & one of my favorite foods to eat. 