Which songs have the deepest lyrics?
1. Anything by Pink Floyd. Time You are young and life is long and there is time to kill today. And then one day you find ten years have got behind you.  No one told you when to run, you missed the starting gun. As the title suggests, the song is about time and how it is constantly moving. We can afford to waste it now, but eventually we will look back and regret the missed chances. Wish you were here Did they get you to trade your heroes for ghosts? Hot ashes for trees? Hot air for a cool breeze? Cold comfort for change? Did you exchange a walk on part in the war for a lead role in a cage? Although it was a tribute to Syd Barrett, I see it as a satire on industrialization and consumerism. Have we traded the little joys of life for the material comforts? Echoes Strangers passing in the street, By chance two separate glances meet. And I am you and what I see is me, And do I take you by the hand, And lead you through the land, And help me understand the best I can. And no one calls us to move on, And no one forces down our eyes. No one speaks, And no one tries. 2. Or by Pearl Jam The end Cause friends they come and go People change, as does everything I wanted to grow old 3. Sufjan Stevens (John Wayne Gacy Jr.) And in my best behavior I am really just like him Look beneath the floorboards For the secrets I have hidThe song's about a serial killer and the last lines make you think if everyone's pretending to be good but has evil lurking behind the mask, ready to reveal itself at the slightest hint of anarchy. 4. Jeff Buckley (Lover, you should have come over) Sometimes a man gets carried away, when he feels like he should be having his fun. And much too blind to see the damage he's done, Sometimes a man must awake to find that really, he has no-one. So i'll wait for you... and i'll burn About a man who was foolish enough to lose his love. And how he regrets it 5. Death Cab for Cutie - I'll follow you into the dark The entire song 6. Gary Jules - Mad World All around me are familiar faces Worn out places, worn out faces Bright and early for the daily races Going nowhere, going nowhere(Need I say more?) 