How was your experience writing PG entrance exam (PGEE) for IIIT-H for Computer Science?
I appeared for PGEE - 2015, held on April 19th. I'll jot down as much as I can remember regarding the exam and interview experience. There were two papers, one of which was general aptitude, and the other was a Computer Science paper. The first paper had 45 questions and the second paper had 67 questions. We were given 90 minutes for each paper. The first paper had questions from probability theory (various probability distributions such as exponential, Bernoulli, geometric), coordinate geometry (equations of lines when they're rotated), linear algebra (mainly matrix algebra), computer programming (very basic questions involving predicting the output of a program), simple calculus (maxima and minima, slope), permutations and combinations, work and time, speed and distance, and a lot of other general aptitude questions. Most of the questions were straightforward and a lot of people were able to solve them. There were two reading comprehensions. Each of them had 4-5 questions that followed. I felt that these questions were tricky in the since multiple answers could be correct.  There was no negative marking though. However, there was enough time to skim through all questions at least once. I would say that this paper would not need any prior preparation if you've brushed up formulas from permutations and combinations, linear algebra, coordinate geometry, and probability. I was surprised (in fact, shocked) when I received the second, i.e., technical aptitude, question paper and saw that there were 67 questions to be solved in 90 minutes. The paper followed a pattern similar to that of GATE 2015. The first 25 questions carried 1 mark each and the remaining questions carried 2 marks each. Moreover, the organizers did not stick to the syllabus specified on their website. There was a tiny fraction of the paper that contained questions from topics not mentioned in the syllabus. To add to it, an extra question was printed but did not have a question number against it which confused everyone (the confusion was resolved soon, when the examination committee decided to delete that question). Now, let me speak about the questions in the technical aptitude paper. Before appearing for the exam, I had read at numerous places that GATE preparation would be more than enough for PGEE. And I realized that it was true after I saw the second paper. Most questions (close to 60%, maybe even more) were either from earlier editions of GATE or from the gate section at geeksforgeeks (http://www.geeksforgeeks.org/gat...). I was lucky in the sense that I followed their topic-wise mock test section very closely during the 2 months preceding GATE and most questions were directly from that place. The organizers did not bother changing the options as well, so it was easy going. Overall, my exam went very well and I was expecting a call for an interview. After the exam there was not much communication from the admissions committee. Hence, most of us were not clear as to when results would be announced. One fine day we got a mail from the organizers saying that results would tentatively be out by the 25th of May. So, we waited. Patiently. And eagerly. We got a mail late in the early hours (around 0040 hrs) of 26th May, stating that results were out. The mail specified the URL of the results page, of which no one had a clue until then. As expected, I was shortlisted. I got a call for an interview which was scheduled on June 11th. Before I share my interview experience, I think I should specify a few things about myself that people should know to understand some of the questions asked in my interview. I've completed my Bachelor's degree in Information Systems from BITS Pilani, Pilani Campus. I have a CGPA of 6.7/10, which is considered low. But I had completed quite a few research projects and hence had a good exposure to research. I've worked mainly in the areas of robotics and computer vision. With the background done, let me now tell you about my interview experience. I was asked to report at IIIT-H at 0900 hrs on 11th June. Before reporting, each person selected was assigned a panel of professors and a serial number (assignment was strictly done on the basis of alphabetical order of names of people). There were 7 panels in all. Each panel was allotted 30-32 students. On my interview day, 278 students were called, of which most people turned up. We had to sign on an attendance sheet after which we sat in a hall (maybe an auditorium?). The chairperson for post-graduate admissions gave an address, where he told us about IIIT, the admission process, the interview process, etc. Interviews began at 1000 hrs. I was among the first set of people to be interviewed (in fact, I was the 5th person). I entered the interview room to find myself facing a panel of 3 professors. From here I'll use 'interviewer' to refer to any of the 3 professors. I'll describe most of the interview as a dialogue between me and the interview panel. Interviewer: What's wrong with BITS? Why do you want to join IIIT-H? Me: Sir, I am aiming for a career in teaching and research.  And my area of interest is mobile robotics. For that, I think this is the best place in India I can go to. I've been following the research of the Robotics Research Center (RRC), IIIT-H, for a few years now. Moreover, my professors back in my college also think the same. Even they have recommended that I join IIIT-H. Interviewer: So, what are your preferences? (referring to the programmes I wanted to opt for) Me: My first preference is MS by research Computer Science. My second preference would be M.Tech. in Computer Science. Interviewer: So, I was reading your resume. I saw that you scored 93% in class X, 97% in class XII, but only 6.7/10 in your Bachelor's. Any specific reason for that. Me: Sir, throughout my undergrad, I was focused on research and on other technical projects. Although I never neglected my academics, I never excelled in them either. But I'm sure my research and project experience more than makes up for my low CGPA. Interviewer: All right, let's move on. (At this point, they start asking me questions regarding my Bachelor Thesis. It was on terrain coverage using multiple mobile robots. They were more interested on the challenges that I tried to address in my thesis. Since this would not be of general interest, I will move on to the rest of the interview). Interviewer: Move to the whiteboard and draw a grid of 6 x 6 cells. (I did as I was told). Interviewer: Now, assume that you have a robot in the top-left corner. Assuming that it can only move from left to right and from top to bottom (it cannot move in the other two directions), how many paths exist between the top-left and the lower-right corner. (I took some time in answering this question. The interview panel told me that they were not interested in the exact answer, but in my approach to the solution. After nearly 5 minutes, I managed to answer the question.) Me: Any permutation of 5 left-to-right movements and 5 top-to-bottom movements will lead in a new path. So, the number of paths would be (10! / (5! * 5!) ). Interviewer: Could you show me one permutation that would not result in the robot reaching a goal. Me: (After thinking for a while) Sir, I don't think there will be such a permutation. Interviewer: So, each permutation of 5 left-to-right movements and 5 top-to-bottom movements will result in a new path? Me: Yes, Sir. Interviewer: Okay, come and sit down. You're good at math? Me: (a little nervously) Yes. Interviewer: Of course, you're interested in robotics. So, you must be good at math. Let me ask you an interesting question. One of my friends asked me this. Suppose that you take you car to a parking lot everyday. Each day, you know that the probability of finding a parking spot is 1/3. You take your car to the lot for 9 consecutive days and you don't find a spot. What's the probability that on the 10th day you take your car to the lot and find a spot. Me: 1/3. Interviewer: Oh, why is it so? Me: Since we're just talking about finding a spot, the probability is 1/3, irrespective of whether we found a spot the preceding day or not. In other words, "we're not due for finding a parking spot on the 10th day". Interviewer: Your answer is fine, but try to explain it in technical terms. Me: Finding a spot each day is an independent event. Interviewer: There you are. Now, let me modify the question. Let me say that every third day, you're guaranteed a parking spot. Now, what's the probability that you find a spot? Me: If you don't mind me asking, could I know something? If we're guaranteed a parking spot every third day, why is it that we could not find a parking spot for 9 consecutive days? (It was an innocent question and the entire panel burst out laughing. A few moments later, I too saw the funny side of it and started laughing.) Interviewer: Good question, actually. Forget the first 9 days. I just wanted to ask, given that he's guaranteed a parking spot every third day, what's the probability of us finding a parking spot on some random day? Me: The probability day that a random day is a third day is 1/3. On that day, the probability of finding a spot is 1. On any other day, it is (2/3) * (1/3) (After this, I was asked if I received offers from any other institute. I said that this was the only institute I had applied to, for Masters. I also told them that I had an opportunity for direct transfer to Masters at BITS Pilani). Thus ended my interview. Throughout the interview, everyone from the panel was very supportive, and tried to ease things up. They were, at no point, interested in the exact answers. They were analyzing the approach adopted. And, they would give enough time to think before answering. So, my advice to people would be to go to the interview relaxed and not worry too much on what they will be questioned upon since it varies a lot from person to person. Results were announced on 29th June, and I was shortlisted for MS by research in Computer Science. Updated 10w ago • View Upvotes