Which is the most inspiring Hindi poem you have come across?
Uh oh! I can already see the upcoming controversy. Please note this official Quora policy: Does content on Quora need to be written in English? As of now, the English only policy still remains valid on this forum. Both the OP and any other answer writers may kindly note the same - for now as well as the future. Nan Waldman may please corroborate my statement. If at all any other language or script is to be used, it must be transliterated in Roman as well as translated in English. The default assumption is that anyone from the Quora international community may like to see and understand the question and answer. It is not necessarily limited to the speakers of the particular other language under consideration. That said, I now put in my answer and would strongly recommend that any other answer after this must be written along the same pattern. Poem: Ek Boond (One Drop) Author: Ayodhya Singh Upadhyay "Hariaudh" jyoN nikal kar baadaloN kii gowd se (Just as a little drop of water left the clouds) thii abhi ek boond kuchh aage baRhii, (and had proceeded a bit ahead) sochne phir-phir yehii jii meiN lagii, (she started thinking again and again) aah! kyon ghar chhoRkar maiN yuN baRhii ? (Oh! Why I did I leave my home like this?)   daiv mere bhagya meiN kya hai baRha (O destiny, what would be my fate) maiN bachungii ya milungii dhool meiN? (will I live or get swallowed up by dust?) ya jalungii gir angaare par kisii? (would I burn out by falling on fire?) choo paRungii ya kamal ke phool meiN? (or I will land on a lotus blossom?)   beh gayi us kaal ek aisii hawa, (At that moment came a gust of breeze) voh samundar ore aayii anamanii, (and carried her unheeding to the sea) ek sundar seep ka muNh tha khula, (a beautiful oyster was open) woh usii meiN ja paRii motii banii (where she fell and became a pearl)   lowg yuN hii haiN jhijhakte, sochte, (People often hesitate and think) jabaki unko chhoRna padata hai ghar, (when they have to leave their homes) kintu ghar ka chhoRna aksar unheiN, (But quite often, leaving their homes) boond lauN kuchh aur hii deta hai kar (transforms them like the tiny drop of water) As Mihika Kulkarni suggests, a bit of context may not be out of place. In Indian astrology, there is this mythical story about pearls: Swati nakshatra (Arcturus) is the 15th nakshatra (star) of the zodiac. This auspicious nakshatra looks just like a pearl. There is a popular belief about its pearl making power. It is said that if a raindrop falls on a pearl oyster at the time this nakshatra is ascendant in the zodiac, then a pure pearl is formed. And now, finally the original in its original script (Nagari) ज्यों निकल कर बादलों की गोद से। थी अभी एक बूँद कुछ आगे बढ़ी।। सोचने फिर फिर यही जी में लगी। आह क्यों घर छोड़कर मैं यों बढ़ी।। दैव मेरे भाग्य में क्या है बढ़ा। में बचूँगी या मिलूँगी धूल में।। या जलूँगी गिर अंगारे पर किसी। चू पडूँगी या कमल के फूल में।। बह गयी उस काल एक ऐसी हवा। वह समुन्दर ओर आई अनमनी।। एक सुन्दर सीप का मुँह था खुला। वह उसी में जा पड़ी मोती बनी।। लोग यों ही है झिझकते, सोचते। जबकि उनको छोड़ना पड़ता है घर।। किन्तु घर का छोड़ना अक्सर उन्हें। बूँद लौं कुछ और ही देता है कर।। 