What do you think every Indian should know about your state/union territory?
Our beautiful state, Odisha (formerly Orissa):   I would start by saying, presently I stay in Delhi and the way northerners perceive Odia people is utterly disappointing. They think our language is funny. They think our cuisine does not stand a chance in front of their rich food. To quote some “Oh! You are from south India”, "Which place is this Odisha again?". So, for the last time, let me tell you people about the rich Odia heritage. Our geography:   Odisha is situated in the eastern part of the country. It is surrounded by West Bengal to the north-east and east, Jharkhand to the north, Chhattisgarh to the west and north-west and Andhra Pradesh to the south. The state has an area of 155,707  sq. km and extends for 800 kilometres from north to south and 500 kilometers from east to west. Its coastline is 480 kilometre long. The state is divided into 30 districts which are further subdivided into 314 blocks. (P.S.: The star is where my home is.) BHUBANESWAR: The Capital (Temple City) Aerial View of Bhubaneswar: Our State Symbols: State Animal: Sambar deer State Bird: Indian Roller State Flower: Asoka flower These are some facts that even Odia people might not know. Our Religious Places: Ram Mandir in the heart of the city: Shanti Stupa: (Dhauli) ISKCON (Bhubaneswar): satsang vihar bhubaneswar Kapilas: Captivating Yogini Temple Ranipur Jharial:  This temple is from 9th century Our share of the magnificent Indian Railways: East Coast Railway Bhawan: Cuttack Railway Station: This is one of the most spectacular railway stations in India. It is built in the shape of the Barabati Fort. Other attractions: Mayfair(Bhubaneswar): Grand getaway Trident (Bhubaneswar): Biju Patnaik International Airport: It is named after the former Chief Minister of Odisha, Biju Patnaik, who was also a famed aviator and freedom fighter. As of 2013, Bhubaneswar was ranked the 17th busiest airport in India by the Airports Authority of India (AAI) registering a 1.82% traffic growth. The Government of India accorded international status to the airport on 30 October 2013. The newly constructed Audi Showroon (Bhubaneswar): Our Food: Out of many specialties of Odisha, I would list down a few which are my absolute favorites. Chenna Poda: That quintessential cheese dessert Malpua: Sweetest pancake ever Arisa Pitha: Crispy outer layer with soft insides Poda Pitha: Every oriya's favorite Enduri Pitha: Rossogolla: Originally originated in Odisha Khiri: Rice pudding that can blow away your mind. Mine does. Khaja: Lord Jagannath's favorite Dahi Bara Aludam: Odisha is famous for this across India. Jhal muri: My absolute favorite snack Pakhala Bhata: A blessing in the summers Lord Shree Jagannath's 56 Bhog Mahaprasad: A lunch fit for a king. Our Dances: Odissi Dance: The oldest surviving dance form of India Gotipua Dance: Ghumura Dance: Must visit places: Puri Jagannath: One of our four dhams. Chilika Lake: India's migratory birds paradise Gopalpur: Udaygiri caves: An archeologist's paradise Bhitarkanika National Park: Nandankanan Zoo: Simlipal: Chandipur Beach: Visit for the awesome sunset views and the speciality of this beach is that sea recedes by as much as five kilometres every day on the Chandipur beach Konark SunTemple: A fascinating tale behind the majestic structure (Picture Credits: Mayank Choudhury) Darngbadi: A mini Kashmir in Odisha (our own slice of heaven) The Barabati Stadium in Cuttack: You should visit during one of the matches as the stadium breathes and reverberates to the cheers. Arts & Handicrafts: You would want it all, won't you? Sambalpuri Sarees that we are famous for: Ladies love it Applique craft: Stone(dhokra) Craft: Silver Filigree: My favorite Metal Work: So beautiful Pattachitra Painting: Another interesting fact of Odisha: The Olive Ridley Turtles: The majority of Olive Ridleys nest in two or three large groups near Gahirmatha in Odisha. In 1991, over 600,000 turtles nested along the coast of Odisha in one week. Sand Art: Sand artist Sudarsan Pattnaik single-handedly bought Odisha to international attention. He was awarded the Padma Shri by Government of India in 2014. Below is one of his beautiful sand art. Some famous personalities of Odisha: Biju Pattanaik: Biju Patnaik was an Indian politician and Chief Minister of Odisha for two terms. And the most famous personality in Odisha. Subhas Chandra Bose: (born in Cuttack) Subhas Chandra Bose was an Indian nationalist whose defiant patriotism made him a hero in India, but whose attempt during World War II to rid India of British rule with the help of Nazi Germany and Japan left a troubled legacy. Varahagiri Venkata Giri : 4th president of India, Born in Brahmapur. Mira Nair: Indian film director, actress and producer based in New York, born in Rourkela. Sam Pitroda: (Born in Titlagarh) Sam Pitroda is an Indian engineer, business executive and policymaker. Dilip Tirkey: He is a former Indian hockey player and best known for his penalty corner hit. Dilip was one of the most difficult defenders to beat in the world. Nandita Das (film actress and director): Nandita Das was the first Indian to be inducted into their International Women's Forum's hall of fame for her contributions to arts. Rituraj Mohanty: India's first Raw Star! Sona Mohapatra: Indian singer, music composer and lyricist Harihar Dash- the 'Internationally Acclaimed' dancer from India Our Industrial and Infrastructural Strength: SAIL-Rourkela Steel Plant: The first integrated steel plant in the public sector in India, was set up with German collaboration with an installed capacity of 1 million tonnes in the 1960s. Subsequently, its capacity was enhanced to 2 million tonnes. The RSP has many firsts to its credit. It is the first plant in Asia to adopt the energy-efficient LD process of steel making and the first integrated steel plant of SAIL which adopted the cost-effective and quality-centered continuous casting route to process 100% of steel produced. The plant has also, for the first time in India, had adopted external desulphurisation of hot metal by calcium carbide injection process. RSP is one of the unique units under the SAIL umbrella with a wide variety of special purpose steels. Coal Mines in Odisha: Talcher Coalfield is located in Angul district. Hirakud dam: It is the longest major earthen dam in Asia,covering 5 kilometers between two hills. Paradip IOCL Refinery: DRDO, Odisha: ITR, Chandipur: NALCO’s Angul smelter Paradip Port: The fully automated coal handling plant can handle up to 20 million tons of coal imports per annum. Our Institutions: INS, Chilika: NIT, Rourkela: IIMC, Dhenkanal: AIIMS, Bhubaneswar: NISER: IIT, Bhubaneswar: Odisha as the software hub: In a bid to become the next information technology hub of India, Odisha Chief Minister Naveen Patnaik invited investment in the state's knowledge-based sector and promised action on improving infrastructure. "The total investment proposals we have received is almost Rs.4 trillion (Rs.4,000 billion) and to hasten the process the government has created a single window clearance and facilitation system," Patnaik said. "Over the next five years we will spend Rs.250 billion for improving our roads," he told chief executives of top firms at a meeting organised by the National Association of Software and Service Companies (Nasscom) here. Bali Jatra: The grandest way of merriment Finally, the Grand Rath Yatra: This is just as mesmerizing as it looks. Maybe even more. Notice the crowd behind. If you are interested and want to know more, you can always PM me. Thanks for appreciating my beautiful home state. EDIT: User. Make as many Odisha jokes you want, this guy single-handedly upped the coolness quotient of our state. PS: Let it be known that I am expecting a Salman Khan movies's pretentious review, to whomsoever it may concern. Updated 36w ago • View Upvotes