Is Gurjot Sidhu related to Navjot Sidhu?
Oh you. I won't answer until you reveal your identity. Okay fine I will. I'll give you a gist. I am reading a book on the history of Sidhus and will write a full blown detailed post about it when I am done, probably 2-3 weeks hence. Till then.. History The Sidhu clan goes back a long long time. There was a man named "Sidh Rao" from whose name the surname Sidhu began. Moving on a few generations, came another man named "Mohn" who had six sons, "Roop Chand" was the eldest and there was another son named "Kaala". According to (legitimate) history the 6th Sikh Guru, Guru Hargobind Singh fought a battle at (my native village) "Mehraj". Roop Chand was killed in the battle. One day Kaala took one of Roop's sons - "Phul" who was just a little kid, to the Guru's darbar. *skipping some details* The Guru blessed Phul and said that Phul's descendants would rule from Satluj to Yamuna. Phul became an instant hit. People started following him and his rule was soon established. One of Phul's grandsons - "Baba Ala Singh", assumed leadership in 1714 and under his successors it expanded into a large state, touching Shivaliks in the North to Rajasthan in the South. This is roughly (and very briefly) the story of establishment of the Patiala State. Coming to the answer..Navjot Singh Sidhu belongs to the generations of Baba Ala Singh and so does my family. So yes, me and Navjot Sidhu are related. However our family tree splits up near the top itself, which means that our great-great-great-....-great-great grandfather wasn't the same person, but they were cousins (once/twice removed) or something. But our great-great-great-....-great-great-...-great grandfather is the same guy, the good old Baba Ala Singh. Not only that, I am also related to this guy - Capt. Amarinder Singh : Former Chief Minister of Punjab and the titular Maharaja of Patiala. Trivia Capt. Amarinder Singh belongs to the 14th generation of Baba Phul and I belong to the 13th. So technically I am his Uncle. My native village - Mehraj, is the largest village in the state of Punjab. I am royal blood. PS - I have skipped huge details here. But I guess you got your answer. PPS - I'm sure the non-native Punjabi speakers must have had a great time reading all the names up there, so to help you out I am writing some pronunciations - Sidhu - Sidh + oo. Non-native Indians should give up the -dh sound and just pronounce it as Sid-who. Mohn - Moan with an "h" sound. Roop Chand - Roop + Chun + d (as in the) Kaala - Kaa - la. (Indians - yep, same as the color) Mehraj - Meh + Raaj. Phul - Fool with emphasis on the F. Baba Ala - Baa-baa + Aa + la. 