After introducing yourself to a stranger, does the other person often get the pronunciation of your name wrong?
Ah I feel like I was born to answer this question. First a little background. My first name is Sanskrit. It's the name of the Hindu god of war. Dictionary.com manages a passable pronunciation (the definition of skanda); passable because they roll the D too hard. The D should sound more like the "th" in "this" or "that". I've trotted around the globe a fair bit. And encountered many interesting renditions of my name: I) Mumbai I love this city - in many ways I consider it my home town. But remember, the Hindu god of war is largely unknown outside of South India. Though historically prevalent in the North (there was even a king of old called Skandagupta), he isn't worshiped there as much today. Therefore North Indians (and West and East Indians) tend to do a double take when they encounter my name. Children Back in pre-middle school (when I'd just arrived in Mumbai) most of my classmates were mystified by my name. Some of them invented some cool tricks to remember it. Eventually, they decided they liked the "tricks" better than my actual name. Here they are: Trick 1 : Skanda - S = Kanda This means onion in Marathi Trick 2 : Skanda - Sk = Anda This means egg in Hindi Trick 3 : Skanda + Ganda = Skanda Ganda (which rhymes) This means "dirty Skanda" Trick 4 : Skandar + Bandar (takes my name and forces it to rhyme with Bandar) = Skandar Bandar This means "monkey Skanda" Yeah, school was a blast :D Adults The good grown ups of Mumbai were equally as mystified as their children. Out of politeness though, they would (mostly) make a sincere attempt to say my name. Here's the thing though, a lot of North and West Indians have trouble with an S followed by a consonant. School becomes "Ischool", sky becomes "isky", stand becomes "istand" etc etc. So, Skanda became Iskanda. And that was if I was lucky. Most folks preferred Sikanda. Which, to the Indian mind, does not compute. There is no such name. The confusion would resolve to Sikandar (which happens to be a mostly Muslim name, meaning "commander") So yes, I spent a lot of time being mistaken for Muslim. And sometimes Christian (though that part I never figured out). II) The Middle East I spent some time in Dubai. Dubai is very cosmopolitan; filled by people from all over the Arab World, South Asia and Europe. It was here my name took on a new form. "Eskandar". Interestingly, this is closely related to the North Indian "Sikandar". They both mean the same thing. I remember being in a grocery store once, and a couple of older Pakistani guys (religious types, with the cap and beard) struck up a conversation with me. They asked for my name. When I gave it to them, one of them gave me a stern look. "Sikandar!", he said, "Say your name properly. Do you speak good Urdu?" When I shook my head his look became sterner. "Why not?". At that point my parents rescued me. A somewhat mind blowing fact that I discovered is that Eskander and Sikander are respectively the Middle Eastern and South Asian versions of "Alexander", possibly planted there by Alexander the Great on his campaigns. Interesting that they both mean "commander". Today, sometimes when I'm ordering pizza (in the US) and I don't feel like going through the whole name explaining exercise, I'll tell them the order is for "Alex". Close enough. III) Canada/United States I came to a liberating realization when I set foot in English speaking North America. I was in line at the immigration at Pearson International Airport, Toronto. In front of me was an Indian gentleman. His turn came. "Rahooouul!" called the nice Canadian lady from the counter, rolling the Rs a tad too harsh. "Rahooull!" Something within me perked up. I glanced at the man. His name was "Rahul". An Indian name as common as John, or Adam. A name with which you'd pass through an Indian school unscathed (from name calling at least). There he stood, with a confused expression. I recognized that expression. I'd been having it forever. I grinned. That's right, my Indian, Pakistani and Middle Eastern homies. Out here, in this country, our names are ALL WEIRD. Woohooo! Alone, no longer! I gave him an empathetic nod. Now, in the United States, there's fewer odd looks, less confusion. Upon looking at my face, people just assume I'm going to have a name they haven't heard of. I've been categorized. For better or worse. In most cases, it makes things go over smoothly. Most Americans and Canadians manage "Skanda", pronouncing it like Scandal without the L at the end. I actually kind of like it. So much so that I've taken to introducing myself in that fashion these days. Though every now and then I meet an Indian person and revert to the Indian pronunciation of my name. And most of the time, the old hilarity ensues. Updated 136w ago • View Upvotes