What is the best short story on 'social issues'?
Never Hit a Girl, because .. ?   Johnny was born into well being family. His childhood was something every child could just dream of. He had a twin sister, with he being 10 minutes older than her. Their bonding was something people would talk of. But he only had one problem, he used to ask a lot of questions, not concerned whether its right or wrong, He dared to question the society's smooth flow. While in school he got into a fight with a girl and they both hit each other. Teacher intervened and took both of them out and slapped him. Teacher : Students, today one of our beloved friends proved what’s wrong in the society. He got into a fight with a girl and hit her. This actually proves that one day when he will grow he will do the same. I think you all need to learn a lesson today. Now repeat it with me "You should never hit a girl and always respect her" Johnny: So does that mean its okay to hit a guy and disrespect a guy Teacher: Did i say that? And no it’s as bad as hitting a girl. Johnny: Then why we are only told to say to never hit a girl, never make her cry. You weren't even there when the fight took place and you don't know who started the fight and just slapped me. Teacher: So you want to argue today. That's how you behave with your parents at home. That's what they teach you at home. I'll surely like to meet them right away.   That wasn't his first shot with such kind of treatment for being a guy. Once he had a fight with her sister and he cried like hell. His mother consoled him by saying, Mom: Boys don't cry, okay. Johnny: But why, why don't boys cry Mom: Because they are meant to be strong, powerful.   But all this got into worse of the situation when he pointed out the definition of one of the words in a book in front of the class. The word was Sexism and the definition stated "Sexism or gender discrimination is prejudice or discrimination based on a person's sex or gender. Sexism can affect any gender, but it is particularly documented as affecting women and girls."He couldn't understand the use of writing the second line. He pointed out the same to his teacher. And after 15 minutes of heated argument his teacher being female said this "So what you mean is that this definition is wrong. They shouldn’t have written this line. Do you know what is the fate of girls in our country?  How they are tortured, treated in the most ill mannered, sometimes not even allowed to take birth. Paid less everywhere, looked upon as just a thing to be used and thrown and here you are pointing out mistakes. What could be expected more, you are a guy the same people who do this, you are the people who start this. Today, a girl is being raped every second or now and nobody comes to know. And you here want equality in definition. You mean men also get raped ? "  The mere mention of this statement burst the whole class into laughter. Yes a mere mention burst everyone into laughter.  This continued forever and he couldn't understand what’s going on. Why a fight with a girl proves he is not manly enough. He chose music because the teacher didn't allow him to take up dance as he was the first of the guy interested in it and his friends booed him for considering girly things. He chose not to go to a club because there were no free drinks for him or free entry. Why he faces anger when he accidentally falls on a girl but the other way round it was just a accident. Why after having a tiring day at office and barely able to stand he is expected to give his seat to someone whose body organs are considered more fragile than theirs. Why he is expected to  hold the bags, open door, push chair because that makes him a man. Why it is that your slap was wrong but her slap means you have anger issues Why we can't cry or why our feelings are meant to be hurt and we can't complain because that's not what men do. He wondered why men are not supposed to cry.   These thoughts kept his mind busy and diverted from the mail he received from one of the world's best university that rejected his admission because his country people brutally raped a girl and that automatically makes him the culprit too. He understood what his teacher meant when she said "Whats wrong with the society ?". He realized both of us were in agreement, that the society is not capable of differentiating between Equality and Justice and that's why they think that the only way of empowering women is by disempowering men. As he said to himself "Its our action that discriminates against women but our thinking always does it against the men which is more worse than the former." because we don’t even know we are doing it. Updated 23w ago • View Upvotes • Not for Reproduction