Failure: How is life after failing in the 'IIT JEE' examination?
Amazing. Fucking amazing. Flunking the JEE was among the best things I've ever done. A true water shed moment in my fledgling life. This is going to be long. Very long. But heck, I'm going to write it anyway :) Never said this out loud to anyone. Not even my ex-girlfriend who had a ringside view of all this. I topped my school for 12 straight years before I was forced to enter the JEE coaching rut. I wanted to study to be a doctor because I believed in the meaningful life that came with it. I was damn good with Bio (topped SLSTSE Andhra Bio in my 10th with 20/20 in a very tricky paper) and wanted to go with it. I was pretty much bullied into doing JEE coaching instead (I'd also done FTRE and finished with a 100ish rank so that meant 100% scholarship and promises from FIITJEE reps about how I'd totally rock JEE). I never wanted to be an engineer to start out with, which basically put into question the whole premise of doing JEE. But honestly, for someone who likes Physics, Maths as subjects I didn't have any other option but this. I wanted to study Physics as deeply as possible in 11th and 12th and this seemed the place. By the time I'd graduate Math would become my favorite subject thanks to the best teacher I've ever had who was so much more than a JEE trainer. Well I joined FIITJEE (because it requires the least number of hours per day. Narayana CO and Chaitanya IPL wanted me to do 12 and 14 hours respectively) and really pushed myself with all I had. I did fine on exams. After their Phase1, they do a goats-at-Bakrid type sorting where the plumper ones that are more likely to get a better price are separated to be fed better. I was one of their plumpest prospects. I grazed on, mindlessly of course. But then my long repressed inner self gathered enough strength to speak over the cacophonous din that life had become. I was still finishing in the top few. But I somehow didn't feel that inherent satisfaction that had driven me through my 9th and 10th to do well at Olympiads and stuff. I realized that the only times I actually felt free and alive was when I was quizzing. I was reasonably good and being good or not didn't matter. I just enjoyed it so much. For a few hours on a weekend I knew what true happiness was. I began looking beyond the FIITJEE workbooks to spend my time.I knew I had to finish them but somehow I just didn't have the heart to go into robotic mugging mode that was very often required. I always studied for the sake of studying to that point and somehow in the whole pressure of ranks, solving an x number of worksheets in a day, competing with the class rather than myself--I just lost it. I began playing to the beat and heck, it just wasn't me. I suffered. Not because I didn't like the subjects. I love Physics with all my heart (I'd later even qualify the Physics/Astronomy Olympiads). I suffered because of the system and the way we were going about things. Not FIITJEE's fault. They were amazingly supportive through my travails and they didn't really have a choice if we had to go up against the 12 hour/14 hour drones. The whole get into IIT procedure has become so warped that it is no longer only about intelligence or depth of understanding, its more about how many hours you've put in. The recognition of "repeat" models, the "speed" that comes out of it, all that is purely directly proportional to the number of hours. Its unforgiving really--you don't put in those 8+6 hours, then you're already lagging. Unless of course you're some child prodigy or crazy as fuck genius. I'm not. I'm just your little above averagely intelligent kid who loves some subjects and is good because of that love rather than because of some inherent talent. I started reading fiction, studying Literature as a subject online at Sparknotes, poring over museum reviews of art and writing long random posts in my diary. I got more satisfaction out of all this than my workbooks. My ranks slipped. From 3 I'd go to 17 and by the end of Phase 3, 29. This is when I chanced upon the whole SAT business that FIITJEE had zeroed in on as its next investment. From my "performance" (that word gets around a lot at FJ) my English teacher declared me a natural fit for the exam. Till that point I'd never even considered going to the US or anywhere away for undergrad--too expensive for someone who was at FIITJEE only because of the 100% FTRE fee waiver. I began looking up the curriculum, finding out more about undergrad at places like Yale, Princeton and Harvard that not only were these crazy as fuck dreamlands but also had this whole "need-blind" admission thing going for them. The whole outlook of a "core curriculum" and an escape from engineering while ensuring I didn't end up a "mauz bandi-wala (banana-vendor) as my dad puts it  was simply perfect. (dad logic: anything but engineer for undergrad=potential bandi-wala). And I could do this while indulging all the deep interests in Art and Literature I had cultivated through my quizzing and extra-academic studies. I made up my mind that this is what I was going to work to. Had a lot of dinner-table wars with my parents and finally got to take the SAT. Wrote my heart out. 2340. Put all my heart into my apps, told them how I'd be an amazing fit at their campus, what my life had been about to that point, about the "one person that had shaped your life in a significant way" and after kiss-sealing them, shipped them off in December, 4 months away from JEE. A little hike back in our story here. Between my decision to do this and the December shipping off my slide in ranks continued. I grew increasingly disillusioned with the incessant rat race and mugging. This doesn't mean I stopped studying. I still loved my subjects, remember? After a Chemistry disaster in Phase 5 in which the whole basis of Organic Chemistry was corroded by this Chemistry-pro who knew everything but teaching, my Chem was doomed to ruin. Maths was amazing. Physics was reasonably good. I'd go on to do well (qualify) at a couple of Olympiads (not Chem :P). JEE-day was soon approaching and I just wasn't psyched about it. I studied but not with that edge and passion that makes the good the extraordinary. In a word, I was perfunctory about it all. My apps would bring me deliverance from this JEE-hell is what I probably had in mind. But yeah, these months were the best moths of my life till that point. I was dating the prettiest smartest girl I'd ever known, had just studied my ass off to qualify Physics Oly and had made it, was quizzing like I never had in my life--conjuring answers from thin air, winning Lonewolf quizzes going up against stalwarts and happy with the knowledge that I was going to do a combination of Physics and Literature for undergrad. In these few months I'd read Fountainhead with great joy and with the assonance that this was essentially a portrayal of my personal philosophy. Like airy, idealistic Fountainhead, I read it appropriately perched on the highest parapet of the FIITJEE building, bunking classes and sprawling with my feet crossed in the air over the red F in the flagrant sign that announced the infirmary that the monstrous building was. My classmates still labored from dusk to dawn in dingy classes somewhere in the dark belly of the building--and both literally and metaphorically, I was above it all.  And then came decisions day. This is typically around April 1st, March end. I got waitlisted at a few Ivies, made it to a few top-notch places whose insufficient aid made them impossible to afford. Essentially meaning, there was no way I could attend. At this point JEE was a week away. I was as lost as lost could possibly be. I knew I didn't want this and yet this was my only shot at above-average college life in the country. To top this off, imagine all the parental drama and cheeky barbs at dinner about how I'd failed like they'd said I'd fail because good boys listen to their parents and shut up and study for JEE. But yeah, JEE day came. And I didn't even want to write. A couple of days before the exam I confronted my parents. I wrote them a letter Gandhiji-style. Told them how I'd do Literature at St.Xaviers (I had 96%+ at State Boards and very solid extra-curriculars). My father sat stoic as if he were a sullen statue while my mother sobbed silently drenching that letter. "Do whatever you want but write the 4 entrances you've enrolled for".  Amidst all that drama and some last minute looking through I arrived at the JEE centre. The longest drive of my life. I knew exactly what it took to do well in exams like it and I knew exactly how far from game-day form I was. I took a long deep breath when the car parked, felt the ridges on my from 6th-grade pencil box and did a Nadal-style "Come on!" fist clench. I attacked Paper-1 with all the ferocity I could muster. With each passing question I couldn't help being surprised as well as amused about how many right answers I was actually getting. I remember having to disguise a chortle as a laugh. Math went fine. Physics was pretty decent as well. At Chem I was as lost as lost could be. I could do the sums and recall some formulae, but all the organic part was a blank. I just didn't know enough. I guessed on the non-neg ones and used quizzer instinct on the neg ones. When I came out of the hall I made a mental note about how if I'd studied Organic throughout the year, I'd still be doing above-par despite my exam unpreparedness.   Paper-2 was similar. Math and Physics par, but Chem an unmitigated disaster. Through all this I was actually amused. I was amused that someone like me who had neither interest in clearing or the killer preparedness that people acquire from all their AITS test series would actually end up qualifying with some rank. The only twinge of regret I felt on the way home was when this conversation flitted in and out of my mind-- "How many people in your class are more intelligent than you?" "Sir?" "You heard me. Be honest" "About 3?" "I would say zero, but lets say 3. Then why are you in the bottom 3 instead of the top 3? If you are so intelligent and yet aren't getting this right, its not your failure, its my failure" My only JEE-regret was that I had disappointed that man who had all the faith in the world in me. He'd expected me to finish sub-100. And here I was, probably barely qualifying. So I flunked JEE. I got a 4.9k+ rank. And of all my choices only IIT Madras was willing to let me in in a Bio-related program. More about that later. A lot of people would consider 4.9kk+ish not exactly flunking, considering I qualified and was getting a seat, but according to the standards that were "expected" from me and the courses I was willing to do, I'd "flunked". Like when I'd thought of IIT I'd always thought of doing Engineering Physics at one of the older ones, and I wasn't going to be able to do that. I did other entrances across the next few months. My girlfriend was the only support system I had through that dark period. We made schedules, did short break-phone calls that ended with kissing phone-receivers.  I studied hard. Crammed like crazy. Aced AIEEE (wrt JEE disaster, no AIR1s and all happening), to prove a point more than anything else. And finally did fine enough on the BITSAT to make a good course at Pilani to cap off the season. And here's the part where it gets very very interesting. So I was faced with interesting choices, AIEEE good rank meant a lot of good colleges that I had no interest in going to, JEE 4.9k+ meant all the new IITs had some course or the other I could take but that I was not interested. Pilani meant well, 4 years in the desert.  In an antithesis of who I'd been to that point in a manner that would have made Howard Roark disown me I buckled once again. I buckled under the deluge of advice of the people I trusted--my parents, my teachers, my girlfriend, everyone I respected opined Computer Science at some place my AIEEE rank could get me that was consistently ranked better than most IITs at Comp Science. A large part of me screamed NO! I wanted to simply go "put peace" at IIT-M and quiz away in India's best college quizzing setup. But then ugly reasons began rearing their head up. I was a pretty good coder through high school and had at one time even single-digited for consecutive years at the NCO, the option meant 100% financial security, 5 years of my life should "mean something". If you've reached here you've already braved a deluge of characters and are still wondering how flunking JEE was "fucking amazing" (You know a post is long when it begins self-referencing previous lines). I joined this afore mentioned place in a hazy, I-don't-care anymore disillusioned state. I was miserable. Not because of flunking JEE, mind you. I was sad I wasn't quizzing with the folks at IIT M, that was all my JEE sadness was limited to at this point. I tried my hand at this college. It soon degraded to what life at FIITJEE had been. In a span of 10 days. As an added topping, the college sucked. In all ways possible. No campus life, no quizzing, nothing. A dead place that was at best a job factory and worst a slaughterhouse where whoever you are is killed to be replaced by an efficient machine that was hire-able. I was probably the fastest drop-out in the history of that "prestigious" school. One evening while reading my frayed copy of Fountainhead I somehow found myself staring at the blank page with my girlfriend's scrawl "Be my RoArk for life". Those five words pulsed through me, waking up every deadened cell that had bowed down to the "vicissitudes of life". As if waking up from a milk of poppy induced stupor I once again embraced the real me that loved Literature, Philosophy, Physics and of course, quizzing. Instead of going to coding classes I did Coursera courses. I spent weekends in cities I'd never set foot before doing college quizzing. In a weird fucked up way, I was flunking at the place I was enrolled, flunking again and still so so happy. I had made up my mind to quit as soon as possible[they enroll you for a year and I'd given enough agony to my parents till then so I didn't tell them till the end of the year ] to do that Lit course at St.X. My SAT and AP scores were still valid. It took me every ounce of my will and some reassurances of my awesomeness from a girlfriend who was now in another country. After all those pointed rejection letters whose every word had permeated my memory and ripped my dreams it was very very difficult. But still, I pulled myself together and reapplied. Applying itself was difficult. Essays and writing usually come very easily to me but this time around last time's rejections formed this giant mental lead-block that staved away any inspiration. And then there was the whole issue of payments. The colleges I wanted to apply to needed 50-80$ per application. And again, thank you jaan <3, my personal darkness-splintering Angel of Light.  Long story short, this time around I made it with financial aid that was more than affordable. I attend a place that teaches Physics alongside Literature along with a core curriculum that lets me do Art History and Economics. My class has kids from 50 different countries and if that isn't mind-blowing enough each of them has an amazing story to tell and so much hope for making the world better than what it is. None of us care about 'job security' and 'placements'. We are passionate about everything we do and that is all that we care about. With all these crazy, Roark-like people, I'm finally at home. Had I not flunked JEE, I'd have been "putting peace" at IIT-M in a course I would have detested or at best found tolerable. The quizzing and student life would have made up for all that lacked in my curriculum. I'd probably have been that 5 pointer rockstar quizzer type who did a lot of Saarang work but I'd never be sufficiently dissatisfied to take all the "n-pains" I took. So I flunked JEE. And it was the best thing I've ever done. Updated 124w ago • View Upvotes