Which songs have the deepest lyrics?
A Hard Rain's A-Gonna Fall by Bob Dylan is, I think, the deepest song ever written and recorded. Dylan wrote the song in 1962, at just 21 years of age. The maturity not only in the writing itself, but also in the complex metaphors about life and pain and struggle, and the intensity of emotional longing and desperation that builds through the song, is simply stunning for someone so young. This song captured the fear and anxiety of not just a generation or a nation, but an entire world in the months leading up to the Cuban Missile Crisis (which the song was not literally written about, despite false claims on the record's notes and elsewhere -- it was written and performed months before the Crisis occurred), when the Cold War and military escalation and anxiety about nuclear war were growing every day. The times were already changing, with social unrest over racial inequality having given rise to the Civil Rights Movement, the U.S. military actions in Vietnam were escalating (but hadn't reached all-out war yet), the embargo on Cuba in the aftermath of the Bay of Pigs, the space race was heavily underway (with a mix of imagination and pride, yet also the connection to the Cold War and talk of militarization of space), and so on. Into that atmosphere came A Hard Rain's A-Gonna Fall, possibly the most beautiful lyrical song ever written, and has lyrics with emotional depth and resonance beyond any lyrics I've heard in music. Listen to the song, and while listening read the lyrics (which I posted below)... Oh, where have you been, my blue-eyed son? Oh, where have you been, my darling young one? I’ve stumbled on the side of twelve misty mountains I’ve walked and I’ve crawled on six crooked highways I’ve stepped in the middle of seven sad forests I’ve been out in front of a dozen dead oceans I’ve been ten thousand miles in the mouth of a graveyard And it’s a hard, and it’s a hard, it’s a hard, and it’s a hard And it’s a hard rain’s a-gonna fall Oh, what did you see, my blue-eyed son? Oh, what did you see, my darling young one? I saw a newborn baby with wild wolves all around it I saw a highway of diamonds with nobody on it I saw a black branch with blood that kept drippin’ I saw a room full of men with their hammers a-bleedin’ I saw a white ladder all covered with water I saw ten thousand talkers whose tongues were all broken I saw guns and sharp swords in the hands of young children And it’s a hard, and it’s a hard, it’s a hard, it’s a hard And it’s a hard rain’s a-gonna fall And what did you hear, my blue-eyed son? And what did you hear, my darling young one? I heard the sound of a thunder, it roared out a warnin’ Heard the roar of a wave that could drown the whole world Heard one hundred drummers whose hands were a-blazin’ Heard ten thousand whisperin’ and nobody listenin’ Heard one person starve, I heard many people laughin’ Heard the song of a poet who died in the gutter Heard the sound of a clown who cried in the alley And it’s a hard, and it’s a hard, it’s a hard, it’s a hard And it’s a hard rain’s a-gonna fall Oh, who did you meet, my blue-eyed son? Who did you meet, my darling young one? I met a young child beside a dead pony I met a white man who walked a black dog I met a young woman whose body was burning I met a young girl, she gave me a rainbow I met one man who was wounded in love I met another man who was wounded with hatred And it’s a hard, it’s a hard, it’s a hard, it’s a hard It’s a hard rain’s a-gonna fall Oh, what’ll you do now, my blue-eyed son? Oh, what’ll you do now, my darling young one? I’m a-goin’ back out ’fore the rain starts a-fallin’ I’ll walk to the depths of the deepest black forest Where the people are many and their hands are all empty Where the pellets of poison are flooding their waters Where the home in the valley meets the damp dirty prison Where the executioner’s face is always well hidden Where hunger is ugly, where souls are forgotten Where black is the color, where none is the number And I’ll tell it and think it and speak it and breathe it And reflect it from the mountain so all souls can see it Then I’ll stand on the ocean until I start sinkin’ But I’ll know my song well before I start singin’ And it’s a hard, it’s a hard, it’s a hard, it’s a hard It’s a hard rain’s a-gonna fall 