What are some songs that cheer you up?
The perfect song by America's Greatest Rock n Roll Band, Drive by Truckers (band), is Zip City. A story about teen love/lust in the Deep South. This song will always pick me up. In fact, check out my license plate. Here's the masterpiece. Here are the lyrics. Zip City Your daddy was mad as hell, he was mad at me and you, when he tied that chain to the front of my car and pulled me out of that ditch that we slid into. Don't know what his problem is, why he keeps sending me away. Don't know why I put up with this shit, when you don't put out and Zip City's so far away. Your daddy is a deacon down at the Salem Church of Christ, and he makes good money as long as Reynolds Wrap keeps everything wrapped up tight. Your mama's as good a wife and mama as she can be. And your sister's puttin' that sweet stuff on everybody in town but me. Your brother was the first-born, got ten fingers and ten toes, and it's a damn good thing cause he needs all twenty to keep the closet door closed. Maybe it's the twenty-six mile drive from Zip City to Colbert Heights, keeps my mind clean, and gets me through the night. Maybe you're just a destination, a place for me to go. Keeps from having to deal with my seventeen year old mind all alone. Keep your drawers on, girl, it ain't worth the fight. By the time you drop them, I'll be gone and you'll be right where they fall the rest of your life. You say you're tired of me taking you for granted, waiting' up till the last minute to call you up and see what you want to do. But you're only fifteen, girl, you ain't got no secretary. And "for granted" is a mighty big word for a country girl like you. I think that's just your Daddy talking, 'cause he knows that blood red carpet at the Salem Church of Christ ain't gonna ever see no wedding between me and you. Zip City, it's a good thing that they built a wall around you. Zip up to Tennessee or zip right down to Alabama. I got 350 heads on a 305 engine. I get ten miles to the gallon, I ain't got no good intentions. 