If you could pick one book for each letter in the alphabet, which ones would you choose?
Against a Dark Background - Iain M Banks One line was all that came back to her. She stood on a fused beach with her arms folded, her boot heels scuffing the grainy, scratch-dulled surface, her gaze sweeping the flat horizons, and she half-whispered, half-sang that one remembered line. Beloved - Toni Morrison  124 was spiteful. Full of a baby's venom. The women in the house knew it and so did the children. Cryptonomicon - Neal Stephenson Let's set aside the existence-of-God issue aside for a later volume, and just stipulate that in some way, self-replicating organisms came into existence on this planet and immediately began trying to get rid of each other, either by spamming their environments with rough copies of themselves, or by more direct means which hardly need to be belabored. Dark Eden - Chris Becket (31 days ago Diamond Age would have been here. That's how good Dark Eden is!) "Wake up, you lazy newhairs. If you dont hurry up, the dip will be over before we even get there, and all the bucks will have gone back up Dark!" Enduring Love - Ian McEwan (What an opening! ) We turned to look across the field and saw the danger. Next thing, I was running towards it. The transformation was absolute... Friday - Robert A Heinlein (I love Fridays) As I left the Kenya Beanstalk capsule he was right on my heels. He followed me through the door leading to Customs, Health, and Immigration. As the door contracted behind him I killed him. Ghostwritten - David Mitchell still his best Who was blowing on the nape of my neck? Hyperion/Edyminion - Dan Simmons  The Consul awoke with the peculiar headache, dry throat, and sense of having forgotten a thousand dreams which only periods in cryogenic fugue could bring. Illywhacker - Peter Carey My name is Herbert Badgery. I am a hundred and thirty-nine years old and something of a celebrity. They come and look at me and wonder how I do it. The Joke - Milan Kundera So here I was, home again after all those years. Standing in the main square, I felt no emotion whatsoever... The Kraken Wakes - John Wyndham I'm a reliable witness, you're a reliable witness, practically all God's children are reliable witnesses in their own estimation—which makes it funny how such different ideas of the same affair get about. London Fields - Martin Amis This is a true story but I can't believe it's really happening. It's a murder story, too. I can't believe my luck. Midnight's Children - Salman Rushdie I was born in the city of Bombay ... once upon a time. No, that won't do, there's no getting away from the date: I was born in Doctor Narlikar's Nursing Home on August 15th, 1947. And the time? The time matters, too. Well then: at night. No, it's important to be more ... On the stroke of midnight, as a matter of fact. Northanger Abbey - Jane Austin No one who had ever seen Catherine Morland in her infancy would have supposed her born to be an heroine. Oscar and Lucinda - Peter Carey If there was a bishop, my mother would have him to tea. A Prayer for Owen Meany - John Irving  (The longest short story in the world!) I am doomed to remember a boy with a wrecked voice—not because of his voice, or because he was the smallest person I ever knew, or even because he was the instrument of my mother's death, but because he is the reason I believe in God... Quicksilver - Neal Stephenson Enoch rounds the corner just as the executioner raises the noose above the womans head. Rites of Passage - William Golding For what I am about to write must be a record of our first day. The month or day of the week can signify little since in our long passage from the south of Old England to the Antipodes we shall pass through the geometry of all four seasons! Shantaram - Gregory David Roberts It took me a long time and most of the world to learn what I know about love and fate and the choices we make, but the heart of it came to me in an instant, while I was chained to a wall and being tortured. The Third Man - Graham Greene One never knows when the blow may fall. When I saw Rollo Martins first I made this note on him for my security police files: "In normal circumstances a cheerful fool. Drinks too much and may cause a little trouble. Whenever a woman passes raises his eyes and makes some comment, but I get the impression that really he'd rather not be bothered. Has never really grown up and perhaps that accounts for the way he worshipped Lime." I wrote there that phrase "in normal circumstances" because I met him first at Harry Lime's funeral. Underworld - Don DeLillo (sometimes, when I'm alone, I'll read the entire prologue out loud as if to an audience) Longing on a large scale is what makes history. The Valley of Adventure - Enid Bylton (Jack and Kiki beats Famous Five) Kiki the parrot was annoyed. She had been left all alone for a day, and she talked angrily to herself. "What a pity, what a pity, what a pity, poor, poor Polly! Ding-dong bell, Pollys down the well, good morning, good morning!" The Wasp Factory - Iain Banks I had been making the rounds of the Sacrifice Poles the day we heard my brother had escaped. I already knew something was going to happen; the Factory told me. Xeelee 1: The Raft - Stephen Baxter It was when the foundry imploded that Rees's curiosity about his world became unbearable. The Year of the Flood - Margaret Atwood In the early morning Toby climbs up to the rooftop to watch the sunrise. She uses a mop handle for balance: the elevator stopped working some time ago and the back stairs are slick with damp, so if she slips and topples there wont be anyone to pick her up. (I'm cheating - I haven't read this yet  - 'H' was taken. I honestly couldn't bump Hyperion for Handmaid's Tale. I tried, but something took hold of me. Then I couldn't leave Atwood off the list. Just couldn't. I'll read it tonight if it makes you feel better!) Zodiac -  Neal Stephenson My landlord and I have an arrangement. He charges me and my housemates little rent-by Boston standards, none at all-and in return we let him play fast and loose with our ecosystem. 