What is the best short story on 'social issues'?
(The piece below is based on a true story and was written a few years ago in a fit of rage, so it might sound incoherent at times.) Is It Fair? I was dozing off on my study table. I had to solve so many practice papers leading up to my entrance exams, but my mind just wasn’t working in the lazy afternoon breeze blowing in through the window. I looked out and thought how wonderful life would have been, had I not chosen to take the entrance tests!! My cell phone rang and broke my reverie. It was an unknown number. Not sure whom to expect, I picked it up and said ‘Hello?’ A shaking voice asked ‘Nami?’ It was Rashmi! My roommate and best friend! ‘Rash! What happened?’ ‘Nami, can you please come to Saikia Chariali right now?’, she almost pleaded, mentioning the auto rickshaw hub of the city. I checked the time on my phone. I had a coaching class I couldn’t afford to miss in an hour’s time. But she was almost crying. ‘What happened Rash? Are you alright? Is Amir with you?’ Amir was her boyfriend and they had gone on a date earlier in the morning . ‘No I am not alright’, she sobbed as my heart skipped a beat. ‘Amir is with me, but please come as soon as you can. And please bring some money’, she begged. Rashmi was not the kind of person to burst into tears so easily. There must be something very wrong. ‘Okay Rash. Please don’t cry, I’ll be there’, I said as I grabbed my bag and ran out. It took me a while to catch an autorickshaw. A myriad of questions were running through my mind as the auto sped on towards the place my best friend had called me. Why was Rash crying? What could have possibly gone wrong that she begged I come, when Amir too was with her. The only solution I could think of was that probably her father had caught her roaming with a guy. Uncle was very strict when it came to guys. But that still didn’t explain why she had called me so suddenly. When the auto skidded to a halt, I almost ran out in a hurry to find her. And there she was! Standing with her back to me. I rushed towards her, looking for Amir. And I spotted him, standing some distance away from her. He stood with his arms crossed and brow furrowed. I wondered what had come over them! ‘Rash!’ I exclaimed. She turned, and I was surprised to see she had been crying. Amir pretended not to hear me, and turned away. ‘What’s wrong? Tell me’ And to my utter confusion, she burst into tears. I tried to remind her that we were standing in the middle of a crowded street, and people are not really used to seeing girls crying so openly every day. But all she said was ‘I hope it would get more crowded. I hate secluded places’ I could take the suspense no longer. ‘Rash’, I said as I grabbed her arm and made her face me. ‘Please tell me, I have been so worried about you. And what’s wrong with Amir? Why wouldn’t he look at me?’ ‘You do know about the Tea Garden near the Harikpur University, don’t you’, she asked, between sobs. ‘Of course I do. So you two went there!’ The Harikpur Tea Garden was a famous place among the lovers in our town. Couples went there to spend ‘quality time’ together. And of course, the total privacy there helped! ‘But why are you crying? Don’t tell me you two quarrelled again?’ Rash’s never ending quarrels with her beau was a common topic of conversation in our room. ‘I wish it was as simple as that, Nami’, she said stifling another outburst. ‘Rash, what? You are getting me really worried now.’ ‘We were ambushed!’ ‘What?’ ‘Amir and I had entered the tea garden, and sat down at our usual place, when suddenly out of nowhere, a huge man came out. He grabbed me by the hair and threw me on the ground, far away from Amir. He was joined by four other men who came on bicycles. They accused us of spoiling their area, and setting a bad example to their kids. We barely registered what they had said, when one of the man slapped me hard across the face. I fell down, and before I could scream, he was all over me, groping me and hitting me. Amir threw himself on the man, but his friends tackled him, and tied him up with pieces of cloth. My heart jumped to my throat, and I couldn’t even scream. Amir had cloth stuffed into his mouth. I feared the worst, but it was over as soon as it started. The man was up and complaining to his friends how we had spoiled a nice afternoon nap. They asked our names. When I didn’t reply, he opened my bag, and took all my money, my cell phone, even my college identity card. They searched Amir all over too, and took away whatever they could find, including his watch and his trainers. With a few warnings that we should never again be seen in the area, they went away, pedalling the bicycles. I was too stunned to react at first, but then I saw Amir struggling with his bounds. I helped him out of it. We had some change between us, and somehow managed to reach this place’, she finally managed to say, as her eyes teared up again. I was appalled!! This was my town. The very place I had grown up in! I could never have imagined people so ruthless resided here. I looked at Rashmi. The girl who had gone through so much for no fault of hers. And Amir. His conscience must be weighing down on him. He couldn’t save his girl from those men. He couldn’t even look her in the eye. I went up to him and said ‘Listen. Now is not the time to sulk around. Let’s go back. Don’t think it was your fault, bro. Even Rash doesn’t think so. It was a terrible ordeal.  You two must be glad it’s over, and that nothing that bad happened. It could have ended up worse than this. Thank God, the men didn’t cross the limit.’ I knew my words were far from consoling, but at least he came with me and together we took an auto rickshaw back to the hostel. None of us spoke to each other on the way. Amir got down at his hostel, before us. Finally when we reached our room, Rashmi started crying once again. I took her in my arms, but I couldn’t think of anything that would console her. After a long while her sobs subsided. She told me how scared she had been during the entire incident. She even showed me the angry red bruises on her bosom. I couldn’t imagine what kind of savagery could have caused those. I closed my eyes and said a silent prayer to make my friend recover from this incident. But my heart went out to Amir too. For all his courage, all his bravery, he ended up being tied down, while those men tried to violate his girl. That must have been a terrible load to bear. Time would heal everything I knew. But right then, Rashmi refused to let me go for my class. I had to stay back. And in the next few days, things returned to normal. Well, almost. Rashmi and Amir never went to the tea garden again. In fact the only times they went out, they chose crowded restaurants or shopping malls. In a way, this incident opened our eyes and made us aware that molestation is not something that can happen only in news channels. It can happen to anyone, even you. And as girls, all we can do is to be careful, and avoid secluded places, although given the current circumstances, I guess no place is safe. So we were born as girls, do we have to live in perpetual fear because of that? Can’t we lead a normal life, go wherever we want, dress up as we wish to? Maybe India is not a place to give in to our wishes anymore. Maybe in olden days, people kept their daughters caged up for a reason. Updated 21w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Naveen Raj Katare