What are some real life examples of chutzpah (please read details)?
The story has probably not made it across the ocean to the US, but earlier this year we had an affair going on over here in Germany that is being referred to as the Causa Guttenberg (What legal consequences would a member of the U.S. government have if he were suspected of academic plagiarism?) The short version: Germany's (former) Defense Minister zu Guttenberg was accused to have plagiarized part of his doctoral thesis from 2006 and failed to quote the original sources properly. This accusation was initiated by a web community who put so much proof online that in the end public pressure forced Mr. Guttenberg to step down; the Defense Minister both lost his job and his Ph.D. The long version can be read in the lower section and the comments of Jens Wuerfel's answer to What are the most philosophical or ethically interesting moments in popular culture?. OK - that was in February … In May, the same community came up with comparable proof on the doctoral thesis of liberal politician Dr. Silvana Koch-Mehrin, who has been the most bankable female member of the European Parliament (not actually because of her competence, but her appearance): I don't do it often, but this time I will quote from the WikiPedia article http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sil... - first because it suits the issue so perfectly, second because I could not say it better: During the campaign for the 2009 European Parliament election, Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung (FAZ) criticised Koch-Mehrin for attending only 39% of the parliamentary debates, not counting maternity leave. She answered back and gave a statutory declaration that she had participated in 75% of the debates. The European Parliament then published a corrected number of 62%, with maternity leave taken into consideration. Since giving a wrong statutory declaration is a criminal act, the European Parliament's administration reviewed additional attendance lists Koch-Mehrin provided. Mehrin's party urged a preliminary injunction against the FAZ, but withdrew it soon after. In 2009, she was elected Vice President of the European Parliament with a low number of votes. Like Karl-Theodor zu Guttenberg's doctoral thesis, Koch-Mehrin's 2001 thesis, titled 'Historical Currency Unions between Economy and Politics', was analysed using a crowd-source effort, and she was accused of plagiarism. As a consequence of this, on May 11th 2011 she resigned as chairperson of the FDP in the European Parliament and as vice-president of the European Parliament, arguing that she wanted to end the strain the investigation put on her family. She remained a member of the European Parliament, and continued to use the doctor title. OK, long intro … but here comes the chutzpah: Mrs. Koch-Mehrin said publicly, the whole affair wasn't her fault, but the fault of the university committee who had to verify her thesis: "they should have noticed! But they didn't complain!" You think, that's it? Hang on - the lady isn't done yet: On June 15th 2011, the University of Heidelberg officially rescinded her doctorate due to massive plagiarism. Only four days later she announced that she had become a full member of the Committee on Industry, Research and Energy. Can you believe that? This provoked a hefty reacton from the Deutsche Forschungsgemeinschaft. The DFG President, Matthias Kleiner, stated that further membership of Koch-Mehrin in the European Parliament is not acceptable. Koch-Mehrin has since announced that she will relinquish her seat on the committee. Yes, she did. And will move to another EU committee next door soon. And just yesterday, German politician Jorgo Chatzimarkakis was No. 3 to get his Ph.D. revoked … because of plagiarism. Updated 214w ago • View Upvotes