What was the ragging scene in IITs back in 1980s-90s?
I vividly remember being told by a senior that his seniors at IIT BHU took him to the Ganges on a cold December morning and asked him to undress and then take a dip in the river at the ghat. Having done that, they told him that their pet duck had escaped from their hostel and he had to find him and not come out of the river till then! xD Also as a media club member at IIT BHU, I did ask an alumnus about a few ragging stories of his. He is a 1983 pass-out from then IT BHU. He did share a few of his stories. There's this famous place in IIT BHU called Limbdi corner and that's where college is celebrated by everyone. The campus has wide roads and a hell lot of trees. Also, there is a very well built drainage system along the roads. It's almost of the width of a mini canal that run along the periphery of the roads. Due to excessive vegetation they're usually canopied under. So, a senior invited the alumnus to the place and asked him for an introduction. It had to be in fluent English and the alumnus told that he being a Kanpuriya could never have gotten rid of that accent all his life. So he was all set for the punishment from the senior. He was ordered to imagine himself as a crocodile and crawl from underside of the road as an option. He said that that'd be very insulting for him to do with the girls' hostels just a few meters away. Then a girl walked past them and the senior ordered him to go to that girl and say the three magical words. :D He went to her and said, "Vo sir kehte I love you". To which she replied, "Apne sir ko bol khud bol le aa k." He came back to narrate what had happened and was then punished again because he wasn't suppose to involve the senior in this. He was to come everyday with a friend of his and stand over the shoulder of the other so as to not let the ceiling fan stop. Back then, he said the fans had just been installed in a few rooms but there used to be no electricity. He did mention eventually that it was all for fun, and now he and the senior are relatives with his sister marrying the senior's cousin. :P 