I am drinking and driving a lot. What are some things I can do to stop myself?
Please stop drinking. Don't take someone else's life away because you are tempted to eliminate your own. Drunk driving is not "almost suicidal" behavior; it IS suicidal behavior. Worse, it's suicidal behavior that could horribly harm a lot of other innocent people in the process. From the brief overview you've given of your situation, it sounds to me like drunk driving is an action you are using to flirt with suicide without crossing the line.  You say you're not quite suicidal, which is another way of saying you're depressed enough to be suicidal. You may not be there yet, but you sound like you're at the border. Depression is really hard. Getting to the point where you're so desperate you're toying with ending your own life is terrible. I have never driven drunk. However, I have been deeply depressed to the point  where I have physically harmed myself. So, I do understand that much. However, there is no excuse, none, never, for taking action that will harm others. You state that your greatest fear in drunk driving is harming someone else, so you still understand that this is true. That means there's still hope, there's still a chance, and that a part of you knows that and is fighting to save yourself. You also write: "The biggest fear that I have would be to hurt others. But I cannot really summon the compassion anymore since I don't care about my life right now." You may not care about your life anymore. However, that doesn't give you the right to stop caring about others. If you want to harm yourself, you can, as an adult, independent individual. No one can technically stop you. I deeply hope you don't, but you can. Don't make that same choice for other people by drunk driving. The most reprehensible thing I could think of, no matter how much I empathize for your suffering, is if you accidentally harmed or killed someone else in your quest to harm yourself. Please do the following, ASAP: 1. Stop drinking right now. Drinking is clearly something that you're using, and unsuccessfully, to "self medicate your depression away", which clearly isn't working because it never does, for anyone. Never. Furthermore, it's lowering your inhibitions and allowing you to do reckless things like drunk drive. You mention you're planning to stop immediately so you're already on the right path there. Also an excellent idea to stop hanging out with the people (party hounds, clubbers) who help enable your drinking. 2. Do not drink again, even once you think you're ready. You mention that you're planning to limit yourself to one drink a night if the the "cleanse" is successful. From my outside perspective, if you were driven enough to the point to drunk drive that frequently, you are not ready to drink again, period, for a very, very long time. Not even one drink. One drink a night for someone in your situation too easily becomes two drinks, then three. You know where that path will lead. 3. See a therapist. You are dealing with heavy things and your depression sounds like a huge (if not the biggest) factor driving you to drink. Having an outlet and support to talk about the issues you're struggling with, and learning healthy ways to cope with those issues, will help you avoid drinking irresponsibly. Once you're not in such a painful place, you won't resort to alcohol to deal with the pain. 4. Confide in loved ones. You probably have a bunch of people in your life who love and care about you; most of us do. Most of us have many more of those people than we realize. Do your loved ones know how depressed you are? That you're at the point of doing suicidal behaviors like drunk driving? Seek out support, and you will find it. Please, please do not drink. Please do not drink and drive. And please seek support and counseling. 