What should I pack for a cruise?
I've not actually been on a cruise before, but I travel a LOT, and so have some suggestions for you: 1.  Sea-sickness pills 2.  Allergy pills 3.  Antibiotic gel/cream 4.  Pepto-Bismol 5.  Mylanta 6.  Ibuprofen 7.  Surgical masks & gloves 8.  Band-aids Okay, now that we've gotten basic "emergency items for cruises" out of the way, let's get on to more basic sensible items... 9.  Umbrella 10. Sunglasses -- two pair, because you will possibly break or lose one pair 11. Flip-flops 12. Tennis Shoes (specifically, running or walking shoes, not cross-trainers or flat deck shoes) 13. Wide-brimmed hat 14. Baseball cap 15. Shorts -- two or three pair, assuming cruise has laundry service 16. Cargo pants -- two pair, assuming cruise has laundry service 17. Lightweight slacks/casual skirts -- one or two pair/sets, assuming cruise has laundry service 18. Dress pants/suit pants/skirt -- two pair, assuming cruise has laundry service 19. Dress jacket/suit jacket/dress -- two, assuming cruise has laundry service 20. Socks or hose -- five pair, two of which match dress pants/jacket/suit/dress/skirt 21. Lightweight undershirts -- five, for wearing under 22. Swim trunks/bathing suit -- two, one of which is a backup 23. T-shirts/blouses -- four or five 24. Short-sleeve button-up shirts -- two 25. Belts 26. Dress Shoes -- to match suit/slacks/dress/skirt 27. Underwear -- seven pair, two of which are perhaps specially made for workout/hiking/strenuous activity, in case you exercise or go on excursions when the cruise docks at different locales 28. Books -- Bring at least two long ones, no more than four short ones 29. iPod or similar device -- for music by the poolside 30. iPad or similar tablet device -- for movie watching, because you DO like movies, right? RIGHT?? 31. iPhone -- download apps for language translation, so you can speak to anyone anywhere; also download World Lens app, it lets you read anything in another language, just by pointing camera at street signs/newspaper pages/etc 32. Paper and pen to write with for whatever reason 33. Card games -- bring two or three of these, and keep a deck on you when you're poolside or in the dining areas, you never know when you'll make new friends over a game of cards 34. Nuts -- buy a box that contains little bags of cashews or almonds, to carry with you for little snacks when the cruise docks 35. Water -- bring two water bottles or some sort of reusable containers, and keep one with you at all times 36. Your medication -- do NOT forget to bring any pills you take for health reasons, and keep them in a pill box that has the days of the week on it so you don't forget to take them on time 37. Chargers for your phone and tablet etc 38. Toothbrush, toothpaste, deodorant, comb, and any hair-styling stuff you use 39. Your prescription glasses, if you use any 40. Headphones for your iPod etc 