How could one predict the direction of an additional geometrical dimension with reference to the n-space graph the additional dimension is being dropped onto.The coordinate system is Rectilinear Cartesian.
From the point of view of an n-dimensional observer inside the n-space, it is not possible to "point" in directions which are not linear combinations of any set of vectors in the n-space. An additional dimension requires a new vector to be added to a set of basis vectors of the n-space to form a basis for the new n+1 space. The observer can understand this mathematically, but has no way to distinguish one new dimension from another. From the point of view of an n+1 dimensional observer looking 'down' at the n-space, it is clear what direction a new vector should be in order to form a basis for his own n+1 space. Any vector with a component normal to the n-space will do, the simplest choice being a unit vector normal to the n-space. However, it is possible that the new dimension will not be representable by a vector in the n+1 space of our n+1 dimensional observer, but will consist of a direction in yet another dimension. Now we have two n+1 spaces intersecting in an n-space. Imagine that n=1 and the only direction in this space is the x-axis. The n+1=2 dimensional observer in the xy-plane, thinks the new direction will be "y", but unbeknownst to him, the new direction is "z", which our 2-dimensional observer was not aware of and could not have predicted. You might think an n+k dimensional observer told to add a dimension to an n-dimensional subspace of his n+k dimensional space, such that new n+1 dimensional space will be a subspace of the n+k dimensional space, will have k options for the new direction (discounting the difference between positive and negative vectors along that direction), but that is NOT the case. If k>1, then he has an INFINITE set of choices. The collection of all of these vectors span an k-space, and any vector in that k-space will be normal to the n-space. Again, imagine n=1, and k=2, and you are the 3d observer. You are given a line in our 3-space and told to add another direction to it to make a plane? How many planes are there in our 3-space containing that line? The answer is that there are an infinite number, so your choice of new directions is infinite. If we assume that there are an infinite number of dimensions, then how can we say which combination of vectors in this infinite space will define the direction of a new dimension which we cannot perceive. Mathematically, we simply add a new coordinate every time we need an additional dimension, but asking what "direction" a new dimension will be in relation to a set of existing dimensions makes no sense, because it cannot be defined in terms of the existing dimensions. 