Was mathematics invented or discovered?
I am far from an expert on this subject, but it might be illuminating to consider what happens when a dog catches a ball. Neglecting air resistance and other secondary effects, the ball follows a predictable trajectory that is shaped by gravity, and math allows us to predict where it will land. Astonishingly, a dog can _also_ predict where the ball will land almost immediately after the throw, and some dogs can even run and leap to catch the ball before it touches the ground. When you consider that the dog has far less visual acuity than we do and that it is estimating the three-dimensional geometry of the world and position of the ball in real time from imperfect two-dimensional signals bouncing on its retinas as it runs, you might be tempted to award the dog a degree in Applied Mathematics! So does the dog that successfully locks the ball in its jaws in mid-air invent math, discover it, or neither? One perspective would be that the dog discovers math: through life experience, it observes patterns in its sensory input that reliably correspond to natural movements of objects through space (never mind perceiving the objects in the first place, which anyone in computer vision will tell you is very difficult), and it discovers that it can somehow apply this past experience to predict future events and have the satisfaction of sinking its teeth into a tennis ball. Another perspective would be that math invents the dog: the movements of objects obey physical laws that have existed far longer than either we or dogs have, and these laws happened to produce a system of incentives and intermediate successes that permitted the evolution of a mathematical machine that we call a dog that can solve these complicated interception problems in real time. Of course, biological systems are far more clever than we are, and it may be that the dog doesn't understand anything about the mathematics of gravity and motion at all -- it might be following a relatively simple algorithm that keeps the image of the ball moving in a straight line against the background: http://www.nytimes.com/2003/01/0... Whatever the case, we can be fairly certain that dogs don't _talk_ about math, and the development of linguistic and symbolic systems to represent and communicate about math seems like a profound and uniquely human invention. The subsequent expansion of abstract thought and reasoning reminds me more than a little of the natural evolution of mathematical machines like dogs: a rich set of incentives, constraints, and intermediate goals encouraged the combination and recombination of mathematical ideas to form ever-more-complex structures, and human mathematicians continue to explore the available space of ideas just as biology continues to explore the available space of feasible organisms. Did Green's theorem metaphysically "exist" before Green described it? Well, did the walrus metaphysically exist before it evolved? Philosophical questions about mathematics necessarily spawn more questions, and I find two particularly interesting; each has been covered in depth by many who are far better informed than I am, but to my knowledge neither has been answered. The first pertains to the unreasonable _lack_ of effectiveness of mathematics to describe biological systems -- complex learning systems such as the dog above in particular. Why should it be that the symbolic tools with which humans have so brilliantly described the interactions of everything from atoms to galaxies utterly fail to capture the goings-on in the brain of a dog, or even that of a fly? The second (and possibly related) question is whether copious major breakthroughs in mathematics still await the unaided human mind. Are dramatic new insights just around the corner, or will our study of mathematics have to change dramatically for us to find them? For example, was the partially-automated proof of the Four Color Theorem an unfortunate compromise at the edges of human ability, or was it the first step towards a vast new realm of ideas to explore with extensive computational support? 