I feel like a loser and lost all my hope to live anymore. What should I do?
The reason for all your problems is a boy. You're hurting your parents, affecting your health, and are jobless because of a boy. Let me tell you something, I'm sick of every boy and girl giving up their life because of their partner or ex-partner. You know why? Because I tried to give up my life to prove a point to the boy I "loved". He was my first boyfriend, probably similar to you, and guess who I hurt in the end? I hurt myself and my parents. No one else cared, not even him. Even if you try to kill yourself, there's no guarantee that you're going to die. If you do live, you'll be in unimaginable pain, even more pain than what you must be feeling right now. I went through that pain. I know how it feels and it's a stupid thing to do, especially for a boy. (Virali Modi's answer to What are the craziest/strangest things you did under tension/depression?) Your parents have spent their lives to help you achieve your goals, dreams, and your ambitions, and you're giving that away because of a guy. Isn't that stupid? On top of all this, you're hurting your parents because you think that they don't understand you. Have you tried talking to them about your heartbreak? You know, if you haven't, they will be able to help you. They might give you tough loving, but you deserve it. It was your fault. You were so keen on not getting into a relationship, you wanted to focus on yourself and your career, what happened to that? Don't give me the excuse that your ex forced you into the relationship, he forced you, but you said yes. It was ultimately your decision. You brought this upon yourself, unfortunately it was a stupid for him to do what he did, but if you would've stayed true to your words, none of this wouldn't have happened. Yes, I know I'm being mean. People on Quora are going to sugar-coat things and make it seem like you were not at fault, I'm sorry, but I think you were. Sure, there isn't anything you can do about the past, but it's important to understand what you could've done to avoid this situation for future instances. The only thing you can do is realize that you're more important than a stupid heartbreak. Your goals, your ambitions, and your dreams, that your parents worked so hard for you to be where you are right now, they're more important. Because of a boy, you might be put on anti-depressants, you're a bright student, according to the details your provided, and you've succumbed to depression? Snap out of it. If you really want to get back at that boy for hurting you, start getting over him and start by achieving everything you once set out to do. By living a successful life, he'll understand what he lost. Look, you were in a relationship, now he's gone to focus on his career, he isn't wrong. People are selfish in this world, understand that. They are always going to look out for them, not anyone else. I advise that you do the same. Nothing is more important than you. You are extremely important, especially to your parents. The ones who brought you into this world, raised you, and guided you through life. You want to give your life for a boy who was only with you for ten months? I'm sorry if my words hurt you, but I'm frustrated that people want to give up their lives for a heartbreak, yeah, it's hypocritical of me to say that because I did the exact same thing, but I learned from it. I didn't hurt myself more, as you're doing. You need to understand that life is precious, it's hard, and it's exciting. You will frequently come across difficult situations, even more difficult than what you're going through, but you can't think about suicide every time. You have to stand back up and fight. 