How did you manage the UX project in your company?
My initial thought is that your question is too broad which may lead to no responses (not good) or more questions back to you to qualify (more back and forth). Best way I can respond is with a broad response and a few suggestions. An old and very experienced project manager I worked with would on occasion say "plan the work and work the plan." For a really complex or broad endeavors break it down into it's component parts to simplify it. Here I will share some simple suggestions. SUGGESTION1 - Choose the simplest tool requiring minimum effort for all involved. There is no shortage of tools to choose from for a UX engagement including Trello. The Kanban style (Trello and other...moving from bucket-to-bucket) can be an effective way to funnel the work down the path. A physical board or war room is fantastic since it brings everyone in and gives them status and an invitation to participate.  Keep in mind the more complex the tool the longer it will take to use and on larger efforts this can be a nightmare. The simplest tools offer the least amount of work to manage.  In the below example for a multi-user system on a b2b enterprise software redesign including multiple rounds of usability and research, persona development, a functioning prototype, with seven ux people, and don't judge here... I used a simple page in Omnigraffle (or powerpoint). I was able to use this because I have done all the below many many times. Why I find it useful: The format is easily shareable (can add time to the graph too) Stakeholders and non UX team members get it It's the strategy and plan rolled onto one page (of course not may not scale really well). SUGGESTION2 - Get someone with project management experience involved. I get the sense that managing UX maybe new to you, maybe I'm wrong here. But I strongly believe if you've not explored or sought out managing projects before, then this will not come natural to you and will be hard work. If you are passionate about learning to plan AND the details of management, by all means continue on. I believe we should develop our strengths and managing UX is best performed by someone who is great at details, thinks three steps ahead, and plans 3-4 weeks in advance.  Me?, I'm not a planner by nature and sort of the guy left standing when the music stopped. I do enjoy a good puzzle from time to time though :) 