Was mathematics invented or discovered?
I see mathematics as a language which is ever evolving as per the need. Was the first language invented or discovered? It evolved, because of the need to communicate. Similarly did mathematics. When there was a need to count, may be in situations where food gathering depended on number of consumers in early days, or for quantification of time, probably the tally marks or something of the sorts were born. When there was a need to hunt a large animal, may be geometry came into picture for planning out the strategies. Obviously these are only some vague thoughts, but intuitive all the same. Mathematical thoughts are not unique to humans. Animals possess the ability to differentiate between, 'one' 'two' and 'many', but that's a different story. Humans started putting these thoughts into symbols dating as long back as to 35,000 B.C. and there have been developments of significant magnitude ever since. If you read about history of any branch of mathematics - calculus, geometry, topology to name a few, you will find that the term 'developed' is used to mark their origins and not 'created' or 'invented' etc. That is because as soon as a new advancement in any branch of science occurs, the language which they use to properly communicate or record those findings/observations needs to be updated too. Another thing to note about mathematics are the rules that define its structure. The analogy to this from 'languages' can be drawn from the set of rules that define a sentence structure. Just as different forms(voices,tenses etc.) of sentences have different rules, so does the different branches of mathematics do. But how does one get those directives? Easy, from observation! For example, initially 'quantity' meant either one or many. Then question of how many arose and hence came the notion of one and two ones. This notion itself held the concept of addition which laid the foundation to counting further. The observation that removing objects leads to lesser count hinted towards subtraction and somewhere down the road 'n' was subtracted from 'n' to update the language to include a new counting number zero. How did someone think of square of a number? Somebody somewhere noticed that if you put 'n' number of same sized stones length wise and and 'n' breadth wise too, at right angles, then it ALWAYS takes a total of n*n such stones to form a square. Now I cannot say if the term 'square' was first used for the shape or the square of a number, but that's not the point anyways.     Then someone noticed if you remove two coincident boundaries of a square thus formed (pink points in above figure), you still get a square, with (n-1) stones on one boundary. So n^2 stones at hand, if you remove (n+n-1) stones, you are left with (n-1)^2 stones, i.e. , (n-1)^2=n^2- 2n +1 , and all this before any algebraic identities were observed. There are numerous such phenomenon happening everyday, and it has taken a lot of observation and logic to put them in a language. So IMO, Mathematics was neither invented nor discovered. 