What is a good list of animals ordered by intelligence?I guess the first 10 places are easy to identify, however, when the list is large is difficult. Another list would be interesting also grouped by species.
Intelligence is not a single, linear spectrum and it's not something that's even close to well defined. Our clearest conceptions of what intelligence is still boil down to "I know it when I see it." For example, everyone pretty much agrees that chimps are smart. But they don't understand pointing. You can try to draw a chimp's attention to something by pointing at it, but it's just not going to click. Dogs, on the other hand, do understand pointing and they're not even primates. A human pointing to something for a dog to understand is a remarkable example of communication across completely different genera. So are dogs smarter than chimps? Well, no, because dogs don't use tools...right? But ravens make and use tools. Ravens can also remember faces of individuals outside of their genus (such as human faces, for example) and can communicate that recognition across several generations. If you ticked off a bunch of ravens and came back to the same group after all the original witnesses had died, they would still give you the stink eye and treat you as a threat. So are ravens smarter than chimps? Well, chimps show emotions better than ravens. But so do elephants and cats. Are elephants smarter than ravens, and are chimps smarter than elephants? And what about an octopus? They're incredibly clever, but they don't understand pointing either. Are they as smart as a chimp, and is a dog smarter than an octopus? Even among humans, there's not a single line of smart versus not smart. Given the choice for company at dinner, I would rather talk to Einstein than the best car mechanic in the world. But if my car broke down, I wouldn't be calling Einstein. Don't think of intelligence as a single thing that an organism can have more or less of. What we think of as "intelligence" is really more of an umbrella term for a vast array of skills, expression, and ingenuity that applies to every person and every animal in different ways. 