Is President Obama a socialist? Why or why not?This claim is made about his ideals and goals all of the time, usually as a slur. In what ways is there any merit to this label? Please feel free to list any "close hits" that are not quite socialism, but strongly lean in that direction. Since this is likely to be contentious, I remind you that providing your own answer is a stronger response than attacking the answer of another user.
He's more of a despot than a socialist, but here's the case for "Obama Is a Socialist"... He's increased the rich/poor gap dramatically; his policies, despite their intentions, dramatically have benefited the 1% at the expense of the middle and under-classes. Examples: + Average middle class wages are down, about 4k per family per year since O took office + Average assets of 1%ers are way up, largely via the stock market, up 134% since January 20, 2009 + Debt has grown by an astonishing $9,000,000,000,000 since O took office, and servicing the interest on that $17,000,000,000,000 and growing debt will hit middle class and retirees the hardest + Unemployment has actually increased since Obama took office, from 7.6% to 7.8% + Underemployment (the real indicator) is up from about 13% to 17-18%, AND that doesn't count more than three million Americans who simply have stopped looking or have dropped out of the workforce entirely. Obama may be ideologically socialist in that he clearly supports social justice, spreading the wealth around, big government programs and government intrusion into the medical, auto, insurance, banking and energy industries.  It is absurd to argue otherwise -- he has continually supported such positions. But despite his faculty lounge socialist leanings, the EFFECT of his policies has been socialist only in the expansion of the federal government.. which predictably has created a massive drag coefficient on the economy by mis-allocating resources that would create jobs and growth far faster in the private sector (as 230 years of American history prove beyond any reasonable doubt). He's despotic in his utter disregard for the Constitution, contempt for the Supreme Court and rule of law, making up Obamacare law and exemptions and timelines as he goes along, playing "venture capitalist" in debacles like Solyndra and Fisker and so much more.  He's despotic in his utter refusal to push for the truth about Benghazi and the IRS Scandal. Obama has been a fantastic president - symbolically.  Point ceded.  His election is symbolically important for all Americans -- and should be celebrated BY all Americans. Unfortunately, Liberals don't allow it. Obama gave Liberals the greatest gift imaginable: The right to preen on incessantly about their (alleged) moral superiority on the issue of race, and to portray any valid policy counterargument or criticism of Obama/Liberal policy as prima facie racist. And Oh, how Liberals have used this gift! Is our nation stronger for it, when 47% of the electorate are dismissed (overwhelmingly unfairly) as (alleged) racists?  Really? MSNBC thinks so.  I do not agree. Bottom line:  Obama has been symbolically important, yet dreadful in terms of actual results.  Sort of like socialists and/or despots.... usually are. 