Was mathematics invented or discovered?
Originally Answered: Is math truth in the universe or a human creation to model the world?Math is a language to understand nature and the universe around us. Just like English was a language used by Shakespeare to portray human emotions in his plays. If humans were 'smart raised to the power of any large number', observing body language only would have perhaps been enough. Just like electric wires were invented by humans to carry energy from the waterfall to my airconditioner; and written alphabet was invented (among other reasons) to code historical events in concise form so that they may be passed from generation to generation with almost no loss of content - Math was created to carry information about facts of nature from one mind to another. A good example here would be using Trigonometry to calculate the height of mountain peaks. Math constants that are repeatedly and easily observable in nature are pi, phi (Golden ratio), Gravitational Constant, Avogadaro's number  among others that easily come to mind. It is true Math has several languages - Decimal System being the most common -  but there is a single concept that is at the centre of it all: 1 + 1 = 2. Yes 'Addition' or counting is the at the core of every number system - allow me to explain Number systems are based on Addition: Nothing + 1 = 1      1+1 = 2        2+1 = 3... so on so forth Substraction is a form of Addition. It can be explained as the opposite of a quantity. For eg if i bought 4 gold bars i increased my wealth by 4 gold bars, if i dropped all 4 of them in river Hudson, then i have the opposite of 4 bars compared to just an instant before which is -4. So at the end of the day i have 4 + (-4)  = 0 bars. Multiplication, Exponentiation are repeated Additions and Division is a form of Multiplication. So is Integral Calculus So in the end we are just using a simple concept of counting that early mankind invented to make life easier when it came to keeping track of time or firewood or number of children born for the matter. Of course we have built upon these humble concepts so much that even the subject has grown into a monster which hounds even the smartest of us. <Insert Einsteins' famous quote here> To summarize it is true that Math is a language created by us, but we use it to describe the world around us just like any other language. A big benefit compared to other languages is that it is concise and elegant. 'Pi' is a much better way to say 'Ratio of Circumference to Diameter of a Circle' after all. "Is there a Higher Math?" as asked by the video - well yes! We will 'discover' it the day we can generate random numbers through maths - until we don't Einstein's other famous quote will hold true (God does not roll dice). Thank you for asking this question. Hope this helped. 