Was mathematics invented or discovered?
I agree with Zak Stone. In terms of cognition, any unit of measurement is invented after its recognition. The only parts of math and physics that are invented are explicit digits and quantification. The physical laws of the universe are constant - rules that govern how energy and matter interact with other energy and matter. Confusing, and not fully understood (and vary depending on the macro/micro context. Fior examples of the macro variations of physical laws, look up dark matter. For the micro side of things, see quantum mechanics). But they are rules in which recreatable tests can be performed. Our *metrics* for measuring and quantifying these interactions, however, are superficial. For example: the complex set of calculations a human performs when throwing a basketball into a net are monumental. Parabolic arcs, air friction, depth of field, all while factoring in muscle memory and personal experience. Not to mention the finite delay between the electrical signal sent from the motor centers of the brain and the chemical contractions of the muscles that receive the command. But plotting all of these variables out on paper are abstract. We don't crunch numbers when playing sports - memories, experience and calculating brain-parts work in tandem to create complex simulations of our actions in our minds moments before we carry them out. Our native thinking model for such simulations are abstract compared to pen and paper - but they are native to how we think, so it really should be the other way around. Pen and paper is an abstract representation of what our *minds* already calculate without any messy numbers getting in the way. The dog catching a ball in Zak's example wouldn't get a degree in Mathematics for the same reason that a football player wouldn't be awarded a physics degree solely based on his ability to kick a ball through the goal posts. Such studies are the abstract language to express what thinking creatures innately understand about the world. Newborn babies are proven to have a measurable understanding of real physics. In one series of experiments, babies were shown a ball resting on a table. When the table was taken away, the ball remained in the air - suspended by invisible wire. Newborns stared abnormally long at the floating ball, signifying their interest (and confusion) at the sight. For similar affirmations of newborns' understanding of physical laws, read up on some of the cognitive studies performed by Jean Piaget: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Jea... Evolutionarily, this makes sense: eons of cognizant creatures evolved to favor those whose brains exhibited a newfound, mutant understanding of the world around them. When the rate of death from falling off a cliff decreased from 90% to 70%, the newly-aware selection that survived had a higher chance to procreate, resulting in the proliferation of each beneficial understanding of the world and its apparent physical laws. Mathematics are arbitrary assignments to these laws - as we find them. So the question that you're asking is less about the existence of math in the universe - the system of behvaiors between matter and energy. I propose that it is absolute, if not yet fully understood (re: dark matter, etc). The question here is which came first: our native understanding of these laws, or our language to document them through various levels of abstraction? I postulate it's the former - math came first. Our language to *describe* it came later. 