What is consciousness?What does it mean for something to "have consciousness"? What is the difference between something that has consciousness and something that doesn't?
Recent findings offer insight into the neural circuitry of some of the building blocks that contribute, if not lead, to consciousness. Needless to say, the emerging picture is far from complete. Summary of findings Experimental observations of mammals including humans have revealed a navigation circuitry that uniquely encodes memory of a visited location. Neurons called “place cells” uniquely encode memory of locations.Figure 1 [1,2,3,4,5,6,19,21] The encoding of this memory is quite rich - it is not limited to just a memory of the location but the entire spatiotemporal context , that is, the sensory and motivational experience at that location (landmarks, objects, people, smell, reward etc.) including the temporal sequence of that experience.Figure 2 [1,7,8] While the encoding is rich in terms of the entire context being encoded, the encoding of each concept (e.g. the Simpsons, Jennifer Aniston) that is also stored in the same anatomical region where locations are stored is sparse, in that only a small set of neurons encode the memory of a concept. For example, a picture of "the Simpsons" will cause the firing of a small set of neurons. This memory, while sparse, is multimodal - a written or spoken word of “the Simpsons” , will cause the firing of the same set of neurons that fired when seeing a picture of the Simpsons. This memory is also invariant to some degree - different pictures of the Simpsons in different sizes and viewing angle will still cause the same set of neurons to fire. These sparse clusters of neurons that represent concepts are also linked to or intersect with related concept clusters, creating a semantic graph of neuron clusters. For example, some of the  ”Jennifer Aniston” neurons may also fire when shown  a picture “Lisa Kudrow” (a co-actor in a series "Friends"). Figure 3,Figure 6 [9] The encoding of memory at a location is not just a sequence of events/concepts, but also the time of the events and the intervals between them. An internally generated flexible timer mechanism stores the temporal order of events along with the time intervals (seconds to minutes) between them – the details of this timer are being studied.[10,11,12,18,23] This storage of experience can then be reactivated when a person later recalls that experience, even when not in the location where the experience occurred. The same neurons that fired when the experience was first encoded, fire again when free recall is done. This recall is made possible by internally traversing these memories, without the need for any external sensory input. The actual mechanism of this internally initiated playback or recall of encoded memories is being studied - it has been observed in humans and rats.Figure 4 [13,14,20,22,24] Evidence indicate this ability to mentally replay past experiences may be the same mechanism used to plan for the future (e.g. places to go back to find food, remember how long it is that seeds were stored away so as to decide if they are spoilt). Figure 5 [15,16] The neuronal mechanism of humans to "mentally travel" completely independent of any spatial context is not known yet (e.g. abstract logical thought process to derive a mathematical proof by a recall of first principles/axioms). It is also not known if  the “navigation based circuitry” is involved in encoding abstract memories that do not have an anchoring location, though there is speculation that the navigation circuitry may be part of a more general engine for memory.[17] The representation of a location and the experience at that location, combined with the circuitry to navigate this memory or state space without any external sensory input enables free recall, mental travel, and future planning – perhaps some of the signature elements of what constitute consciousness.Figures Figure 1. Place cells mapping in two different enviroments (a) Stepwise increase of grid spacing at successive dorsoventral levels of medial entorhinal cortex. Spatial autocorrelograms for four example cells (one per dorsoventral module). (b) Remapping of hippocampal place cells in two environments Memory, navigation and theta rhythm in the hippocampal-entorhinal system, Nature, 2013 Figure 2 Two forms of navigation and their  relationship to semantic and episodic memory (a) Path integration (also known as dead reckoning) is based on self-referenced information by keeping track of travel distances (time elapsed multiplied by speed) and direction of turns. Calculating translocation relative to the start location allows the animal to return to the start along the shortest (homing) path. (b) Map-based navigation is supported by the relationships among visible or otherwise detectable landmarks. A map is constructed by exploration (path integration). (c) Episodic memory is 'mental travel' in time and space referenced to self. (d) Semantic memory is explicit representation of living things, objects, places and events without temporal or contextual references. Semantic knowledge can be acquired through multiple episodes with common elements. We hypothesize that the evolutionary roots of episodic and semantic memory systems are the dead reckoning and landmark-based forms of navigation, respectively. Memory, navigation and thetarhythm in the hippocampal-entorhinal system, Nature, 2013 Figure 3. Example of a neuron that with multimodal invariance Concept cells: the building blocks of declarative memory functions, Nature Neuroscience, 2012 Figure 4. Activation and recall of single neuron of an episode of the Simpsons. A single-unit in the right entorhinal cortex was activated during viewing and recall of an episode from the TV series The Simpsons. (A) Cell responses to a selection of 48 different episodes (movie clips) presented to the patient in three different viewing sessions (parts 1 to 3). For each clip, the corresponding raster plots (six trials, order of trials is from top to bottom) and post–stimulus time histogram (500-ms bins) are given. Vertical dashed lines indicate clip onset and offset (5 s apart); 5-s blank periods were presented occasionally within groups of successive clips and were used to calculate the baseline firing rate, denoted by a gray horizontal line. Red boxes indicate sustained responses. (B) Trial-by-trial response of the neuron. Order of clips is for the purpose of illustration; more intervening clips separated successive Simpsons clips in the actual experiment. Spike raster plot and instantaneous firing rate (spike train convolved with a Gaussian of the full width at half maximum of 1200 ms) are displayed together. (C) Free-recall session that followed the third viewing session (part 3). (Bottom) Sound amplitude of patient voice; (top) a spike raster plot and instantaneous firing rate; gray dashed line denotes the average firing rate during the recall session + 3 SD; numbered dots denote onset time of verbal report of recall events, corresponding to clip numbers in (A). Note the distinct elevation of firing rate just before the patient reported the recall of the Simpsonsclip (red arrow). (D) A 50-s window around the Simpsons recall event [blue area in (C)]. Patient’s words are below the bottom panel. Note that the cell’s firing rate rose significantly above baseline 1500 ms before onset of verbal report of the Simpsons clip and returned to baseline after more than 10 s. Internally generated reactivation of single neurons ... [Science. 2008] Figure 5. Cell assembly sequence, space and time tracking (a) During physical travel, successive assemblies of neurons (1 to n) respond sequentially owing to the changing constellation of environmental landmarks and/or proprioceptive information from the body (top). During mental travel, sequential activation is supported by self-organized patterning[14] Memory, navigation and theta rhythm in the hippocampal-entorhinal system, Nature, 2013 Figure 6. Semantic graph made up of overlapping sparse collections of concept cells Concept cells: the building blocks of declarative memory functions, Nature Neuroscience, 2012 References 1. Neural Activity in Human Hippocampal Formation Reveals the Spatial Context of Retrieved Memories, Science, 29 November 2013  2. Grid Cells and Neural Coding in High-End Cortices, Neuron, October 30, 2013 3. Space Bats: Multidimensional Spatial Representation in the Bat, Science, November 2013 4. Direct recordings of grid-like neuronal activity in human spatial navigation, Nature, 2013 5. What are the major differences between grid cells and place cells? 6. A map of visual space in the primate entorhinal cortex, Nature, 2012 7. Context Prediction Analysis and Episodic Memory, Behavioral Neuroscience, October 2013 8. The global record of memory in hippocampal neuronal activity, Nature, 1999 9. Concept cells: the building blocks of declarative memory functions, Nature Neuroscience, 2012 10. What makes us tick? Functional and neural mechanisms of interval timing, Nature, 2005 11. Time finds its place in the Hippocampus, Neuron, 2013   12. Integrating what and when across the primate medial temporal lobe,Science,2011 13. Internally Generated Reactivation of Single Neurons in Human Hippocampus During Free Recall, Science, 2008 14. Internally generated cell assembly sequences in the rat hippocampus, Science, 2008 15. Memory, navigation and theta rhythm in the hippocampal-entorhinal system, Nature, 2013 16. The evolution of episodic memory, PNAS, 2013 17. Homeostatic regulation of memory systems and adaptive decisions, Hippocampus, 2013 18. A neural substrate in the human hippocampus for linking successive events, PNAS, 2010 19. Grid Cells and Neural Coding in High-End Cortices, Neuron, 2013 20. Hippocampal place cells, context, and episodic m... [Hippocampus. 2006] 21. Path integration in mammals, Hippocampus, 2004 22. Play it again: reactivation of waking experience and memory, Cell, 2010 23. Theta Phase Precession in Hippocampal Neuronal Populations and the compression of temporal sequences,Hippocampus,1996 24. Retrieving Memories via Internal context Requires the Hippocampus ,Journal of NeuroScience,2004 Updated 9 Dec 2013 • View Upvotes