What is the outcome of a $15 minimum wage in the U.S.?
I am no economist. However an increase of the minimum wage to $15 would likely result in a fairly massive wealth redistribution. About 30% of the US workforce would stand to see an increase in their hourly wages. 10% would see their income double. These people who make more money are people who often live paycheck to paycheck, spending almost every dollar they make just to live. Giving them more money would allow them to both spend more money to increase their quality of life and to save some up for a rainy day.(think hospital bills or car problems) A secondary effect would be some people would leave jobs they dislike to work at a job they prefer to do.(why grind away in a back breaking factory when you can flip burgers for a living) This would cause a drop in skilled labor in factories and other second tier income jobs. In an effort to get back their skilled labor the factories will raise wages. The factories will draw labor away from the next level of skilled labor. However factories will not double their pay. You will see a domino effect throughout the American labor market with wages going up all around as companies try to keep their employees working for the company. I suspect the increase between before the minimum increase and after the increase as a percentage of their previous income would look kind of like this graph. With the minimum earners  being on the right of the graph and your upper middle class earners being on the far right This would not take into account top earners of course. The biggest losers from a minimum increase would be business owners and investors. However I believe that the economy as a whole would be stronger. Those who make the least, spend the biggest percentage of their income. Those who make the most, Spend the smallest percentage of their annual income. If you want to kickstart an economy give money to those who will spend it, not those who will horde it. So in summary, the initial effect of an minimum wage increase to $15 would be a bit of economic troubles as people left their jobs for jobs that paid just as well but were much easier. This would cause all employers to pay their workers more. This would result in people who drive the economy having more money to spend. This would result in a more stable and strong economy in the long run. Links/sources: Consumer Spending: How Much Of Their Income Do Poor And Rich American Families Spend On Housing, Education, Healthcare, Food And Transportation? [Infographic] 5 facts about the minimum wage everything else I say is just my musings. I will defer to people who know what they  are talking about. 