What's the best colour palette that you would recommend for use with PowerPoint?
I wouldn't broadly recommend a specific palette.  The optimal palette depends on where you are presenting and what you are presenting. There are guidelines that can help you determine that palette for your presentation: 1) Will you be presenting in a darkened room or a lit room?  If darkened, then use a dark background.  If lit then use a light background.  Using a light background in a dark room is like making your audience look into a spotlight. Using a dark background in a lit room results in a washing out that reduces contrast, because the screen is not smart enough to not reflect the ambient room light.  Black becomes gray. 2) Will you be using premade graphics?  If your graphics are not full screen, then you need to consider how the graphics look.  You don't want a background that clashes with the colors in the graphics and you don't want unnecessary visible borders.  For example, let's say you are using a stock photo of your product against a solid color background and you can't have the image full screen for some reason, then your background color should match the background color of your stock image. 3) You want to control where the audience focuses their eyes.  To do this, each area of focus needs to be warmer and darker than its surroundings.  So, avoid putting a warm, dark color behind a light, cold point of focus. 4) Is your brand defined by color?  There is an excellent website from Adobe called http://kuler.adobe.com .  At that site you can upload an image, such as your organizational logo or your best product image and indicate the type of palette you want and the website will tell you what colors to use, from that image. 5) How good is the projector at the location you will be presenting?  As projectors and their bulbs age, they become less effective.  Colors start to wash out.  Sometimes colors disappear.  Many of the older projectors in my building have lost the ability to project cyan.  I remember a meeting where some poor guy had a series of bar charts to show, and his bars were all cyan.  He would project each slide and all the audience could see were the axes and labels of the graphs.  To avoid this, use saturated colors. 6) Consider color-blindness.  Green on top of reds or blues can be difficult or impossible for colorblind people to see. 6) learn a little about palette types.  Kuler can help you with this.  For example, colors look their best when paired with the color opposing them on the color wheel.  This is called a complementary palette. 7) Consider the psychological impact of colors.  Use colors that represent the mood you want to convey. 