Is President Obama a socialist? Why or why not?This claim is made about his ideals and goals all of the time, usually as a slur. In what ways is there any merit to this label? Please feel free to list any "close hits" that are not quite socialism, but strongly lean in that direction. Since this is likely to be contentious, I remind you that providing your own answer is a stronger response than attacking the answer of another user.
I first met Barack Obama when he was a sophomore at Occidental College in Los Angeles.  I can report, from my face-to-face observations, that he was a Marxist socialist in 1980/1981. Since he has never explained how, if at all, he later rejected his Marxist socialist beliefs, I need to conclude that he still holds them.    As Paul Kengor has noted, one of the odd things about the Barack Obama story is the lack of a conversion story explaining how he flipped over to being a non-Marxist.  http://www.americanthinker.com/2... My conversion story, for example, from Marxist ideology to non-Marxist ideology is available at http://www.patriotactionnetwork.... My story regarding meeting young Obama is featured in Stanley Kurtz's Radical-In-Chief.  Kurtz's book describes young Obama's ties to socialism after I met Obama until Obama met up with Bill Ayers and Alice Palmer.  Young Obama and I were part of an intense network of radical students associated with Occidental College.  My girlfriend, at the time, was the president of the Democrat Socialist Alliance.  Young Obama was active with that group and participated in the anti-apartheid event it organized in the spring of 1981 along with his friend Hassan Chandoo - one of the featured speakers.  A liberal author, David Remnick, reports that Chandoo was a Marxist in 1980/1981 too.    My take on young Obama's extremist ideological perspective has also appeared in Jack Cashill's Deconstructing Obama and Paul Kengor's Dupes.  In 2010, it was also featured in Michael Savage's book, Trickle Up Poverty. Updated 31 Jul 2011 • View Upvotes