What is consciousness?What does it mean for something to "have consciousness"? What is the difference between something that has consciousness and something that doesn't?
"Consciousness" refers to several related phenomena, which is why people have such a difficult time agreeing about what it is. Here are some specific phenomena that fall under the larger umbrella of consciousness and also "the mind": Awake state -- What is different about someone who is awake vs. someone who is in dreamless sleep? In both cases, the brain is highly active and functioning, but in only one case is the individual able to interact with the world and report experiences. Dreams and other altered states of consciousness may lie somewhere between these two extremes. Other variants of non-awakeness include general anesthesia and "persistent vegetative state" (related to coma). Perceptual awareness -- What is going on when you are aware of something vs. when you aren't? In binocular rivalry, two conflicting images are shown to each eye. The information about both images enters the brain, but only one image is seen at a time. Which image is seen changes periodically and spontaneously. There are other examples of information being processed "subliminally" without being perceived "consciously". In stage magic, what is perceived is different from what is actually happening. What is the difference between sensory signals entering the brain, and something being perceived "consciously"? Subjective (first-person) point of view -- Consciousness is private, subjective and experienced from a particular point of view: yours. What accounts for this point of view, for the unique "interiority" that gives the feeling that you exist inside your head somewhere? Is your version of the color red unique to you or the same for everyone? If a machine was conscious, would it have a first-person "experience"? As philosophers would say, is there something that it's like to be a computer? Unity of experience -- Consciousness feels "whole", indivisible, and irreducible. There is the sense that the world is experienced instantaneously in complete, integrated, and meaningful detail. Hundreds of scientific experiments show that this unity is an illusion (change blindness, attentional filtering, attentional blink, visual illusions, timing errors, split brain patients, mental disorders, various neurological syndromes,  ...). But the illusion is so powerful it takes a real force of will to be skeptical of it. When consciousness becomes fragmented, as with dissociative drugs, brain damage, split-brain surgery, or divided attention, has consciousness been degraded? Personal identity (existence, self, ego) -- One unique aspect of the human experience is the sense that we exist -- that there is an "I" in there somewhere, looking out onto the world. Why do all our experiences come from our body and not someone else's? Does our uniqueness as an individual come from a "soul" that is somehow attached to the brain, or is it a construct generated by the brain? If someone wakes up with amnesia, or has dementia or dissociative disorder (formerly multiple personality disorder), has their conscious self ceased to exist, even though they seem conscious? Self-awareness -- Also uniquely human is our ability to "introspect" onto what is going on in our own mind. Descartes famously said "I think therefore I am." One complaint about the idea of consciousness in a computer is that a computer seems incapable of answering the question "what is it like to be you?". If you can't reflect on your own inner life, are you still conscious? Personal agency -- In modern society, an important distinction is made between voluntary action (doing something"intentionally") and involuntary action (accidental behavior). To do something "consciously" is to do it with forethought and purpose. In Tourette's Syndrome, people make intentional-seeming actions involuntarily. This ties into the tricky question of "free will" as well as the legal concept of mental competency and the insanity defense. "He was not in conscious control of his actions" the defense might say. Some scientific models of consciousness: http://www.scholarpedia.org/arti... Related: What are some of the current neuroscientific theories of consciousness? Does the mind give rise to consciousness or does the consciousness generate mind? Where is our consciousness? Is our consciousness a thing that has mass/matter? What defines the conscious vs. the unconscious parts of the brain? Is consciousness an emergent property of the brain or a fundamental property of matter? How many neurons are needed to create a conscious entity? Is there such a thing as the subconscious? Updated 6 Aug • View Upvotes