If I am slow at programming & problem solving specifically, does that mean I am not going to improve or it just needs more practice?If I need practice then what kind of problems I should practice. Note: When I say programming I don't mean web development which seems much easier than programming involving stack, queues, trees, graphs, algorithms, mathematical knowledge etc.
Lot of people already answered, but I'll also add few words as I got A2A. Practice, practice and even more practice, that's the key. If you are slow in terms of writing a code - write a lot of code, and your speed will improve; if you are slow in solving problems - practice a lot, learn ideas and editorials, build your overall level. Your question does not contain most of significant details. You just started, or you trained for a long time and can't reach a good level, or you hadn't trained for a long time yet, but don't see any positive changes from training right now? If you are a beginner - it is expected that you will be performing poorly. Don't be upset because of it. You may find some inspiring rating graphs in comments here already; and there are a lot of people who moved from gray to strong red. Moreover, if you will ask someone who started not from grey color, it will probably turn out that he had a competitive practice before (on different site), or he have experience in stuff like math olympiads, or he practiced some problem solving without participating in contests, or... Or a lot of other reasons why he is was better than you at that moment. One more thing - I know very few people saying things like competitive programming is so good for me, I have a talent, I'll improve fast and beat them all because it is in my blood, in my genes, it is supposed to be this way, and I am so happy because of how fast I am improving. Usually people are saying that they are not talented, not skilled, that they had to do better etc. Think about it :) Finally - you may give up if you don't like contests; but don't leave it only because you'll never be the best one. Almost all contestants will never be best in the world. There are always somebody who is better than you and somebody who is worse than you; only ratio between those two groups changes over time:) Try to compete against yourself, not against others. If today you performed better than yesterday - it is already a win, it is already an achievement. Updated 2 Jul • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Anonymous