How can electric cars be more environmentally friendly when electricity is mostly generated by burning coal?
Originally Answered: Are electric cars actually safer for the environment?USA grid is 39% coal and dropping. Natural Gas 27% and rising. Sources that don't burn fuel (nuclear, hydro, wind, solar, geothermal) = 32%. So to begin with, the average USA electricity has far lower emissions than burning gasoline. Most other developed countries have even cleaner grids, except for Australia. As far as energy consumption EVs are much more efficient. A Tesla Model S gets 85-100 mpg e A Nissan Leaf gets 110 mpg e A hydrogen FCV (Toyota Mirai) gets 66 mpg e A Toyota Prius gets 50 mpg A Toyota Corolla gets 32 mpg If a gallon equivalent of electricity is made from coal, a Tesla Model S will drive a mile generating less CO2 to the environment than even a Prius. A ton of coal burned does produce more CO2 than a ton a gasoline, but it produces far more miles worth of electricity on a model S than that ton of gasoline drives a corolla or a prius. It takes a lot of energy to transport, refine and distribute a gallon of gasoline. Refining is specially energy intensive. Oil Refining is the largest consumer of both electricity and natural gas in California ! A particularly inefficient oil refinery in California that refines low value heavy oil uses more electricity and natural gas to refine a gallon of oil such the electricity + natural gas is enough to drive a Tesla the same distance as that gallon of gas would drive a Prius. So we're already at a point where it's better to leave some lower value oil on the ground and go EV instead. Finally this is all asuming average grid electricity. If you produce electricity from solar panels, your effective CO2 emissions per mile might be zero. So what matters is well to wheels total CO2 intensity. Regular ICEs have about 20% efficiency, hybrids get to about 30% efficiency, but a Tesla fueled with natural gas baseload gets around 50% efficiency, at the same time natural gas is far less polutant than oil. If you live in coal USA land, as you buy an EV, it makes every sense in the world to put solar panels on your house, as your EV might double your electricity consumption. 90kWh = 290 miles. Updated 8 Nov