I feel like a loser and lost all my hope to live anymore. What should I do?
I can't really tell you what you should do. Honestly, at this point, you're going to have a really hard time following anyone else's suggestions. However, at the risk of being judged, I'll tell you what worked for me in a similar situation. Game of thrones - A friend of mine suggested this to me. I first thought he did not really understand the gravity of the situation. That too when I had been telling him for over a month, how day in and day out I felt like a giant hole had been drilled through my heart. I still decided to give it a try. And the next one week kind of flew by me. Booze - Since this happened when I was in my final year in college, we used to have a lot of placement parties. I started attending most of them. I had always liked alcohol but during this phase I started liking it more. It helped me forget my problems temporarily. It also made me go back to my roommate and howl. I would cry for hours about how painful a heartbreak is. Friends - They heard me out ALWAYS. The crux of the story would always be the same - how much the situation sucked! But they listened to me narrate the same thing in 100 different ways. Stooping low - I stopped having any rules for myself. I would call him if I felt like, sometimes to say mean things, sometimes to tell him how much I loved him, sometimes to plain cry. It did me good. With every phone call, I realised how I was losing out on all my self respect but I still continued. It was mainly because if I thought of not calling him, I would spend days wondering about what it would be like to talk to him at that very moment. So I decided to let go. With every phone call, I wanted him lesser. I hated how I could let someone reject me every other day for months. I guess I was waiting to hit rock bottom. Because I knew the journey from there on had to be upwards. Bunking - As we were in the same class, I tried to avoid as many classes as possible. As attendance was never much of an issue in my college, I had this privilege. Travel - I went on a lot of trips with my friends. It made me realise there were a lot of people in my life who were waiting for me to be their fun loving buddy again while I was busy sulking for someone else. It took me a good 8 months to get over it. Heartbreaks suck. But almost everyone goes through this pain. And most of us come out stronger and better people. If you do not have a job yet, you have one more way of keeping yourself distracted - your career. Do whatever it takes to keep yourself happy. Just don't give up. Hang in there. A few months down the line, you might be telling some other 20-something year old how breakups are not the end of life. Also, watching F.R.I.E.N.D.S. repeatedly and thinking of yourself as cocktail's Deepika might help ;) 