How important is social media monitoring in your company? How much time and money do you invest in it?In my experience, social media monitoring it’s an important step in every company, regardless of the industry, and can bring great benefits for a business if it’s properly managed. Do you have such a service in your company? Do you think it should be automated or handled manually?
How important social media monitoring is to your company depends on your business model, product, objectives, marketing strategy and target market. Keep in mind that there are different ways to do social media monitoring: a) You can monitor what people are saying about your brand online and use this as a way to gauge tone and sentiment and interact with customers/your target audience b) You can monitor what people are saying about your competition and your industry and use this to identify opportunities to participate in the conversation. "B" is also a great way to do marketing research, as Michael Kwolek mentioned above. No matter what industry you are in or what kind of product you are making it's highly likely that your target audience is using social media, especially Facebook, so I think most companies can benefit from some type of social media monitoring, and this will only become more true in the future. You can't fully automate your social monitoring; doing so would strip so many benefits away from participating in and understanding these communities! But, you can definitely do it in a smarter way. First, use a scheduling tool like Buffer (A better way to share on social media) so that you can post throughout the day. Second, most monitoring tools allow you to set up alerts according to customized parameters so that you can get an email when something important happens, like a spike or a dramatic decrease in mentions about your brand. This way you don't have to be chained to your monitoring tool all day, anxiously checking the graphs. Ashwin Satyanarayana was absolutely right when he said to be ruthless about the time you spend on social media monitoring. Schedule time for it each day, but don't let it eat into other important activities. Also, there are hundreds of social media tools out there, so just pick one and stick with it. If you're a small company, a mix of Buffer, TweetDeck, Facebook Insights and a free Twitter analytics tool like (Twitonomy) Twitter #analytics will do the trick. If you're looking for something more robust, my company has an awesome monitoring and analytics tools that has all the metrics you'll need in one place: http://web.ondore.com/products/o... - Chloe Gray, Marketing Manager, Ondore  Makers of the most powerful social media monitoring tool available - Ondore 