Why is e-commerce such a hot area in venture capital now?
eCommerce is hot right now primarily because the time is finally right. Lots of early ventures like Dodgeball, Friendster, Yellowbook.com, and Respond.com were wayyyyyy ahead of their time, and it has only been recently that the stars have finally aligned. Never underestimate the power of redemption. Investors like to be proven right, even if it takes years. But there are other reasons why eCommerce is so hot. VCs understand that in eCommerce, the smart get incredibly smart... and then there's everyone else. Imagine a magic TV set that told you what tomorrow's stock prices were going to be, today. All of the eCommerce plays are based on some sort of proprietary corpus. If you watch what's happening with that corpus, you'll get market signals about what is happening, or better yet, what is about to happen. Once you know what to look for, and you can see that it can be relied on to deliver insights with real market value, then the race is on to own that marketplace. That's why just about every tremendously successful information-based business since the 1980s has had monopoly issues: once there is a market for insights, money will flow to the most reliable supplier. Monopolistic businesses lead to monopolistic returns, which is why it was so easy for companies like Google and Facebook to make so much money so quickly, despite their "free" origins. A new market dynamic has emerged: scarcity. It's hard to believe that until just recently, there was a glut of inventory and no real mechanism to get people to take immediate action. Flash sales changed all of that by creating an easily repeatable "burning platform" that any company could use to create a reason to take action, now. Entire industries were based on an obsolete concept of addressability, and are now up for grabs. Once upon a time the universe of addressable customers was solely defined by phone numbers, mailing or email addresses. The only way you could add more people was by renting someone else's customers (mailing lists), building a large enough physical presence so more people would run into you (retail real estate) or by buying advertising space (mass media). Social media has enabled a whole new form of addressability: you can efficiently target people based on their interests, where they go, common acquaintances...the sky is the limit. And once a monopolistic business has been established, it becomes incredibly hard to displace. The world has become addressable...a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity is actually happening again. Most countries leapfrogged the US when they decided to upgrade their telephony system and their TV infrastructure at the same time during the latter 90s. We're seeing tremendous growth in both great ideas and internet consumption come out of expected places like China and France, but also out of Nigeria and Peru. Once the world is interconnected, there is a belief that the window for such high-yield opportunities will not be the same for decades. The initial Internet boom was an investment opportunity that typically happens only once in a lifetime. But with global eCommerce, VCs see the same magnitude of opportunity...and a reason to act, now. 