Is President Obama a socialist? Why or why not?This claim is made about his ideals and goals all of the time, usually as a slur. In what ways is there any merit to this label? Please feel free to list any "close hits" that are not quite socialism, but strongly lean in that direction. Since this is likely to be contentious, I remind you that providing your own answer is a stronger response than attacking the answer of another user.
Obama is  a moderate corporate conservative, a center-right politician. Obama has been taking money from major banks and corporations and his policies do their bidding in ever so many ways. He's said he's a "free market kind of guy", and his support for "free trade" pacts -- again doing the bidding of big corporations -- show this. His signature health care act is a huge giveaway to capitalist insurers, hospital chains & drug companies. It's the old Republican plan for health care suggested by Nixon back in the '70s. Obama is a total supporter of American imperialism, the use of U.S. military power to ensure corporate interests throughout the world. John Drew claims Obama had "Marxist socialist beliefs" when he met him 1981. But he doesn't give us any evidence for this, that is, he doesn't tell us what Obama said back then which led Drew to make that inference. The "Democratic Socialist" label is the equivalent of social-democracy. Social-democracy is not anti-capitalist, but is similar to liberalism. An example is Senator Bernie Sanders who calls himself a "socialist" but for him this merely means controls on capitalism & a generous social safety net. That is not socialism. A person might, then, change the question, and ask if Obama is a social-democrat. Since European social-democracy has become so much more conservative in recent times, the question would be pretty murky. A number of the answers here make the fundamental mistake of identifying socialism with use of the state or government to do something. In fact capitalism has always required a powerful state, "free market" regimes historically have been created through state action, like the state-backed IMF & World Bank Structural Adjustment Programs in the Third World in the '80s and '90s. IMF & World Bank are basically controlled by the US Treasury Dept. Socialism historically was based on the labor movement, and was a movement for the liberation of the working class from capitalist domination & exploitation, through the creation of a worker-managed, socially owned economy. Some attempts to do this were through states, but there have been other attempts through direct worker takeovers of industry in some countries. Obama is about as far away as can be from socialism in this traditional sense. 