Can colorblind people use red-and-blue 3D glasses and experience a 3D effect?
For most people impacted with typical Deuteranomaly, there would be little to no 3D effect. However this depends on the exact color vision deficiency, and the degree of severity. The Anaglyphic image technique (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ana...) used from the 1950s and up to the recent usage, requires the non color contrast ability to be highly developed, to be able distinguish the simulated depth perception using this particular technique. This includes the red-green and red-blue popular Anaglyphic systems.  However most who suffer from mild to even some extreme forms of Color Blindness can detect simulated depth using forms of Stereoscopy crossed polarized lenses (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Ste...).  This also includes most forms of active LCD glasses. With out the simulated perception produced by the rather flattened gray images some will see in the Anaglyphic image technique the effect would create a rather blurry image at the very least for some. The Ishihara Colorblind test book shows the limits of "Gray" perception in the unaffected eye and the eye of some with Color Blindness. Results Vary From Person To Person The forms of Color Blindness that is impacted spans most forms of the deficiency including Monochromacy, Rod monochromacy (achromatopsia), Cone monochromacy, Tritanopis, Protanopia, Deuteranopia, Tritanomaly and some Deuteranomaly, Dichromacy, Protanomaly, Thus in the standard Confusion Line test demonstrates how the perception of color is shifted in the affected: The arrangement of these lines depends on which of the three cones is absent, originating three kinds of line of confusions. The color graph on a dichromatic person is greatly changed: instead of having the colors with the same brightness arranged on a plane, we find them arranged in a segment. Each color of the color chart is associated with a point of the segment: all colors arranged along the line of confusion are at the same point of the segment, which is the same color for a color blind. We can observe that both the red color blind people and the green color blind people have the yellow, red and green very close to a line of confusion. As a result, these three colors are not distinct, but appear to be the same. The only case in which the colors on the same line of confusion can be distinguished is when they have different brightness. Instead, the blue blindness occurs in the case cone of blue is missing. This kind of color blindness also generates lines of confusion, but in this case some blues are confused with some reds, some blues are confused with some green and others with some yellows. This is the rarest kind of color blindness among the dichromats. It depends on a chromosome than X and its diffusion is balanced between men and women (0.008% of the population). Therefore, these lines of confusion generate different types of color blindness and different types of color blind people. Thus one can assume a rather less than rich experience for most people who have been impacted by Color Blindness.  However, like all things in life, this is a personal experience and one would need to test the experience to be certain. 