What are the greatest dashboard designs, and why?I am looking for some cool dashboard designs following the latest design trends and UI Patterns. Dashboards mainly displaying the analytics, performance graphs and the most vital information.
This answer is based on a post: http://blog.plot.ly/post/1236179...   Check out the post for background and interactive versions of the graphs and dashboards included below. Part 1: The data “It is only by measuring that we can cross the river of myths.” - Hans Rosling, data visualization expert, founder of Gapminder Choose the right data Without data over a full year and categories, we wouldn’t understand the composition or trends in our sales. Imagine seeing only March to November. Choosing the best graph and using actionable and relevant data helps you communicate your work. Contextualize Your Data “We are overwhelmed by information, not because there is too much, but because we don’t know how to tame it.” - Data visualization expert Stephen Few Context makes your data manageable. Splitting the car wreck data below by neighborhood allows us to study the composition of the trend. Showing the same data from the past two years in a histogram and box plot adds historical context. Keep it Current “The process of visual monitoring involves a series of sequential steps that the dashboard should be designed to support.” - Stephen Few You need the most recent data to monitor your metrics. Part 2: The Design “Overload, clutter, and confusion are not attributes of information, they are failures of design.” Edward Tufte Make it Visual Colors shouldn’t just make graphs look nice, but contribute to the analysis of the data. In this interactive map, the color scale shows the categories of population for 3,000 cities in the US. Less flashy, more functional “Plotly is at the center of our business development platform…We can quickly comprehend and analyze huge amounts of data, and use the results to make multi-million-dollar investment decisions.” — Dr. Jenya Kirshtein, Scientific Software Engineering at C12 Energy To maximize your data:ink ratio, Plotly’s default charts use thin gray grid lines and do not use lines to surround the plot. Here we used Python, Pandas and Plotly to aggregate stock prices. Part 3: The Functionality “…few people will appreciate the music if I just show them the notes. Most of us need to listen to the music to understand how beautiful it is. But often that’s how we present statistics; we just show the notes we don’t play the music.” - Hans Rosling Make it Interactive Using D3.js and WebGL so you can drill down, zoom, pan, see data on the hover, and more makes your data engaging and lets viewers explore. We can also use IPython Widgets and R with Shiny to create interactive dashboards. That’s going well beyond a screenshot or slide. For example, below see the original plot we’ve made with MATLAB, then the Plotly version. Hover your mouse or click and drag to play with this surface made of bessel functions, rendered with MATLAB. Have a Single Source of Truth Does looking for files, data, graphs, presentations, and code feel like this? Make sharing dashboards with your team easy. Stop wasting time with email! Use collaborative, web-based tools that everyone can access, edit, and discuss from any browser or device. The data below comes from a McKinsey study. Part 4: Conclusion “But how do you exercise the restraint that simplicity requires without crossing over into ostentatious austerity? How do you pay attention to all the necessary details without becoming excessively fussy? How do you achieve simplicity without inviting boredom?” Artist, author, designer Leonard Koren One Tool For Your TeamUltimately, making graphs will require judgment. The fastest way to hone your craft and produce the best dashboards is through collaboration. Ask for feedback and work with tools your whole team can use. 