Is President Obama a socialist? Why or why not?This claim is made about his ideals and goals all of the time, usually as a slur. In what ways is there any merit to this label? Please feel free to list any "close hits" that are not quite socialism, but strongly lean in that direction. Since this is likely to be contentious, I remind you that providing your own answer is a stronger response than attacking the answer of another user.
All presidents over the last 100 years or more have been socialists that have been assiduously working to establish the pillars of Communism into the political culture. Socialism is popular among the general public and the American intelligentsia. Here's a list of demands from the Communist Manifesto as quoted from Wikipedia (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The... Abolition of property in land and application of all rents of land to public purposes. A heavy progressive or graduated income tax. Abolition of all right of inheritance. Confiscation of the property of all emigrants and rebels. Centralisation of credit in the hands of the State, by means of a national bank with State capital and an exclusive monopoly. Centralisation of the means of communication and transport in the hands of the State. Extension of factories and instruments of production owned by the State; the bringing into cultivation of waste-lands, and the improvement of the soil generally in accordance with a common plan. Equal liability of all to labour. Establishment of industrial armies, especially for agriculture. Combination of agriculture with manufacturing industries; gradual abolition of the distinction between town and country, by a more equitable distribution of the population over the country. Free education for all children in public schools. Abolition of children's factory labour in its present form. Combination of education with industrial production. The US has established #2, #5, and #10. Other objectives have been partially accomplished as part of the socialist transition to full Communism. I expect that if you polled college freshmen on how much they agreed with each of these points, most would support each of them strongly. Many Quora users would also likely agree with most of these points (at least if you avoided revealing that they were written by Marx and Engels). Obama is a clever lawyer who holds opinions little different from his cohort. He is no more socialist than the majority of "far right" Republicans or ordinary Americans. Many Republicans and other "conservatives" are more aggressively socialist than Obama himself is. If I had to guess, Obama is less socialist than the majority of Harvard Law School graduates and students. There's merit to the label, but it's absurd to hurl it like a slur towards a single politician operating in a socialist society. It's bizarre for a militant socialist like Sarah Palin to act as if she were somehow in opposition to Obama on issues that actually matter. 