Was mathematics invented or discovered?
It would be good to look at the distinction between invention and discovery in science. Because science is about the world, we tend to think of the theories of science as discoveries. However, the conceptual form of the theories was created by human minds. What this says is that discovery and invention (creation) are not exclusive and are often both present--at least in science. What is the situation in mathematics? Think of the natural numbers 1, 2, 3, ... Human acquaintance with natural numbers probably began empirically and counting and adding could have been said to be sciences. But if you put 2 and 2 things together, e.g. two cups of water and two cups of water in a pail, the result does not look like 4 cups. So, if addition is an empirical operation then 2 + 2 is not always 4. To us this is a good motive to introduce numbers as a axiomatic system but early 'mathematicians' would not have known this. The approach in mathematics changed over our history. I do not know who introduced the axiomatic approach but Euclid had it and so the axiomatic approach is clearly over 2000 years old. More recently we continued to think that Euclidean geometry was both an axiomatic system and about real space. But with the advent of non Euclidean geometries and later with general relativity we realized that Euclidean geometry is but one axiomatic system which may or may not model actual space. So the view evolved that mathematical systems are not about the world (but of course could have application). What are they? Well on the surface they are symbolic systems with their own structure. But there is another view--Platonism, the view that mathematics describes 'objects' in an ideal world. While this view sounds a little fantastic perhaps the reason for it is the strong intuition that many mathematicians have that their systems must be 'real' i.e., must describe forms. Plato, of course, was an original Platonist. Here, from Wikipedia (Platonism) is a list of modern Platonist mathematicians and logicians: Bernard Bolzano, Gottlob Frege, Edmund Husserl, Bertrand Russell, Alonzo Church, Kurt Gödel, W.V. Quine, Hilary Putnam. The modern mathematical Platonist holds that mathematics describes abstract objects which lack some properties of 'concrete' objects such as being in space and time and having causality. But even if you do not subscribe to Platonism it is possible to see formal systems having elements of discovery (where the mathematician is playing with the forms) and creation (where the mathematician is playing with symbolic descriptions of the forms). But what of Platonism as such? Is it a good idea? The intuition that there is a Platonic world is appealing but as noted above the core idea seems (at least) a little fantastic. On the other hand there is the appeal of thinking of mathematics as about real objects. How could we see mathematical systems as describing real objects? If the universe is large enough we might get that to happen. Consider then, the largest possible universe. How do we even talk about such things? We distinguish between concepts and objects: the concept is the idea of the object. Let us look at science again--perhaps we will learn something. A scientific theory expressed in conceptual terms is simultaneously a constraint on concepts and a limit on the world. But scientific theories are empirical--of the world... and contingent--they could be untrue. In fact they often turn out to need and be capable of small improvement and less frequently of wholesale change. Do we want mathematics to be like that? We are looking to have mathematical realism but do not want the real messiness of science--perhaps we could avoid the messiness of science by thinking, if we should find a way to do so, of the object world of mathematics as ideal. We can now look at the question posed above: What is the largest possible universe? It is one in which all logically consistent conceptual systems have objects in that universe. The largest possible universe is this logical universe (this thought has parallels in the modal realism of David Lewis that possible worlds exist--note that this is different from the many worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics) and suggests a reinterpretation of logic. Then since mathematical systems do satisfy the constraints of logic:the objects of mathematics reside in the logical universe--a universe with an ideal character. Or we may think that the logical universe is the sum of concrete and the ideal or Platonic world or worlds. That does not make mathematics and science identical but it brings to them a unity that might shed light on what has been called (by Eugene Wigner) "the unreasonable effectiveness of mathematics". Can we go beyond the mere juxtaposition of the concrete and the Platonic such that science and mathematics are a true unity but still, of course, not identical? One thing that mitigates against that is the thought that mathematics and logic are deductive while science is inductive. That is actually not quite true. The creation of mathematical, logical, and scientific systems all have significant 'inductive' elements while inference under all is deductive. The difference, then, is that mathematics and logic will refer to those sufficiently abstracted structures such that the messiness of the concrete does not muddy our (conceptual) representations; on the other hand science would admit both the empirical and the conceptual and so have a messy and a pure (theoretical) side. 