I feel like a loser and lost all my hope to live anymore. What should I do?
“A new destiny starts with one thought –  a powerful thought”   Food nourishes the body yet the mind drives it. Without a filter, our senses are on overdrive and our mind becomes dominated by what is happening around us. Continuous stimulation from our surroundings tends to result in a speedy mind and contributes to physical exhaustion. It has been estimated that we create over 50,000 thoughts every day. That’s busy! And it’s tiring – particularly when thoughts are negative and stressful. There are two main things we need to do to reclaim inner peace and well-being; change the quantity and quality of our thoughts. The question is, how? The search for happiness consumes our lives. Many of us continually postpone our happiness - indefinitely. It's not that we consciously set out to do so, but we keep convincing ourselves, "Someday I'll be happy".    The reason why there is so little happiness in the world is dependency.   We are a spiritual being on a human journey, and the moment we integrate meditation into our Lifestyle, all the anxiety and negtivities which surround and infulence us, dissolves. God's love and the connection to Him through meditation heals us, removes the wastages and leakages in our lives, programs us to hamornize every relation in our lives. The ‘Brahma Kumaris World Spiritual University’ teaches a form of meditation  through which people are encouraged to purify their minds. The university teaches to transcend labels associated with the body, such as race, nationality, religion, and gender, and aspires to establish a global culture based on what is called "soul-consciousness".The Brahma Kumaris believe that every action performed by a soul will create a return accordingly, and that the destiny of the soul’s next body depends on how it acts and behaves in this life. In Rajyoga meditation taught here, the soul can experience a connection, or mental link, with the Supreme Soul. The process of establishing this link begins with a journey into one’s inner world to discover one’s true, spiritual identity. The process of going within, experiencing oneself as a spiritual being or soul, which is a luminous, sentient point of energy, and then connecting with the Supreme Source of energy empowers the self in a lasting way. This process of self-empowerment is entirely voluntary and involves no element of suppression or coercion of the mind. It is all about aligning one’s thoughts, feelings, words and actions with the soul’s innate qualities of peace, love, bliss and truth. At the heart of this mechanism is the soul, in which consciousness resides. The soul lives near the pituitary gland, which receives external stimuli through the hypothalamus, which receives information from the cerebral cortex of the brain and passes it on to the soul. The soul’s response to such stimuli is shaped by its tendencies, beliefs, values etc. Rajyoga meditation enables the soul to develop the right attitudes, values and will power. If, for example, the soul looks upon life as a drama in which every human soul is playing its role and every event is a passing scene, it will not be saddened by painful or adverse events. It will remain a detached observer of every situation. Also, if the soul remembers that it is originally a calm and peaceful being, and that all other humans are also souls, related to it as brothers, it would treat everyone with love. Even if others behave badly, it would forgive them and extricate itself from an unpleasant situation rather than get distressed or embroiled in a confrontation. Further, such a person, having firm belief in God as the omnipotent and merciful Father who helps those who help themselves by acting according to divine law, remains free of worry, feels secure and experiences God’s love. All these save the soul from any harmful effect of external stimuli and help it remain relaxed and peaceful. Through this meditation, by transforming thinking patterns and eventually actions, people can purify their "karmic account" and lead a better life in the present and next birth. The aim of the BK meditation is also to learn to hold meditative states while being engaged in every day life.    This meditation  can help ... •    as a natural antidote to stress •    for easy decision making •    restore our innate creative capacity •    emerge confidence and faith in the self •    regain a deep state of inner peace and well-being •    renew our perspective •    deepen inner stability •    cultivate friendliness •    tap into an unlimited power flow •    nurture feelings of security and safety •    strengthen the will power to overcome old habits, empower our ‘soul reality’.   Consider connecting with the eternal source of fabulous feeling…..with this move we can really experience a natural ever-present power in our lives…..’   The basic teachings of the Brahma Kumaris are imparted through the foundation course that covers fundamental aspects of spiritual knowledge in separate lessons spread over a period of 7 days (1 hour each day) free of cost.     Find Brahmakumaris centre near your home at the following link- http://www.brahmakumaris.com/cen... 