I feel like a loser and lost all my hope to live anymore. What should I do?
Oh I was rejected by a girl. After a month I got over it. My friend who was also rejected by a girl said it takes 6 months to recover. But he added never ever go back to that girl else she will kick your butt again and you will again need 6 more months to recover. The way I recovered so quickly was taking in and practicing what Lord Krishna taught in the holy Bhagavad Gita. He said, doing is important but results are not important at all! Therefore in my case Do competitive programming but don't expect ratings or ranks Do business but don't expect money off it Be with people but don't expect love, respect and care. Flirt but don't expect love and marriage etc. Marry but don't expect companionship out of it. This is one of the strongest philosophies you will experience lot of power due to it. I experienced it during competitive programming before. I used to be fire there. I was in gray green border (these are colors like black belt blue belt of karate but here you may lose your color due to bad performance, green being better than gray). And I was least bothered about me losing my color so many times, I would jump back. For me doing the coding and having fun was more important. Others who wanted to be yellow red (higher colors) fast were damn nervous, so nervous that when color was in changing situation their hands would tremble while coding in a match. What happened was that I became higher than gray and green, I am in green blue border now, look at my graph TopCoder Member Profile ;) This is the power of this philosophy. You will be blessed effortlessly. And by the way why is this guy special? There are so many other guys! You should never compare a guy with another with respect to anything cause its a disrespect to both guys. Letting go is tough but happens with time, trust me on this, I think by now you must have got over it. Think after 10 years, do you think this matter will be as important as it is now?! It will look trivial then! Also don't you think you have so much energy in brain! People who can feel depressed are geniuses. The problem is you are trying to solve an unsolvable problem. You can redirect this energy for something constructive like building a kickass career, helping people, doing something revolutionary, chasing your childhood dreams, rebelling against the current environment to change it for better and so many other things. 