How can I get a job at Facebook or Google in 6 months?How should I be going? I need a concise work-plan to build a good enough skill set. Should I join some other start-up? Should I build my own projects or start-up? Should I just focus on practicing up on Data Structures and Algorithms ?
Originally Answered: If I have 1 year to prepare for a Google software engineer interview, how should I prepare?That is too much time to spend focused on an interview! I say that for two reasons: First, you could get unlucky and be turned down in spite of being an excellent software developer who worked hard to prepare. Steve Yegge described (@Get that job at Google) an "interview anti-loop": for any particular person at Amazon or Google, there is a set of interviewers who wouldn't have hired that person. I don't know if I'd put it the same way, but sometimes interviewers are imperfect, and when there is doubt, Google errs on the side of not hiring someone. I have seen excellent, well-prepared software developers turned down. Sometimes they've applied again and been successful. Sometimes they haven't applied again. Sometimes they've applied again and been refused again. There's no shame in any of these things, but rejection is disappointing, and I can't imagine how disappointing it'd be after a year working specifically toward that interview. Second, I think it'd be hard to stay motivated on studying for an interview for that time, and even if you can, your interview preparation shouldn't come at the expense of learning skills you'll actually use on the job. I'd suggest a small change to how you think about this year. What neat problems can you work on that you'll enjoy thinking about, that might produce some software you'll enjoy using, and/or that will teach you skills you'll use at your dream job? Maybe there's an open source project you feel passionately about and could join. Maybe there's one you want to start. Maybe you could participate in programming competitions. Maybe you could teach programming to high school kids. Maybe you could do a combination of all of these things. These are all things that people enjoy doing for reasons other than improving their ability to interview at Google. And they're all things that would help you when interviewing at Google! I can't guarantee you'll land a job at Google, but I can guarantee that you'll feel you've used your time well and will be in a strong position to get a great job at some tech company. 