How did Adam D'Angelo improve so fast in TopCoder?http://community.topcoder.com/tc... (grey to red in a year)
As Cosmin points out this wasn't that fast given my background, which at the time I started Topcoder was two years of USACO contests and their training pages. Regardless, here is what I needed to do initially: Get better at parsing input quickly and accurately. In most other contests you're handed the data in a format that's easy to deal with, and parsing is insignificant compared to the actual implementation. In Topcoder parsing the input can require splitting strings, converting types, and watching out for tricky edge cases. These are all easy to do, but I'd never had to do them under such time pressure and with zero tolerance for mistakes before. I made a library of a few parsing functions which helped a lot at getting faster at this. Learn STL. I hadn't used STL before, and learning all the ins and outs of it like the performance of each method, how to use functors, the fact that vectors automatically double when they run out of space, etc. took some time. I remember learning the hard way that string.data() didn't guarantee a null character on the end of the data - there were probably 10 other mistakes like that I had to make before I was really confident with STL. Get better at checking edge cases. Because Topcoder programs need to pass every test case to get any credit at all, this was much more important than in the other contests I'd done. In the other contests the test cases are generally there to see how far your algorithm will go, not to try to find every possible bug. Initially this felt "cheap" to me but in the long term it definitely helped my implementation skill and I appreciate how it made me develop. Those three things got me up to yellow after about 10 contests. After that it took about 6 months for me to get to red. That was mostly the result of being motivated and focusing on getting better all the time. I really enjoyed the contests. It was always this huge adrenaline rush, all this pressure, and a lot of fun. I remember being completely wiped out by the high after most of the contests, unable to do anything for the next hour while I cooled down. I finished high school and moved out to Caltech at the beginning of summer 2002. I didn't have a lot to do and I made friends with some other competitors there. We would compare results and solutions after some of the contests. I would also always review solutions from some of the best people after every match, and I'd usually pick up little shortcuts and cleaner ways to express things which would make me better for the next contest. As an aside, I remember reading an old interview with a top Starcraft ladder player (Zileas) and he said that one key part of him getting to be #1 on the ladder was being part of a group of friends who were all very good themselves and who played regularly. The social aspects make it fun and motivating in a way that would be much harder if you were to decide to just sit down and spend months or years getting good at something alone. In my case I remember people being disappointed when I would skip a match because they wouldn't be able to talk through the problems afterward. The transition from yellow to red for me was mostly about having consistently fewer bugs and getting faster. I don't think regularly doing Topcoder made me much better at algorithms. With the time pressure, I'd usually either get the algorithm quickly or not get it at all, and then learn it from someone else's solution after the match or during the challenge round. The way to actually get better at algorithms is to sit and focus on a problem you can't solve until you figure it out, which there usually isn't time for during a match. In spring 2003 I was taking two difficult classes and I had to stop competing to be able to keep up with them. After that I competed sporadically until I started to work at Facebook in 2005. If I had more free time today I'd probably get back into it but almost all my energy goes into Quora and I usually just want to read and relax in my free time. 