I feel like a loser and lost all my hope to live anymore. What should I do?
Okay, so I am in my final year of engineering, used to be a topper, and screwed up my placements, leaving me jobless now. She is in my department, so I get to see her everyday. Why we broke up, whole other story. What did I learn from this incident? They aren't coming back. When a girl or a guy takes such drastic steps as blocking you on Facebook and on the phone, they probably aren't coming back to you ever again. You just have to accept and live with that. You don't find his reasons valid, because, most probably he is lying to you. Truth is, either they got bored, or they just found someone better. The key to understanding this situation is to live by the basic premise that "they loved you for what you were and what they were, they won't love you for what you have become or what they have become." So, he became career centric. Happens. You have to cope with that. Everybody does. Sometimes people grow apart. Here is something from a movie. Maybe you will listen to Zooey Deschanel if not me. Why you absolutely SHOULDN'T kill yourself? Humorous answer : Then you wouldn't have all this experience to share with us like Virali Modi did in her answer Virali Modi's answer to What are the craziest/strangest things you did under tension/depression? Serious answer : Then you would just be another case of suicide due to "unsuccessful relationships", and I tell you, this is not martyrdom. People won't appreciate you for it. They say that when a person dies, everyone speaks good of him. But if you take you life for this reason, most of the whispers your parents would hear at your funeral will be about your character which people will besmirch with the most innovative of taints. The guy would probably be worried. Not for you, but for the fact that the police might question him. After a few months, what will be the final result? You dead. Your parents scarred for life after losing their daughter. The guy would probably be dating again. So, what did you achieve? Why you should not screw up you life? So, I hear you screwed up your placements because of the failed relationship. I am sorry to hear that. My condolences. But you know what I think? That you didn't deserve the jobs and you are blaming it on the failed relationship and the emotional turmoil. I am sorry, I didn't mean that. I know how these things screw up your life. But guess what, not everyone will understand. Most people will tell you the same thing I did in Italics. It doesn't feel good when you hear that. At first people will sympathize with you for the breakup. Slowly they will get tired and leave. Your friends might stay, but today or tomorrow even they will get frustrated with the same old charade. In the end, you will be left, not only without a boyfriend, but also without a bunch of friends as well. This tends to flame up the depression. It's a chain process. Denial. Anger. Bargaining. Depression. Acceptance. Don't stretch out the fourth stage more than you absolutely have to, because after that comes the most rewarding stage of all, Acceptance. What you should do? If experience be any evidence, one must refrain from providing you any advice on the matter, because, no matter what I say or Zooey does, you are going to do exactly what you feel at that moment of impulse. But I would urge you to draw a fine line between "losing your self respect and dignity" and "giving up your ego issues" and maybe give it one last shot. Follow this stern rule, "if he refuses, you will not pursue him any further." Get out of that depression. Get a hobby. Improve yourself. Learn a new language. Learn to sing, dance, cook, draw, whatever you need to do to keep your mind off of him. Avoid him in college. Indulge in thyself. Remember, that when one door closes a hundred doors open, but if you sit there in sweat pants, depressed, with tears all over, eyes red, cheetos stuck to your hair, the other hundred doors will also shut on your face. I am not asking you to enter any of the doors, but at least try. You need only be true to your love, not necessarily to your beloved. Cherish the good times you had, and time heals everything, give time some time. Like Ricardo Morales said in The Secret in Their Eyes, Choose carefully. Memories are all we end up with. At least pick the nice ones. Updated 27 Mar • View Upvotes