What is the outcome of a $15 minimum wage in the U.S.?
This is a very difficult question.  Raising the minimum wage by any substantial amount will affect the economy on many, many different levels.  I think the consensus among most economists would be that, although we could predict some of the changes, we would never be able to predict everything that would happen without actually doing it. The good news on that front is that some cities have already raised their minimum wage substantially, so soon we will have some real data on how this has affected their economies. This is my breakdown of some of the most basic factors that I believe are going on. The simplest and most academic way to look at a raise in the minimum wage is to produce a simple supply and demand graph for the labor market, like this: Red line is labor supply, meaning how many people in society would be willing to work at that particular wage.  The demand is how many employees firms would demand at a given wage.  It is easiest to think about this in extremes if you are unfamiliar with this graph.  Look at the very left of the graph, right on the axis.  This would be a wage of say $1.  Obviously, very few people would be willing to work for $1, and you see that by the low position of the red line.  However, at wages of $1, firms would want to hire many employees, as it costs them next to nothing, thus the blue line is very high. Going to the other extreme, go to the far right of the graph.  This would be a wage of say $100.  Obviously most people would be very happy to receive a wage of $100 an hour.  If mcdonalds offered $100 an hour to flip burgers, they would have thousands and thousands of applicants.  This is seen by the red line being very high.  However, at a wage of $100, many firms do not want to hire employees, because the cost to them is too high, thus the blue line is very low.  This can be a convenient way of looking at a too high minimum wage.  If we raised the minimum wage to $25 an hour, lots of people would want to work, but very few companies would want to hire them.  In a true free market, the labor market would move back to the equilibrium point (point where the lines cross), which would be at a wage lower than $25, but with more people actually being hired, because firms are willing to pay say $15 and hour, but not $25.  But, because we have installed a legal price floor for labor (which is what a minimum wage is, we would likely have a situation where unemployment would rise, even though everyone is looking for a job, because less firms are willing to hire at this high wage. This situation would look like this, green line is the minimum wage price floor, you can see that the red line (supply), is higher than the blue line (demand).  Thus, we have more employees than we have jobs, and we are not in equilibrium. Now, I will look at what I think is going on now.  Many people have stated that if the minimum wage had been adjusted for inflation, it would be much higher than it is today, say more like $10 to $11 (depends what inflation number you use). If this is the case, which I think it is, then we have basically under priced labor.  If we were to accept the premise that in say 1970, the minimum wage at the time brought the labor market into equilibrium (maybe, maybe not, but just assume for the sake of argument), then if inflation has outstripped the minimum wage since then, we arrive at the following situation: Again, the green line is the minimum wage.  As you can see here, we now have a position where the demand for labor is higher than the supply of labor.  That is, at a wage of $7.25 an hour, there are less employees that are willing to work, than employers that are looking to hire. Let us pause and think about this in real world terms.  So far, this has been mostly academic, and certainly people can challenge my claim that at this point in time, the minimum wage is well below the equilibrium wage.  But I am going to offer some examples. Take a look at your classifieds, what are the most advertised jobs?  They are all low paying.  Where do you see signs outside businesses saying they are hiring?  I walked by a mcdonalds the other day, and the marquee under the golden arches said "now hiring 15 year olds".  This really struck me.  Why would mcdonalds advertise that they hire 15 year olds?  Obviously they need employees, and they must be unable to fill their open positions with adults who are willing to work for $7.25 an hour, so now they are trying to appeal to kids who are willing to work for less than adults. Mcdonalds wages are so low, they need to tap into the gray area of the labor market to fill their openings (yes, in many states 15 year olds can work, but they normally have very, very restrictive hours, parents often need to sign off on the employment, sometimes schools as well).  Why would mcdonalds want to deal with that hassle?  The answer is in the graph above, their wages are too low, Mcdonalds is demanding more jobs than the market is willing to supply.  You can bet that if mcdonalds raised the wages they were offering, they would not need to hire 15 year old, and if it was high enough, they probably wouldn't have to advertise that they were hiring on their marquee either. Think about another example.  If you follow the economy, and specifically the labor market and unemployment, you have probably heard something akin to the following: The official unemployment rate has gone down, to the point where we are very nearly back to full employment, in technical terms.  However, we have a very low labor force participation rate, meaning the percentage of the population that is either employed or actively looking for employment.  What this means is that their is a large percentage of the labor force that has decided to give up looking for work.  The important thing to remember is that prior to 2008, all of these people were employed, but now they are not, and they are no longer looking. Here is a graph of the workforce participation rate: As you can see, it has dropped from 66%, to less than 63%.  The most interesting thing about this is that the drop was not extremely sharp, but rather very gradual, and is just now starting to level off.  This means that for a few years after the crash of 2008, the people who lost their jobs were still looking for jobs, but eventually they gave up looking, and were no longer in the labor market. Below is the unemployment rate over the same time period: Here you see the sharp spike after the crash, and then the more normal, steady decrease one would associate with a recovery.  The interesting thing to note here is how the decrease in the unemployment rate seems to coincide with the drop in the labor force participation rate.  If I am looking for a job and find one, the unemployment rate goes down, and the participation rate remains the same.  If I am looking for a job, and I give up looking, the unemployment rate goes down as before (you are only counted in unemployment statistics if you are actively applying to jobs, a quirk I am not sure everyone knows), but now the participation rate goes down as well. So in healthy recovery, the unemployment rate should steadily decrease, while the participation rate should remain the same.  In a really strong recovery, the unemployment rate would decrease rapidly, and the labor participation rate would actually increase a little.  Meaning the recovery is so strong, with such a demand for jobs, that people who weren't working before may decide to re-enter the labor force (retired people who get a part time job, stay at home parents who decide to get a part time job, or even go back to full time, due to a high demand for jobs, with corresponding high pay). So what does it mean when we have the situation we are in currently, where not only is the unemployment rate decreasing, but so is the participation rate?  It is an interesting situation, but I think it is explained by our original graph of the labor market with the current minimum wage. In this situation, employees are looking to hire at the current low rate, so this can account for some of the drop in the unemployment rate since the crash.  It is absolutely true that companies have been hiring.  But, due to the low wages being offered, there is a large number of workers who are unwilling to work at the wages that are offered.  They continue to look, but eventually they get discouraged and give up. This can be pretty easy to see.  It has been speculated that most of the loss in the labor participation rate has been from middle aged males, specifically working in blue collar jobs.  If a 45 year old with two kids was making $20 as a construction worker in 2007, then lost his job, and while looking for a new job, the most he could make was only $10, there is a chance he will take that job, but there is also a chance he values his own time, or time with his kids, at more than $10 an hour, at which point he will stop looking for work. Basically, we have an incomplete, or stunted recovery.  We have recovered many of the jobs that were lost, but not all.  And even though we have a low unemployment rate, the true unemployment rate, which also takes into account labor force participation, remains high.  Basically, jobs have grown, while wages have not.  Some of the population is willing to work in these low paying jobs, while others do not, and those people drop out of the labor force. It can be easy to see the effect this decrease in the labor participation rate has on the economy as a whole.  Less people working means less taxes collected.  These people have less money to spend or invest, thus consumer spending and investing goes down, which lowers GDP.  Another factor is the number of people that have gone on disability and welfare, which increases the cost to the government.  It is speculated that a good number of people who have left the workforce have gone on permanent disability.  This makes sense if we believe the decrease is due to older males from blue collar jobs leaving the workforce.  If you have worked construction for 20 or 30 years, there is a good chance you have some health issues that may or may not have been caused by your job, but could most likely be used as a reason to go on disability. It is interesting to look at the increase in people on, or applying for, social security disability, and how it corresponds with the crash, recovery, and labor participation rate. You can see the sharp uptick in applications, as well as people being added, in the period shortly after the crash.  To me, it seems that there is definitely a correlation between the decline in the labor participation rate, and the increase in people on disability benefits. There is much talk out there of people who are addicted to entitlements, living off the government, etc.  But why is that?  Some people will try to convince you that the people on welfare or disability are inherently lazy.  Some are I am sure, but they were probably on disability already.  What of all the people who had jobs, got laid off, then went on welfare or disability?  Why would they do that.  Well, I think there is a pretty easy answer. Let's look at the average benefits someone on disability receives. If we assume they would be working 160 hours a month, then the benefits they receive are worth $6.38 an hour.  This amount is less than $1 below the minimum wage.  I think it becomes easy to see why someone would rather be on disability "making" $6.38 an hour, while not working, than working 40 hours a week at $7.25 an hour. There is a similar calculation going on with welfare.  But people need to also remember that people qualify for things like medicaid, food stamps, and housing assistance if they are on welfare or disability.  Some of these are also available to people making minimum wage, but not all.  In fact there is definitely a sharp cutoff point where you will be worse off if you make too much money.  It is hard to argue someone wouldn't be better off at $15 an hour than on welfare, but they are rarely better off making $7.25 an hour, and they would likely not even be better at $10 an hour, as at that wage they would likely lose some of their other government assistance. So, coming full circle and wrapping up.  The labor market is not in equilibrium, at the wages being offered currently, there is a shortage of people willing to work at that wage.  This has caused a decrease in the labor participation rate, as well as an increase in people on government benefits. I truly believe all of this can be tied to our artificially low minimum wage.  And while I understand the people that say raising the minimum wage to $12 or $15 an hour too soon will be bad for the economy, I don't think a minor increase will be enough to coax people off the sidelines and back into the workforce. If we really want to entice people back into the labor force, we need a large increase in the minimum wage.  To what level?  That is certainly up for debate, but it is my belief that a small increase to $8, $9, or even $10 is too small to be effective. I really find it baffling that of all the people who complain about the number of people on entitlements, not one of them offers up raising the minimum wage as a solution.  To me, this seems the easiest solution to both the high number of people on entitlements, as well as the low labor force participation rate. I do not want to get too political, but I will just say that I think there are reasons other than pure macro economics why certain people oppose raising the minimum wage. I just want to end with my rebuttal to what I see as the most common objection to raising the minimum wage.  That is, raising the minimum wage will cause significant inflation, as companies will raise their prices to help pay the higher wages.  Higher inflation means higher prices for everything (housing, food, cars, energy), and this obviously sounds like a bad thing to people on paper, but it is important to note that over the long run, inflation has averaged just over 3% a year.  Inflation is a real thing, and is actually a sign of a growing economy, as long as it is controlled. This is absolutely true, and I will not argue that raising the minimum wage will likely cause inflation to increase.  What I will argue, is that increasing inflation at this point in time is not really a bad thing.  If you know anything about the fed and it's purpose, you know that one of it's primary functions is to keep inflation stable, at around the accepted rate of 3-4%.  The most powerful tool the fed has to keep inflation low, is to raise their interest rates.  This is a great way to slow down an economy that is growing too fast (inflation is too high).  Conversely, If the fed is attempting to encourage growth, or prevent deflation, they will keep their interest rates low.  I am sure most people have heard both of the historically low interest rates, as well as the fed going back and forth about whether they will raise interest rates.  It is important to note that the fed is discussing increasing the rate from effectively zero, to around 0.25%.  It is also important to note that in the not too distant past, the fed had interest rates of 4, 5, even 7% or higher. So, by the feds action, they are obviously trying to encourage growth, and are totally unconcerned by the threat of inflation.  This is a chart of the CPI, consumer price index, which is how inflation is calculated. As you can see, inflation spiked just before the crash, with runaway growth (we were in a bubble), then it drops into deflation, and it recovers a bit.  It is important to note this period of higher inflation in 2010-2012 is really just getting back to where we were, since we had nearly a year of deflation. Since then, we have been hovering around 1-2%, and are currently around zero.  Again, it is important to note that 3-4% is considered ideal, and even 5% is okay for short periods, so we are well below where we want to be. Therefore, since we have been averaging around 1% inflation for the past three years, and the fed is actively promoting growth with no regard for inflation, why in the world would a fear of inflation be a valid argument for anything?  We could use a few years of above average inflation at this point, and it certainly will not collapse the economy.  Anyone who tells you otherwise is blowing smoke, and should open their old economics textbook. 