What are the least loved Star Trek motion pictures and why?
There is a rule of thumb that the odd numbered Star Trek movies are the misfires and the even numbered ones are the good ones.  It’s a simplification, but it is generally true.  Here's a graph of the scores from Rottentomatoes.com: The least popular ones are #5, #10, #1, #7, #9.  Each of those would make a failing grade on the A-F scale. #5: Star Trek V: The Final Frontier - studio interference and the selection of an unqualified company to do the visual effects (ILM was too busy) severely damaged this film.  The story had an intriguing story idea - what if the crew of the Enterprise met God?  But you just can't tell that story in America.  And you certainly can't make your God very convincing with television grade special effects. #10: Star Trek: Nemesis - the director, Stuart Baird, is a renowned editor, but he's not a good director and he didn't understand Star Trek at all.  The actors have expressed frustration that he made them act out of character.  From my perspective, it isn't a terrible film until the end, when it becomes a blatant copy of Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan (The ship is powerless to escape a super weapon that is about to erupt destroying everything nearby.  There's a countdown on the bridge.  And then the alien/android science officer cocks his head to the side, makes a decision, stands, and sneaks off of the bridge to go sacrifice himself to save the ship). #1: Star Trek: The Motion Picture - Too cerebral.  Too pondering.  Too slow.  Too moody.  Too gray and beige.  It's a good science fiction film, but the characters and environment did not resemble what the fans loved about the original series. #7: Star Trek: Generations - personally I like this film.  I was ecstatic to see Kirk and Picard teaming up.  But, a lot of fans thought Kirk's fate was too ignoble. #9: Star Trek: Insurrection - this would be a great Star Trek: The Next Generation episode, but it's too small in scale for the cinema. Those are the results of the general public and critics, as per Rottentomatoes.  Personally, I believe that the worst Star Trek film is Star Trek: Into Darkness.  I would go so far to say it is one of the worst films, period. 