How can electric cars be more environmentally friendly when electricity is mostly generated by burning coal?
Originally Answered: Are electric cars actually safer for the environment?Depends on what you mean by "safer for the environment." Electric cars are quite a bit more efficient (well to wheels) than internal combustion vehicles, as Peter Webb pointed out. They cost more energy per mile driven to manufacture, but that is more than made up for by their efficiency over their normal lifetime (which is also shorter than that of internal combustion vehicles). But the source of electricity must also be taken into account. Using the U.S. national average of CO2 emissions from electrical generation, and assuming transmission and charging losses to be negligible (they aren't, but they are small), EVs do considerably better than any petroleum-powered vehicle in CO2 generated per mile driven. But in a state such as Ohio or Kentucky, where most electricity is generated by using coal, an EV, using electricity straight from the grid, emits more CO2 than a hybrid. (You still do better than the average standard vehicle.) One interesting tidbit is that (based on EPA mileage ratings) EV fuel efficiency doesn't change much with vehicle weight. This is emphatically not the case for vehicles powered by internal combustion. I don't know why that is. Edit. As Frank Schmitt points out in his comment, and Peter Webb in his answer, EVs benefit from regenerative breaking; larger vehicles use more energy to accelerate, and gain more energy from braking; this would make EVs have a flat weight-to-energy use profile. Hybrids show less effect because they have smaller on-board batteries, and also because they have on-board generators that charge up that battery, so they don't get full advantage from regenerative braking. End edit. This is based on a combination of US EPA mileage data, and detailed IEA estimates of the emissions of US energy sources. We published this recently in the Journal of Chemical Education. A Comparison of Carbon Dioxide Emissions from Electric Vehicles to Emissions from Internal Combustion Vehicles contains citations of all the sources of the data used. There are three graphs in the paper that tell the story: Plot of grams of CO2 emitted per mile driven vs vehicle curb weight in pounds. This graph comprises data from 510 gasoline and 16 diesel ICVs, 43 HEVs, 11 EVs, and 3 PHEVs; EVs and PHEVs are combined into a single category. EV emissions are calculated using average emissions per kilowatt-hour for the entire United States. ("ICV" = "internal combustion vehicle"; "HEV" = "hybrid electric vehicle"; "PHEV" = "plug-in hybrid EV") EV carbon dioxide emissions, in grams of CO2 per mile driven, are plotted against vehicle curb weight. For clarity, data points for ICV and HEV emissions, shown in Figure 1, have been replaced with trendlines for each data subset. ("Coal only" uses emissions values per kWh for coal; "NG only" uses emission values for natural gas power plants) Average CO2 emissions for fossil-fuel-powered vehicles are shown in gray, at left. EV emissions for the particular mix of electrical sources in the USA as a whole, and in each of the 10 most populous states, are shown in black. Before averaging, all emissions values were divided by curb weight. Edit to answer a comment: The third graph's numbers hold up even if the curb-weight normalization is removed. The following are averages over the entire EPA dataset we used for the article, of CO2 emissions in grams per mile. EVs, using US average emissions for electricity generation: 179 g CO2/mile EVs, using coal electricity only: 308 g CO2/mile EVs, using natural gas electricity only: 137 g CO2/mile Hybrids: 297 g CO2/mile Diesel: 365 g CO2/mile Gasoline: 406 g CO2/mile Or a version of the bar graph above, with EV emissions adjusted state-by-state: Again, the upshot is that the benefits of EVs depend strongly on the electricity source you use. If you are in a high-coal state, buy a hybrid if you want to minimize your carbon footprint. 