I feel like a loser and lost all my hope to live anymore. What should I do?
Hello dear, if you consider yourself a loser, here is the story of another person who is a much more big loser than you. My past- I was a topper like you during my school days, even in my 11th and 12th standard. Teachers were really impressed by me. Everyone thought I would be a medical student some day. But alas!! Nothing happens as you plan!! I got committed to someone. I loved him dearly. We were in a healthy relationship too. But then all of a sudden he severed all ties from me, stating that he was just flirting with me, and that I was a mere time pass for him. I screwed up my medical entrance, engineering entrance and every other damn entrance. I couldn't share my state of mind with anyone, not even with my best friends as I am an introvert. My present- My medical condition is not well. I am suffering from hormonal imbalance. I too cry a lot. Sometimes with reasons, and sometimes without reasons. Two days back my childhood best friend broke up all ties with me stating that he thinks that I am falling in love with him, so I better stay away from him.(PS- I have no intention of falling in love with him). I cried a lot, literally a lot. My best friend of college betrayed me (that's another story). I am in my 4th year now, pursuing BS-MS(I took it up as there were no other options left for me). I failed in my BIO exam of 3rd semester. I am a complete loser now, with a mere CPI of 7.0, while my other friends are all 9 pointers. I will be taking the GRE, NET, GATE, TOEFL etc exam within a few months, but I know I will be a complete failure in those too. There's a boy in my batch (my male best friend). I am really in love with him for the last 2 years. He never returned the favor. We still continue to be friends, but he is now committed with another girl of our batch. It really hurts to see them together all the time. Sometimes I cry, at other times I ignore. He barely talks to me now, completely ignores me. It hurts. But is there anything that I can do? NO. So you see, my life is full of betrayals too. But did I ever think of taking my life? Hell NO. My suggestion is that, 1. MOVE ON. I know it's easy to write these 2 words, rather than following them in life. But seriously one has to try. For, we know our value, but we can't force people to know our value. So the only option is leave our past behind and move on. 2. I read in a bio edit of a QUORA user, that change is the only constant in our life. People change, feelings change. We can't blame people for that. For that is their choice, their life. We have no right to decide what's important for them. But we definitely have the right to decide what's important in our life. Hurting yourself, merely because of someone else is an act of stupidity. Only option is, we should change our lifestyle too. 3. Everything happens for a reason- I truly believe in this saying. It's just a phase of life that you are going through. You never know, what awaits for you after this :). May be your career will take a completely different direction on a positive note. May be you will find someone who is not worth dying for, but worth living for :) 4. This phase shall too pass. 5. The only constant love in our life is our parents' love. NEVER DEPRIVE YOURSELF OR YOUR PARENTS OF THAT LOVE. So never think of taking any drastic step. 6. Never consider yourself at fault. Everything is destined. Whatever is written, it's bound to happen. Few tips that might help you, helped me too - 1. You may consult a counsellor if you wish. It helps. 2. Share your problems with your friends. Friends definitely have the best solutions :P 3. Engage yourself in different other things (like reading, cooking, making something useful, writing, shopping :P ) 4. I always write when I feel sad. That helps a lot. Jot down your thoughts and feelings, that way you can decrease your pain. So my beautiful friend, MOVE ON and CHEER UP :) Hope it helps. 