I feel like a loser and lost all my hope to live anymore. What should I do?
When we have lost all hopes for recovery, a part of us never actually wants to recover. Recovery terrifies us. We wrap our misfortune as blanket around us so that it can be used as an excuse for all the failures we encounter. The truth is that we have resigned ourselves to a life of mediocrity and self pity and we use our misery as an excuse for not trying to be better. Because lets face it, trying makes us vulnerable. It opens us to more failures. What if we try and lose? This question haunts us, sometimes so much that we don't even want to try. However, what we fail to understand is that we risk losing more if we don't. ​ ​ So, coming to your question now, I am going to try to answer them one by one. First of all. I don't think that you are mentally unstable. You understand what you are losing, how much harm you are doing to yourself and your parents, and are actively seeking help to correct the situation, that's a big indication that you are taking steps on the path of recovery. The first step towards solving any problem is acknowledging it and you have taken that first step. So I want you to remove all thought from your mind that you are mentally unstable. To me, you are perfectly capable of turning your life around. All you need is to believe that you can. I say from experience, that the day even a small part inside you starts believing that, that is the day you are firmly set on the path to recovery. ​ ​ ​Now let's see what you should do- whether you should wait for him or not? You think how could your boyfriend be so rude, there must be a reason behind it. But honestly speaking, I don't think there is. The problem lies in the fact that when we are in love we tend to idealize our partner, and anything to the contrary looks like a work of external circumstances. We try hard to find faults with the situation while exonerating that person of all the blame. But that is not how it should be. What you need to do is to take off your love goggles and see the reality for what it is. He is rude because he doesn't care, and you have to accept it. Remember the golden rule. When people show you who they really are, just friggin believe them. Moreover, you should not think that it's your fault. You are better off without a person who doesn't give a damn about you, and is not even man enough to explain to you the reasons for his actions. It's time you understand that he doesn't deserve you and your love. By showing you his true colors, he has in fact done you a favour, and you are lucky to have dodged a bullet. Now it's time to give yourself the utmost priority in your life, to make yourself the center of your universe, and to love yourself more than ever. I'm sharing one quote from Rocky before I make my next point. ​ ​ ​Realize one thing, one hard and harsh truth about life, that you are alone! Yes, that's right. That is THE immutable truth about life. No matter who loves you how much, at the end of the day when it comes down to the wire, you are alone. And while as terrifying as this thought is, it is equally liberating at the same time. ​ ​ ​ Realizing this truth gives you a clarity about life like never before. You stop expecting from people to be by your side when you are down. Often we are so caught up in those expectations that they become the sole reason we don't put in our own honest effort to come out of our mess. We procrastinate and we procrastinate, blaming him or her or anybody we can to become the fall guy for our own failures. But the truth remains. You yourself are the creator of your own destiny, and none but you alone, should control it. And thus none but you alone are responsible for your failures. The above is in no way a call to snap ties with your friends and well wishers, this is just to make you lower your expectations from them when they don't behave the way you expect them to. Now we have established that you are capable of turning your life around. And your boyfriend is a prick, so you need to move on. Then comes the question of how to move on? The biggest toll of a crappy breakup is on the mind. So, the first thing you need to do is to heal your mind, and for that, you should start doing MEDITATION. Now I want you to trust me on this blindly, because at first meditation may seem boring and useless and you'd want to quit but if you go steady, the gains you'll make within a month will amaze you. Besides meditation, you need to exercise daily for 30-60 mins. This has two effects. One that it releases chemicals in the brain that reduce the stress levels and make you feel happy. The other is that since you are working on yourself, it creates a feeling of increased self worth (self esteem) which is  at an all time low after a bad breakup. Apart from this, read motivational books and articles, watch movies that inspire you. You could read and save some motivational quotes, or better write them down and paste them on your wall. I know it's a cliche but trust me it works. The point of doing all this is to fill your mind with positive thoughts. Whenever you feel down or have a rush of negative thoughts, just do any of the above things to take your mind off of them. Do not feed those negative thoughts by marinating in the past. Instead as soon as you catch yourself doing that, snap your mind out of it by doing something that keeps it occupied. ​ ​ Go out with your friends, and also make some new ones. Have fun for a while. Take a trip if possible. This will give you a break from the negativity which has slowly filled all your surroundings and is now suffocating you. A change of place will infuse fresh energy into your life. Spend quality time with your family. They are the only people who will go the distance with you when everyone else has left your side. This is the perfect time to take up all those hobbies that you have always wanted to pursue, but could never make the time for. There is so much to do and see in the world that crying over a guy/girl is just a huge waste of time. Use that time wisely to learn some new skills while having fun at the same time. You need to imagine your future as a strong, independent woman who has goals and ambitions in life. You need to build your life around goals and not people so that no person, no matter how important, has the ability to precipitate an existential crisis for you. You must forgive yourself even if you think you made some mistakes. And more important than that you have to forgive yourself for the mistakes you are making right now. Even if you fail to get a hold of your life for some more time, do not feel bad about that. Lastly, take pride in the fact that you are trying, that you are brave enough to fight rather than cowering and wasting your precious life away. I give you my word that if you do all this and make an honest effort, if you just believe that there is light at the end of the tunnel, you most certainly will find it. And once you find it, that light will burn inside you in a way so dazzlingly beautiful that no darkness in the world will ever be able to extinguish it. Hakuna matata, and all the best! Updated 36m ago • View Upvotes