What initiatives are there in building a social graph representing the history of ideas?
I am currently doing a data mining project to reconstruct graph of influence in different topics in biology based on open access publications. There are two large problems to this, at least in my field:  - Map a flat text file to a concept / idea map, with a hierarchical tree of topics  and ideas exposed (the kind you would draw using IHMC cmaps). For every text, the generating rules (in terms of formal grammars on words) depend on the domain, journal, and the person who is writing (choice of some words over others). In Biology, texts are highly structured and generally follow a defined outline, which makes the task a little bit easier, but still far from trivial.  - Get a normalized representation of ideas. All concepts are strictly speaking specific to the individuals and are strongly influenced by their own experiences and context of idea/concept learning. To be simple, if you are a city child, when you think about concept "donkey", you most likely would picture a sad companion of Winnie the Pooh, whereas if you grew up in a hilly areas of middle east, this will be your uncle's stinky and noisy gray barrel on feet. In my domain it means that if you try to compare texts written by the immunologists v.s. developmental biologists, you're going to have a very, very bad time, since the same words represent different ideas and inversely, same ideas are represented by different words. I am not 100% sure, but I would say that these two problems get but worse with more general texts. Drop me a message if you're up for a more detailed discussion. As far as I know, for biggies, Google is building a "knowledge graph", and is most likely analyzing the data it pulls out from the corpus of the books it has scanned. If you haven't yet, get a view at Google Ngrams. Google programmers are generally very good and have time for side projects, so I can't imagine that none of them went into pulling more information from the books they've scanned. Update: after looking at the algorithms behind the IBM's Watson, it seems that they have a deep enough learning base to be able to carry over such a project. However, I am not sure they would do it, for it represents no business opportunity for them right now. Updated 18 Jul 2013 • View Upvotes