What is a good list of animals ordered by intelligence?I guess the first 10 places are easy to identify, however, when the list is large is difficult. Another list would be interesting also grouped by species.
This is going to be somewhat subjective, but I've done a massive amount of research in this (it's a personal obsession that goes far beyond most researchers in animal intelligence that I've talked to), so I'll share my thoughts. For an incomplete list of resources I've collected - see What are some good resources for animal behavior/animal intelligence/convergent evolution of animal intelligence? Also, regarding brain evolution: Alex K. Chen's answer to What's the best book about brain evolution? Bear in mind that animals are different, and you can't always objectively say that one species is smarter than another. But the difference is clear in many cases. In some cases, animals have very low behavioral flexibility but very high speed at learning what they're super-specialized at doing (this is particularly true for insects). My rankings are mostly done with behavioral flexibility in mind - however - curiosity (particularly in the case of the kea) can sometimes make an animal appear smarter than it otherwise would be In a few cases, I will draw inferences based on the brain to body mass ratio data (and graphs) that I have - many of them from the book Principles of Brain Evolution. But they may not be equally accurate for all animals, and I even suspect that they are wildly off for some particular animals. In some other cases, I will draw inferences based on the anecdotal data I have (as well as the information I have about the complexity of the animal's social interaction). I've also kept an informal list of particularly ingenious cases of insight learning. It will be very hard to make a comprehensive ranked list though, since in many cases, you have gradients within lineages that overlap with each other. Monkeys, in particular, have a huge intelligence gradient between species (some may be no smarter than the average mammal, others are extremely intelligence) I'll import it from http://simfishthoughts.wordpress.... My explanation is at bottom [1]. I've collected numerous papers, books, and interviews, but it will be hard to sort them all out (and will take a long time). How about listing them in order of decreasing intelligence? ======= AMONG VERTEBRATES... Tier 1: highly cultural species - usually means mirror self-recognition, evidence of insight learning, and sophisticated social structure + information communication even to individuals who have not directly witnessed the experience (information travels beyond just family groups – in fact – it’s amazing how fast information about hunting can spread between populations of crows and elephants) lots of dolphin species: orcas, bottlenose, others. Widely considered to be smarter than chimpanzees. sperm whale, other bony whales, also, northern whales. It's possible that some dolphins belong in their own tier, but I'll be conservative for now. See What are some good journals or studies on the intelligence of whales? baleen whales (low brain to body mass ratios and impossible to study in captivity, but anecdotal evidence shows a very surprising degree of self-awareness). Humpback whales, in particular, have a level of social complexity that rivals that of great apes. orangutan (smarter than chimps - http://www.timesonline.co.uk/tol...) bonobo (smarter than chimps - http://news.scotsman.com/world/B...) chimpanzee - note that the environment could *really* affect whether or not a chimpanzee reaches its potential (see http://www.sciencedaily.com/rele... ). But this applies to all the other animals just as well. Cannot be ranked, but definitely in tier 1 elephants. E.O. Wilson once said that we're familiar enough with elephants to definitively know that they're significantly less intelligent than humans, despite their masive brain sizes (in the context of not being able to rule out sperm whales being hidden geniuses). They also don't learn very fast (though the tests may be biased against them). In terms of behavioral and emotional complexity, however, they compare with the very top animals. They are capable of mirror self-recognition, can practice art, practice revenge, and are even able to distinguish between hostile human tribes and non-hostile human tribe. More at What can elephants do? In any case, I believe that elephants are probably smarter than chimpanzees, since intelligence tests are more likely to be biased against elephants than with chimpanzees. Also, it's much easier to raise a chimpanzee in an immersive environment. gorillas (Koko is extremely impressive). Traditional tests are shown to be pretty biased against them smarter corvids (raven, new calendonian crow [1], rook, carrion crow). One leading crow researcher (John Marzluff) once told me that he believes that crows are as smart as chimpanzees. Also, see Who ya callin’ bird brain?. "Crows may be among the most intelligent animals on Earth, based on their  ability to solve problems, make tools and apparently consider both  possible future events and other individuals’ states of mind" numerous cetacean species (there are so many of them, some smarter than others) Regarding theory of mind - Which animals have a theory of mind? [1] Note: New Calendonian Crows actually *fail* the mirror test, even though they can use the mirror to get food (doi:10.1016/j.anbehav.2011.07.033  ). This provides strongly suggestive evidence that their exceptional tool-using abilities might possibly come at a cost to their self-awareness abilities (although John Marzluff does say that there were issues with the magpie mirror self-reflection experiment). Also, when comparing between similarly-related species, increased tool-use does *not* always correlate with higher intelligence. See below (from http://www.nature.com/nature/jou...). In fact, they may have larger lobes that may facilitate the acquisition of tools, but this could come at the cost of the size of other cognitive abilities (including general ones) Various animals use tools such as twigs to gain better access to food sources. This puts them at an evolutionary advantage, so tool use has long been linked to higher cognitive function. But Sabine Tebbich at the University of Vienna and her colleagues found that tool-using woodpecker finches (Cactospiza pallida) are no more adept at a physical task that mimics tool use than non-tool-using individuals of the same species. Furthermore, the closely related small tree finch (Camarhynchus parvulus;pictured), which never uses tools, performed just as well at physical tasks as tool-using C. pallida birds, and failed just one of the learning tasks. =============== Tier 2 - exceptionally cognitively sophisticated, but not to the level of Tier 1. At this point, it's impossible to rank-order within tiers - I can only do it between tiers smartest monkey species (rhesus macaques, capuchin monkeys). gibbons (said to not be as smart as some Old World monkeys - also cannot pass mirror test, but still more alert than dogs, as explained in the book The Executive Brain) manta rays (see What is the most intelligent fish and how is it possible to judge fish intelligence?), which can possibly even recognize themselves in mirrors. Some cetaceans bears. See Alex K. Chen's answer to Are wolves the most intelligent land predators? sea lions (google shows many impressive articles) wild boar (most likely smarter than pigs, since domestication does shrink brain sizes) hornbills (we don't know much about them yet, but they are one of three major groups of birds that play) various parrots (with hyacinth macaws and african gray parrots at top). But parrots (excluding the kea) are not particularly innovative, and there is a significant observational bias towards them as they're widespread pets. Other birds might do better than parrots if we took observational bias out. That said, when it comes to brain-body scaling ratios - the corvids, parrots, owls, and woodpeckers show consistently higher brain-to-body ratios than other birds. I actually am not sure if most parrots belong to this tier - Alex's understanding of words doesn't seem significantly more advanced than that of, say, Betsy (dog) kea (see What are the smartest birds?) - also pass a test chimpanzees fail - http://rsbl.royalsocietypublishi....  They even pass numerous tests on the first trial (which cannot be an  artifact of their intense desire to try everything out). They are very  bold though, and may outscore other animals simply because they carry  "trial-and-error" learning to a far deeper extent than other animals  (which does not reflect their capacity for insight learning. They might be in Tier 1, though I don't see their behavior as being as complex as that of the corvids. [*]". In Sasvàri’s study, for example, the species that learns fastest, the blackbird Turdus merula also shows the highest number of innovation reports in our data base " Some notes: ravens, hyacinth macaws, keas, and african gray parrots can successfully solve the string-pulling problem - one that dogs and cats generally fail at ===== Tier 3 - smarter than average for birds and mammals herons, woodpeckers, seagulls, (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gul... , http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/uk_ne... , and http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/scien... ), skua, mockingbirds, storks. May be interchangeable with Tier 2 given that we don't have much information carib grackles (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Car... ), great tits, hornbills, great white pelicans, bee-eaters, other corvids (magpie, etc..), harris hawk, pied currawongs, great spotted woodpeckers (http://synapse.princeton.edu/bur... ), blackbirds [*]. owls (brain/body mass ratios comparable to crows/parrots/woodpeckers), surprising intelligence (including mirror self-recognition) revealed in a book about a pet owl: http://books.google.com/books?id... . Not ranked highly in terms of feeding innovations, but bear in mind that it is VERY difficult for humans to view them, given that owls are nocturnal and primarily rely on sound baboons (may be interchangeable with Tier 2) some monkeys raccoons hyenas - can count up to 3 (weak compared with parrots though), and much more behaviorally flexible than lions. See [2]. Spotted hyenas even outperform chimpanzees in certain tests (http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Spo... ) wolves (may not be as smart as hyenas). The extinct dire wolf, however, was most likely smarter. prairie dogs (communication system decoded - see What are some good resources for animal behavior/animal intelligence/convergent evolution of animal intelligence? ) smarter dog breeds (e.g. border collie) [2] http://www.smithsonianmag.com/sc... http://www.pbs.org/wgbh/nova/nat... http://www.nytimes.com/2008/03/0... http://www.nature.com/news/2011/...=== Tier 4 most other birds and mammals. some more intelligent than others. donkeys are smarter than horses and hippos seem pretty high up (though I'm basing this just on two Youtube videos - their brain to body mass ratio is quite low). horses, in turn, seem smarter than most ungulates. rats seem smarter than mice. At this point, I can only collect anecdotes for now (so that I can further sort things, maybe into subtiers in some point in the future). Emperor penguins have the most complex communication system among penguins; juvenile gentoo penguins forage along with their parents (which Adelie penguins don't do) Dogs seem smarter than cats. But serval cats have very dog-like behavior. Regarding cats - see What are the smartest cat breeds? Most exceptionally intelligent lower vertebrates (though manta rays might belong in a class of their own): monitor lizards (komodo dragon at top), crocodiles [3]. It's possible that they could belong in Tier 3 - we just need more research, esp. since crocodiles practice season-dependent bait fishing [on birds] that seems to be learned-behavior. Also - the cold-blooded animals often perform better in warm environments. Maybe ornate wrasse too And maybe the octopus belongs here as well Among rodents, naked mole rats are probably smarter than most (but don't quite beat prairie dogs) [3] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gus... http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sal... http://www.pbs.org/wnet/nature/e...=== Tier 5 (extremely subjective at this point) "below-average" birds and mammals: quail, chickens, basal mammalian and avian lineages, pigeons. "above-average" lower vertebrates: triggerfishes, cichild fishes, hammerhead sharks, numerous stingrays and sharks (great white sharks actually have a pretty low brain to body mass ratio though, as do groupers. But lower vertebrate body weight continuously grows as they get older, so that may skew results against particularly long-lived species - especially groupers and moray eels, which have been observed doing cooperative fishing), goatfish (http://blogs.smithsonianmag.com/... ) alligators, crocodiles == Tier 6 (extremely subjective) Most reptiles and fish (amphibians, in general, actually have lower brain masses than fish). But maybe the amphibians with larger brains (certain tree frogs) start belonging here == Tier 7 Salamanders, in particular, have especially small brains - smaller than most fishes. Lungfishes and coelecanths also have particularly small brains Certain vertebrate parasites. == AMONG INVERTEBRATES (it is very difficult to compare most invertebrates with vertebrates since their brain structures are so different). Also, their brain structures are extraordinarily good for specialization, but not for generalization (excluding the cephalopods, mantis shrimp, and possibly some crustaceans) cephalopods (listed above as they're vertebrate-like in behavior) mantis shrimp, portia spiders (though portia spiders may just be exceptionally well-run computer algorithms) polychaete annelid worms (Errantia in a newly constructed phylogenetic tree), velvet worms (similar to basal arthropods)] lots of arthropods, probably with crustaceans, social insects, and wolf spiders at top (crustaceans are probably higher on cognitive flexibility). most insects are really good at doing specialized things (and can improve over time), but are horrible generalists. The three other groups of mollusks that independently evolved centralised nervous systems - a freshwater snail genus called Helisoma, Tritonia – a genus of strikingly coloured sea slugs – and Dolabrifera, another genus of sea slugs, albeit less aesthetically interesting - http://www.newscientist.com/arti... then the animals with ganglia and rudimentary nervous systems (flatworms, roundworms, annelids, other worms, water bears). And most snails then brainless animals (with nervous systems): echinoderms, etc.. then the animals without nervous systems. Even then, slime mold can "possess" a sort of intelligence. Intelligence and consciousness do not necessarily have to be linked. Also see DOI: 10.1159/000258665 for a good discussion on mollusk nervous systems == [1] very preliminary. I am well-aware that you cannot objectively compare  the intelligences between animals, and that some animals are better at some things than others (e.g. even chimpanzees can pass memory tests humans fail). however, as a general principle, we can pretty much put animals into various categories of how aware they are of the world, and how this awareness translates into creative/novel action and quick learning. I often obsessively search for articles about the intelligence of individual animals, so I may identify animals that only very few others have identified for intelligence so far. e.g., woodpeckers, which are on the top of Lefvrebre’s avian IQ index, but which a google search would prove fruitless. Also, manta rays, which seem to be surprisingly aware of how unusual humans are. Play is prevalent in birds and mammals, but it might be present in several reptiles, several cartilaginous fishes, and octopuses too. Also, evaluating intelligence by evaluating animals at their dumbest/lowliest moments doesn’t really work, since if we did that, humans would have to be among the bottom of the scale. Seriously, you need all sorts of laws and protections and social commands in order to prevent humans from being tricked over and over again (and yet many still get tricked; many still even manage to get tricked multiple times). Yes, you can trick dolphins and elephants with the same tricks multiple times too, but this is not a reflection of their intelligence at their worst, since they don’t even have the sophisticated communication systems that humans can use to learn from the mistakes of populations where the sample size is N=millions of individuals (rather, dolphins/elephants would have to learn from the mistakes much smaller populations where sample sizes are of order N=small family groups). thus  you can use the same methods with different family groups cuz they dont  communicate with each other Also, even when you’re catching lots of animals, you often only end up catching the dumbest of them. This doesn’t reflect on the smartest of  them. If you wanted to catch humans and if humans didn’t have systems of mass communication, then you’d probably be able to catch a lot of humans too. in fact, pike fish often learn to avoid bait after they’ve been baited the first time (source: Do Fish Feel Pain?). One caveat though: crows may be capable of many things, but you have to take them as individual species. If a New Calendonian crow isn’t capable of something that an American crow is capable of, then don’t just say that crows can do everything that both species of crows can do.  That’s like saying that humans are capable for both autistic savantism and for having intuition for the emotions of other people. Also keep in mind that most animals have far higher mortality rates than humans so the average animal that you’re dealing with is most likely younger than a human teenager (with orcas being the only possible  exception). Updated 30 Jun • View Upvotes