What is "tensor calculus" and why did Einstein need it for some of his theories?
An order 0 tensor is a scalar (number). An order 1 tensor is a "vector", and given a basis its coordinates can be represented as a 1D grid (array) of numbers (it can be a very high dimension and certainly may include more than 3 numbers, in contrast to what is claimed in another response). An order 2 tensor's coordinates can be represented by a matrix (a 2D grid of numbers) An order 3 tensor's coordinates can be represented by a 3D grid of numbers. An order 4 tensor's coordinates can be represented by a 4D grid of numbers. Etc. Roughly, a tensor of order n is a multilinear (linear in each variable) function that takes n "vectors" and spits out a number.  I put "vector" in quotes because it technically may consume covectors too, but I'm going to ignore those issues to simplify this exposition (I'll assume a metric is given that will let me freely interchange vectors and covectors). There are standard transformation rules that tell one how to transform coordinates when a change of basis is made.  This applies for curvilinear coordinates as well as non-curved coordinate systems and boils down to the standard multivariable calculus rules for lower order tensors (so using curved domains does not imply one needs to adopt the tensor formalism).  A standard example is the use of polar coordinates vs cartesian coordinates. So, why tensors? Many interesting physical quantities have multilinear dependence on displacements (e.g., fluid stress, linear elasticity, heat flux).  (Multi)linearity is very important.  Wald gives the example of magnetic field strength in his book, General Relativity: a probe that measures field stength can be oriented in an infinite number of directions.  So in theory, one might have to record an infinite number of measurements to describe the magnetic field.  But since field strength exhibits linearity, we just need 3 measurements to be made in 3 linearly independent probe orientations and we can determine what measurements would result in any other orientation.   The fact that there a number of interesting physical quantities that are multilinear makes tensor calculus potentially useful in flat spaces as well as curved spaces (it's just that a lot of students may get introduced to tensors in the context of relativity). In General Relativity, tensor calculus comes up because many of the interesting quantities are higher order tensors, like the Riemann curvature tensor (and the curvature of spacetime is important because it is tied to gravity). 