How did Amit Kartik get jobs offers from Groupon, LinkedIn, Epic and Google?
Initially I was a bit reluctant to answer this because it might be considered a slight display of narcissism, but then I thought it might be helpful for some people and clear a bit of confusion along the way. So yeah here it goes. Those who're only interested in the interview process can search for appropriate headings. Those who're searching for exact interview questions won't get it anywhere in this answer :P . Others can read the whole thing. END OF 2'1: This was when I didn't really care about placements and stuff. Everyone who dated someone in college seemed cool to me. I met with an accident and I was in the waiting region (refer to the diagram below) and took some really lame decisions. When I was half conscious I found myself in the effin depression region. Things were not exactly the way this graph depicts, but this is as close as it gets. To add to all this my grades were going down the drain. 2'2 Times: I believed that one shouldn't worry because things have a tendency to fall in place (and moreover I was still a 7 pointer) so I continued to try for the girl from the Depression region. This was when Smit Hinsu started talking about Topcoder and how awesome it was. He had said the same thing previously about SPOJ but I had never found it that interesting . I gave it a shot regardless. I started with lower green and match after match my rating kept falling (It used to be the Darkest shade of gray). I started applying for internships and ended up working at a place called Safal solutions. The workload was heavy and unorganized. I had to quit after a month and my results were out. My GPA was now <7 and I was fully conscious and could see myself in the Depression Region. I don't really blame anyone for this. They were all my decisions and I had to live with them. Somehow I was still hopeful because nothing could be worse. Anything that happened in future would certainly be better than this. 3'1 : I decided that I would give everything a last shot. Try to restore my GPA, start coding seriously, etc. I never coded simply because it's useful for job interviews. To quote Hinsu "Code if you love it. Naukri to sabki lag hi jaati hai (In the end everyone manages to get placed.)." I used to love it but never really could spare enough time. I begged Sasha Sami to team up with me. He agreed and we teamed up along with Aniruddha Tammewar for ICPC. We practiced as a team and qualified for regionals in the 1st list. It was  a really a big achievement for me at that point of time. Suddenly we got a mail from our prof saying that CA Technologies (CA) was looking for research Interns and people interested from 3rd year could apply. I decided to stay in college during December break and prepare for Internships. I realized that I had a lot to learn from Sasha too. He was one hell of a patient coder/teacher. I used to bug him a lot for help when I was stuck and both he and Hinsu used to give me hints and force me to think. I really doubt that my thought process would've grown so much if I'd never met them. People from Ca Technologies interviewed me and I was selected. I took up the job and joined in November.  3'2 && Internship process: This was roughly the Internship process that happened towards the end of  3'1 and the  beginning of 3'2. Google and Palantir knew my GPA was below 7. Although I don't think it was the sole reason for rejection, it might have played some role.  I faced rejection from Palantir ( Round 2) - Interviewer asked me a question on Segment Trees and when I started answering he said he had no idea what segment tree is. Google (Round 1) -  Some really tough questions on string matching, OS, multi-threading etc. Amazon - Not shortlisted after written DirectI - Not shortlisted after 1st coding round I felt really heartbroken and I thought it would be wise if I stopped blindly trying hard and start preparing a bit instead. Felicity '13 happened and I totally immersed myself in it to take my mind off of failure. I started liking someone at this point of time and she helped me believe that maybe I could do it this time. I was done with end sem exams and awaiting some ray of sunshine. Yaaay, 1st successful Internship call: Groupon was interviewing people off campus and the SPC( Akshay Minocha, Pallav Tinna and Mayank Jain) gave me an opportunity that led to my first break through. I had to go through 2 rounds, both were Algorithmic and the questions were new to me. The difficulty level was not that high. Somehow I managed to answer all the questions correctly. The 2nd interviewer asked me 4 questions on Trees, Linked list , Finding an element in array etc . We had an argument over the question on trees, but finally I was able to convince him that the answer I gave was better than the solution he was aware of. CHENNAI TIMES: I felt good somehow.  I started working. My mentor was initially a bit rude and insisted on me learning while doing tasks. I really had no idea about RoR or any other web dev technologies. Lovepreet Singh and Pranav Rathi were really helpful during this time. They helped me learn in the beginning. Every time I had a doubt they used to explain patiently. Things didn't work out between that girl I liked during Felicity and this time I decided to use my time constructively and take my mind off of her. I used to do competitive programming along with Chetan Gupta and project work the rest of the time. Time passed by and we had a couple of interviews for PPO. I got through. :) 4'1 \m/: I decided that I would apply for Google first . Mostly I thought there was no chance of getting in with a 7.11, but I hoped preparing for Google would help me crack other interviews. Initially I got a rejection from them but later I told the HR about my PPO so they agreed to interview me. They said that there would be 2 telephonic rounds and if I get through them, 2 Onsite interviews. I aksed Ujjaval Kumar Verma sir to refer me for EPIC. He agreed and helped me understand the process too. I was not dissatisfied as such with the PPO from Groupon. The brand , quality of work , pay - none of them bugged me but I used to have nightmares of being unable to fall asleep in Chennai because of weather. Google Telephonic Interviews: They were not really very tough . Both the rounds were algorithmic and mostly based on Data Structures and Implementation . I felt like I aced them but then I got a call saying my interview feedback had both positives and negatives so they would neither discard me nor let me proceed to next round. Instead, they would take another telephonic round to decide and this time the interviewer would be someone from MTV. I said okay. This interviewer was really cool. He asked me questions on my projects and such. He sort of gave me a hint that I would definitely get through this round.  EPIC written test: Epic has a screening before this round but it was very trivial. This round was similar to the SAT, except for one part where you had to code 2 programming questions. It was a  5 hour long test but I knew that they usually didn't select you if you didn't finish in less than 3.5 hours. They tested both speed and accuracy. I completed it in a little over 2.5 hours. EPIC interviews: After the written test, I had 2 rounds of interviews . One was a discussion on my projects and other was typical HR. And during the next week I got a mail form them saying "Congratulations! You've been selected for the role of SE." Yaaay, 1st overseas offer. Google Onsite Interviews: It was raining heavily and I had to be there by 10 am. I had to miss my compilers class and hence a grade in it so I prepared well to make sure that it wasn't a waste of time. Finally I reached there. The HR who was assigned to me was very beautiful and she said that they had arranged 5 rounds for me onsite. I was like WTH. But then she was really really beautiful so I couldn't say NO . Round 1: The interviewer was a senior who qualified for world finals from my college. I started freaking out. He asked me two questions on DP. Thanks to competitive programming, I knew solutions to both of them. Round 2: This interviewer was a bit scary. He asked a question and all I could remember was it's from Cormen. He didn't give any hints . After sometime he said "let's proceed to next question." I sat there without saying a word. I thought my chances were gone. He asked the next question. It was pretty easy. I answered and coded it within no time. Round 3 & 4:  These were mixtures of System Design , OS and Algorithms. I felt really confident after them , cause I was pretty sure that I gave most optimal answers. Round 5: 2 questions out of which 1 was pretty hard . I tried reducing the complexity 4 times to convince him that it was the most optimal solution. You have to write compilable codes on docs during all these interviews, so make sure you don't practice psuedo codes instead. On-campus placements were about to begin. I wasn't eligible for them anyways so I decided that I would go attend Karan Singla's brothers marriage instead. I boarded the AP express to Delhi. During this journey I got a call from my HR saying "Congratulations , Kartik you have been selected for the role of SE, 2014 for Google INDIAAAAAAA........." She went on to explain pay and other details but everything was muted for me. I was expecting MTV instead. I could not relax even after this. I asked her for the reason. She said last year they faced Visa issues because of unavailability of provisional degrees from our college. I stalled their offer for two days and then accepted it. I thought I'd negotiate when I had a more covetable offer. But still, Yipeeeee, Google it was. I applied for LinkedIn so that I could negotiate with them and Google such that one of them  makes me an overseas offer. They took 2 Online rounds and gave me an offer. They enhanced my offer later too so that I would turn down Google's offer. :) PS: This answer is very long so there might be grammatical errors. Edits are welcome. :) PS2: I always thought of putting up a blog, but was too lazy to do it. Thanks to the person who asked this and people who A2Aed. Hope this helps. PS3: I didn't get a chance to thank a few other people, Kashyap Murthy and Pravin Patil ( They were really patient when I felt low and bitched about life to them ). Ankit Agarwal sir for guiding me throughout. Updated 53w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Anonymous, Anonymous, Lalit Kundu, (more)Asked to answer by Anonymous, Anonymous, Lalit Kundu, Tushant Jha, and Karan Aggarwal