I feel like a loser and lost all my hope to live anymore. What should I do?
Oh, honey. {{{{{HUGS}}}}}  I've been there.  It's way too common.  Believe me, it had nothing to do with you (and if you read that correctly, you'll see just how reprehensible he is). Long and short is, he's an asshole.  In fact, I would go so far as to say he should have been a blowjob.  (Not from you.  From... well, whoever was giving his daddy the best blowjobs back in the day.)  It's really easy to be blinded to red flags.  Was he distant or argumentative before he dumped you?  Was he spending a lot of time with anyone? You're not gonna like what I have to say, but this stuff has helped keep me afloat through a sickening divorce. You're clinically, chemically depressed.  When you reach the point of begging complete strangers for reasons to keep on living, it's severe.  Don't feel bad.  I've done it more than once.  The knowledge that you won't have to wake up to texts and phone calls, and you don't have to face anyone you spoke to is a huge relief.  There's a reason you're not supposed to meet anonymous support line therapists.  You also want to look for a therapist, if you haven't already.  I see a licensed clinical social worker every few weeks.  I also take a high-dose antidepressant twice daily, along with an anxiolytic when I start having a panic attack.  Between therapy and drugs, my mental quality of life is better than it's been since I was a child. There is no shame in needing help.  This includes from therapy, medication, and just venting online.  It doesn't mean you're weak or nuts.  It just means something shook your world enough to injure you (and getting dumped like that does it), and you need help for a while so you can heal. It sounds like you've been drawing on sadness and rejection exclusively, so I'm going to give you the piece of advice that kept me going, and some days still does:  get angry.  I mean think about what he did and the anguish it's caused you, your drop in grades, placement, everything you worked for, and how you want to cut that slimy little roach in two with a shovel.  He's not worth your love, affection, attention, time, anything.  Next time you walk past him, ignore him.  Or shoot him a look that could curdle milk.  Put the fear of you into his traitorous, wretched heart. When you've got the hang of anger, you may decide you're not so much in love with him as you are used to his presence and addicted to him.  That's what happened to me with my ex. If all of this sounds harsh, remember it's nothing close to what he did to you. If your grades have dropped too far and you can get a diagnosis of severe depression, your school may allow a do-over on one to two semesters.  Yet another reason to see a therapist.  (Your PCP should be able to refer you to someone, or your school may have therapists.  That said, your doctor should have either put you on a low dose of something OR referred you to someone when she said you were unstable.  Grief is different for everyone, but a LOT of research has come out in the past few years with evidence that something to take the edge off helps people grieve in healthier ways.) Love is weird.  I mean, really weird.  You'll meet other people, you'll probably have a rebound relationship with someone who turns out to be either your best friend for life or absolute scum (I've had both!), and over time you'll grow savvy and observant.  Also, you never know who, when, or how you'll meet someone.  For instance, I met my girlfriend (and hopefully last relationship) when I was 35 and she was 20.  We met in a fandom chat room, and she... proceeded to scream at me for an hour solid because my posts got so much attention.  It's hilarious and adorable now. XD  Anyway, she messaged me the next day to apologize, we kept talking, met about five months later, and I don't think we've gone 24 hours without at least a quick, "Can't talk, love you!" ever since.  Weird shit will happen to you.  There ARE good guys out there, who'll adore and respect you no matter what. BTW, you are deserving of respect and care.  I can tell you don't feel like you are, but you don't deserve to be fucked over by anyone.  Hell, the fact you're still here to ask for help puts you in the running for Wonder Woman. :)  Depression and asshats aren't easy to deal with, especially in tandem.  But you've shown yourself to be strong, and he's shown himself to be feces.Take care, hon.  Keep us updated, okay? <3 