I feel like a loser and lost all my hope to live anymore. What should I do?
Please stop crying and read this answer. I was in (almost)similar situation as of yours, hope my answer will help you. After reading your question description, I felt like hugging you and whispering in your ears that "Everything is going to be all right. Calm down. Time will heal every wound." Should i move on or wait for him ? Move on. I really cant think of him being this rude to me and I believe he is not. He is not being rude. He is being what he actually is (selfish). Once he needed relationship and all. He ran after you, approached you and did other stuff to impress you (that was not real him, he was pretending to be perfect in front of you). So he is not rude, he is selfish. His career is more important to him than you. I think it there might be some family issues behind this. No, there is no family issue at all. No family issue can stop him being with you(someone he love). Should i try one more time? Please try to understand he is gone. No need to try anything else. Move on, life is wonderful. A lot of fun and surprises are waiting for you. But happiness is at next station, you need to board the train and reach next station.   But at the same time even i want to get myself back. but i cannot imagine my life without him.I want to get rid of this depression in which i feel the guilt of all this mess. Read My Story (You can skip this part) I was in similar situation as of yours. In a 60+ class with only 2 girls I was at receiving end of breakup. According to her there were family issues and similar stuff as mentioned by you. To worsen the condition everyone (other 57 boys) was around her(she is beautiful, no second thought on this) and I was alone. I started bunking classes, doing drugs. Even I went college without taking bath and partially drugged. Once on her birthday I traveled from Delhi (was doing internship here, while whole class was attending lectures) to Chandigarh (college) just to fulfill my promise (a ring and birthday cake) that I made her earlier during relationship (I was such a stupid back then). She picked my phone, then she didn't come. At very same day she had party with her so called friends. She was more than rude to me. We never talked for next 2 years, she always changed her numbers and got placed too  (and guess what I was jobless, actually I didn't sit in any placements). I was in 7th semester. I was sleepless, my pockets were empty, didn't have full diet for a long time and could feel drugs in my veins. My phone rang, parents were on other side. My mother asked me - Did you have your lunch ? I was not aware whether its day or night outside. I switched off my  phone and started crying. I took a decision, I am not going to hurt myself anymore. When I went to college I tried smiling. But whenever I was smiling I can see her sad face, so I stopped smiling (Just because I didn't want to hurt her either). Please understand he is gone, even he was never with you. No need to feel guilty. Here problem is, you have to see him everyday. Once your college is over, you are not going to see him anymore (till then stick to point 1,2,3). Some points that may help you (these helped me getting back original me). 1. Keep smiling. Each smile of yours make him worry that how come you are happy without him. 2. Stop pretending to be "bechari" and sad all times, (more he see you sad and low, more he will ignore you) it will boost his ego. Be happy. 3. Ignore him and stop contacting him. Ignorance and silence are best ways to take revenge. 4. Spend time with your parents. Did you ever acknowledge things done by your parents ? 5. Spend time with your friends. 6. Travel. Spend time on Quora (I wish I knew Quora during that phase of my life) 7. Concentrate on your career. Increase your skills. There are lot more things to do in life. 8. I know your mind is disturbed, just let it be. Give it a little time. It will settle down on its own. You don't have to put in any effort to calm it down. It will happen. It is effortless. 9. Forgive me, if I pissed you off with my story and long writing (I think this is my longest answer on Quora). 