Is President Obama a socialist? Why or why not?This claim is made about his ideals and goals all of the time, usually as a slur. In what ways is there any merit to this label? Please feel free to list any "close hits" that are not quite socialism, but strongly lean in that direction. Since this is likely to be contentious, I remind you that providing your own answer is a stronger response than attacking the answer of another user.
He is totally a socialist, if by socialist you mean someone who is social when at parties. If you mean socialist like the wikipedia definition: Socialism is an economic system in which the means of production are publicly or commonly owned and controlled co-operatively, or a political philosophy advocating such a system. As a form of social organization, socialism is based on co-operative social relations and self-management; relatively equal power-relations and the reduction or elimination of hierarchy in the management of economic and political affairs. Then no. It's gross oversimplification at best, and cartoon villainy make em ups at worse to call Obama socialist. He's a corporatist moderate Democrat with a bipartisanship fetish, hell bent on being reasonable and over compromisey at every turn. He's socially moderate (still can't say gay marriage is a normal thing) and fiscally moderate. I find it baffling when people refuse to see shades of gray. There's been a valiant effort by those on the right to paint anything other than a complete free market without any rules or taxes as socialism, but America was founded as a capitalist constitutional republic that believed in taxation, with representation, and that some ground rules needed to be put in place to protect the interests of its citizens. Thus we have a Constitution, a Bill of Rights, and Amendments that protect our rights as individuals, not as a collective where everyone must share everything. If we use John-Charles Hewitt's communist manifesto as the guideline (since he seems to have a top answer), we can respond to these concerns rather easily. Though I would argue that its unfair to base judgement on this, since all economic systems will have a couple parellel things in common. Hitler loved his mustache, that doesn't mean Charlie Chaplin wanted to eradicate jews. It's a unfair comparison. Obama wants everyone to have affordable health care, just as every other first world country has government healthcare. Ayn Rand used Medicare. It doesn't make anyone socialist, it makes them want to keep a free market economy sustainable while balancing the interests of its citizens health. See also What are some of the most mind-blowing facts about US healthcare? Anyways, to the manifesto we go. Abolition of property in land and application of all rents of land to public purposes. Obama has made no attempts to or shown any interest in taking peoples land away. No American would tolerate this, eminent domain is even a struggle currently. Chance of embracing: none. Political Suicide. A heavy progressive or graduated income tax.The progressive taxation system in this country has been on the books for generations. Tax rates under Obama are far below that of Reagan's. That taxation system didn't turn us socialist, it helped make us the largest economy in the world. And if you get too deep with tax cuts without properly balancing your books, this happens: http://www.cbpp.org/cms/index.cf... Note from graph source: Readers should be aware that these estimates are not definitive. Notwithstanding their limitations, however, they paint a clear picture of what lies behind the nation’s current fiscal woes. Clinton gave us a surplus with a 33% tax rate. That's not Heavy. 50%+ would be, which no politician in their right mind would ever suggest unless it was a dire emergency of total economic collapse. Reagan and Bush Jr gave us massive amounts of unpaid debt. Which now allows China to have more power over our currency. Chance of embracing: minimal. We might get back up to 33% for the really rich, but I'd hazard to guess my party will be too chicken to do the right thing. Abolition of all right of inheritance. The only thing he's ever mentioned it returning the inheritance tax to its previous rate, which he has totally given up on. If any politician even attempted to abolish it, they would be strung up instantly. It's a dumb idea, and no one in any legitimate role or stature in government has ever suggested it as a good idea. Chance of embracing: none. Political Suicide +  horrible idea. Confiscation of the property of all emigrants and rebels. We totally confiscate criminals stuff to repay victims, but everyone else is good to go. Chance of embracing: none. Centralisation of credit in the hands of the State, by means of a national bank with State capital and an exclusive monopoly. The bank bailouts were a Bush policy that Obama had to choke on after deregulation from Clinton and Bush gave the private sector lots of loopholes from which to defraud us. While there is a means of getting credit through the state, it definitely doesn't have a monopoly, as the lax rules and lack of stringent regulation has shown us while the economy nose dives from fraud and duplicitous practices. The government has been far too nice to all the banks while they played craps with our real estate market. (Not that I think there should be centralized monopoly, I just want rules that make sure we don't get screwed, which is something Obama has completely failed to lead on from a liberal perspective.) Chance of embracing: none. Political Suicide + bad idea. Centralisation of the means of communication and transport in the hands of the State. The state has the ever profitable train travel system as no one else has entered into the industry. The FCC is currently a joke.  Airlines and trucking and interstate commerce are all privately owned, with a weak government watchdog keeping them "in check." Chance of embracing: none. No one, not even Bernie Sanders or Dennis Kucinich want to socialize our transportation means. Democrats like competition, as long as there are rules. Extension of factories and instruments of production owned by the State; the bringing into cultivation of waste-lands, and the improvement of the soil generally in accordance with a common plan. Nixon started the EPA. It was a smart move, so we don't all get poisoned. I want someone checking my meat, water, toys, soil, air etc for poison, what with my not wanting my children to be poisoned. Obama DID invest in some car companies, and have been since selling back the pieces we own so we can stay out of the private free market which Democrats enjoy having as well. Chance of embracing: EPA - Slight. He could make stricter rules, but I doubt it. Owning the factories? None. We're selling off what we got now that the economy is stable. If he really would have wanted to keep it for the state he would have. Equal liability of all to labour. Establishment of industrial armies, especially for agriculture. Inequality is at a all time high.  Our Army is military, not cow related. Chance of embracing: none. Combination of agriculture with manufacturing industries; gradual abolition of the distinction between town and country, by a more equitable distribution of the population over the country. I don't recall seeing any meat cars. Last I checked everyone is allowed to move freely about the country. Any identification laws were implemented by Bush. The "redistribution of wealth" is minimal and only there as a insurance policy so the country doesn't return to the great depression. Last I checked he was pitching medicare and ss cuts, a horrible idea, and the antithesis of socialism. Chance of embracing: none. Obama will not be forcefully redistributing people via cow/car hybrids. Political Suicide and insane idea. Free education for all children in public schools. Abolition of children's factory labour in its present form. Combination of education with industrial production. We totally give kids a free, but mostly broken education, as our country has for decades. Obama has nothing to do with this, and in fact, has been spearheading reforms that may or may not privatize things more. Chance of embracing: Free Education -  100%. Banning child labor - 100%. I think its safe to say he's against that. As are most Americans. Building Trade Schools - Maybe. If as part of his education reform he realizes that not all kids fit into a single bucket of what works and gives them the opportunity to go to specialty schools, then yes he may embrace this. So in summary, out of the 10 items John-Charles Hewitt mentioned, there's maybe 2  or 3 that are barely similar to what Marx was a fan of. Those are tenuous at best, and no right thinking Democrat, Republican, Libertarian, Pastafarian, or any other politician would think any of those were remotely close to good ideas. Obama embraces all the policies all his predecessors had or created. Healthcare was the one area where he suggested significant changes (he actually used the GOP bill from Clinton's fight as his template.) It was not socialism, mind you, just some regulations to protect the American People from being gouged and keeping healthcare affordable so we can spend our money on making the rest of the economy thrive. As a "liberal" Democrat, I can assure you, on behalf of all the legitimate players who are taken seriously in today's media world, that we love the free market. We just like some rules with it. We like profits too. We never want to be taxed beyond what keeps the country running (which appears to be the magic 33%.) We also like universal healthcare as it makes it easier for us to run our small businesses without worrying if we are going to have to gouge our own employees next quarter or go bankrupt (says the guy who had his rates raised 39% in one year and had to pass some of it onto his staff.) It's called insurance for a reason. It's there to protect people. That, the roads, the firemen, the cops, the military, education, consumer protection, religious and racial equality, are the things we think don't belong in private hands. Show me anyone taken seriously in Washington who is even close to socialist, I'll come mow your lawn for a week. (for minimum wage, but still a bargain.) So no, President Obama is not a socialist, unless you also think Bush, Reagan and Nixon were also socialists. If that's the case, then I have no idea how to respond to you. Updated 6 Jul 2011 • View Upvotes