What are the rookie mistakes a person makes while starting to practice for competitive programming?
Since its asked in question sharing my experience...from beginning you can think what mistakes I made as you read, my experience may throw some light on how to proceed quickly example what to do when stuck in a level. I would change mostly this thing.. listening too much to others and not sticking to my dreams(you will know when you read) which made me lose a lot of time and I jumped from gray to green a long time, If you grow keep growing and don't stop. Also don't wait for the right time to take part in the debut srm, that time will never come, just go hit it! Don't give up no matter how long it takes to get the skills in a level. I am trying to make it inspirational, hope it help you and pump you up dear up coming coders. The dream In 2005, I was in class 12, I was very sick and was in hospital and I started day dreaming, I saw I am rank 1 in some programming rank list and some big shot international govt. officials needed my help in some projects. I saw it but didn't really believe it would happen. And then it happened. Finding where to start I googled "top coders of the world" to find the top programmers of the world and found wow what is this.. a rank list.. country wise, international wow! I said "ma there is such a rank list!". I wanted to do and my mom was my first doubter. She said "nuaro", means "you can't". I fought, fought like anything with my mom to keep my dream alive. Dad was very supportive, he later told me its his dream to see me the best programmer in the world. My mom has converted after my acm icpc, now she is the first one to get angry when I am not practicing. Dream starts My dream started, I knew O(n) was about algorithms and clicked it and found the arena. I open the first problem, div 1 250 (I didn't know div 2 is for us). I didn't understand how to take the input, how to get the output, wow it was so tough. But I knew I will get it. I never could dream of taking part in the contests, and was amazed at the rated members. First 250 After 6 months I did my first div 2 250. I forgot my feelings then. First Srm I suddenly decide to take part, how I took the decision I forgot but it was 3 years after I saw my dream, I figured out how to register and take part and got -25 with my cousin testing the guitar behind me. I didn't know what is challenge and just clicked a random code and challenged it with random number and got -25. But I got a 560 rating, I was euphoric, I am rated member! I couldn't sleep that night, I was walking like a mad child around my room. Dad says "calm down" :P. I was applauded in my part time college by my faculty and everyone encouraged me. Div 2 250 ice breaker  I met oa12gb and he told me about ioi. I was amazed and he was green then. What amazed me more was that he is just a school kid. Then was the icebreaker moment. oa12gb told me that he does 8 div 2 250s per day, I was like WTF! but then after few days I myself start doing a lot of div 2 250s. One after another trying to get the max speed in each. I was addicted, seriously I was addicted, I couldn't just get up from the arena. Since I was sick I was enrolled in an irregular school, only 3 2 hour classes per week and a very low grade school. So all day I did was code code code. It was wonderful. I became perfect in div 2 250. Div 2 500 ice breaker I couldn't just get my hands on div 2 500, they were so damn tough. And then it happened, I started doing one or two here and there old srms and I could do all, one after another. I don't remember when this happened, but I had many impressive performances using 250 and 500. Became Green I became green with a div 2 250 and 500 and my dad kiss my hand. I couldn't sleep that night. I can't explain the feeling. Learned about dp oa12gb teach me about dp, he explains how states are taken, and how the states are saved in array. And I just couldn't sleep that night, I was euphoric. Problems I graduated and people expected me get job, mom asks me to do masters. I got kicked out of my masters due to some reason and I was so happy, freedom. I have been quitting many jobs. My landlord wife comments "you dont work so you mustn't get food to eat". New neighbours think I am a loser. I told them about topcoder and they understood and started supporting. More comments keep coming "he has no work". I keep taking jobs which I don't like and keep quitting them, and realize I should try business cause then I will have some freedom. I started passionatecoderz quite during the time interviewstreet was there not know it existed and passionatecoderz was same idea. But from my place it can't be done. It was then when I learn a lot about business. This is the time when my graph goes from gray to green gray to green. Mom rescues Mom is maths teacher, she says when you do maths do you do the example probs or read them, I said I do them. Mom says "if they are hard won't you read them? You should therefore read div 2 1000". I start reading implementing and coding the div 2 1000 and I could do 10 div 2 1000 per day this method. My mom says "yes now I know you will reach good international level, I have come to know". Still neighbours keep thinking I do nothing, and I so got a job in bangalore, but I missed mom and so I came back and neighbours even angrier. First dp problem using memoize During this time, I am really thankful to that person I forgot who he was, but I think its cegprakash, he told me if I want to learn recursion then I must first build the recursion tree and then I will be able to code it. I did my first div 2 1000 dp in practice shared in fb get likes and very happy. Became blue I forgot the reason, but I almost quit but in a random srm I became blue and I was back. God rescues now I build some philosophy not to expect anything from what I do, my practice drop. Then I saw a strange dream, I saw in a strange srm where tens of thousands of coders are taking part I come rank 35 and "welcome back to arena chandubaba, your rating is 2285", from blue to red. I cried waking up. It was a message from God, keep pushing! I did 25 div 1 250 that day and couldn't continue due to tco 2c. I couldn't sleep due to too much thinking, my brain was thinking in bed. Today I found logic to chase dreams. I had succumbed to society when my music had reached pro level, people are asking where can they buy my dubstep (its free download). If I had continued my music, I was a pro musician now. I have walked 9000 miles in topcoder just 1000 left, I can do div 1 500 here and there just like div 2 500 was starting and I can read div 1 1000 and understand them without reading editorials. I mustn't stop here. I am not learning topcoder, I am learning to convert dreams to reality. If I can do this, I can do anything, I can convert any dream in 10 years. :'( Updated 80w ago • View Upvotes