Market basket analysis might tell a retailer that customers often purchase shampoo and conditioner together, so putting both items on promotion at the same time would not create a significant increase in profit, while a promotion involving just one of the items would likely drive sales of the other. Market basket analysis can be used to divide customers into groups. A company could look at what other items people purchase along with eggs, and classify them as baking a cake (if they're buying eggs along with flour and sugar) or making omelets (if they're buying eggs along with bacon and cheese). This identification could then be used to drive other programs.
In the example above, for i = 1, ..., 1,000 the ith student's scores are

where
xk,i is the ith student's score for the kth subject is the mean of the students' scores for the kth subject (assumed to be zero, for simplicity, in the example as described above, which would amount to a simple shift of the scale used) vi is the ith student's "verbal intelligence", mi is the ith student's "mathematical intelligence", are the factor loadings for the kth subject, for j = 1, 2. εk,i is the difference between the ith student's score in the kth subject and the average score in the kth subject of all students whose levels of verbal and mathematical intelligence are the same as those of the ith student,
In matrix notation, we have

where
N is 1000 students X is a 10 × 1,000 matrix of observable random variables, μ is a 10 × 1 column vector of unobservable constants (in this case "constants" are quantities not differing from one individual student to the next; and "random variables" are those assigned to individual students; the randomness arises from the random way in which the students are chosen), L is a 10 × 2 matrix of factor loadings (unobservable constants, ten academic topics, each with two intelligence parameters that determine success in that topic), F is a 2 × 1,000 matrix of unobservable random variables (two intelligence parameters for each of 1000 students), ε is a 10 × 1,000 matrix of unobservable random variables.
Observe that by doubling the scale on which "verbal intelligence"—the first component in each column of F—is measured, and simultaneously halving the factor loadings for verbal intelligence makes no difference to the model. Thus, no generality is lost by assuming that the standard deviation of verbal intelligence is 1. Likewise for mathematical intelligence. Moreover, for similar reasons, no generality is lost by assuming the two factors are uncorrelated with each other. The "errors" ε are taken to be independent of each other. The variances of the "errors" associated with the 10 different subjects are not assumed to be equal.
Note that, since any rotation of a solution is also a solution, this makes interpreting the factors difficult. See disadvantages below. In this particular example, if we do not know beforehand that the two types of intelligence are uncorrelated, then we cannot interpret the two factors as the two different types of intelligence. Even if they are uncorrelated, we cannot tell which factor corresponds to verbal intelligence and which corresponds to mathematical intelligence without an outside argument.
The values of the loadings L, the averages μ, and the variances of the "errors" ε must be estimated given the observed data X and F (the assumption about the levels of the factors is fixed for a given F).
ELKI can visualize k-means using Voronoi cells and Delaunay triangulation for 2D data. In higher dimensionality, only cluster assignments and cluster centers are visualized Demos of the K-means-algorithm[40][41][42][43][44] K-means and K-medoids (Applet), University of Leicester[21] Clustergram - cluster diagnostic plot - for visual diagnostics of choosing the number of (k) clusters (R code)[45]
Market basket analysis might tell a retailer that customers often purchase shampoo and conditioner together, so putting both items on promotion at the same time would not create a significant increase in profit, while a promotion involving just one of the items would likely drive sales of the other. Market basket analysis can be used to divide customers into groups. A company could look at what other items people purchase along with eggs, and classify them as baking a cake (if they're buying eggs along with flour and sugar) or making omelets (if they're buying eggs along with bacon and cheese). This identification could then be used to drive other programs.
A concept lattice for objects consisting of the integers from 1 to 10, and attributes composite (c), square (s), even (e), odd (o) and prime (p).
Consider O = {1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,9,10}, and A = {composite, even, odd, prime, square}. The smallest concept including the number 3 is the one with objects {3,5,7}, and attributes {odd, prime}, for 3 has both of those attributes and {3,5,7} is the set of objects having that set of attributes. The largest concept involving the attribute of being square is the one with objects {1,4,9} and attributes {square}, for 1, 4 and 9 are all the square numbers and all three of them have that set of attributes. It can readily be seen that both of these example concepts satisfy the formal definitions below
The full set of concepts for these objects and attributes is shown in the illustration. It includes a concept for each of the original attributes: the composite numbers, square numbers, even numbers, odd numbers, and prime numbers. Additionally it includes concepts for the even composite numbers, composite square numbers (that is, all square numbers except 1), even composite squares, odd squares, odd composite squares, even primes, and odd primes.

