One should check the success of the randomization procedure, for instance by checking whether background and substantive variables are equally distributed within and across groups. If the study did not need and/or use a randomization procedure, one should check the success of the non-random sampling, for instance by checking whether all subgroups of the population of interest are represented in sample. Other possible data distortions that should be checked are:
dropout (this should be identified during the initial data analysis phase) Item nonresponse (whether this is random or not should be assessed during the initial data analysis phase) Treatment quality (using manipulation checks).[8]
SIPINA, a free, academic data mining sotware which includes a model for association rule learning. Pervasive DataRush, data mining platform for big data, includes association rule mining KXEN, a commercial Data Mining software Silverlight widget for live demonstration of association rule mining using Apriori algorithm RapidMiner, a free Java data mining software suite (Community Edition: GNU) Orange, a free data mining software suite, module orngAssoc Ruby implementation (AI4R) arules, a package for mining association rules and frequent itemsets with R C. Borgelt's implementation of Apriori and Eclat Frequent Itemset Mining Implementations Repository (FIMI) Frequent pattern mining implementations from Bart Goethals Weka, a collection of machine learning algorithms for data mining tasks written in Java KNIME an open source workflow oriented data preprocessing and analysis platform Zaki, Mohammed J.; Data Mining Software Magnum Opus, a system for statistically sound association discovery LISp Miner, mines for generalized (GUHA) association rules (uses bitstrings, not apriori algorithm) Ferda Dataminer, an extensible visual data mining platform, implements GUHA procedures ASSOC and features multirelational data mining STATISTICA, commercial statistics software with an Association Rules module SPMF, an open-source data mining platform offering more than 48 algorithms for association rule mining, itemset mining and sequential pattern mining. Includes a simple user interface and java source code is distributed under the GPL. ARtool, GPL Java association rule mining application with GUI, offering implementations of multiple algorithms for discovery of frequent patterns and extraction of association rules (includes Apriori and FPgrowth)
Weka, a free and open-source data mining suite, contains many decision tree algorithms Orange, a free data mining software suite, module orngTree KNIME
This section needs additional citations for verification. (April 2012)
SPMF , a free, open-source data mining platform, written in Java, offering more than 45 algorithms for sequential pattern mining, sequential rule mining, itemset mining and association rule mining.
Implementation of a Data Governance initiative may vary in scope as well as origin. Sometimes, an executive mandate will arise to initiate an enterprise wide effort, sometimes the mandate will be to create a pilot project or projects, limited in scope and objectives, aimed at either resolving existing issues or demonstrating value. Sometimes an initiative will originate lower down in the organization’s hierarchy, and will be deployed in a limited scope to demonstrate value to potential sponsors higher up in the organization. The initial scope of an implementation can vary greatly as well, from review of a one-off IT system, to a cross-organization initiative.
