★When interviewing experienced candidates for quantitative positions at a hedge fund, should one ask brainteasers and math puzzles or focus on past experience and domain knowledge? Why?
You should try to do both!  I certainly did that when evaluating potential hires for my teams in quantitative finance and it generally worked well.  Here's why. Let's take a step back and understand what we are looking for.  We want someone who's done it before, but isn't going to work on the exact same strategy (intellectual property / ethical issues with that) and also would be able to work on new strategies beyond that (because strategies don't work forever). Now, let's say we just ask questions about past strategies and knowing the domain.  Anyone who has been in the markets for five years and is reasonably intelligent can talk about the domain in terms that make a lot of sense and especially if they worked on a team that had good strategies, can talk about strategies in a general way.  Someone who would tell you exactly how a strategy worked would either be (a) violating their IP agreement, (b) telling you a strategy that won't actually make money, or both!  Therefore, from discussion of domain knowledge alone it would be hard to discern someone who actually generated ideas behind strategies from someone who had a supporting role on a team that did that and listened to a lot of discussions among others. That's where the math puzzles and brainteasers come in.  I like to ask questions that have something to do with finance and trading, which is a bonus, but even just basic evaluation of someone's intelligence can go a long way in distinguishing the true idea generators from the followers. And it goes without saying that just focusing on those questions would also not evaluate the past domain knowledge that you would be valuing in an experienced hire in the first place -- otherwise, you should consider them in the same way as a new person to the industry in terms of seniority and compensation.    Embed Quote