★How could Quora attract more doctors and medical students willing to share general domain knowledge (vs advising on specific patient cases)?
Hmm...tough question, and I'm afraid this is going to be a bit hand-wavey. Legal help would be huge. Would it be possible to add a more specific note to the TOS basically saying that users agree not to sue those in the medical profession for any answers given on this site? It'd be nice to have that kind of specific backing, as I know for a fact that some of the medical folks on Quora don't answer health-related questions because they don't want to risk lawsuits. It's scary to think that an attempt to offer knowledge by answering a question could backfire[1]--and people can also misuse even general medical knowledge in mind-blowing ways. It's one of the many reasons I'm amazed that this question has yet to be deleted from the site: How would someone purposefully give themself a heart attack? If this is already bundled in the terms and we're covered in the indemnity portion under "QUORA AND ITS AFFILIATES, OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES, AGENTS, PARTNERS AND LICENSORS", then apologies, I'm a med student, not a law student. If this is the case, then I think it'd be worth emphasizing (in vernacular terms) in the onboarding process of each new user, as I clearly had no idea what all that mumbo-jumbo meant when I joined. Granted, I already have a simple disclaimer in my profile, and for any answer of substantial depth, I almost always write something along the lines of "Don't use this for decisions per se, it's just FYI and there's a lot of stuff that's not here, you should go see a licensed doc". But I don't know that that's enough, and it'd be nice to know that the official site terms support members, medical or otherwise. :-) ~~~~~ It might help to have official guidelines specific to medically related questions--I understand that when people are faced with health issues, they often turn to any possible source for aid. But it worries me when logs like this occur: http://www.quora.com/Who-are-the.... Even though the question has been edited by a moderator to a more general format, it's still a loaded question. How do you define what makes for a "best" doctor? Same with Who are the best pediatricians in SOMA San Francisco? It doesn't help that everyone's perception of a doctor tends to be colored by their own biases/experiences. In general, encouraging generalized phraseology is pretty key. The moment I feel that someone's question is motivated by a personal medical dilemma (particularly one that a professional with access to the person's history should deal with), the chances of me answering drop significantly, because the question has crossed into the muddy arena of long-distance diagnosis. Case in point: How scared should I be of a 5mm gallbladder polyp found during a routine ultrasound? If the question involves a relatively commonplace occurrence, like How do I make a burn hurt less and heal faster?, then fine, it's a personal problem but still generalizable, but otherwise, I tend to avoid questions that give off the "I'm going to make decisions based on this" vibe. The only reason I answered How difficult is it to raise a baby on a vegan diet? What natural foods would you give him/her to eat? was because I was seriously concerned that a baby's well-being could be at stake, particularly after reading the OP's commentary. ~~~~~ All that said, it's still hit-or-miss as to who sticks and who doesn't. Most people in the medical profession are busy enough as it is, and it's actually quite rare to find someone who wants to talk medicine when they're free. Heck, even I don't want to most of the time--my main reason for answering medical questions here is because I consider it a part of my normal study routine to go back periodically and review previously learned material through questions like How do the current effective HIV medications keep the disease manageable? or How does childbearing and pregnancy change a woman's body? How and why do different parts of pregnant women's bodies change during their pregnancies? Keep population statistics in mind as well: the U.S. doesn't actually produce that many doctors each year--only ~20,000 or so, and that's M.D.'s and D.O.'s combined. Compared to other industries, that's not impressive, and so this makes for an already small number of people that have to (1) encounter the site, (2) find it interesting, (3) spend the time to write answers. :-/ [1] As I keep hearing from mentors about the times that they've been sued  throughout their careers, I keep coming to the same conclusion: people  will sue for damn near anything when it comes to to health, whether  reasonable or not. It's not even so much about whether the suit will be successful, per se. It's the fear of the legal record and associated malpractice  insurance rates, the stress, and the time consumed by the case as it makes its way through the legal proceedings. And if the suit is granted and the state doesn't have upper limits, people can sue for incredible sums of money.    Embed Quote