★How does one get the required domain knowledge when obtaining a degree in applied math or data science?For example, domain areas like Natural Language Processing, Bioinformatics, or Finance. Is it better to get a degree directly in that area? or to go for the broader Applied Math or Data Science program?
While obtaining a degree in applied math or data science you will be subjected to very general and formal education. Most of the subjects and courses you will take will be a broad fit for a large set of problems/issues (with some exceptions). They are there to make a base ground for you, so that if you encounter a problem, you know the basic and then you can work your way to the result. We all know that advancements in any particular domain are much fast and takes time to be adopted in the basic degree academics (unless you are in research, then you will be the one making these advancements). So to get required domain knowledge and to be upto date with the ongoings of the domain of your interest, I would recommend: Read a lot, read prominent journals of the domain, read about the latest research going on in the domain, follow blogs, articles etc. Do some projects based on those latest ideas, latest research done in the domain. Do some side projects, do full time projects. Practical projects are best way to learn something new. Follow the conferences, meetups where people will share upto date knowledge or if you can attend personally, check the things covered, videos, slides, articles etc.  For the part of your question "Is it better to get a degree directly in that area? or to go for the broader Applied Math or Data Science program?" That solely depends on your interest, if you are determined enough to stick to one sub-domain like NLP or Bioinformatics, go for it. But if you are not sure enough what you want to do in future, which field you want to work in 10 years down the line then I would suggest going for a broader Applied Math or Data Science program. Hope it helps. P.S: Thanks Scott Johnson for A2A    Embed Quote