★How could Quora attract more doctors and medical students willing to share general domain knowledge (vs advising on specific patient cases)?
This isn't a direct answer to the question, but it will point out some major issues that maybe will help lead someone to the correct answer. Time. I completely agree with Jae Won Joh 's assessment of time issue. Unfortunately, the manner in which general knowledge questions are asked compounds the problem. In that sense, advising on a specific case study is actually a lot easier. But when I am confronted with a question like Why am I tired all the time? my brain implodes a little. It's a great question and the answer matters. But the differential diagnosis for this question is basically every disease in the book. The pathophysiology behind even a single disease can be mind boggling, especially if your desired audience is not medically affiliated. And for whatever reason (fear of litigation, general anal-ness) those qualified to answer would like to provide the most comprehensive and up to date information possible. Which means striking a balance between writing a readable answer and a book. On top of that, there is no way to quickly explain the reasoning behind certain treatments for said diseases. Medical treatments can often appear strange and silly to lay persons and even to other subspecialties in medicine. (I once had a friend vehemently argue with me that cold packs were bad for gout because only heat could melt uric acid crystals. We still had the same argument a year later.) Explaining pathophysiology is hard. Explaining treatments is harder and requires a measure of nodding and smiling. Bad questions. Yes, sometimes it's the questions. Some questions like Why is the cure for cancer so elusive? operate under such a bad premise that the minute I read it, I am instantly exhausted and give up. I applaud Jae Won Joh for even attempting such a beautiful answer, but for anyone affiliated with cancer research or medicine, the question is a little ridiculous and operates under a false premise. Now, the question is a legitimately great one that deserves an answer. And honestly how can anyone possibly expect someone not in any of the aforementioned careers to understand that the question itself is flawed? But because the question is bad, the immediate gut reaction can often be impatience and a desire to throw up one's hands in exasperation. Plus the answer to the real question will take lots of time, patience, and art to explain. Limited knowledge. In addition to there being few MDs and DOs being trained, physicians in the US tend to be very specialized. A psychiatrist knows he/she can't in good conscience answer a question about heart failure. So in addition to attracting more physicians, you'd need to attract physicians that can actually answer the questions being asked. Medical students are the exception to this because we are like a totipotent cell - we could become a family practitioner or a plastic surgeon. The truth is though, medical students are like that ant at the edge of a bucket - our perspective can be limited and we don't have the benefit of years of experience informing our knowledge base. This tends to be relevant because many students are very aware of this limited knowledge so putting themselves out there to write a definitive answer on the internet is difficult. This is especially true if the questions seem to be important. --- I know this is a terribly unhelpful answer because it doesn't even answer the question and don't you just hate it when users just sound off like that?    Embed Quote