★How important is prior domain knowledge for success in developing a B2B software product for the enterprise market?
On an individual skill scale of 1 to 10 where 10 is must have, I’d put  prior domain knowledge around a 3 or 4 in terms of importance.  You’ll need some  other skills to compensate for the weakness in domain knowledge though. I’d actually prefer  these to pure domain knowledge because domain can be learned. The  compensators include: Empathy – being able to listen to the customer and put yourself in their  position. Truly understanding what problem they are having and how your product  or potential product can address it. This is helpful in eliciting requirements  as well as incorporating it in the message your product projects to the market.  I’ve seen cases where there is an inverse relationship between empathy and  domain knowledge which is not good. Communication – referring to the bidirectional exchange of information and  ensuring it is not from you out only. Systems Thinking – understanding the different parts of the system and how  you can influence them so you are not just limited by what the customer says.  Being able to determine how your product fits into the ecosystem/value chain,  who your most important customer is, and what need the product/service serves.  The B2B sell is a combination of having the right feature set of and the  appropriate relationship(s). Technical Aptitude – without prior domain experience you will need to have  some fundamental understanding of technology. The closer you are to the  domain obviously will shorten the domain learning curve. You cannot stay a  neophyte and hope to be successful for too long. Business Acumen – Can you show the value proposition? What is your unique  selling point? Can you develop, maintain, and improve the product without going  broke? What is the sales cycle? How long of a runway does your budget allow?  What is the product’s ROI/margin for not only your company but also the  customer’s? Do you have a distribution channel? What’s your business model? etc.  Having domain experience can give you a jump start here but it is not a must  have.I wouldn’t say this is an all inclusive list, it is to show that domain  knowledge is not a primary need. The above traits were written with the  individual in mind. Developing a product is a team effort. The team should have  will be varying degrees of these skills. Having these will develop the domain  knowledge and put the team on a better path towards success.    Embed Quote