★What classes did William Chen take while he was at Harvard University?
Here they are! Underlined classes will count for my degree. Italicized classes are classes I took specifically to fulfill graduation requirements. Everything else are electives. For some context, I'm a Statistics concentrator! Freshman Year I thought I wanted to be a Math and Econ major at this point. My freshman seminar ended up being not what I expected at all. It wasn't engaging at all and I didn't feel like I learned that much from it. Taking Chinese hurt my GPA but I don't regret it - the classroom experience was fantastic and I learned enough Chinese to be able to navigate Beijing the following summer. Tony and I took Astro 16 as a GenEd. We thought it would be easy but was proved wrong. The Extra Credit assignment was EXTREMELY memorable though and made the class worth it. :) (we got ok data on our fourth try, which led to a 1/3 letter grade boost for all of us!) Taking Stat 110 with Sebastian, Tony, and Brandon was the highlight of my course-load freshman year! I took it on a whim and am so glad I did. Stat 110 - Introduction to probability Math 25a/25b - Linear algebra and real analysis Econ 1011b - Macroeconomic theory Chinese 130xa/130xb - Third year Chinese Freshman Seminar - Climate Change Public Policy Expos 20 - Writing Course focusing on literature involving cross-cultural contact zones Astro 16 - Stellar and Planetary Astronomy Sophomore Year I started getting serious with both statistics and computer science at this point, and made the shift away from being a math concentrator. I was inspired by Joe Blitzstein and his Stat 110 and 210 and declared statistics! I organized my schedules around Stat 210 and 211 - as they were by far the hardest classes in my course-load. Thankfully I had a great group of other undergraduates (I worked most closely with Sebastian, Raj, Jessy, and Alice) to work with. We became great friends and worked together on many more Stat classes together. :) Stat 210/211 - Probability theory and statistical inference Stat 265 - Seminar on teaching calculus and statistics Stat 171 - Stochastic processes CS 50/51 - Introduction to CS Math 122 - Group theory SW 24 - Global health CB 34 - History of psychiatry Junior Year This was by far my most difficult year course-load wise. Thankfully Sebastian and I took seven classes together this year, so this made everything a lot more manageable for us (it's very easy to work together if you have multiple classes with your pset buddy instead of just one). Stat 220 - Bayesian data analysis Stat 131 - Time series analysis Stat 91r - Research CS 205 - Parallel programming CS 181 - Machine learning AM 222 - Stochastic modeling Econ 1127 - Causal inference Econ 1723 - Capital markets Music 2 - Intro to music theory and composition Senior Year This story is still being written! I have almost all of my requirements completed, so I'm taking this year a lot easier (course-wise) to focus on my research, thesis, and personal growth. :) Stat 139/149 - Linear models and generalized linear models Stat 99r - Research CS 109 - Data science CS 164 - Web development CS 186 - Economics and computation CS 124 - Data structures and algorithms CS 281 - Advanced machine learning SLS 11 - Molecules of life If you want to know why I chose to major in statistics (over, say, computer science), check out my post at Why did William Chen choose statistics instead of computer science or computer engineering?    Embed Quote