★Growth Hacking: How do you find insights like Facebook's "7 friends in 10 days" to grow your product faster?Assuming one tracks core product engagement actions and has data scale, how does one (having SQL chops) uncover tipping points like these for a (generic) Web app?
One way to figure this out is to use a Logistic regression. The model will tell you how much and in which direction each variable contributes to conversion. A logistic regression's output is constrained to between 0 and 1, so it's great for predicting binary outcomes like conversion. To compute a logistic regression, you want to organize your historical data so each row is a user. The columns are for every explanatory variable you have data for. Make sure you have a column with a binary variable for whether they convert or not. Some of the explanatory variables may be dummy variables. For example, Facebook might have had a column for users who reached 7 friends in 10 days. Users that successfully completed this goal get a 1, and everyone else gets a 0. Once you have your data in this format, you can use the GLM function (Generalized Linear Models) in R (The R Project for Statistical Computing) to calculate your regression. This will give you a coefficient and a significance level for each of your explanatory variables. Variables are insignificant if they don't have a clear impact on your dependent variable. You may want to try a step algorithm to select only the most meaningful variables. You could also do this manually be removing insignificant variables and running the regression again until you have a model that only includes significant variables. The coefficients require a little math to get them to a state where they're easily interpretable. In addition, you need to treat the intercept coefficient differently than the other coefficients. Here's what you do in excel for the intercept variable: exp(intercept coefficient) / (1 + exp(intercept coefficient)). That gives you the percent chance a user will convert if the remaining variables are all 0. Here's the formula for the explanatory variables: exp(intercept coefficient + variable coefficient) / (1 + exp(intercept coefficient + variable coefficient)) - intercept percent chance (this is the number we calculated earlier). If you don't have excel, the exp() function is the exponent function. This gives you the percent increase or decrease in a user's chance of converting if that variable = 1. Now you can easily look at the percentages to determine which variables have the largest negative or positive impact on conversion. You can also use this model to predict the outcome of new users. Just multiply the coefficients by their respective variables then add in the intercept coefficient. This value (let's call it X) probably won't mean anything to you, so we have to convert it to a percentage chance the instance will convert. Here's the excel formula to do that: 1 / (1 + exp(-X)). Of course, there are tons of other statistical models you can use, but this should get you started.    Embed Quote