★What are some courses on Coursera (or anything on par with it) which an MBA aspirant can take to make his CV stronger during the PI at B-Schools?
Out of all the categories of courses on Coursera, the below would have a high degree of relevance to an MBA. Business and management Economics and finance Statistics and data analysis Let's take them one at a time. 1. Business and management (mostly beginner courses) Basics of supply chain management (SCM) Basics of Marketing Basics of Operations Basics of digital marketing 2. Economics and finance Financial markets: A must take. The course is being taught by the renowned Nobel-laureate and Yale Prof Robert Shiller and will cover a lot of concepts of Financial markets and their machinations. Apart from the basics, it will also cover certain aspects of behavioral finance and financial crises and the role of regulations. Microeconomics: Will cover the basics of Microeconomics from supply-demand, market efficiency, types of competitions, market power and public goods and externalities. Introduction to finance: Basics - time value of money and valuations 3. Statistics and data analysis Regression models: The course looks at the various regression models and special cases like ANOVA. All of which is taught in the 1st year. In this course students will learn how to fit regression models, how to interpret coefficients, how to investigate residuals and variability.  Students will further learn special cases of regression models including use of dummy variables and multivariable adjustment. Extensions to generalized linear models, especially considering Poisson and logistic regression will be reviewed. Data analysis and statistical inference: Estimation, confidence intervals, decision making based on data analysis etc. Data visualization: Will be helpful both during and after the MBA. How to present the data in the most impactful manner, use software to make complex designs etc. Other useful courses: Social Entrepreneurship Introduction to Probability    Embed Quote