★What are the differences between ANOVA, ANCOVA, MANCOVA, etc.?
The confusion between simple linear regression, multiple linear regression, ANOVA, ANCOVA, MANOVA and MANCOVA is an unfortunate consequence of the fact that we aren't willing to teach basic matrix multiplication to students in introductory statistics classes.  Once you look at these models in matrix form, it becomes immensely clear that they're all special cases of the same thing. Our general linear model is given by , where is an matrix of the independent variables, is an matrix of the dependent variables, is the matrix of coefficients, and is an matrix of errors that follow the appropriate normal distribution. The reason that I write instead of is that the matrix is assumed to contain a column of ones, which corresponds to the intercept.  It is possible to fit a model without an intercept in this framework--all you have to do is not include that column--but we won't be considering that here. With that, I can give a brief rundown of the various types of regression you might see, and how they look as instances of this model: When , and the entries of are real numbers, you have simple linear regression. When , and the entries of are real numbers, you have multiple linear regression. When and the entries of are real numbers, you have a multivariate model that doesn't seem to be as widely known as the others. When and the entries of take values in , you have an ANOVA. When and some columns of take values in while others are real numbers, you have an ANCOVA. MANOVA and MANCOVA are like ANOVA and ANCOVA, except that you take .It's a little bit more complicated than this, particularly with regards to how different factors are represented in the ANOVA/ANCOVA/MANOVA/MANCOVA models, but I hope this gives you a rough idea of how this all works. (As a bonus piece of trivia, I'll add that the class of linear models refers to models that are linear in the parameters .  That's why we consider polynomial regression among this class of models.  I don't know why we don't teach this bit in our introductory classes, as it would prevent a lot of confusion.)    Embed Quote