What are some unknown facts about the cast & crew of the television show Friends?
On one fine day in 2004  (May 6), our favorite  F.R.I.E.N.D.S. cast took their final bow When Chandler learns that Monica really wanted to sleep with Joey that night in London, he says "You wanted to sleep with Batman, but instead you had to settle for Robin". Ironically, Courteney Cox dated Batman actor Michael Keaton. When Ross and Ben were pranking Rachel, Jennifer Aniston didn't know anything about it and was really scared. In the final episode the song playing when Ross and Rachel have their final on-screen kiss is the same song that played when they had their first kiss. Matt LeBlanc had a fever and flu the first day of shoot. He was at 102 degrees during the pilot and had to repeatedly use a variety of remedies to attempt to cure it. Wow! It's only that after you have completed it, you come to know how deeply you were attached to the series, how much you miss it now! #throwback while collecting the answer. :) Source: IMDb Edit 1: Courteney Cox was a neat freak just like Monica and would clean the others' dressing rooms -"She has the neatest dressing room. She even cleans up the other actors' dressing rooms because she won't go in there if they are too messy." -quoted  Marta Kauffman. The actors were "rumoured" to have signed an agreement to not sleep together. -When asked about this, Cox laughed, saying: "Ha ha, there's no pact, there's never been a pact." Although, Lisa Kudrow once joked that the cast only became close after they all slept together. The writers used a pie chart to track how many lines and jokes each character said, to make sure each actor had the same amount. Matthew Perry, Matt LeBlanc and David Schwimmer played video games between takes. -Super Mario was their favourite. The actors, led by David Schwimmer, held an "intervention" for Jennifer Aniston because of her lateness to the set Lisa Kudrow was considered the smartest by the other actors, despite the "ditzy" character she played. -She is the eldest of all. Courteney's special : Cox had a special place called "Courteney's Candy Cabinet" on the "Friends" set. -Because it's her Birthday today  ( June 15, 1964 )  :-) Source: huffingtonpost Updated 14w ago • View Upvotes