How do I save money while online shopping?
I am gonna skip the regular tips like buy only if you need it , dont go viral shopping, etc, etc. Here are some on target relevant tricks which I would like to share. A. Download the  Buyhatke extension.  (You can my full answer on Buyhatke Extension here) How to download ? You can download the Buyhatke extension here.  After going to the page just click on GET THIS TOOL NOW. It will be automatically added to your browser. How it works ?  Once you have installed the extension , just go to any products page you want to buy. Let me show you an example. I want to buy a Sennheiser CX 180 Street II since some time now. I will open the product page on flipkart's site. This is what it looks like without the extension. After installing the extension. Features : 1. Price Comparison It shows if it is available for a lesser price one the product page itself! 2. Any active Coupons and deals are shown in the right hand side. 3. Price Chart Shows you the price trend of the product since last 5-6 months. Amazing, huh? Also shows how websites fool us on so called big billion days. Not anymore :D. 4. Wach Price This is simply the best feature.  Now after checking the price chart, if you think that its price may drop just click on Watch Price button and it will give you an alert whenever the price drops for the product. B. Cashback websites like CashKaro. How it works ? 1. Login & Browse our Retailer & Product Offers Join/Login to CashKaro. You can search for any product you want to buy, or search by retailer of your choice 2. Click-through & Shop Click-out of  CashKaro to the retailer's website e.g. Jabong. Now shop like you normally do on the retailer's site. 3. Cashback gets added After you shop, within 72 hours we add your Cashback to your CashKaro account & send you an email. 4. Transfer Cashback to Bank Account When you have Rs. 250 or more as 'Confirmed' Cashback , you can request payment and we transfer the money to your bank account for free. Currently  CashKaro offers 8 % cashback for Snapdeal, 10% for Jabongg, 12% for Myntra and many more. Signup for CashKaro  here. C.  PayUMoney I just found out about this a few days ago. It is an online wallet like paytm. When you buy a product, in the payment option just select PayUMoney. It will direct you to its website and then you can pay through your usual method of credit/debit card, etc. Find detail method below. 1. Signup once for PayUMoney. You can signup for  PayUMoney  here. 2. Choose PayUMoney payment option on your favourite eCommerce Website. 3. Continue paying through Credit Card, Debit Card or Netbanking Account. 4. Get instant discount Everytime! Suppose you want to buy 1000 Rs. headphones from snapdeal. First, go to caskaro website and go to snapdeal's website through it. Add the headphones to the cart. And in the payment option select PayUMoney. So you will get 5% Discount through PayUmoney i.e Rs. 50. After buying the product you will get a 8% cashback through cashkaro ,i.e, Rs.80. So, overall you saved Rs.130 just like that!. So, what's new ? It offers amazing discounts ! Currently it is giving 5% discount for Snapdeal, Jabongg, ShopClues, Fashion and You. 10% for Dominoe's,etc. 20% for BookMyShow. Unlike  CashKaro  which offers cashback after you buy the product and usually takes a month to process, PayUMoney applies the discount before you buy the product. Super Tip (CashKaro + PayUMoney) : Suppose you want to buy 1000 Rs. headphones from snapdeal. First, go to CashKaro website and go to snapdeal's website through it. Add the headphones to the cart. And in the payment option select PayUMoney. So you will get 5% Discount through PayUMoney ,i.e, Rs. 50. After buying the product you will get a 8% cashback through  CashKaro ,i.e, Rs.80. So, overall you saved Rs.130 just like that ! D. AMAZON CREDITS Amazon.in is offering  Rs.100 credits to new users. Sign Up for Amzon through this link : Amazon Sign Up and avail the offer. *Sign Up as a new user. Terms and Conditions : 1. The customer  must click on the link and successfully complete the  Amazon Sign Up process on the same calendar day. 2. The customer who registered the new account must be new (and not a returning or existing) Amazon.in customer. We will determine in our sole discretion whether the customer is new to Amazon.in. 3. The customer must place an order worth Rs 300 or more on the Amazon.in website. Purchases of Kindle ebooks are not eligible; and 4. The  customer must not cancel the order prior to shipment and the order must not be returned or refunded. PLEASE SHARE IF YOU FOUND IT USEFUL AND HELP OTHERS SAVE TOO :D 