What are some of the most interesting areas of research in how graph/network theory apply to non-technology fields such a biology, finance, or sociology?
I am listing some interesting technical and non-technical fields which use graph theory. You asked only for non-technical fields but I couldn't resist myself in listing few technical fields here.   Google's searching algorithm. Famous PageRank algorithm of Google for searching uses graph theory.  The PageRank graph is generated by having all of the World Wide Web pages as nodes and any hyperlinks on the pages as edges. The edges are further characterized as weak or strong edges by weighting the edges. I exactly don’t know how PageRank algorithm works but Pages that are linked by more credible (don’t know how they define credibility) sources have higher weightings for the respective edges.  Thus, on compering two sites with the same number of edges, PageRank will give the site with more links to credible sources a better rank. Facebook graph search Facebook uses graph theory for its search mechanism where a user is modeled as node and relation between two users is represented as an edge. Now you can see how graph theory is useful in social networking analysis. By using various graph theory algorithms, Facebook extract meaningful information from it. In fact any social network can be modeled as graphs which I have discussed separately. Social Networking Analysis (sub-field of Mathematical Sociology) In general any social network can be modeled as a graph which can be used to extract various information, like, to understand how patterns of human contact affect spread of diseases, such as HIV, to uncover new trends and major influences in marketing and fashion, finding an optimal way of constructing a computer network, identifying insurgent networks and determining leaders and active cells. Graph theory in social psychology I don’t know too much about this, the only thing I can say is that graphs is used to study group dynamics. This area deals with the structures of relationship exist between individuals within a group and changes such structure undergo. They use a concept of signed graph whose edges are designated positive or negative. Scheduling Graphs are used for sports scheduling, airplane flight scheduling and general time tabling problems. Finance There are some problems in finance which have been approached using graph theory like, systemic risk in energy derivative markets, multiple debts compensation which model creditor and debtor relationship  by a digraph of unpayable debts. (Don’t have much idea in this field). There are many other applications of graph theory which I am not very well familiar with, are -Evolutionary graph theory (EGT), studies the ability of a mutant gene   to overtake a finite structured population. -use of game trees (a directed graph) in Game theory which are useful in     artificial intelligence. -In GPS, for example, to find the shortest path home. 