What is the most bizarre job interview you have ever been party to?
I was interviewing for an Assistant Manager position in Bucharest, a few years back. I was fresh out of college and it was my first real job interview, so I was very nervous and didn't really know what to expect. I was advised by my friends to research the company beforehand, think about the position and possible questions that the interviewer might have. However, the job description was a bit vague and the company website just said they were a small local consultancy company, but nothing specific. So, the day of the interview, I got to a flat near the city centre. I was greeted by two young girls which seemed about my age and a bit inexperienced, judging by the way they were talking. After waiting for a little while, the person responsible for interviews welcomed me to a different room in the flat. We started chatting and after being  asked some specific points on my CV, which was mostly empty since I didn't have any experience, the recruiter started telling me about the company and the job. She said they were doing consulting work for different companies, mostly on marketing and that my job would presume assisting the manager in his day to day job, but that he was generally very busy, so a lot of his work would fall on my shoulders - recruiting other people, market analysis, compiling reports for the clients, delivering presentations, etc. As I was eager to learn as much as I could, I was very excited about the rather vast responsibilities. Near the end of the interview she told me that each job candidate must go through a 3 day training/assessment seminar and only the best would be selected for the job. This seemed reasonable and I was intrigued by the competition so I said, sure, I agree to go further. Just before getting up from the table, she said - you know, there is a 100 EUR fee for taking the assessment/training and it has to be paid upfront and regardless of whether you get the job or not, there are no refunds. However, admitted or not, candidates would get a competency certificate after the training. That sounded a little weird, but after more inquiries I was told that that's their way they get top talent and they were very demanding about that. I said I will think about it and I will call in 2 days to let them know. As soon as I got home, I started researching about these guys online. I found this website where people were writing reviews about the companies they worked or interviewed for, and I found a section about the company I just interviewed with. However, what I discovered there was puzzling. Actually, the company's main activity was not consulting, but conducting trainings/assessments where they charge every candidate 100 euros. They would attract these candidates by posing as a consultancy company and offering attractive fake jobs and telling candidates the trainings are mandatory for the promised job. Each week they would have around 30-50 candidates and out of these, they did select a few to hire, but they would be in charge of 'sales' - 'interviewing' and convincing other people to attend the seminars. So, they were posting these jobs online and get the candidates through the trainings. I called immediately and politely said no. 