How do I save money while online shopping?
TL.DR. This is going to be a long one, And this answer contains what my friends and i have learnt from many years of online shopping. It also talks about some tools which can help you make a decision. This answer manly covers online shopping in India But some general methods can be used all over the world. 1. Never Fall for Offers Never Believe what a website has for display as offers that will end soon. Most of the times that product was being sold for the same price for over a month. Here is one such example. We will go with these 4 product that snapdeal was selling in its Super Saver Sundays Clearance sale And here are the Price variations of these products over the period of 3-5 months. Borosil Set Of 2 Mixing Bowl With Plastic Lid As you can see there is no special change in the prices of products they put of in the so called sales. And all E-commerce websites are the same be it Flipkart (company), Amazon or snapdeal. So check the normal prices of the products before buying them in an offer. Note - For how i got the Price Charts read further. 2. Don't fall for the amount of discount offered. You could be tempted to buy these products seeing the High Discount being offered. Don't be since Most of the times MRP's of product are set optimistically by the people selling them. And the actual worth of the product could be way less. So don't look at the discount they are showing you. The actual Discount is Market Price - Selling Price = Discount Note - mostly Market price is very less than the MRP. 3. Dont Be loyal to a Website Always search as many e-commerce websites as possible for the same product, and buy from the site which the cheapest since a brand new WD Hard Disk from amazon will be similar to a brand new Hard Disk from Flipkart You won't get anything for being loyal Note - There are some tools which can help you find the best price faster which are discussed below. 4. Don't Randomly Browse for products Never Randomly browse for products that may interest you, More often than not you will end up buying useless stuff. Always have a target product and range in mind e.g. I wanna buy headphones in the range 1k-3k If you have a well set goal then it might save you some Bucks. 5. Check the past price trend Always check what has been the past price trend of the product you are about to buy. You might be buying it on the worst possible price and maybe waiting for a week or 2 could get you a better deal. Here is the price chart for Sennheiser HD 800 Wired Headphones Yup that is a variation of INR 30,000 for a headphones. now imagine buying these headphones in the 2-3 days the price went up? so basically waiting 2-3 days could save you 10-15K Note - How i got the price chart is discussed below. 6. Always Read reviews Buying a bad Product for cheap is worse than buying a great product for a little more. And if people don't like a product they will definitely put a bad review. Reading reviews could save you from buying new stuff again and again. 7. Use  PayUMoney Its a payment Gateway and they give flat off on your final bill on major websites. Eg. they give Flat 5% off on the final bill on Snapdeal,Ibibo,dominos etc. You can register here PayUMoney 8. Use CashBack sites Whenever you purchase a product always use a cash-back site like CashKaro.com How do they work? STEP 1) Browse their site and choose from 100s of retailers and exclusive offers. STEP 2) Click through to your favourite retailers and shop as usual. STEP 3) The retailer pays them commission for your purchase and they add this as cashback to your earnings. STEP 4) Confirmed Cashback is paid to your Bank Account as real cash You have to pay the same amount you would on the actual E-commerce site(since the actual billing is done on the E-commerce website you are buying from). CashKaro.com is able to give you cashback because the E-commerce giants pays CashKaro.com for bringing traffic to their website. Sometimes you can save upto 15% by using CashKaro.com. You can sign up here CashKaro.com. There are other CashBack sites too, And you should choose the giving the highest Cashback. Here are a few listed below www.pennyful.in TopCashBack. 9. Check local Stores too Some-times local stores sell the same product for cheaper prices. And will get a chance to go and have some fun too. Some Tools that you can use to help in Online shopping. For the people Looking for How to get graphs Read from here Buyhatke's chrome extension can be a real money saver. This extension shows the graph of past prices of Products on all major websites. This is how a web page of an E-commerce website looks after installing the extension Look how it conveniently shows the past prices of a product to help you make a decision on whether to buy it or not. The extension also lets you add this its Watch Price list and it will tell you when the price does down I added a sample product to my watch list  and it shows me what change has occurred in the price since i added it. It also shows you the price of the Product you are looking at on other websites too This Extension has saved me and my friends a lot of money. Look for one time signing up Offers India is currently a battle field in the e-commerce world and every one is battling out with other to take a bigger market share. To win this War they sometimes shell out stupid 1 time offers that you shouldn't miss. Since it is difficult to find these offers I will list some that i know of (Most of these offers don't require you buy anything or spend anything, but do use these offers now, since they keep changing) Amazon is giving Rs 100 gift card for each new account which signs up using this link Amazon Sign In. Since People started misusing it, Now you are required to buy something worth 300 to get the giftcard, but if were already buying something this giftcard is free. Install Snapdeal app using this link Page on snapdeal.com ( open it with your mobile) or simply go the respictive app store and simply install it. Then use the invite code "cGe4927583" and they will give you a free Rs 50 Gift Card without buying anything, you can use it on your next purchase from SD. Goibibo.com are giving Rs 1000 free credit on each new account registered on app using the invite code "2CD8710". The credits can be used to book flights, hotels, buses etc. Uber is Giving Rs 250 worth of free ride for every account made. Just go make an account on Uber and use the promo code "uberbonus250". And voila you have Rs 300 worth of credits for your free rides. It will ask for a credit card, if you don't have one you can still loot. Just download and install the uber app from the app store, enable your phone location. Then register and use the promocode "uberbonus250" and when they ask for payment just choose paytm wallet its free and they will make an account for you but just clicking that button(this will only work for indians and phones which are currently located in india that is why you need to switch on you location). But you need to have atleast Rs 200 in your paytm account to take a ride, worry not just add Rs 200 to your paytm account and take a ride, just make sure the ride fare doesn't go above 600 and uber will first deduct money from your uber credits leaving your paytm money alone. After your ride just go to Paytm Home and use the Rs 200 you added to your account to take a recharge and so you will get back your Rs 200. :) Ola Cabs (company) is giving Rs 100 worth of free rides per new account. You can Exploit this by installing the OLA app and using the promocode "CWE56N" no need to do do anything else just go to the app or call a ride and you can take free rides worth Rs 100. :) Mobile Recharge is a new app that gives recharges in exchange for installing apps - I have taken more than Rs400 worth of recharge from here. You can Download the app from play store from here Android Apps on Google PlayHappy Shopping :) Updated 29w ago • View Upvotes