What should all first time entrepreneurs know before starting their very first business?
All first-time entrepreneurs should know that 2 heads are better than one, and dozens are better than 2; and they don't all have to be working on your product for them to be valuable to you. A lot of what's here - learning from others, brushing up on skills, learning new ones, networking, building real-life, face-to-face relationships - are about knowing others. Meeting other people is essential to becoming a successful entrepreneur. But this can't really be done inconsequentially as you work from your living room. Joining a coworking space is foolproof way to meet new people, accelerate chance encounters and, in turn, develop an amazing product. Consider the difference: Scenario A: You're developing your idea or product at home, alone. Sure, it's good if you're bootstrapping. You're saving money on office rental, but the amount of serendipitous connections you'll be making are pretty low. You'll have to work hard to find networking events and skill-building workshops. It's easy to get distracted, and you're unlikely to find out about new and inspiring ideas. Scenario B: You're developing your idea around dozens of others in a space that is driven toward connecting their members and improving their working lives. A coworking space is community of like-minded individuals from different industries, at different stages of business, who are interested in meeting you (they're interested in networking, too). By working in a coworking space, you're joining a community from whom you can ask advice, feedback, and troubleshoot problems with. There is always someone to bounce ideas off. You're exposing yourself not only to the immediate circle, but their networks, too. Research shows that since joining a coworking space: 80% of respondents said their business network had grown, 74% had more ideas relating to business, 71% were more creative, 65% were more efficient at work, 62% shared knowledge and/or advice, and half shared contacts. http://blog.deskwanted.com/2012/... Skills development and networking is easier, because coworking spaces host regular events to help the community network, showcase their products, or develop their skills. Most of them are free for members and are well attended. Recruiting becomes easier, because your next referral or programmer might be sitting at the desk opposite, or a coworker might know exactly the right person for the job. And you're easy for investors to find, becasue whether you're looking for VC funding of not, they know exactly where to go to find interesting investment opportunities. It's a one stop shop. And they're cheap, costing a fraction of traditional office space - and around the same as coffee rent in a café every day. Coworking spaces are at the fore of workspace revolution, because they instigate revolutionary and innovative ideas. So much so that huge businesses are beginning to see the value in coworking spaces, and are visiting them - or opening them - themselves. Examples? Google recently opened Campus in London, which is a way for the tech giant to keep its finger on the pulse of what is new and emerging. Big banks in Australia, like ANZ and AMP, are sending their employees to coworking spaces, finding that they are more productive and creative working in a hub of professional talent. Deloitte and Steelcase host meetups and gatherings in coworking spaces to get to know coworking communities, in more than one continent. There are more than 2000 coworking spaces worldwide. And there are more than 1,200 on https://www.deskwanted.com/. Try one. 