Why haven't any companies been able to challenge LinkedIn?
I agree with network effects but there's something else. I bet Leonid knows what I'm going to say... LinkedIn is about functionality. LinkedIn lets users do things that were next to impossible before, like "ask for an introduction" or "know all about the VC I am meeting in twenty minutes". Influencers get to post links that are informative, and I often read them (high signal). These actions are very difficult without LinkedIn - asking for an email introduction is impossible if you don't have your friend's email address, for instance, but on LinkedIn if you were linked to her then you wouldn't need her email address to ask her for the introduction. Facebook as an introduction medium works nicely for social events but it's a stretch to consider it as a medium for dealmaking among other LI specialties. Craigslist is immortal for the same reason. There are things that users can accomplish on CL that aren't possible otherwise, and in the pre-internet lens, these things are "absolutely impossible". This literal Infinite Improbability Drive is what keeps coders coding. All tools make the "impossible" into the "possible" for those who learn to use them correctly. If users can do something "impossible" with your product, you may have a hit on your hands. If they can't stop doing it you have an Instagram or snapchat!! Sure, "fallow users" make LI seem soft. If I'm not using it to "make deals" as it were, I'm like a Twitter account that hasn't posted anything since 2011. Inactivity may mean there just isn't much to DO there right now. (Note how Quora has evaded this problem...) A new project ought to aim to create something to DO for users that they can't do on LI or elsewhere. The issue for such new entrants is that LI can always build more features later, over time, with their huge network, if what the competitor does seems lucrative. It is the largest network here which may be the trump card in this specific game of "work and career related communications". "Function precedes form; things happen." -Pylon, "Functionality" 1980 