What is the most bizarre job interview you have ever been party to?
This takes me back a few good years, when I was working with one of the startups that originated from London (UK) but then went to become quite a big brand globally. Anyway, at this time I'm referring to, the company was still relatively small -- and as such the tech team I was part of was small too, and we were desperate for good techies and found ourselves interviewing 3-4 candidates a week trying to fill in the positions we had open. Like all startups, we were focusing not just the technical competencies of our candidates but also wanted to make sure that the new hire would be a good fit for the team and company culture too. As such, part of the interview process was a bit of a "free chat" where we tried to gather more insights into the kind of person the candidate was. The discussions ranged from things like Monty Python (which was team favourite) to things like sports (as it happens in Europe pretty much everyone has a favourite football team so that was an easy one to pull off -- however, we would dwell quite often into things like rugby, basketball and all sorts), movies, shows and so on. I was part of the interview "comittee" if you will, alongside the VP of engineering and CTO in this particular interview I am referring to -- we had drilled the poor guy at this point for a couple of hours with all sorts of technical questions and he scored a lot of points in terms of his knowledge with Linux, Java, OOP and so on -- to the point where we all figured out that technically he's solid to join our ranks. So we start moving the conversation slowly outside the technical sphere -- this was always a tricky process as we tried to do this smoothly such that the candidate doesn't realise that we're peering inside his private persona, so he doesn't feel his privacy invaded or violated. In a lot of cases we would still talk about things like technology but move the angle towards "I'm playing at home with ..." and then move onto gadgets, tv, and so on such that the transition in subjects didn't see abrupt. As such the initial discussions during this part of the interview still have to involve technology and shift the direction gradually. With that in mind, and like I said, having all realised that the candidate possesses all the technical skills we needed in our startup, the VP of engineering decides to take the charge in terms of starting shifting the discussions outside the tech area -- so he asks the candidate, to the amazement of all of us: "So, I told you by now we use Linux in our production environment.." (there's a nod of approval from the candidate) "Right, so we use Debian Linux -- though used before as I told you RedHat" (another nod from the candidate) " So looking at these 2 Linux distros, if you were to put the Debian Linux developers face to face with the RedHat Linux developers in a series of boxing games, who do you think would win????" At this point myself and the CTO present in the interview room can hardly contain ourselves and make huge efforts not to burst out laughing at the weirdness of the question, and we're just about to jump into this thinking it's too silly of a question to ask, but the candidate replies right away, not giving us a chance: "Well, to be honest, the GNU/Debian guys seem to be the academic kind, looking at their approach towards open source development, and also based on the fact that it's a voluntary movement, I am guessing most of these guys spend their spare time writing code and fixing bugs. On the other hand, the RedHat guys work for a company paying them salaries, so they do that during their working hours -- which lets me guessing that they have more spare time than the Debian guys, so they can go to the gym and keep probably fitter than the Debian guys. As such I reckon the RedHat guys will probably wipe the floor (yup, his words exactly!) with the Debian guys when it comes to boxing." Needless to say that the fact that the answer to this weird question was actually logical and that the had the presence of spirit to actually come up with it right away had us rolling on the floor in laughter right away and scored him a huge personality point right there and then! As it happens, we went on and made him an offer the very same day and he accepted and joined us soon after -- while his technical skills played of course an important role in this, this particular question/answer made history in terms of beautifully weird interviews in that startup. As far as I know we never repeated that question to any other candidate -- perhaps mainly of fear that we'd never hear an awesome answer like this, perhaps because we wanted to be original with each candidate or perhaps purely because it was one of the weirdest questions to ask in an interview! :) 