What are some unknown facts about the cast & crew of the television show Friends?
Emma was played by twins - Cali Sheldon and Noelle Sheldon. Writers wrote the triplets storyline for Lisa Kudrow to cover the real life pregnancy of her son Julian. Phoebe’s wedding was not attended by any of her relatives, including her twin sister Ursula, her father, her birth mother, her brother Frank Jr. or the triplets she gave birth to. June Gable, who played Joey’s agent Estelle Leonard, also played a nurse in the episode where Carol gives birth to Ben. “I’ll Be There for You” was co-written by Friends producers David Crane and Marta Kauffman, along with Phil Solem and Danny Wilde, of The Rembrandts. Three cast members from The Simpsons made guest appearances on Friends: Dan Castellaneta (Homer), Hank Azaria (Moe/Apu, etc.), and Harry Shearer (Mr. Burns/Smithers, etc.). When Matt LeBlanc auditioned for the role he only had $11 dollars to his name. When the cast got their paychecks, the first thing that Courteney Cox bought was a car. Matt LeBlanc bought a hot dinner. In the last few months of shooting Friends, Courteney Cox became pregnant. But, as Monica wasn't supposed to be able to have a baby in the show, they covered up her pregnancy by making her wear baggy clothes while shooting the show so no one could tell. Gunther was not originally a speaking part. The actor, James Michael Tyler, got the role as an extra because he knew how to work an espresso machine. Besides Sara Ferguson making a surprise appearance in the London episode, Richard Branson, CEO of Virgin Airlines, also made a quick appearance as a tourist hat salesman. Courteney Cox added Arquette to the end of her name after her marriage to David Arquette between seasons five and six. Her father, Richard L. Cox, died in 2001 and during the midst of the ninth season, she dropped the Arquette in her father's memory. Matt LeBlanc's character 'Joey Tribbiani' plays Dr. Drake Ramoray in a fictional version of the NBC soap opera Days of Our Lives. In real life, Jennifer Aniston's father, John Aniston, plays 'Victor Kiriakis' on the real Days of Our Lives. Courteney Cox is the only regular cast member to not receive an Emmy nomination for their work on the show. Courteney Cox is actually older than David Schwimmer, though he plays her elder brother on this show. Jennifer Aniston has stated that she hated the now-iconic “Rachel” haircut. In reality, Joey’s white dog statue belonged to Jennifer Aniston. It had been given to her by a friend as a good-luck gift. Because of a bet between Matthew Perry and Bruce Willis on the set of The Whole Nine Yards (which Perry won), Willis appeared in his two-episode guest role for free. Lisa Kudrow was terrified of the duck that showed up in Season 3. The final episode was watched by 52.46 million viewers and is the fourth most-watched television series finale in U.S. history. The ages of the cast when the show premiered: Source: Friends (1994–2004), 25 Interesting Facts You Probably Didn't Know About "FRIENDS" - Little White Lion, 10 Almost Unknown Facts About FRIENDS | Ready For TV Updated 55w ago • View Upvotes