What is the most bizarre job interview you have ever been party to?
I was interviewing for a job as an applications engineering manager in a two-year-old Silicon Valley company of about 300 employees in the 1980s. My last stop was an interview with the CEO, an impressive ex-military Israeli entrepreneur. We were in a makeshift lab/office, sitting at a small table with a consultant in Japan on a speakerphone. An earthquake started, and kept going, fairly seriously, and from my chair I could see people running down the corridor toward the exit. The CEO reacted to this not at all. I kept the conversation going. The quake got more intense, stuff falling off of bookshelves, etc., and more and more people fleeing the building. I decided that if the CEO could take it, so could I. We kept right on talking until we were the only two people left in the building. A half-hour later, people were straggling back into the building, and we were still talking. Eventually, everyone had returned to work, and we finished our conversation. He shook hands with me, thanked me, said they would "be in touch." A few days later, they offered me the job and I accepted. I kind of knew it would play out that way, after facing down an earthquake. ------------ If you have interest in Silicon Valley in the 1980s, you might enjoy my answers to: What is the most aggravating thing a person can do in a meeting? and Wisdom: What are some unconventional attitudes that lead to success?       POSTSCRIPT A LITTLE OVER A WEEK LATER   Unlike some of my more thoughtful answers, the above was written in two minutes on my smartphone. As these events were nearly 30 years ago, I got one or two details wrong, but will correct them here and leave the original answer alone. The story must resonate, it is by far my most upvoted answer. Thank you, Quorans!   This must have happened around 1984, in which case the company (Daisy Systems) was three years old instead of two. The CEO was Aryeh Finegold, and I believe he had been a paratroops commander. One comment below pointed out, quite rightly, that every Israeli is "ex-military." I stand by "impressive." I was there for six months, then became ill and had to take medical leave. I was better in a few months but decided not to go back. Instead I went to work on the Fairchild CLIPPER, a great and fun project.   Daisy grew incredibly fast in head count while I was there (tripled in my few months I think). Suffice it to say it felt like a fast open elevator ride up the outside of a tall building under construction. My title was more likely something like "group leader," I no longer have an old resume or business card to check, but titles meant very little. In my six months I reported to four different people. One relocated to Daisy Europe, one moved to marketing, one was "fired" by the people he was supposed to be managing, which was interesting. He was recruited from a big and venerable company and couldn't adapt. His elaborate charts, plans, and memos for changing things were impossible to implement, so we kept on doing what we had to do. Within weeks he gave up and quit.   The interview is described above just as I remember it.   I answered this originally as Anon because it was all a long time ago, and those days don't seem so relevant to my life now at close to 60. But on reflection, there's no good reason not to sign with my own name. Within three years I was running my own scientific and technical book publishing company, and never looked back. These days I write my poetry as I have done, more or less seriously, for more than 40 years. I also am an art investor and writer, and spend too much time on Quora. Updated 80w ago • View Upvotes