What should all first time entrepreneurs know before starting their very first business?
You're going to fail ... before you succeed. Sounds very negative I know and for many readers it's a signal to move on. Also, you would think that it is hardly a good byline to use when trying to sell tickets to my "Start your own business" course, but since that is what is going to happen to you, I would prefer to equip you with the necessary skills, knowledge and attitude to mitigate and leverage those failures to produce your eventual success. I know there are plenty of business gurus appealing to the gullible and the desperately hopeful who file into auditoriums to hear the guru's neatly packaged (3, 5 or 10) guaranteed secrets of success, but I would rather teach first time entrepreneurs the secrets they will really need to know - the Secrets of Failure. Managing failure is a uniquely entrepreneurial competency that few people teach you about because it's not what clients want to hear or believe as this cartoon so elegantly portrays ... While most entrepreneurs in the past failed completely before finding their success, these days we are learning better how to incorporate failure as a learning pathway to avoid making the fatal failure - liquidation. Recent developments in entrepreneurship by Steve Blank with his Customer Development Process and Eric Ries with the Lean Startup both talk about managing your small failures (iterations) and major failures (pivots) as part of the entrepreneurial development process to save you from a fatal failure that has been the hallmark of most entrepreneurial journeys. You see it's not about avoiding failure altogether but rather embracing failure as part of the process so that your failures, while inevitable, are not fatal. The best analogy I can give is in online gaming. No matter how many instructions you get from the best players, you are still going to fail many times over until you discover your strategy that leads to success and you will continue to fail in the process of climbing to higher levels of achievement. Strangely we accept failure as a learning approach in gaming but somehow think that we don't need to fail to succeed in something far more complex with greater unknowns and with limited expertise ... starting a business. First time entrepreneurs, just like first time gamers, need to learn the Secrets of Failure. The Secret to Failure is: to understand that failure has a unique role and purpose in entrepreneurship that failure needs to be built into your customer/business development process that some decisions you will make are specifically targeted at an affordable loss mitigation strategy knowing how to avoid decisions that are fatally flawed that you need specific metrics to uncover failure early enough in your business development to allow you to pivot to a new business model that you need to overcome the social stigma attached to the concept of failure that has been created by those people that Theodore Roosevelt described as "cold and timid souls who have never tasted victory or defeat”. that you need to treat failure like fire. You need to control and manage your failure so that you can benefit from its good properties (learning & insights) without being consumed by its lethal force when mismanaged through ignorance or lack of appropriate mitigation strategies.   that you need to accept failure as your new teacher. Learning its lessons well, will give you those unique insights and innovations that will underpin your competitive advantage over those who were too afraid to be taught by such a painful but highly effective teacher.Now first-time startup failure can occur at different times, for different reasons and to different degrees. Different times - Many first-time entrepreneurs fail fatally right at the start simply because of the complexities involved in building a successful business. It's not unreasonable to say that it requires about 10,000 decisions across multiple disciplines to build a successful business. And you will be required to make sure that a high % of those decisions are the right ones, because you will have very little backup to cover the fall-out from the bad ones. Some entrepreneurs survive the foundation phase only to discover that they have built a business that does not scale and barely makes reasonable wages let alone a return on their financial investment. These businesses fail from entrepreneurial boredom (exploring other interests), or partnership breakups or investors withdrawing support. Then again, you just may have been lucky enough to have turned your first business into a success only to discover failure by trying to replicate that success in a second store, an expanded product range or to a different market. Ideally you want failure to be built into the development process and managed in the same way that you would any other potentially lethal process. Different reasons - The possible reasons for failure of first time businesses could fill multiple books, particularly if one wrote a chapter on 'how to make the right decision' for each of the 10,000 mentioned above. This is why it is far more effective as a first time entrepreneur to spend time understanding the Secrets of Failure than it is the secrets of success. Failure is the process that you need to deal with and work through in entrepreneurship, while success is the outcome of managing this process well. Here are a few failures I outlined for cafes - Why do most café startups fail? Different degrees - First time entrepreneurs have very little experience in evaluating startup business development risk because you only get that experience from taking startup risks and sometimes failing. In this process, you learn where the edge is because you pushed it too far on some occasions and fell off. The key is to know that failures will happen in a first time business and having strategies to mitigate them (i.e. affordable loss testing, backup plans). See there is no sustainable business model for the first time entrepreneur in the completely risk free zone. That space is already dominated by well resourced incumbents who will defend their 'turf' vigorously. So the vast majority of new businesses/startups are pushed by existing market forces into the operating space at the top end of the risk scale - somewhere between high risk, failure (learning) and critical failure. You are going to have to learn how to manage the high risk/failures (learning) that ultimately leads to success but do so without crossing over into critical failure where the outcome is complete business closure and liquidation.Entrepreneurship is about risk management rather than risk avoidance because risk is the flip side of the innovation /discovering new markets coin. So while entrepreneurs should embrace risk they also need to understand that risk management is about accepting both the possibility and reality of failure and knowing how to manage the reality of failure when it occurs. The key is to ensure that the failure is not fatal/critical like it is for so many first time entrepreneurs who were not schooled in the Secrets of Failure. First time entrepreneurs have usually had very little previous experience with failure and they often see it as the thing to avoid ... the enemy of success. But when Thomas J. Watson, founder of IBM, was asked about the formula for success he replied; “Would you like me to give you a formula for success? It’s quite simply really. Double your rate of failure. You are thinking of failure as the enemy of success. But it isn’t at all. You can be discouraged by failure, or you can learn from it. So go ahead and make mistakes. Make all you can. Because remember, that’s where you’ll find success.” Here is more that I have written on this topic: Redefining failure – an Entrepreneurial Perspective Updated 144w ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Niels Witteveen