Why is the shear force diagram for uniformly distributed loads asymmetric even though it is a symmetric beam?
One of the previous answers (Nikhil Holmes) dwells on the question being wrong because rotational symmetry. So I rephrase the question to why SFDs for uniform etc. is not reflection symmetric. Isaac, Kim Aaron and Michael Burrows argue a convention and magnitude-symmetry perspective. Firstly, note that SFDs and BMDs are simple 2D analyses conventions that do not generalize well into 3D. These conventions are great because they are accessible to those without a background in linear algebraic systems. They allow you to combine and convert stresses from non-principally oriented loads (bending and shear, loads that do not normally coincide with the deformation axis) and principally oriented loads (tension/compression) to calculate the equivalent, principal stresses and evaluate a resultant deformation or failure criteria based on those principal stresses. So - there is no deep intuition in the structure (graphical representations) of SFDs/BMDs. It's just a simple tool you use when you don't care or don't know how to use better tools. If you only deal with situations like beams/trusses/links/spars - cases where 2D analysis is sufficient or complexity-mandated (like in civil/architectural engineering) - you will find such graphs useful. But you will find that they don't generalize to anything in the 3D. With that cleared, let's get back to the question - Why no reflection symmetry? Two reasons below Because the point of application of load is a singularity (a load that acts at a point, not natural) and the SFD/BMD approach requires you to analyze the problem in sections. Your solution is true everywhere except at the point of application of load/moments. When you break your diagram into sections, you lose any symmetry arguments. Solutions for these individual sections (and conventions) are recombined to generate the SFD/BMD - so there's no reason for symmetry to be consistent. Bending moments are also the integral of shear forces (or shear forces are obtained by differentiating moments wrt coordinates once). So you cannot have both BMD and SFD reflection symmetric simultaneously because of function parity behavior under differentiation (except in trivial or special design cases with even functions). See, Even and odd functions [wiki] [Michael mentions a BMD slope of SFD argument as well but the core concept is just more generic] If you are studying ME (but not civil/structural engineering) you can really skip this crap. This along with the Mohrs circle crap is historical nonsense that does not belong as an analysis tool in this century. There is some useful intuition you could get out of this as to how moments lead to shear and normal stresses, and how to combine them to calculate principal stresses - but this is really limited because it cannot handle 3D. [Note that the 'because smiley face convention' argument is not very useful because they don't matter to algebraic equations, so imo they are insufficient and misleading. There is only one core convention in mechanics of solids - compressive stresses negative, tensile stresses positive. The smiley face is a meta-convention resulting from this convention. The argument that 'one side is +Ra and the other is -Ra and SF has to vary uniformly in between' is ipso facto. It follows definition/convention - not precedes.] 