How is it possible that scientists achieved a temperature that is lower than absolute zero?
Negative temperatures are nothing new in other systems (typically magnetic systems).  What is new here is that negative temperature has been achieved in a gas. In order to understand how negative temperatures can be achieved, we have to be clear on the definition of temperature.  A good start for defining temperature is: the quantity that is the same when two objects are in thermal equilibrium. That is, if you have two objects and you put them together so they can exchange energy, after a while they will have the same temperature.  This leads to the question, how is the total energy divided up between the objects at equilibrium?  It turns out that with extremely high certainty, the energy will be divided up such that the constituents of the objects can be arranged in the largest number of ways consistent with that division of energy.  Another way of putting this is that the total energy will be divided between the two objects in the way that maximizes the total entropy.  Putting the preceding statement into mathematics, we have a condition for thermal equilibrium: [math]\frac{\partial S_1}{\partial U_1}=\frac{\partial S_2}{\partial U_2}[/math], where S and U are the entropy and energy of the two objects.  So the two sides of this equation are quantities that are equal when in thermal equilibrium, and thus must be related to temperature in some way.  Now we might be tempted to define temperature as [math]\frac{\partial S}{\partial U}[/math].  That would be a highly reasonable thing to do.  Unfortunately, someone a long time ago decided that cold things have low temperature and hot things have high temperature.  In order to agree with this, we have to define temperature as the inverse of that partial derivative: [math]\frac{1}{T}=\frac{\partial S}{\partial U}[/math].  This is the standard definition of temperature.  You can interpret this graphically: if you have a plot of entropy versus energy, the temperature is just the inverse of the slope of that curve.  So how does this formal definition of temperature agree with the usual intuitive definition: "a measure of the average energy"?  In many systems, it turns out that as you add more energy the system, there are more possible ways the constituents of the system can be arranged, and therefore, there is higher entropy.  In fact, in the vast majority of familiar systems, the graph of entropy vs. energy looks something like this: First, note that the slope is always positive, so temperature is always positive. Also, the slope becomes smaller as energy increases, meaning that temperature becomes bigger.  So this works out then that temperature is directly related to the energy.    This is, however, not always the case.  In gravitationally bound systems, the slope can increase with increasing energy, meaning the temperature is inversely related to energy.  Here, we are interested in cases where temperature can be negative.  This can happen if the plot of entropy vs. energy looks something like this: Here, the slope is positive at low energy and negative at high energy, and of course goes through zero in between.  This seems rather sensible, until you remember that for no particularly good reason, we defined temperature as the inverse of this slope.  That means that as you increase the energy, temperature first goes up to positive infinity, then jumps to negative infinity, then increases back towards zero.  This seems super weird, but is just an artifact of the way temperature is defined. So how do you find a system with entropy vs. energy that looks like the second plot above?  You need a system where as you increase the energy, at some point there are fewer possible arrangements for the constituents of the system.  The classic example is a system of magnets, which can be either aligned with or against a magnetic field.  When a magnet is aligned with the field, the energy is low, and when it is opposite, the energy is high.  There is then exactly one arrangement of a system of magnets with the lowest energy (all magnets aligned with the field), and exactly one arrangement with the highest energy (all magnets aligned opposite the field).  The energy with the most arrangements is halfway in between (half of the magnets aligned with and half aligned opposite).  Therefore, entropy is lowest at both the maximum and minimum possible energy, and entropy is highest right in the middle, just like in the graph above.  The key to finding a system that can have negative temperature is that there needs to be a finite limit to the energy of each particle.  This is not the case in a normal gas, where each particle can have as much kinetic energy as you like.  In the system of magnets, there are only two possible energies for each magnet, so definitely bounded. Once you have a system that can permit negative temperature, how do you get it there?  We typically don't have a knob we can turn to just add energy to a system.  (You can change the temperature by putting it in thermal contact with an object with a different temperature, but that won't help you get to negative temperature unless you already happen to have an object with negative temperature sitting around.)  The typical trick is to have the system at an energy with positive temperature, and then quickly change the system so that the arrangement of the system now corresponds to negative temperature.  In the magnet example, that corresponds to quickly changing the sign of the magnetic field.  If the system started at low positive temperature (near the left side of the graph), most of the magnets are aligned with the field.  When you flip the magnetic field, the magnets are in the same arrangement, but are now aligned opposite the field, so we have jumped to the right side of the graph -- negative temperature! 