Does correlation imply causation or just higher risk?
Everything depends on the data generating process!  It does not make sense to ask in the abstract whether a correlation between two variables implies causation, you need to say more about where the data you observe comes from.  In a randomized experiment, if X is the treatment variable and the outcome Y is correlated with X, correlation does imply causation.  If X is not randomized, then correlation need not imply causation - if the observed variation in X is caused by variation in Y or if the observed variation in X and Y is caused by a third factor, then correlation will not imply causation.  In general, correlation implies causation if there are no additional factors which are correlated with X and impact Y (this is necessary and sufficient in a linear model; identification of causal effects in non-linear models is more complicated). Here is an example: suppose you observe that in your data, people with more years of schooling have higher wages.  Is this due to the causal effect of schooling on earnings?  It depends!  If your data is a survey, then it is very likely that there are underlying factors ("omitted variables") which impact both schooling and earnings.  People with high natural ability get more schooling and earn more, and this could result in the observed correlation even if going to school had zero impact on earnings for a given person.  In that case, correlation does not imply causation. However, suppose instead that the variation in schooling in your data results from a natural lottery.  Suppose everyone in your data has 12 or 16 years of schooling, but they are all the same age.  You also know that the reason people with 16 years of schooling got an extra 4 years is because in Uzbekistan, only people whose randomly assigned social security number ends in 5 are allowed to go to college (and this is the only perk they get).  In this data, a correlation between wages and schooling does imply causation.  If people with 16 years of schooling have higher wages at the same age, this must be because of the direct impact of schooling because schooling is randomized (by construction) so there is no variable correlated with schooling which also impacts wages.  Note also that Edward Tufte's claim quoted or linked to in several of the other answers that correlation is necessary but not sufficient for causation is incorrect as stated.  A more accurate claim is: 1) If your X variable is randomized (or more precisely, your X variable is uncorrelated with other omitted variables which might impact Y), then correlation is necessary and sufficient for causation. 2) If your X variable is not randomized (i.e. your X variable is not uncorrelated with other factors which impact Y), then correlation is neither necessary nor sufficient for causation.  Confounding factors might lead you to observe a negative or zero correlation even if the true causal relationship you would observe with randomization is large and positive.  Even if going to school for 4 years causally reduces your wages (as is arguably the case for getting a PhD in some fields), we might observe in non-randomized data that people who obtain additional schooling nonetheless have *higher* wages because they have higher unobserved ability, which leads to more schooling and more wages. The fact that correlation sometimes does imply causation is the basis of all empirical science.  All we ever observe are correlations between variables, so to infer anything about causal effects, we need to either generate randomization for ourselves or find "controlled experiments" in already existing data where one can argue that the only relevant difference between the control and treatment groups is that some X variable varies (so that this variation is effectively random if not explicitly so).  The believability of empirical results depends in every case on the plausibility of these identifying assumptions. MORE ADVANCED: The above example might seem idealized and implausible, but in practice, many of the assumptions made can be relaxed by using more sophisticated statistical techniques.  For example, we can relax the strong assumption that the only source of variation in schooling is the lottery program - we can get by with the much weaker assumption that some people are affected by the lottery even if many would go to college anyway.  In that case, the correlation between wages and whether or not you won the schooling lottery identifies the causal effect of winning the lottery on wages (at least among compliers - i.e. those impacted by the lottery).  We can scale that estimate by the relationship between winning the lottery and schooling to produce an estimate of the impact of schooling on earnings.  This is the basis for instrumental variables estimation (and in particular, two-stage least squares), a technique commonly used by economists and other social scientists to identify causal effects. Updated 254w ago • View Upvotes