What are some unknown facts about the cast & crew of the television show Friends?
In 1993, Matthew Perry pitched NBC a sitcom he had co-written about a group of twenty somethings called Maxwell’s House. The network turned him down because they already had a similar TV show, Friends, in the works. Before settling on Friends, other titles producers considered were Friends Like Us, Six of One, Across the Hall, Once Upon a Time in the West Village, and Insomnia Cafe. Originally the show was going to focus on just four characters: Monica, Ross, Rachel, and Joey. Phoebe and Chandler were going to be supporting characters. Also, Monica and Joey were originally intended to be the main couple on the show. In the early stages of development, the writers considered making Chandler gay. The frame around the peephole originally had a mirror in it. It was accidentally broken by a crew member, but because it still looked good, they decided to leave it there. The iconic orange couch in Central Perk was found by a set designer in the basement of the Warner Bros. Studios. In the first couple of episodes, Monica and Rachel’s apartment number was No. 5. This was changed in later episodes to No. 20 because the producers noted that 5 corresponded to an apartment on lower floor. 58. Ellen DeGeneres turned down an offer to play Phoebe. When the last series ended, Jennifer Aniston and her then-husband Brad Pitt hosted a dinner party at their home. They served bottles of wine that producer Kevin Bright had saved from the first series. June Gable, who played Joey’s agent Estelle Leonard, also played a nurse in the episode where Carol gives birth to Ben. “I’ll Be There for You” was co-written by Friends producers David Crane and Marta Kauffman, along with Phil Solem and Danny Wilde, of The Rembrandts. In 1995, the song was No. 1 on the Billboard Hot 100 Airplay chart for eight weeks. The ages of the cast when the show premiered: Season 2 is the only season without a Thanksgiving episode. Courteney Cox was the only cast member not to get an Emmy nomination for her work on the show. Bruce Willis guest starred on the show for free. While filming the movie The Whole Nine Yards, Matthew Perry made a bet with his co-star Willis that if the film were to open at No. 1 at the box office on its opening weekend, then Willis would have appear on Friends for free. (Willis was already scheduled to appear on the show.) Gunther was not originally a speaking part; the actor, James Michael Tyler, got the role as an extra because he knew how to work an espresso machine. In reality, Joey’s white dog statue belonged to Jennifer Aniston. It had been given to her by a friend as a good-luck gift. All of the six main characters have kissed each other at one point (if you include alternative “what if?” episodes), except Monica and Phoebe. During the first season of the show, each cast member earned $22,500 per episode. By the end of the series they each made a $1 million an episode. The final episode was watched by 52.46 million viewers and is the fourth most-watched television series finale in U.S. history. Source: 25 Fascinating Facts You Might Not Know About "Friends" Updated 80w ago • View Upvotes