★Why is TCP/IP often referred to as a 'stack'?How did the word 'stack' go from a 'stack of books' to how it is used in the context of computer science?
Internet protocol suite or TCP over IP stack is called so because the Transmission Control Protocol and the Internet Protocol work in tandem to provide the end users with a reliable data transfer or communication. Now what is this TCP and why does it need IP or vice versa? TCP is the transmission control protocol and IP the internet protocol. On the network protocol stack or in terms of standards, the OSI protocol suite or stack, the Transport Layer comes above the Network Layer ( which is also called as the Internetwork Layer in the internet ) as shown below. So the IP is a protocol which acts like passing the hot potatoes, it just sends the data which is in the Network packet form to its neighboring node ( something like from router 1 to router 2 in this figure below. The IP as we speak provides the best effort service which means it forwards the packet asap to the next node ( How does it know which node to send is a whole other story of addressing and routing ). It does not guarantee or check if the data is corrupted or delivered or not ( If it does that in every single node, we would be waiting a long time for the web pages to load ). In simple terms, the cost of rectifying mistakes or packet errors is more than re sending the packet itself ( But remember, the IP has no business in this area), which means we need something more to do this job. Now comes the TCP, which does exactly what IP cant afford to do i.e., provide reliable service using techniques such as sequence numbers and acknowledgement techniques. When the packet reaches the end system viz., from A to B in the above figure, the TCP checks the sequence number of the packet and the checksum is calculated to see if the packet is corrupted or not. If it is or if the sequence number is the same, it just throws it out and asks for the new packet from the sender using the acknowledgement service. So working together, the TCP and the IP not only provide robust delivery of the data but also ensure that whatever data you receive are in order and reliable. And also the fact that this is a very reliable and the best effort model in the network imposes us to use it everywhere on the internet. Hence the name TCP/IP.    Embed Quote