★Common Admission Test (CAT): How was your IIM interview experience?
Direct Copy from PagalGuy Interview for IIM Calcutta Date - 18/03/2015 Venue - Joka Campus OA - 99.68 Excerpts from PI. Don't remember who asked what so let us call them P. I am A. P: Aman, in my experience, being an IIM C alum almost 40 yrs ago, I see that people with a min of 2-3 yrs work ex can add a lot more value. So I would like you to have 3-5 yrs work ex and come back here. Why do MBA now? A: Sir the strategic roles I am looking to take up need a further compliment to my engineering education. P: We understand that but why not work more for a couple of years and then do this. That way it would be easier. A: (Fair enough question) Sir I agree that I am facing a steep learning curve but to be honest, getting this percentile is an opportunity and I would like to maximize what I have with me. There is always additional pressure in postponing tasks. (All three panelists laugh. One says a bird in hand is better than two in the bush and appreciates honesty) P: Do you remember factorization? (Yes) Solve a question. A: Got the first factor. Told them easiest way to get the rest would be to divide. P: that isn't the way we were looking for. anyway, (seeing my English awards) Why didn't you take English honors after 12th? Have you ever been advised to do so? A: Yes my English teacher advised me for the same. I used to write really good short stories (my forte) which she used to appreciate a lot. P: then why go through all this and come to engineering? isn't that what the rest of the world is doing? A: Sir 2 reasons. First the scope in English honours is smaller and thus to shine, one has to be really talented. I am more of a work in development. Secondly, seeing Amish Tripathi (IIM C) and Chetan Bhagat (IIM A) going big guns after a B School education, I would call this my effort at a course correction. (Panelists look impressed. Lol even I am surprised I came up with this answer.) P: Tell me about the TCP/IP model? A: Sir let me relate it with OSI model. Tell all layers of the OSI model. Relate it to TCP/IP. Successfully Navigated both acads and maths (phew!) P: What is this outreach programme you were involved in? A: Told about teaching less privileged children. Program started by my mother at home. Started with this at home. Continued by joining similar program in Deloitte (work life). P: Do you read newspaper? (Yes) What was some of the news today? A: Indigo IPO likely to happen. Black money bill and considerations. further speculations on Ranaghat nun case. (Discussed about black money bill in short) P: Aman, what do you think is the most significant accomplishment of your life? A: Talked about an essay I wrote about my brother back when I was young. Topic was star of my life. at that age everyone wrote about favorite toys or gadgets, I wrote about my brother. Apart from being chosen for national competition, it made my parents and teachers really give me credit for my maturity. P: Have you heard of EQ? (Yes Emotional Quotient but don't know exactly the criterion for measuring it) Do you think you are emotionally mature? (Yes) Great we think you are too. P: You have said you like reading about Greek/roman mythology? Can you tell me the months and the roman gods they are associated with? A: (Clueless) but I can tell you about the planets and the gods they are related with. (Given go ahead) Told all the planets and associated Gods. P: But you told me the names of Greek gods. I asked for Roman Gods. A: Sir they are all related. Told them the history of battle of troy and how the survivors of troy escaped to Italy. Due to death of the Troy culture, they adopted Greek gods, albeit their more aggressive stances. Thus Zeus became Jupiter and at the same time more aggressive and war-like, the way the Trojans wished they were against the Greeks. Also talked about how the Trojan war affected Greek and Roman architecture. P: (nodding, looking impressed) A: (seizing the opportunity) in fact sir, I think even our very own Hindu mythology is highly linked with this. Talked about basic linkages (trio of Gods, Devas/Olympians vs Titans/Asuras etc.) Talked about parallels between Achilles and Bheeshma/Krishna. P: Interesting. What I am intrigued by is do you pursue all this knowledge even now? A: Yes sir. In fact recently read a book called Palace of Illusions which had Draupadi's Point of View of the Mahabharat. Described the book, key stratas of Draupadi, Kunti and Karna. P: (All three smiling) Good Aman. Thank you we are done. P: One last question. Which calls do you have? A: AKIS (scared of the why C over A question) P: you may go. Thank you. A: Have a great day sir. Verdict - Waitlisted.    Embed Quote