★Common Admission Test (CAT): How was your IIM interview experience?
Thanks for the A2A. So my IIM-A and IIM-C interviews were pretty decent. From my experiences of giving b-school interviews in the US, I learned 2 things which were very important by the time it came to IIM interviews- 1) The Hook and Bait strategy 2) The importance of confidence The latter of course is something you would keep on hearing and almost every time, keep on underestimating. But trust me, the difference is glaring when you notice it. I was fortunate that by the time my first IIM interview was in the horizon, I'd already given at least half a dozen interviews for the top 20 b-schools in USA. In my earlier ones, I naturally used to be a little nervous, but later on, gained confidence from that live practice and started controlling the flow much better. In fact, by the end, I used to look forward to that chat with the interviewer and tell them my story and experiences rather than dread that moment. Anyway, during this time, I also devised a strategy where from the get-go, I would control the ENTIRE interview contextually. This is what I call the "Hook and Bait". What I would do is, on my application, I would write something which would be very unique to me and would catch the interviewer's eye. This way, more often than not, the interview goes in that direction, and obviously since it has to be your forte, you would excel. This was nicely executed on my IIM-C interview where one particular hobby of mine was the sole topic for almost the entire interview duration! End result? Convert! Even though the same did not exactly happen at the A interview, I really liked the experience as it was a very well balanced conversation including talks about my work, my learnings from various experiences in the corporate world, my hobbies and what I've done and learned from them, economics and basic policy, and also a few basic questions from my undergrad. I felt comfortable throughout the duration of the interview, and my experience at b-school interviews reflected in the flow and structure of what I was supposed to say. In the end, this was a convert too! My IIM-L interview was not a very good experience though. From the very beginning, I felt that the faculty had made up the mind that they won't be taking me, and grilled me on stuff which shouldn't have been my bother anyway. It's one thing to try throwing someone off, but totally another to try and have fun with a candidate. But anyway, what's done is done, and maybe they faculty actually had a point with all what they asked. What didn't help was that the budget was declared the previous day, and I had only skimmed through the major points apart from knowing what all was predicted and how it affected me. They asked pin-point details from that too, which honestly, I thought I didn't answer very well. The result was expected - rejected. In the end, I'd say that it was a very smooth cycle of interviews for me in general. Having 2 admits out of A, B, C is quite obviously satisfying. The tip I can share at the end of all this is again, exuding confidence; one should know what they are talking about, why they are here, and most importantly, brevity - be clear and concise. All the best to those preparing!    Embed Quote