★Common Admission Test (CAT): How was your IIM interview experience?
A long detailed experience for IIM Lucknow. GD and WAT topic: Highly intelligent students have difficult time at B-schools.    Two guys.(G1, G2). G1 comes out and calls me.We get in. He asks me to take a seat. G1: So you are Jain?(Mentioned on the form) Me: Yes sir. G1: You should be getting into business. Me: It would have worked well if I had a family business but we don't have it. G1: Where are you from? Me: Jalgaon. Sir.(It's in Maharashtra) G1: Any way related to Jain irrigation there? Me: No sir G1: Just the same religion? Me:Yes sir. G1: How is the company? Me: It's a huge company. It was established around 1950(wiki says 1989) by around 8 people, Bhavarlal Jain being prominent. I don't know the exact numbers but it is worth around 10000 crore. G1: It is about drip irrigation na? Me: yes sir. It is basically into drip irrigation, sprinkler parts and agriculture related things. G1: So you took a drop? Me:  told them about the problem I had at Career Point. They wanted me to join in April but I had college till May. Then they started delaying the joining. I had interview at Fiitjee on Nov 16 but the date clashed with CAT. I chose CAT. Finally I am joining Fiitjee on Feb 8. Now even Allen wants me. G2: What do you think of CAT coaching? Me: Sir I don't think you can teach a graduate student class tenth maths. As far as PC, PJ vocabulary is concerned, I still haven't found out what should be done. The advice I have got is improve your reading. But I haven't found that advice very useful. Waiter brings tea for the panelists(2 cups). They offer me. I decline politely. G2: How was your CAT? Me: This year there was a change in the pattern of the paper. Last year we had 70 min for each section with 30 question each. This year it changed to 170 minutes with 50 questions each. Till last year I was worried a lot about VA section. This year I had 50 questions in QA DI and 16 in LR. I had targeted these questions. I attempted all 66 and just 16 out of 34 in VA. I focused on LR more because it is my bread and butter of section 2. G2: You think CAT can be gamed? Me: Sir my job was to strategize the paper. G2: Seems like you got a good percentile. Me: It's okay sir. I have actually written an answer for this on Quora.(I had carried a print out of Chandresh Kakliya's answer to Why don't students make their way to top 3 IIM's inspite of getting 99.5 percentile and above? in my file.)Most people don't understand CAT is an elimination test and not a selection test. I showed him the answer script. G1 takes his time and reads it. G1: So you write on Quora and PagalGuy? Me:Mostly on Quora. I have written over 500 answers there. This year I have developed a genuine hobby. G1: What's the difference in both? Me: PG is a very small niche. It's mostly about MBA, Bank exams. On Quora you can talk about almost anything. G1: You haven't done the analysis for L. Me: Sir your cutoff is not as transparent as AC. So I could not make back calculations. Waiter comes back with samosas(2 plates). Waiter serves them. G2 doesn't eat and offers me. This time I accept the plate and take a bite. We again resume to the interview. G1: What do you think of Narendra Modi? Me: He is good but what people don't understand is it's a BJP government and not NaMo's. G1: It's like a one man show. Me: Yes sir. We are a parliamentary democracy not a presidential. It's not good for our democracy.When we had elections they were telling vote for Modi but we are actually voting BJP and not just Modi. G1: Is he a good marketer? Me: Yes sir. He is excellent at it. He came in the power mostly because people wanted to overthrow Congress and there was no other stronger opposition. G2: What can be done to reduce corruption? Me: Sir we are ethically a very poor nation. We learn corruption since we are 10. From bribing a policemen to the top level. Recently we had Sri... (more)Loading...