★Does a network socket operate at layer 4 or layer 5 of an OSI model or a TCP/IP model? If it operates at layer 4, then what does the session layer actually do, when sockets are the actual connections which act as an interface between application and lower layers.I used these two sources. One mentions sockets to be conceptually at Layer 5 (Session Layer), and the other one is Wikipedia, which mentions it to be at Layer 4. Session Layer (Layer 5) Network socket
The socket programming interface, created in BSD Unix (Sys V used Streams) and later copied into WIndows, usually operates at layer 4 for most applications.  The API itself is not specific to layer 4 and can be used for layers 2, 3, and 4, however access to layers 2 and 3 is restricted to privileged users (e.g. root) in all the implementations I know of.   The  family/domain argument indicates the layer 3 type of socket, or layer 2 if AF_RAW is used.  Typically the constant AF_INET is used to specify IPv4 (AF_INET6 for IPv6) for layer 3.  The type parameter specifies layer 4, typically SOCK_STREAM for TCP or SOCK_DGRAM for UDP.  SOCK_RAW gives access to the level 3 IP packet.   There are other options for both family and type, but those tend not to be common anymore, though AF_IPX and SOCK_SEQPACKET were popular when Novell's network protocols were still competing with TCP/IP in the previous century.  Incidently, HTTP, HTTPS programming interfaces are session based layer 5 protocols. Data encoding protocols (e.g. MIME, HTML) is layer 6 A web browser is layer  7. An example of use of a session layer is to map a session across multiple sockets.  FTP is a good example of this, with one socket being the control port (21) and one being the data transfer port (20).   I think HTTP and cookies may be another example of this, where multiple sockets may be used to transfer data for one web session. The use of the layer terminology is well defined and common for layers 1-4. The layers above 4 are not as  clearly defined nor referenced as often.    Embed Quote