★What factors contributed to the use of the OSI model instead of the DoD?
Stan Hanks article is pretty good - but I have a slightly different perspective. The OSI model came from an International Standards process that was dominated by participating organizations that had existing mindsets to protect - some of the organizations were the national PTTs (Post-Telegraph-Telephone) systems  (most countries had one, unlike the U.S.) or transnational companies (like IBM - where the U.S. dominated.) The DOD/ARPAnet model evolved out of a number of different projects that DARPA funded.  What eventually became the Internet wasn't the only one - the others were generally not as successful - largely because the protocol drivers and especially the underlying communications hardware weren't as accessible.   Inclusion of LAN (ethernet) drivers in early BSD Unix and early TCP/IP stacks in BSD Unix gave the Internet protocols a significant advantage over other protocol suites - even ones that lasted in production until the early 1990s (such as the Merit Computer Network's own "Inter Nodal Protocol" - which was also a datagram protocol.) Implementations based on the DOD/ARPAnet model were available - and especially for always cash strapped researchers - open and much less expensive (if not free) than the struggling  ISO protocols (which had endless interoperability problems due to their complexity.) The OSI model was required by many European academic funding agencies - which made that model easier to teach and write papers about.   (That the Internet was associated with the US Military was also politically distasteful in some European countries.)   And, there was the whole "Not Invented Here" mindset which affects just about everyone involved with computers - making the OSI model easier for European academics to write about. The DOD/Internet model evolved through empirical means,  Just take a look at the SMTP RFCs some time -  which tossed aside lots of neat ideas people had about email on single-systems (such as notifications, e-mail recall, etc.).  X.400 tried to be everything to everyone - and ended up being nothing to anyone.    Embed Quote