★Common Admission Test (CAT): How was your IIM interview experience?
IIM Calcutta I have skipped on WAT and GD, I pretty much sucked at both of them. For overly curious, the topic for both of them was in short “TV serials show stereotype women, should they change. Discuss” So, coming to interview, I was 4th in my panel Date: 12th March 2012 Time: 4:22 PM Confidence         9.5/10 .5 cause of all the current affairs I heard they were asking and some statistics questions like variance and some other stuff which I just don’t get. Also, there was no lady in my panel, damn!! Preparation 2/10 2 points thanks to IIM L interview, that’s it. I had no mock GD or mock interview. There were 3 people in the panel: Alumni (A): Young looking person probably in late 30s, looks cool and calm. He is seated on extreme left. Professor 1 (P1): Probably in 60s, looks serious, doesn’t look like the guy who would return you a smile. He is sitting in the middle. Professor 2 (P2): Late 50s, he smiles, looks like a person who is happy with his life. He is on the right. Me (M): All my thoughts are in italic, just to make clear, what I am saying and what I am thinking. M: Good Afternoon Sir P1: Good afternoon, please take the seat. There is a huge table between us, I have my folder in my hands, I look for a chance to pass it to them, but no one looks very much interested, they are looking at some documents or something else. I just keep it with me and sit down. P1: What are you doing right now? M: Sir, I am at 4th year IT-BHU, Ceramic Engineer. (Wasn’t clear enough) P1: What? M: I am currently in my 4th year at IT-BHU, doing Ceramic Engineering, though I am working as a Game Designer right now. A: Game designing, such as games for EA Sports, Lan Gaming? I have this cool smile on my face all this time, don’t know why but I guess it’s the word ‘Game’ that bring it to my face M: Sir, I started my company in 2nd year Bright Ants with the aim to develop social games for all platforms starting with Facebook. A: What are your views about LAN Gaming, EA Sports etc. M: There is a difference between traditional games and online games, social games. A: Online Games, so you mean games from Zynga? M: Yes sir, I worked as a game designer in Zynga recently in December and January for 2 months. They had come to campus for recruitment of engineering profile, but during the interview it changed direction and I ended up as a game designer. As, they had never hired a fresher as a game designer so I was asked for an internship. I talked with my HOD and he gave me permission for some time. A: So, what are your views about it? M: Sir, Social gaming is here to stay, it’s not a bubble waiting to burst. Zynga few years back was considered nothing as compared to EA Sports which was 5 Billion dollar company. Recently, in December when Zynga IPO was launched it was valued at 10 Billion and since then the share price has increased from 10 USD to 14.65 USD. A: So, you’re wasting your talent by doing an MBA. I knew it was coming sooner or later, here comes the most important question, Why MBA? M: Sir, as an MBA, I would learn a lot, it will help me learn and evolve as an individual. A: I honestly can’t find one reason for you to do an MBA.... (more)Loading...