★What factors contributed to the use of the OSI model instead of the DoD?
Getting some history is helpful here. You have to step into the WABAC machine and set the dial for about 1977. There were no ISPs. There was in fact no "Internet". The "catenet" model had been kicked around for a few years, and the underpinnings were starting to appear in the nascent work at SRI which would emerge as true "Inter-net" transmission occurred on November 22, 1977, when SRI originated the first connection between three disparate networks. On the other hand, in the world of telecommunications, there was a growing acceptance that eventually, more than just doing voice, telecom networks were going to have to support data - data other than as may occur, jammed into voice channels by modems. So, in the late 70s, two different groups took this on - entirely from the mindset of "let's imagine how this would work given underlying telecom network reality as it is today, and what we know about computers, today". The International Organization for Standardization (ISO) had one working group on this; the ITU-T (then known as the CCITT) had another. Two groups eminently well qualified to know about networking computers, right? Yeah. Sure. Anyway, by 1984, they had combined forces and the ISO published  ISO 7498, and the CCITT had published X.200. They've both the same document, more or less. And both foisted on us, for all time, the now-famed Seven Layer Model. In the meantime, a "bunch of goddamned long haired hippy freaks", as The Establishment would term the hard-working DARPA funded researchers, had this TCP/IP thing going on. It actually worked. Between different types of computers. Between different types of networks. Pretty much all the time (and we religiously beat the shit out of people who put forth implementations that DIDN'T work, or only worked with "their stuff") So, if you're leading a major computer or telecom equipment manufacturing company, who are you going to believe? A bunch of anti-establishment types? Or the world's most pre-eminent standards organizations?? That - that right there - economic and cultural bias against the "academic types" funded by "the American military" is it. Completely. Without that bias to lever against, the whole OSI model would have been as dead as Morse code within a few years. As Padlipsky put it in The Elements of Networking Style: And Other Essays and Animadversions on the Art of Intercomputer Networking, "If you know what you're doing, 3 layers is more than enough; if you don't, 7 won't help"    Embed Quote