★What is the simplest explanation of the OSI model involving real examples?Feel free to share any related technical articles and videos.
This is one of the eye catching explanations I have come across when I studying for my ccna. Page on routeralley.com OSI Reference Model Example A web browser serves as a good practical illustration of the OSI model and the TCP/IP protocol suite: • Τhe web browser serves as the user interface for accessing a website. The browser itself does not function at the Application layer. Instead, the web browser invokes the Hyper Text Transfer Protocol (HTTP) to interface with the remote web server, which is why http:// precedes every web address. • The Internet can provide data in a wide variety of formats, a function of the Presentation layer. Common formats on the Internet include HTML, XML, PHP, GIF, and JPEG. Any encryption or compression mechanisms used on a website are also considered a Presentation layer function. • The Session layer is responsible for establishing, maintaining, and terminating the session between devices, and determining whether the communication is half-duplex or full-duplex. However, the TCP/IP stack generally does not include session-layer protocols, and is reliant on lower-layer protocols to perform these functions. • HTTP utilizes the TCP Transport layer protocol to ensure the reliable delivery of data. TCP establishes and maintains a connection from the client to the web server, and packages the higher-layer data into segments. A sequence number is assigned to each segment so that data can be reassembled upon arrival. • The best path to route the data between the client and the web server is determined by IP, a Network layer protocol. IP is also responsible for the assigned logical addresses on the client and server, and for encapsulating segments into packets. • Data cannot be sent directly to a logical address. As packets travel from network to network, IP addresses are translated to hardware addresses, which are a function of the Data-Link layer. The packets are encapsulated into frames to be placed onto the physical medium. • The data is finally transferred onto the network medium at the Physical layer, in the form of raw bits. Signaling and encoding mechanisms are defined at this layer, as is the hardware that forms the physical connection between the client and the web server    Embed Quote