★Common Admission Test (CAT): How was your IIM interview experience?
I am posting it here as I think this might be a little different considering the Civil Services aspect. The interview was for the Six Newer IIMs. Venue: Bangalore Duration: 20-25 minutes.   No. of Panel Members: 3 M1(sitting on LHS(my left) ): around 50-55 years M2(sitting in the centre): around 70+ ! M3(sitting on RHS): around 50-55 years     M3: Which was the happiest moment of your life? Me: Sir, it was my first bike trip. M3: To ? Me: I started from Lucknow, travelled the whole Rajasthan and back to Lucknow. M3: How much distance did you travel? Me: Around 2700 Kms. In 9 days. M3: That is on an average 300 Kms. Per day! Me: Yes Sir. We travelled more than 500 Kms. On some days. (Feeling proud by now :D)   M2: By bike ? M3 (to M2): Yes, Motor Bike. M2: Oh, I thought Bicycle ! (Even I was surprised to hear this! …. Probably he had a 1950s approach to life)   M1: Where are you currently? Me: Sir, I am currently interning at Infosys, Mysore. It is a part of my 8th semester curriculum. M1: What are you planning to do once you complete your internship? Me: Sir, I will join an IIM if I get through, or else I will go back to Delhi and start preparing for civil services.   (The questions below may not be in chronological order) M1: Which job is tougher, government or corporate? Me: Sir, I feel that a government job is tougher because the resources are limited in a government job, unlike private sector jobs, where you can demand resources according to your need and also there is political pressure in government job which make working even tougher. M2: Compare the US system and the Indian system of government. Me: Sir, the US directly elects the President who is both Head of State as well as Head of the government whereas Indian following the Westminster form of system where the President is the head of state and the Prime Minister is the head of the government and generally belongs to the majority party in the lower house of parliament.   M1: Which one do you think is better? (I wanted to say US, but somehow I said Indian, probably coz I wanted to look like a proud Indian !) Me: Sir, I feel that the Indian system is better because the Prime Minister takes all the important decisions and the President, being the ceremonial head attends functions etc., saving on a lot of time. (I felt later that it wasn't an intelligent answer)   M2: What is RTI? Me: Explained it.   M2: Why did government pass it when it knew that it will make things difficult? Me: Sir, unlike earlier, there is so much media awareness now, people would get to know the intentions of the government if it did not pass the bill. Ultimately, they have to go to polls.   M1:What after MBA ? Me: I will go back and start preparing for civil services. M1: How will MBA help in civil services? Me: Sir, during MBA, we get to learn how to use resources efficiently and get things done, similarly in civil services, we have limited resources, for eg. The Budget, and we have to allocate it to different projects.   M2: Why do we need CAG if the government is functioning properly? (kinda weird question) Me: Sir, we actually do not need it if everyone is honest and do their work properly. We only need CAG when the government becomes corrupt. M2: Do you have any idea about the checks and balances in the government. Me: (I hadn’t heard it before, so gave some vague answer…. ‘There are checks at each level, to keep the government in balance’!)   M3: People take a lot of Dowry once they clear civil services. Its quite prevalent in North, isn’t it? Me: Yes Sir, its quite prevalent particularly in UP and Bihar. (Feeling a little embarrassed ) M3: How much Dowry will you take once you clear civil services? (the panel burst into laughter with this one) Me: Sir, my dad said he won’t take dowry.   M3: What if you separate from your dad and then demand dowry? Me: Sir that will not happen.   M2: There was a famous Indian economist who worked on Welfare economics. Can you name him? (Although I had never heard about ‘welfare economics’ but knew they were talking about Amartya Sen. But I was able to recall everything about him –Nobel Prize, Recent prize by Obama, even his daughter ! But I couldn't recall his name, or even their Surname !)  Me: Sir, I am not able to recall his name. He had won the Nobel Prize in economics. M3: (Prompting me) Sen. Me: Yes sir, ……… (still not able to recall) M1: Amartya Sen Me: Yes Sir, Yes Sir ! (I blamed this whole ‘sub-incident’ on the frequent sessions with the Old Monk. Loss of Memory! ) M3: You may leave now. Me: Thank you Sir!   P.S.: I might not have recalled a few questions. IIM Indore was the other interview I appeared for and it didn't even feel like an interview. It was more of a stress test where one of the panelists was forcing me to accept that I had actually messed up my academics during graduation and that I had wasted my dad's money by pursuing Engineering and was going to do that again by joining an IIM (because I wanted to join civil services) !    Embed Quote