★What is the difference (if any) between a wireless access point and a wireless router?
A Wireless Router is two devices huddling together for warmth in one box. Those two devices are a router, and a wireless access point. In order to understand the difference, you need a fair bit of background on what the Internet is. Generally words that start with 'Inter' mean that various things are joined together - international means that there are multiple nations, interdisciplinary means that there are multiple disciplines, and sure enough, 'internet' is a that means several different networks joined together. The Internet (with a capital I) is a term that's come to mean the world's biggest network of networks... the one that the World Wide Web lives on. These networks join together because they standardise on a set of protocols. The http protocol is a protocol for sending information across the Internet. The https protocol is a protocol for doing the same, but with end to end encryption. SMTP is a protocol for delivering email. And there are plenty more. All of these 'higher-level protocols' need some way of uniquely assigning addresses to machines. The protocol that does this is called, imaginiatively enough, the 'Internet Protocol'. We normally call this IP for short, and if you've heard of TCP/IP, then the IP part of that is what we're talking about. IP has this idea of 'subnets'. Machines on 'subnets' are assumed (at least, by the IP protocol) to be able to talk to each other directly. However, if a machine on subnet A (my laptop, for example), wants to be able to talk to a machine on subnet B (Quora's webserver, for example), this information needs to go through something called a Router. (A router is something that understands the route across a network that bits of information, or packets as we call them) need to take. Dealing with this routing is, as it were, job number 1 for the router. In the old days, routers used to have two connections on them... one network cable that went to the "local network" and one connector that went to whatever connected that network to the outside world. (These days, most likely a DSL connection for home networks... but could be ISDN or fibre, or actually a whole bunch of other things, some standards-based, but often proprietary to the telephone / telecoms company offering the connection.) So, if you wanted multiple machines you had a router (which connected to the outside world) and either a hub or a switch (the difference between the two doesn't matter for our purposes) which took that one local connection from the router and allowed multiple machines to plug into it. Let's check our understanding... If have three PCs, and a network (wired) printer plugged into my switch, the print jobs from my PC go straight to my printer via the switch... they don't go close to the router... because my printer is 'on the same subnet' but if I want to get a web page, that goes out via the router. Now, roll forward to the late 90s. There are two distinct evolutions: Firstly, the manufacturers of domestic (ADSL) routers work out that there is a growing market for people with small home networks to connect to the Internet, who are OK with a few network cables in their house, but only want one box in the corner, not two... so build small hubs/switches into their routers. So, rather than having one local network port, your home router has 4. This means you can plug your network printer and a couple of PCs in easily. Secondly, wireless becomes interesting. However, most users of wireless want a mechanism to add devices to an existing network.... so, in networking terms, there are a bunch of devices that sort of do the same job as hubs, but use radio signals rather than cable. These are called 'Wireless Access Points'. Wireless Access Points allow multiple wireless devices to act as if they were on the same subnet. [Though modern ones offer various security features, including, in some cases, stopping wireless devices from seeing each other!] The same pressures that had lead to our having routers with multiple network ports call back again. Manufacturers worked out that, in the residential market, there was a close connection between the people who wanted a router (for Internet connection) and who wanted a wireless network (so they weren't tied to that connection via a cable.) So, hybrid devices that were a router and a wireless access point in one were an obvious thing to build... these are normally called 'Wireless routers.' Companies beyond a certain size (small) tend to have IT departments who want a lot more control over their networks, and particularly over their wireless networks.... so tend to use Wireless Access Points still. A few home users with really odd requirements (like, well, me) still have a few domestically, but we're few and far between. (Mostly people don't have a block of 8 public IP addresses allocated to their house, let alone multiple wireless networks for different security zones.) I graduated with a degree in Mathematics and Computation in 1992. This is my 1992nd answer on Quora, and is part of The Answer per Year project...    Embed Quote