★Common Admission Test (CAT): How was your IIM interview experience?
This is for IIM Lucknow. I have been thinking to pen down this story for quite some time, especially after I converted, after an interview so horrible, I didn't even bother to wait for the results and was preparing myself for IIM K, where Interview had went much smoother.   A message from a friend told me results were out and I checked it because I had nothing better to do.   Here goes my interview experience.   Before even the process started, I realized I had forgotten to bring originals of my class 10th mark sheet. There starts the panic. I called up the coordinator and she asked to tell the interviewers. She was like my result will be withheld mostly and I will have to visit the college later on, but shouldn’t be a deciding factor.   I was shit scared. (And my girl had asked me to double check, which I didn’t obviously and it was lying on the bed blissfully, so my only way of getting it on time was also gone. She is the one who keeps track of my things. Now I know why.  :P.)   The WAT and the GD topic was ‘Being honest and poor Or Being dishonest and Rich’. With the kind of prep I had done for the WAT, I was surprised to find myself actually writing a good piece ( Obviously, that’s my perception), with the only issue being I was unable to finish it up and one of the most important ideas that I had was left unfinished. No issues, I will kill it in the GD, was what I thought at that time.   I never believed in starting a GD and never really do the same. An over eager lady from the group started the discussion about how honesty is the best policy and all. Another lady from the group joined her and trust me when I say this, I started feeling like sitting in those Moral Science Classes where my only concern used to be: Sleep. Not this time I thought and was about to start demolishing these two ladies in as civilized way as possible when one gentleman started, ‘I agree with her on this and to add more…….’. And I thought, ok, 8 people in a group, even if I enter 4th, that shouldn’t be an issue. And this time I succeeded, analyzing everything the three poor souls have said before, why extremes might not be a good idea and why being dishonest and rich is actually not only good for oneself, but at society at large. The whole GD changed track and everyone started nodding to what I was saying, including those two ladies. Other two souls came up with Ambani example and I asked one of the gentlemen to speak. That was the only time the whole group realized he was there. I concluded the discussion with everyone following me. And I was like, nailed it. Little did I know at that point, I was going to be slaughtered in the next 45 minutes or so.   I was the first one to be interviewed and was called by a prof who looked normal. And one more, the one who walked me through hell, was sitting inside, smiling, waiting for me to come.   I handed my folders to the person who walked me into the room and he was deeply engrossed into it. Like for the next half an hour, with sharing of few certificates and  a few of my articles with the other guy in between. Let me call him Pw and the other professor, the sitting one as Ps.   Ps: Abhishek, you are very selfish. (Even before I was able to sit down)   Me: Giving a puzzled look, Why sir?   Ps: You will be leaving your bank, which is providing you such a good opportunity in such a short time. They have spent so much on you. This is definition of Selfishness. Well, I am working as an Assistant Manager with SBI and he picked on that. To talk of non IT profile. Me: Gave him the answer I had prepared. Talked about risk to reward ratio, better profile, moving ahead with career plans and all.   Ps: Oh, all that is fine. I see you are from Arunachal Pradesh. And did your engineering from NIT Srinagar. How will you manage in Lucknow, there are no mountains and no anti national movement here.   Me: What the... (more)Loading...