★Common Admission Test (CAT): How was your IIM interview experience?
I went inside the Cabin, they were three gentlemen sitting inside.Two of them were appearing 50+ where as one was in mid 30s.Just the old fellows were asking questions where the young pannlist kept numb. First the skimmed through the form which I felt a day before the interview, one which one of them commented you have a very nice academic background both 10th 12th 90+ on which I thanked them. What were your favourite subjects in Mechanical Engineering? -IC Engines and Material Science Which materials are used to make an engine? Aluminum Only Aluminum? No sir, Al alloys mostly 7 series, but in india we use Cast Iron. What is the diffrence between 4 stroke and 2 stroke engine? The four stroke engine needs two up down motions of piston for a cycle where as in two stroke its only back and forth motion of the engine. Bullet has which of two types of engine you mentioned? 4 stroke. Are you sure? Yes the government as banned use of two stroke engines. Are you sure? Sir not sure about the ban,but they cant meet the emission norms. Which are current emission norms in India? BS IV and Euro 3. BS stands for? Bharat Stage IV. As the petrol diesel sources are depleting which will be future sourcez of energy to enginez? Sir first hybrid drive engines will come which will be replaced by complete electric engines soon. Do you know any hybrid car in India? Toyota Prius is the only one I know in India but outside City Civic are also avaliable in Hybrid Variants. What will come after hybrid? Sir actually dont know about that. Any guesses? May be fuel cell. What is a fuel cell? Sir I just know basics about it that in fuel cell the water molecule is splitted into hydrogen and oxygen whose bonding energy is extracted. But it would need energy to break the bonds? Sir till I know they use some sort of electrodes to do that. What else can be used? Hydrogen. How?? Sir I dont have any idea. Do you read news paper? Yes Tell me the current trending news. Sir recently Mr.Obama Visited India where civic nuclear agreement was a major deal. Mr.Arvind Kejriwal won the delhi elections 67-3 and sworn in as second time CM of Delhi. In Bihar Nitish Kumar is claming majority and is about to pitch out Jatin Lal Manzi. Yesterday in world Cup India beat Pakistan. Filpkart is about to Get 10500 Cr. From Tiger capital in third round. Ratan tata Backed Snapdeal and Urban ladder. Thats all what I can recall. So what are other teams in world cup in Indias group? Sir I dont follow sports at all, just saw the India Pakistan Match. Strange, so have you followed Obamas visit? Can we talk about the Nuclear deal? Yes, hopefully I know a bit about it. So why was it struk? Sir there were two important issues first one was the Nuclear Liability Act and second one was the Monitoring of Nuclear fuel by United states. So have we accepted them? Yes, we have created a pool of 1500 Cr. With our Insurance companies and Liability would be shared between manufacturer and The opreator of the equipment. Are you sure about the two? Sir first one is sure second is not clear, I was not able to intreprit what was written in news paper. So did you didnt you try for that? Tried, but then left. So what India is getting in return? Investments and Technology. Fuel? Yes As we dont have the required radio isotopes. Which one? Sir not sure, but India is rich in Thorium reserves but we dont have Uranium. So it should be uranium. Nice try, any questions from your side? No sir. Thanks.    Embed Quote