Why are stars so fascinating?
Stars go through many phases of life, much like other organic beings.      When a star is dying, it turns into a “white dwarf”, when the star uses up all of the chemicals required for its nuclear fusion reaction, it will fuse a large clump, which will emit white light until it finally darkens for good. When a large star dies by exploding in a supernova, a gravitational collapse can take place and result in a neutron star. Normal matter is made of atoms, and atoms are made up almost entirely of empty space. The only thing that gives an atom its mass is the tiny nucleus in the middle. To visualize this, picture an atom being a large sphere with a diameter of 1km—that sphere is so big you could stack two Empire State Buildings inside of it without hitting the ceiling. If that sphere is an atom, the nucleus would be a single pea floating in the middle, and the mass of the whole atom would be the same as the mass of the pea. What happens during a gravitational collapse into a neutron star is that the atoms are squished so hard together that each atom’s empty space gives way and the peas in the middle of each atom are suddenly all bunched together. So now imagine that 1km-diameter sphere, except picture that it’spacked full with peas. So instead of that 1km space having a mass of 1 pea, it now has a mass of about 1,000,000,000,000,000 peas. This is what happens when a neutron star is formed—there’s no empty space, just the neutrons that make up an atom’s nucleus packed together—and it’s a quadrillion times denser than a normal star. The result is a tiny star with a diameter of only around 24km whose mass is as much as three suns or one million Earths. a neutron star—imagine packing 1,000,000 Earths into one earth. Magnetars -      Some pulsars spin over a thousand times a second. A neutron star generates a gravitational pull so powerful that a marshmallow impacting the star's surface would hit with the force of a thousand hydrogen bombs. Although not totally understood yet, magnetars have magnetic fields a thousand times stronger than ordinary neutron stars that measure a million billion Gauss, or about a hundred-trillion refrigerator magnets. For comparison, the Sun's magnetic field is only about 5 Gauss.The Magnetar is a widely accepted variation on a neutron star, and a common explanation for certain phenomena (like soft gamma repeaters and anomalous X-ray pulsars).  The magnetar is, at the moment, the most powerful magnetic object known to exist. In fact, the magnetar’s magnetic field is powerful enough that it would be lethal to go anywhere near one  The most powerful magnetic object we have ever been able to make is called a “Halbach sphere.” We have been able to make a Halbach sphere that has a magnetic field of 5 Teslas, which is about 100,000 times stronger than the Earth’s magnetic field (using a slightly generous estimate of 50 microteslas for the Earth). A magnetar, on the other hand, can have a magnetic field of up to 10^11 tesla. So. If we could suddenly make a magnet about a thousand times more powerful, magnetars would still be twenty billion times more powerful than anything we can make. A magnetar’s magnetic field may be a quadrillion times stronger than that of the Earth (if you are wondering, that’s 1,000,000,000,000,000 times stronger). In fact, it could wipe all of your credit cards clean from 200,000 kilometers away.   Ultimately, magnetars work by sending out extraordinarily powerful bursts of energy, but they don’t keep up such incredible power constantly; however, because they give off so much energy during these bursts, their lifespans are relatively short (around 10,000 years before they decay and are no longer magnetars). Carl Sagan - ​ On a clear night, you cannot see even a fraction of these stars.However during a clear night, in the country, with the naked eye you can see up to 19,000,000,000,000,000 miles away, very easily ...its like billions of suns coming up at night... ​ We don't know why the universe exists: This is really quite unfair, and could be grounds for doubting that the cosmos knows what its doing. But in terms of physics, although there are some really very appealing, very promising, theoretical frameworks that begin to answer the question, the simple truth is that we're not sure which might be right. It may be that the universe springs from an inherently unstable 'nothingness'. The most void-like void, prone to spontaneous generation of matter and energy in proportions that always balance out to zero . Furthermore, this may not be the only universe (a terrible linguistic fail, I know), but rather one of a vast array, part of a multiverse of more than 10 to the power of 10 to the power of 16 distinguishable realities. But a big piece of the problem is that we're still waiting for the next generation of cosmic measurements to chip away at the models, and we're still waiting for theories that provide more readily testable hypotheses, not just mathematical elegance. So we don't know why the heck all of this exists. Sorry. 