How do I start designing my own electric motor?
I used to do this for a living.  There are a couple of ways to approach this: Empirically: This involves just building it and seeing what works.  This is more the traditional route that inventors and engineers would take in the pre-computing era.  It is hugely time-consuming, and leads to motors that are very likely to be sub-optimal. In terms of equipment, you'll need access to mechanical fabrication, motor winding tools, controllable electrical drives suitable for your topology, a suitable power source, a torque transducer to check the output, some kind of load for the motor to work against (simplest one being something like an eddy-current brake, or something even more DIY). FEA modelling: The modern way is to prove your new motor topology idea using magnetic-domain FEA modelling. Your first step would be to get some magnetic-domain finite-element analysis software.  This is like CAD, but does simulations for magnetism/electromagnetism so you can model the forces, torque, and EMF generated by the machine, and therefore calculate what the likely torque/power densities may be, or the efficiency, or the maximum speed, whatever factor you're trying to prove out with your new topology. To successfully do this, you will need to learn how to use the software, as well as obtain a rigorous theoretical understanding of electromagnetism.  You may want to obtain an understanding on electrical machines in general, such as principles of operation, how modern electric drives work, and how the different topologies are categorized (one useful thing is to look at the categorizations and see how your new ideas fit into this structur.  I can tell you that there ARE gaps to fill here, but usually for a good reason, but if you can tackle the challenges to these, then you'll have an idea on your hands). Needless to say, FEA software tends to be expensive.  You might want to do this through a university.  The software package I used to use is called Vector Fields, by Cobham (Design Simulation Software)...or they might call it "Opera" now, they keep changing the name.  It's pretty good, but it's also pretty enterprise-grade, there may be cheaper alternatives if you're on a budget. My advice to you is start checking the literature for papers on motor topologies.  You're very likely to find that your idea has already been studied and published, and therefore rendering your idea unpatentable.  If you're not familiar with the research into electrical machines, then you may be surprised by the sheer breadth of systems available out there, many of which aren't in use in industry but are nevertheless well-studied: single phase, single phase self-starting, multiphase; axial flux/pancake, radial flux, transverse flux; permanent magnet, switched reluctance, induction, capacitance; brushless, brushed; single-stage, multi-stage, stacked, epicyclic; wound rotor; halbach array;....and all the combinations of these have probably already been proposed.  Most work done these days are into refinements of these broad categorizations of electrical machines.  Very rarely will you come across a completely novel topology. A good place to look for these is the IEEE conference proceedings for IEMDC (International Electrical Machines and Drives conference) and ICEM (International conference on Electrical machines). I can guarantee you that nobody will take you seriously as an independent inventor of electrical machines without tackling this topic in a rigorous way backed up by theory and models; particularly given the size and scale of the formal academic research into this field, and amount of industry interest in this topic due to the vast number of industry applications of electrical machines, and increasingly the amount of interest in high-torque density machines in the automotive industry. In my time designing motors, I did come up with a design for a two-phase (or one-phase multi-stage) brushless DC transverse flux switched reluctance electrical machine that had particular benefits to cost.  Transverse flux machines in general tend to be lower cost; but couple with that the cost reduction of switched reluctance topologies (which were my speciality), and some modifications to the flux path from a conventional transverse flux machine that decreased the electrical drive complexity (two-phase machine with only two transverse windings, but allowing full control over direction like a three+ phase machine), the machine would have been heavier than competitors but much cheaper both in labour and materials.  I had proven it out by modelling, and checked and found nothing like it in the literature, so was fairly certain that this was a new idea, but didn't take it further because the only real applications for it were things like washing machine motors.  I COULD have taken the design and tried to sell it to washing machine motor companies, there's certainly a large enough market for that, but it wasn't something that interested me. 