Why was there a big competition for hyper loop designs?
Before I answer: Elon didn't buy an ICBM from the Russians. He travelled to Russia with some friends looking to purchase a couple for millions of dollars and the Russians more or less laughed in his face. On the plane ride back, his buddies were sitting feeling pretty bummed when Elon showed them a spreadsheet he had been working for what was essentially a bill of materials for a minimum viable rocket. He argued to them that they could build it themselves and the rest is history. On to your question... Well there are four main reasons for having the competition: 1. It's a ton of fun. Having just gotten back from Design Weekend I can say that will be one of the most memorable weekends from my college experience. It might only be seconded by the testing of the pod in June. 2. Press. Getting the idea in the minds of the public will help to expedite it's development. The secretary of transportation even said that the competition greatly reduced his skepticism. Arguably, the political hurdles in the way of the development of the Hyperloop are larger than the technical ones. Having the public behind it can help to lower those political hurdles somewhat.  Also, having such a fun event helps to market SpaceX as one of the coolest companies on the planet. If there was an objective measure for how cool companies are, than SpaceX would probably beat out Google/Alphabet at this point. Anecdotally I have found their internships to be a lot more competitive. 3. To vet out the ideas and new technologies that are not used in any trains. The idea for the Hyperloop is somewhat loosely defined with many competing ways to build it. He wants to find out which technologies are most economically and physically viable. Right now the pods could ride on air bearings, some form of maglev, or wheels and the pod may or may not have compressor on the front. Putting a train into a tube could make a train a little faster but it would be very incremental. You probably couldn't reach the speeds Elon proposed (700+ MPH). And so, we have a bunch of new technologies we could use. Part of the purpose of the competition is to test out these other new competing technologies which do not exactly exist in current trains. I do not believe there are any trains in commercial use that ride on air bearings (even if there were, being in a low pressure environment may significantly complicate their use). The trains that currently use maglev, like the Shanghai Maglev, use the form where the track is made of a magnetic material. This is expensive in both monetary and energy cost. 61% of the cost of the Shanghai Maglev, the fastest train in the world, is for energy. The Hyperloop is supposed to be completely self sufficient, powered completely by solar panels on the roof of the tube. Most of the designs presented by the teams at design weekend used a form of mag lev that uses what is called a Halbach array. This is a special arrangement of magnets that can temporarily make a non-magnetic metal into a magnetic one capable of supporting levitation. This can be used in two main ways. The first is how the Arx Pax engines operate, via spinning disks. The second is by utilizing the movement of the pod, which is what the MIT team is hoping to do. In addition to how the train contacts the track, Elon proposed putting a compressor on the front which absorbs air coming in at the front to use in the air bearings and/or for propulsion. This idea is in great need of testing. No trains in the world do anythig like this. Finally, Elon is all about accelerating our progress towards the future. Having a huge competition for the design Hyperloop likely expedited it's development more than just having a whitepaper and letting a couple small private companies got at it. 4. Recruiting  & Networking. The event was organized a lot like a trade show with booths and such. It works great for SpaceX and Tesla to get a bunch of work samples from students and to get their resumes. Also sponsors get to market themselves. Hope that was helpful. 