Why are stars so fascinating?
That depends on what you see with your eyes and with your mind's eyes when "looking" at stars. I became interested in astronomy at the age of 8 from science fiction stories and from looking at the sky on clear winter nights.  When I was 9, my parents gave me a very small but well made telescope for Christmas. 59 years later I still have that telescope although I since bought a much better one.  That first telescope is the best present I ever got by far! The stars you can see change from season to season, and they look different under different atmospheric conditions.  Sometimes when the upper air is turbulent they twinkle a lot.  At other times they can look very steady.  With even a small telescope the Milky Way is suddenly found to be made up of an incredible number of stars.  The ways more stars can be seen with telescopes in various directions is magical.  Since I've done most of my stargazing alone, an extra feature has been the quiet and dark background, as if I'm the only being in the world looking at these different points of light. Some stars are bright enough under good seeing conditions that their color can be noted with the naked eye.  With a good telescope much more color can be seen. Once I learned a little about star compositions and the fusion processes in stars, they became even more interesting.  In reading books about the processes in stars I've followed the thermodynamics/fusion/gravitational changes from the centers of stars outward and over the lifetimes of the stars. Then there are the amazing things that happen above the surfaces of stars where superheated plasmas can send particles far away from a star and magnetic fields can twist the plasmas into many different patterns. Knowing that all of the elements beyond lithium were formed in stars and that most of our planet and our bodies came from this material violently ejected from supernovae is an incredible thought. The variety of stars is also amazing.  Some quietly live extremely long lives, and others are here and gone in a flash of time by cosmic standards. Stars are simply fun to observe and fun to think about. 