★Why don't IPTV boxes like Apple TV and Roku offer subscription channels or local channels like cable TV?For example, the Discovery channels, Viacom channels like Nickelodeon, NickJr, Comedy Central, etc.  (I'd happily pay monthly for these if it was the same price or less than TWC charges me.)
The same reason as other media industries going through transition - Economics and antiquated analog legal frameworks in the digital world. Let's talk Cable channels first. Technically, there is nothing that prevent a cable channel such as Discovery from offering their content directly over the web for a fee. However, this would create the classic business problem called "Channel conflict". In this case, the producer (Discovery) would be directly competing with their distribution partners (Cable systems). Who will likely rebel by pulling Discovery channels off their systems to protest. Second, standard tier cable channels like Discovery receive a fee for each and every subscriber on the cable system. Regardless whether the person watches the channel or not. So imagine trying to replace this lucrative revenue stream by selling directly to subscribers one person at a time. Even if Discovery can raise the rates, it would be hard to match or exceed the current revenue generated from the cable systems. As for local broadcast channels, they face two issues. One, they receive a re-transmission fee from cable systems to carry their network on the cable system. Two, they operate as a monopoly in their local service area due to the frequency allocation for the over the air channel. However, in this old analog model, they're also legally prevented from broadcasting their content outside the service area. Even know the Internet has no service area boundaries, they have to adhere to the old legal standards to comply with specific contents such as live sports and network shows. So it's a messy affair from both economic and legal standpoint. You can see the trouble companies have in disrupting this area by following the affair of companies like Aereo. https://aereo.com/home