★What are the different IPTV options available in Australia and how do they compare?I have heard of options like the ones from Samsung, Topfield, Sony, Western Digital, Xbox, PS3 but mostly they only access Youtube and none of the other streaming services...
It sounds like you're looking for something that provides something specific, are you able to clarify exactly what you want in an IPTV solution? The main options at the moment are: Set Top Boxes T-Box from Telstra gives you access to movies and the BigPond TV content.  Also, Foxtel subscribers can access a limited range of Foxtel channels. IQ2 from Foxtel gives you access to movies and tv shows on demand. Fetch TV from iiNet or (soon) Internode gives you a limited range of movies and some linear channels with mediocre content Tivo gives you access to a movie library Apple's Apple TV gives you access to the iTunes Store which has a considerable amount of TV shows and movies for rent Boxee Box which currently offers very little. Microsoft's Xbox 360 through the Zune Marketplace gives you access to movies, and Gold subscribers can also access a limited range of Foxtel content if they are subscribed to Foxtel. Integrated into TVs Most of these have miscellaneous internet content, such as YouTube.  In addition to that they have the following IPTV content: Sony Bravias: Catch-up TV from ABC, SBS, 7.  Various internet content. Panasonic's VierraCast: Catch-up content from 7 LG: Content from Telstra (BigPond Movies). Samsung: Content from Telstra (BigPond Movies), Essentially it depends on your broadband connection which is the better choice of the existing options, but it's essentially content driven and there's not much in the way of content that sets one particular service apart from the others.  Most movie services are fairly comparable in what they offer and they don't have content any fresher than what DVD stores offer.  There are a few linear services available but none of them are really comparable to anything on TV.  Here in Oz we really lack something like a Hulu (available 24 hours after screening on TV) or Netflix (vast libraries available for streaming at a monthly rate) which would give quality content offerings to power IPTV. References: http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Int... http://www.gadgetguy.com.au/arti...