★What are cheapest high speed last mile internet access and IPTV solutions?
I'll start by qualifying the question: Last mile "from where, exactly?" and "so, Bucky, how much bandwidth are you talking here?" Running carrier organizations and building giant ISPs, I've had to deal with this most of my career. I currently work with a group that specializes in solving those problems for carriers and large enterprises. While Faisal Khan is correct, in terms of $/bit, there's a huge distance (can't go a mile,for sure) and bandwidth (pretty much limited to about 50Mbps) limit that is implicit in his answer. Here are things I've used in the past: 1) dark fiber. Always my first choice. There's much more of it out there than you can imagine, you just have to know where it is. Hence my reliance on Telecomassets which has a database that literally contains just about every piece of fiber in North America. There's still plenty they don't know about, though - local utility companies, municipal co-ops, all sorts of entities have fiber that's not "on the map" so to speak. But it can be ferreted out with some diligence. And once you have it, there's no limit to how much bandwidth you can pump down it. Cost: varies depending on how you buy it. If you take long term Indefeasible rights of use, then it's between $1000 and $5000 per fiber-mile. If you rent it on a monthly basis, it can be a couple hundred bucks a month for the whole circuit. It DOES require you to supply optics at both ends 2) metro ethernet. Biased, as I invented the Generic Routing Encapsulation protocol to make it possible for Metropolitan Fiber Systems to offer the first metro ethernet service back in the early 90s. Love it because it's so blasted simple, plug your devices in at both ends, done. Caveat: not available in all areas. Can be expensive. Limited to 10Gbps or less. 3) point-to-point radio. Microwave, typically, or millimeter wave. Using modern technology, you can do about 130km distance at up to 500 Mbps, for not a huge amount of money. Caveats: many solutions require licensed bandwidth. Some use the unlicensed 5.4GHz space, there can be issues if you're also using WiFi 4) point-to-point laser. Also biased, as I worked on one of the earliest systems in the 80s, and a consultant to firms in the 90s/2000s. Really great solutions in some environments. Not rain-friendly. Gigabit speeds, line-of-sight limited. Can be expensive. 5) 4G LTE. It's everywhere. Almost. Monopolistic behaviour by carriers makes it problematic. At scale, the answer is an MVNO deal which lets you buy enough on a take-or-pay basis to get your per-user cost down to something predictable and manageable. 6) Build it. If all else fails, there's always our old friend the backhoe... building long-haul is about $100,000/mile, for 144 fibers. Building metro is about $100,000 per block, for 144 fibers. Building a 4 fiber solution for a couple of blocks can be done for under $20k if you get to run on poles vs underground.