★Is there any technical data available to support claims of “best HD picture quality” when choosing a satellite, cable or IPTV service provider?Can anyone truly lay claim to having the best HD picture quality?
Start at the beginning. The source feed is always going to be the best quality right? Right out of the camera or whatever your recording the signal on. It's huge in size. Compression via the use of encoders is used to reduce the size/bandwidth of that raw signal. They use all kinds of algorithims and codecs and settings for various affects... but the bottom line is that can never improve a signal by removing data from it. Never. Broadcasters use this equipment to balance a line between bandwidth and qualtity. So one might have a high end encoder that does more compression with better tolerance, pre-pass, multi-pass, buffers, varying GOP lengths, rescaling resolution, new codecs, blah blah blah and spits out a lower bandwidth than a competitors. Begin the media/ad war. "We have higher quality because higher bandwidth" vs. "we have higher quality because more efficient compression, that while lower bandwidth less issues (like breakups, artifacting, setting for lip sync detection, film mode, etc etc)". Both are technically right no? Or at least at the discretation of what one deems as quality. But both are not as good as quality as the source since they did compress the original signal, no mattter how good your compression is, you lose data. So it comes down to what the consumer notices. The vast majority don't care and won't notice. You'll have those picky few that pick apart the signal. Note the resolution, count the number of I,B and P frames, mark off each occurence of video blocking. They'll put themselve pretty much on same camps as broadcasters "better becasue of x" or "better becasue of y" Long story short, a ton of technical data can be supplied from any one of them supporting their claim for higher quality. Problem is that term is relative, and since they all compress the source signal, its probably more a question of which one causes the less amount of issues. Or rather, what you think is more important in quality... bandwidth, issues, service, uptime? As with everything, I imagine the real answer is some mix of all the parameters and rather than a clearcut yes or no, its murky and grey.