★What can an IPTV set-top box do that Android TV can't?Can we not have an IPTV set-top-box? Can't we use an Android app on the Android TV instead? Is this technically not possible right now?
Firstly, of course there is very little that Android can't do but I will explain both why operators don't use Android apps and why they sometimes can't use apps. Why don't they use android apps on TV? A set-top box is your mechanism for interacting with the content, the operator can design the entire look and feel. They can manage your experience and keep you watching longer. Being an app on a TV makes you one of dozens or hundreds of other apps on that TV. How do you stand out, how do you ensure the consumer doesn't press "Exit" and leave your experience? No single android device behaves exactly like another so you have to test each device you want to target. It is easier to have your own device and just develop once for that device. Not everyone has an android TV, so you still need a set-top box. In my experience if a customer has to be asked "what model of TV do you have?" their answer will often be "It's a silver Sony one" or "It's a black LG one", and so asking them to tell you its capabilities is doomed to failure. You might have an android app available in the market place but that has other issues highlighted in the next section... Why can't they be embedded in Android TVs? Android is not secure enough for some pay TV content, most content is fine, but for some premium sports and first run movies Android devices might not be considered secure enough. If someone thinks Android is secure and that I am being ridiculous... then I am afraid you don't have enough experience of set-top box content security requirements from rights holders. I'm not saying they are right to have such strict requirements but they do exist. To overcome the problem of not being the most prominent app on the TV the operator could make an arrangement with the TV manufacturer to take over the main user experience of the product. The IPTV operators services would then have the prominence they want. However! Consumer facing TV brands like Samsung don't like to give up the ownership of the consumer in this way and so making such a deal isn't easy. I have seen it done when the content offering is good enough but I have also seen it go wrong. Why don't more IPTV operators use Android? Android requires: More RAM, more CPU, more Flash Android has uncertain legal/patent issues which could result in substantial extra costs even after you have made the product. Companies like HTC already have settled legal cases with Microsoft over android phones similar patent questions remain around set-top boxes. So TL;DR, why? Because it is easier to control a single set-top box than unknown TVs and it is easier to build engagement with the consumer.