★What is the difference between VoD and iPTV?
IPTV (Internet Protocol Television) = TV over IP (IP + TV) (Live content over IP) IPTV is providing your traditional TV services (live channels) to your home through the ISP (internet service provider) network. Just for understanding ** It can be understood by assuming that a traditional TV is with ISP and you are getting the feed of this TV on your internet connection. Can we say this TV over IP ? Actual Scenario ** Actually I've used above assumption for making you understand the basic idea of IPTV, In reality the whole process is different, for providing IPTV services, operator receives the linear/live content (The Channels) from content providers (eg. HBO, Discovery, National Geographic) through various methods (may be satellite downlinking, teleport or over IP), then process the content (encoding/transcoding, compression, encryption..) and then multicast it in the network (managed n/w). VoD (Video on Demand) = Video over IP (Offline or Stored content over IP) VoD is providing the stored content (eg. movies, episodes etc.) over IP Just for understanding ** It can be understood by assuming that your CD/DVD player is with ISP and you are getting the feed of this CD/DVD on your internet connection whenever you want it (whole list of movies available to watch anytime), Can we say this Video on your demand (over IP)? Actual Scenario **  Like IPTV, I've used above assumption tor making you understand the basic idea of VoD, In actual the whole process is different. For providing VoD services, operator receives the Video content (Movies, Episodes..) from content providers (eg. Warne Bros..) through various channels (may be satellite downlinking, teleport or over IP), process it (encoding/transcoding, compression, encryption..), stores and then stream (unicast) it in the network (managed n/w) on your demand. Conclusion : Type of content - IPTV is live content (say live football match) but VoD is stored content (any movie say Titanic). Backend for providing these service - The setup differs as the type of content and mode of delivery is different. Mode of delivery - IPTV is multicasting (one to many) while VoD is unicasting (one to one) Bandwidth Utilization - IPTV is utilizing the bandwidth in better way but the purpose of both these services is different. User Experience - IPTV is real-time content, means to say that it is live, u can't forward it (I'm using only forward as there are features available to pause or rewind or catchup) but in-case of VoD, you have all the access to use PVR functions.etc etc... ;)