★What is the difference between IPTV and Internet TV?
The primary difference is the way in which the content is delivered.  While Internet TV travels over the open, public, global Internet, IPTV uses a private, managed network. or in other words IPTV is a technology that allows television services to be delivered over a proprietary broadband packet data network using the internet protocol suite. While Internet TV on the other hand is a television broadcast service distributed over the internet. IPTV is multicasting of content within managed network while Internet TV is broadcasting on un-managed(internet) network. As the name suggests Internet TV leverages the public Internet to deliver video content to end users. IPTV uses secure dedicated private networks to deliver video content to consumers. These private networks are managed, dimensioned and operated by service provider. IPTV delivery is a higher quality, more reliable, and more consistent viewing experience while Best-effort Internet video can be subject to delays due to lower bandwidth, high traffic or poor connection quality. A digital set-top box is generally used to access and decode the video content delivered via an IPTV system whereas a PC is nearly always used to access Internet TV services. Since the internet is more open than a propriety network, the dedicated home computer may also require digital rights management certification in order to ensure compliance with copyright laws. In the IPTV service case copyright laws are handled during the contract negotiations between the operator and the media company providing the material (films, tv shows etc…). User Charges : A significant percentage of video content delivered over the public Internet is available to consumers free of charge. IPTV services on other hand are provided for a fee which could be a monthly subscription and which could include other bundled offerings. Media Content : In the past, a good share of Internet TV video content was user generated. Today user generated content falls under the term of Web TV while Internet TV is similar to a classical broadcast service but through the internet. IPTV on the other hand has always distributed traditional television shows and movies supplied principally by the established media companies. I hope it gives a basic idea about the differences, If further info required, feel free to ask.