★Is there any effective method with low cost for new brand (IPTV solutions and IPTV STB) promotion in the USA?
To reiterate for clarity, you're starting up an IPTV station/website based in China and you want people in the USA to watch it and you want to know how to promote your IPTV channel to potential viewers in the USA but you don't have much money.  Close? Yes, it's possible, but you're going to be spending a lot of time researching websites, newspapers, billboards and other advertising methods to get the word out.  Really, you'd be better off getting a Stateside ad agency to work this for you.  Yes, it will cost more, but the local agencies know the local ad outlets better, know the local markets, have better contacts, can get you better rates, know the most effective use for your money, and can help you devise a complete campaign.  But if you're keen to try it yourself I'd recommend you sit down and start thinking like an ad buyer.  1) Who is your audience?  Focus on things like race/language, age, sex and socioeconomic status. 2) Where does your audience live, work, play? 3) Where do they get their news, information, entertainment? Once you answer these questions you star looking for ad outlets that focus on these demographics.  The more select or niche your audience is the more you want to use very targeted advertising.  If you want a large, diverse audience then you need to look at less specific advertising.  I'd start with social media like FaceBook and the like.  FB has a lot of tools to help you target your audience and the Cost Per Thousand is very reasonable. If you're marketing directly to Chinese language folks, I would also recommend looking into Chinese language newspapers.  I don't know what they're CPT is, but I do know that American Chinese are one of the few demographics left that still read newspapers regularly.  Chinese Daily News is rather big here in Los Angeles. Another angle is the viral campaign.  This I cannot help you with as it depends on your creativity and willingness to take risk, but it can have amazing results.  You would have to think up some kind of thing to use to get lots of attention, and therefor lots of free advertising.  A funny or shocking video, an amazing series of stories, or some other gimmick can be blasted out on your social media channels and picked up by untold numbers of potential viewers.  Best of luck, and consider getting an ad agency.