★IPTV: What sort of error correction is built into streaming media servers?Specifically, I am working on a client / server pair for IPTV streaming which is meant to overcome packet loss or corruption.  In that effort, I am trying to understand the error correction tools (e.g. ARQ or FEC) that are already built into the media server software.
In practice, the most common method is to send streaming video over TCP -- the same protocol used for Web browsing (HTTP), e-mail (SMTP and IMAP) and most other Internet communication. TCP guarantees reliable in-order delivery of an octet stream through something you could plausibly characterize as ARQ. This is how, e.g., YouTube or Hulu work. The second most common practice is to send streaming video over a datagram protocol (e.g. RTP/UDP) that has no reliability whatsoever beyond the best-effort delivery of IP. (Individual link layers, e.g. WiFi or LTE, do include their own error-correction codes and retransmissions.) Here you don't exactly have error "correction," but you will have error recovery, in that an MPEG video decoder is generally designed to recover from glitches. The MPEG systems, audio and video representations are all self-synchronizing encodings. Different decoders will handle glitches with varying degrees of grace. Another deployed scheme (used by people like XM radio) is to have two streams, with one containing a delayed copy of the other (e.g. by four seconds). The client plays everything on a five-second delay, and if it ever misses a segment of the first stream, it just tries to pick up the same section when the resend comes around four seconds later to fill in the gap. These are the techniques I can name that are in common use. There are also plenty of sophisticated techniques in the specifications and the literature, including encoding the video with "concealment motion vectors" and "segmentation" to make glitches able to be handled more gracefully by a decoder, and the possibility of Raptor codes and similar sophisticated schemes for rateless forward error correction.