★How do I make a chat messenger (that uses LAN or Google API)?I am a third year civil engineering student with interest in Computer Science.I have my placements next month and am preparing for an IT job. I am interested in making a chat messenger over LAN or Google API. I have decent knowledge of C++,C and data structures and algorithms.What all subjects are prerequisite for making that app a reality.
If you are looking for creating a app in reality and not just for testing, you need to find out what kind of app you are looking for, if you are looking for web based app which can be shared by people in lan and later over internet, you need to lean some programming language like php, jsp(a section of java) or asp. net, these three are currently used on a larger basis for these kind of apps, There are other languages also which are python, ruby. Pick one from these then you have lookout for a database like mysql, mongodb, SQL.Then you have to learn some html, javascript and css. to make it look pretty. For a basic and working chat, i will suggest you building with php,mysql and ajax. For this you need to learn the interaction between php and mysql, here is one tutorial on php-mysql-ajax chat AJAX Chat Tutorial  If you face any difficulty in these tutorials then you can refer to this list List of Videos for PHP . In this list there are several things, but you need to get you hands on the php-mysql part, when you have a  good understanding then you can proceed with with chat tutorial. I Think this will be a simple way to build a basic app. Its good to know that you have knowledge of C++,C and data structures and algorithms. May be these words look like jargon at this time, but if you start working with them, then you will find out they are pretty much used in the programming ecosystem especially in web development section. get ready and start your work, if you have any doubt you can refer some sections of my blog at Change the way you think which will help you in common issues with php and mysql. Its a Waring that learn coding if you really want to learn it and have patience and will to programming, cause it needs a lot of effort, but its easy also if you have a strong will. Happy coding......    Embed Quote