★Does it make sense to wire my house for a LAN given how fast wireless has become?We're doing renovations on our house and are going to redo the electricity and we thought about pulling Ethernet cables (or something fatter like Optical Fiber), but does it make sense to do this at all given that wireless is getting faster and faster?
A different perspective: 802.11ac and 802.11ad Wi-Fi standards are around the corner and they promise very high throughput (802.11ac is dubbed Gigabit Wi-Fi and 802.11ad can provide multiple Gigs of raw rate albeit at very short distances). OK -- so the actual PHY rate is much higher than the actual bandwidth you can get out of these. Use a rule of thumb that you will get about a third at good distances and about a fifth or lower at longer distances. Radios work in funny odd ways. Also depending upon the Wi-Fi gear you choose you can mesh multiple access points so that your home is blanketed with Wi-Fi. Lets look at the network as a whole -- you will bring in a Cable/DSL or some such modem that will promise you a puny speed. If you are lucky you are getting 50Mbps down and 10-15Mbps up. This is your bandwidth to Internet. Two more questions were raised that I would like to answer (typical myths) Myth 1. Wired is always more secure. This was true a long time ago where an intruder couldn't get onto the network unless she was physically connected to the wired, but  could by just standing outside your house and connecting to your Wi-Fi. However -if you use a WPA-2 Personal or any other good security key (passphrase) -no one can get onto your  Wi-Fi without a password. Doing such secure authentication on Wired would require a 802.1x capable switch + RADIUS - which is not only complex to setup for a home environment, but also expensive. Myth 2.  Wired will always give more bandwidth than wireless Now if you are laying ethernet cables through your house - a couple of questions come up. Are you installing a proper switch ($$) or will the cables be connected to a dumb switch (hub). If its the latter -then you have essentially created a broadcast medium in your network. And depending upon the switch you have capped your BW to either Fast Ethernet 100Mbps) or (Gigabit Ethernet 1000Mbps). In summary - as is often the case - the answer will depend on your need. And if you have a the need for high speed (1000Mbps+) interconnection across all rooms -then you would do well with wired, but such situations are rare at home. Another wrinkle to add to this/consider is 1. New apple MacBooks and obviously the mobile tablets dont have Ethernet connections. 2. IF you have a home office where you bring in the DSL/Cable -you can always have a switch right behind it and that switch can connect up your NAS or other servers to allow high speed transfers for backup etc. 3. USB 3.0 will offer very high speeds as well. Consider two cases: 1. Most of your networking needs are to/from the internet. Wi-Fi is not really a bottle neck in this case and you dont need to invest in expensive 1G LAN wiring for your house. 2. You plan to have a lot of storage, and active streaming of movies while you are backing up Gigs of data at the same time. If so, then maybe you need a higher bandwidth connection between the devices -and you should consider LAN ethernet for those.    Embed Quote