★Does it make sense to wire my house for a LAN given how fast wireless has become?We're doing renovations on our house and are going to redo the electricity and we thought about pulling Ethernet cables (or something fatter like Optical Fiber), but does it make sense to do this at all given that wireless is getting faster and faster?
I would absolutely wire your house if you're going to be opening up your walls for the electrical work anyways. If you decide you need it down the road, you'll kick yourself for not doing it earlier when the walls were already opened up. A side benefit of wiring a LAN is that if you have a large home or multiple levels, you can place multiple WiFi access points to blanket the home with strong coverage throughout, all hooked up to the same wired "backbone" instead of needing to resort to band-aid solutions like WiFi bridges/repeaters. If you decide against laying down wiring during your renovation, at least do what Tom Cook suggests and install the smurf tubes for future flexibility. "does it make sense to do this at all given that wireless is getting faster and faster?" Don't believe the vendor marketing "300Mbps" 802.11n WiFi access points/routers as being able to actually attain those speeds -- you will more likely win the lottery or get struck by lightning than get anywhere near 300 Mbps in the real world (or gigabit speeds that 802.11ac promises). For 802.11n, unless you are in a very rural area, you will experience RF interference from your neighbor's wireless networks, cordless phones, microwave ovens, Bluetooth devices, baby monitors, wireless speakers, car alarm systems, and any other device that emits RF signals at 2.4 GHz. There are ways to mitigate this by moving to a channel that is less congested, but there isn't much that can be done with non-WiFi devices that use the 2.4 Ghz band. Assuming you will get an 802.11n router, you could alternatively use the 5 Ghz band and get less interference/congestion and higher throughput, at the expense of shorter usable distance compared to 2.4 Ghz. From my own benchmarking in my home using Iperf (a network performance tool), I've gotten as low as 31 Mbps average bandwidth from a congested 802.11n channel on the 2.4 Ghz band, to as high as 128 Mbps using the 5 Ghz band with channel bonding turned on. This is 7 feet line-of-sight to the router. Expect that speed to decrease dramatically as you introduce distance, the walls in your home, and all the RF interference I mentioned earlier in between your WiFi access point and the device(s) you want to connect to it. A 30 second test on a congested 2.4 Ghz WiFi channel (Channel 1) in my neighborhood results in 31.5 Mbps average bandwidth. Note the bursty nature: as high as 52.5 Mbps and as low as 15 Mbps. Moving to a less congested 2.4 Ghz channel (channel 6), the average went up to 59.9 Mbps. The bandwidth is more consistent, too: I then switched over to the 5 Ghz band, and I benchmarked @ 100 Mbps average (note that not all 802.11n devices support the 802.11n 5 Ghz band): One last time I switched on channel bonding (40 Mhz channel width instead of 20 Mhz) on the 5 Ghz band and got an average benchmark of 128 Mbps: So at my house I could conceivably get ~128 Mbps out of my 802.11n access point using the 5 Ghz band at a close distance, and probably a little more if I fine tune settings even further. With the 802.11n 2.4 Ghz band, I can expect ~60 Mbps on a uncongested channel. Compare that to my gigabit LAN, running the same Iperf benchmark: an average of 749 Mbps. Note that the bandwidth is very stable over time as well, unlike most of the WiFi benchmarks: If you plan on doing anything network-intensive like backing up machines to a central NAS or doing anything with a NAS/file server for that matter, streaming Blu-Ray quality movies (not "compressed" HD like from Netflix which is only about 4.5 Mbps), and/or any combination thereof, then you'll want a wired LAN to do that --- WiFi will just give you underwhelming and/or bursty performance, especially if you are not very close to the router. I've already written too much, but when I bought my home years back it didn't come pre-wired with Ethernet. I tried all manner of optimizing, boosting, enhancing, extending my Wifi network via repeaters/expanders, Powerline adapters to bridge different ends of the house, MoCA adapters over my unused coax cable wiring, etc. but earlier this year I finally decided enough was enough and retrofitted the home with Cat 6 (doing the work myself). Couldn't have been more happy with that decision. On a sidenote: The one other wired technology I found promising was MoCA, which uses your home's existing coax to transfer data (it operates on a different frequency range than cable TV so they can coexist together, though in my case I have DirecTV so my home coax was not being used). I had MoCA 1.1 adapters and those benchmarked at a consistent 90 Mbps (whereas 200 Mbps powerline adapters to the same spot gave me only 5 Mbps).    Embed Quote