★How was life at BIT-Mesra without lan or internet?
Life at BIT Mesra without Lan & Internet can be imagined to be  somewhat similar to life at BIT Mesra with Lan & Internet but during  powercuts!!! I got admission at BIT in July 2008, and the entire incoming batch was accommodated in the inner hour hostels (H1 to  H4). The only thing I was happy and relieved to see in the dingy &  dirty hostel room, was that it had Lan ports in each of the rooms. But alas, that relief was short lived, as we soon found out that it was  actually not functional. In any case, way back then close to no one had  laptops with them, when they arrived in the campus. Maybe about 5-10% of  the junta purchased a laptop in the first semester. The first thing that hit me about the campus was the gigantic lush green  environment. And every now and then you got a reason to walk half way  across the campus to buy something available only at O.C., or to have a  cup of hot chocolate at C.P. in the evenings. The second thing  was that the selection system followed a State wise quota for 50% of the  intake. Basically, it meant seats were reserved based on a state's  population. So U.P. might have 8 ECE seats, Maharashtra 4, and the  North-east together have 2. Now I don't want to get into arguing the  merits and demerits of that, but at that time that was the way it was,  And it also meant, the incoming batch was in the form of a collage of  the different regions of India. A thin slice of one of the many Indias  that exist, overlapping each other at the same time. (The true South  Indians were under-represented, since mostly only Hindi speaking people  with a North Indian origin dared to venture out to Ranchi from the  southern states!!) Any way, even though I had spent 18 years in  Mumbai before coming to BIT, this was still fascinating for me, and I  imagine many others. Conversations would always start off in the form:  "Hi I am X, in branch Y, originally from Z!! Where are you from??" Many, many friends were made in this way. Since there was plenty of time once we returned from classes and nothing much to do, the hostel lobby used to be filled with people lazily sitting around. People would gather in groups and circles, but in real life rather than on Facebook and Google+, and discuss shared interests: Music, Movies, Sports etc. One commonly discussed topic used to be preparation for IITJEE/AIEEE, the  counseling process itself, branch sliding, drop year experiences, etc. There were a lot of interesting conversations on these topics for the first one year. In the first semester, we used to watch movies  together with 15-20 others in one hostel room, since there were simply  so few laptops around. The only other way was if it were being shown at  Sujata. Eyelex opened later that year I think. And yes more people played sports. The T.T. rooms were always occupied, you had to  wait several matches for your turn most times. And often people used to  come at odd hours to play; this required some haggling with the security guards who had specific times by when they were to lock these rooms. Cricket matches with India playing was watched by 50-100 people packed into the common room. All the seats used to get occupied, and people would lay a  large sheet of cloth to sit upon the floor. And for getting  Internet access, one had to go to a computer lab on the first floor of  the R&D building. We had a register in which it was mandatory to enter our details before using the computers. The speeds were awful, and there was some amount of policing on what sites one could visit. If one had a laptop, they could also use the WI-Fi of the R&D building or the library, provided they sat near the edge of H-1 or H-2 close to the main building. Finally, information dispersal related to classes, labs, clubs, workshops and fests were also one mostly of word-of-mouth. The notice boards in the mess, acted like a hub of new information. But everything comes to an end, and this way of life also gradually came to a halt. In the middle of our second semester, i.e. in early 2009, the Lan and Internet were made functional. More and more people had bought  laptops and people started being stuck in their rooms most of the time. It was common to ping a guy on Gtalk rather than walk 10 meters to his  room. CS, DOTA, WOW clans were formed and started sucking a lot of time from a lot of people. The lobbies became emptier. Eventually, everyone forgot the older way of life so much that, only when forced to go back to it during major power-cuts did we realize how much things had  changed!!    Embed Quote