Where in the world is cancer least pervasive?
Here's a pretty map showing cancer rates around the world (source: the UK's leading cancer charity : Cancer Research UK) You can see that in general, the less developed the region, the lower the cancer rate. There's a very simple reason for this.  Cancer is mainly a disease of the elderly.  In areas where people die young, they don't have time to die of cancer.  If you want to avoid cancer yourself, give yourself malaria, cholera, tuberculosis, and HIV, and the chances are pretty good that you'll escape cancer.  You can see that in this statistical snapshot (source:  Cancers - Disease and Mortality in Sub-Saharan Africa - NCBI Bookshelf ):   A more interesting question -- but unfortunately much more complex, and difficult to answer -- is about age-matched cancer incidence.  Age-matched cancer rate is much more homogenous around the world (source: Global and regional estimates of cancer mortality and incidence by site: II. results for the global burden of disease 2000): And in fact, when mortality is normalized to age in this way, developed countries have generally lower cancer mortality:   Generally higher mortality rates were observed in developing regions except cancers of lung and pancreas which are more prevalent in developed regions and highly fatal. --Global and regional estimates of cancer mortality and incidence by site: II. results for the global burden of disease 2000 The regions in this chart with the lowest age-specific incidence rates due to cancer are "EmrB", "EmrD", "WprB2", and "WprB3", which are respectively: Bahrain, Cyprus, Iran (Islamic Republic Of), Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libyan Arab Jamahiriya, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Syrian Arab Republic, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates Egypt, Iraq, Morocco, Yemen Cambodia, Lao People's Democratic Republic, Viet Nam Myanmar Cook Islands, Fiji, Kiribati, Marshall Island s, Micronesia (Federated States Of), Nauru, Niue, Palau, Papua New Guinea, Samoa, Solomon Islands, Tonga, Tuvalu, Vanuatu The authors of this paper did attempt to account for reporting bias, but I'm suspicious that these regions just aren't as active and open about surveillance and reporting as are some other areas.  However, another possibility is that factors like smoking (lung cancer) and age at first pregnancy (breast cancer) differ enough in these areas that they might account for it; the paper doesn't go into detail. Anyway, bottom line is that once you account for age, the differences in incidence and mortality get smoothed out quite a bit. 