★Principal Component Analysis: What is the intuitive meaning of a covariance matrix?If a matrix is a linear operator that transform space in a certain way, what transformation does a covariance matrix produce?
I am not a mathematician but let me explain you for an engineer’s perspective. Since it is easy to visualize in 2D, let me take a simple example in 2D. Before jumping to PCA, let’s first understand what a covariance matrix is.   Covariance Covariance gives you the interaction (or unscaled correlation) between different dimensions of data. i.e it will tell you if x is increasing, will y increase or decrease or remain unchanged.   Consider the following data matrix: 3 observation points in 2D   Case 1: X = [1 1;2 2;3 3]; The covariance matrix is: S = [1 1;        1 1] The diagonal elements give you the vaiance along each of the dimension. The non diagonal elements give you the covariance between the x and y dimension. NOTE: Covariance matrix is always symmetric. Since the non-diagonal elements of S are positive, we can see that x and y are postively correlated which is what we can see from the diagram as well. i.e as x increases y also increases. Case 2: X = [1 3; 2 2; 3 1] The covariance matrix is: S = [1 -1;        -1 1] Since the non-diagonal elements of S is negative, we can see that x and y are negatively correlated which is what we can see from the diagram as well. i.e as x increases y decreases. Case 3: X = [1 3; 2 2; 3 3] The covariance matrix is: S = [1 0;        0 0.333] Since the non-diagonal elements of S is zero, we can see that x and y are not correlated which is what we can see from the diagram as well. i.e as x increases y can increase or decrease. The variation of x does not affect y and vice versa.   From the above discussion, I hope you got a good sense of covariance matrix.   Now let’s dive into PCA.   PCA   In a very brief statement, principal components in PCA are the eigen vectors of the covariance matrix which have large Eigen Values.   Now consider the covariance matrix as the transformation matrix. Eigen vectors are the vectors whose direction will remain unchanged after multiplying it with the transformation matrix.... (more)Loading...