★Are there implicit Gaussian assumptions in the use of PCA (principal components analysis) ?
PCA does not make an explicit Gaussianity assumption. It finds the eigenvectors that maximize the variance explained in the data. The orthogonality of the principal components means that it finds the most uncorrelated components to explain as much variation in the data as possible. For multivariate gaussian distributions, zero correlation between components implies independence which is not true for most distributions. [1]  Another way of thinking about this is that gaussian distributed data have no higher order statistics beyond variance; therefore PCA is great efficiently representing multivariate normally distributed data. [1] http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Nor... But if the data is not Gaussian, there are higher order statistics beyond variance that are not being taken into account by PCA. While PCA captures only uncorrelated components, these uncorrelated components are not necessarily independent when the data is not Gaussian.  Thus, ICA advocates prefer minimizing mutual information (or relative Kullback-Leibler divergence) for non-Gaussian data because two distributions with zero mutual information are statistically independent. The original ICA paper by Comon explains this well [2] http://www.i3s.unice.fr/~comon/F... ICA works well in problems where we wish to unmix truly independent signals. For instance, separating distinct audio signals in the "cocktail party" problem.  There is a downside to ICA, as the original Comon paper points out. If one finds K components with ICA, it does not rank the importance of the components or the amount of variance of the data explained by the component consistently. If you compared ICA with K+1 components vs. K components these can look extremely different. Whereas, with PCA the K components are always ranked by how much of the signal/variance of the data they explain. Moreover, these components are reproducible should you choose to find a larger number of components (>K). If you have no basis for believing the your signal components come from "independent" sources, PCA or its variations are still good.    Embed Quote