★What is a numerical example for the Principal Component Analysis (PCA) algorithm?Follow up to What is principal component analysis?
What is a principal component? A principal component is something in the data set knowing which you can understand most of the data set. If someone asks you to describe a class of 30 girls and 30 boys using a single statement you would say something like "this is  a class of 60 students", if given 2 statements you can say something like "This is a class of 60 students.  30 of those students are girls and the rest are boys." If you're given one more degree of freedom, (i.e) one more feature you can use you'll add something like "40 of them stay in the dorms, while the rest commute." You see how the statements become wider as the degree of freedom increases? That's the problem with our data sets today. There are too many features, too many directions in which the representation of data is spread, that we are wasting precious computation time searching in directions which are fruitless. This is called the curse of dimensionality. [1] The above scenario contained three statements: This is a class of 60 students.  30 of those students are girls and the rest are boys. 40 of them stay in the dorms, while the rest commute. When given three statements like this, it is probably easy to say which statement is important and which statement isn't when there is context available. But unfortunately we don't have that luxury all the time. You have to dive into the data set and find which is the most important statement, or find the top important statements out of the given statements.  This can be achieved by doing Principal Component Analysis or PCA.  When performing PCA on a data set, the most commonly used metric that is studied is the variance of the data present in the data set. Simply put, the thumb rule is that the direction in which the data varies a lot is an important direction. How/Why is this useful? Imagine you're searching for someone in the classroom we described previously. "The person you're looking for is a girl.", is a good filter but 50% of the class fits the description. You still have to search a lot. "The person you're looking for has long hair.", is a better description as some girls might have short hair. "The person you're looking for is 6 feet tall  is an even better indicator as there is a possibility that only a handful of girls match that height. Here 'height' is the principal component as that feature has the most variance. Identifying this most important feature is PCA. It is done by using variance values of each feature present in our data set. You build a co-variance matrix in which is the covariance between feature and feature . When you eigen decompose the covariance matrix.. whoa whoa hold on. So when you have a matrix, you will have Eigen values and Eigen vectors. When you find the eigen values and line them up in descending order, you'll get the an order of features from the important feature to the least important. The feature corresponding to the highest eigen value is the first principal component, and so on. More stuff to read! [1] What is the curse of dimensionality? Giri Gopalan's answer to Why do eigenvalues matter?  (5th point especially) Edit: I have not answered the question in its entirety as I did not include a numerical example, which isn't the best thing IMO and I answered the original question before it was modified to what is currently reads.    Embed Quote