★What is an intuitive explanation of principal component analysis for the mathematically immature?
Let's say you have 30 different types of beers and you want to see how they are clustered. For each beer you will start collecting descriptors, for example, how much it costs, how much sugar, how many calories, a score for the taste, and many others. Now you start building a matrix:              Price, Sugar,Calories,... Beer1 Beer2 Beer3 ..... Next step you run the PCA. Before you actually run the PCA, you need to do some preprocessing (i.e. autoscaling your matrix). What does the PCA do? Let's suppose you have 3 variables only, so you are in a 3D space (easy to picture :)). Now of all the possible lines that can cross this space, you will pick the first principal component, which is line in the direction with the biggest variance.  If this is not clear look at this picture: the longer line is the first principal component. To pick the second principal component, you need to pick the line with the highest variance that is also orthogonal to the first. In the picture below, because it's a 2D space, there's only one possible second principal component. You may still ask what does it mean mathematically, and how this is linked to the original matrix. For each column of your matrix two parameters are most important: the variance and the mean. Suppose one of your variables (let's say the taste) is identical across all beers, then its variance is zero: as a result, this variable does not contribute to explain any of the principal components.  The mean is also important because as you can tell from the picture below the principal component passes through the multidimensional mean. You may still ask yourself what are you going to do with the principal components.... One of the most useful part of PCA is looking at your objects in the principal component space. So your next step is looking at the beers in the PCA space. For simplicity look at PC1 vs PC2. The beers may naturally cluster, for example by country. You may be able to see that beers in the upper left quadrant are from Germany, while beers in the lower left quadrant are from the UK.  How is this useful? Now find out what variables explain most of PC1 (any program for running PCA will tell you that). Perhaps sugar and calories. So it may turn out that beers with low sugar and low calories are predominantly form Germany while those with higher sugar and calories are from the UK. PCA helps you de-convolute your data, set aside variables with low variance, and take care of collinearity (sugar and calories may mean the same thing, so they end up explaining the same principal component...because they go in the same direction...). In the principal component space you should be able to see your objects cluster in a meaningful way. You will be the one making the connection with something new, perhaps unexpected. In the beer example, I mentioned that beers may end up clustering based on country. You may have several other hypotheses that you can now verify.    Embed Quote