★Why does Microsoft Surface have USB ports?Does adding a USB port give Surface an edge over the other tablets?
This question seems to need a contrarian answer, so here it is: Microsoft is stuck in the past, so it keeps "moving into the future" with innovative products that are shackled to the past. Dan Zhang's excellent answer encompasses the kind of Microsoft thinking that gets USB ports added to devices like this, even though the vast majority of users will never need or want them. Microsoft wants people to feel comfortable, however, with buying Surface, so they loaded it with all sorts of legacy features and technology. (Please note, I personally believe Apple goes slightly too far in the opposite direction and I believe the "new Apple" agrees with me somewhat, which is why you see HDMI ports on the Retina laptops instead of Thunderbolt-only connections, for example). Here's some of Dan's feature list: Cameras: Yeah, um, OK. Standalone cameras are barely used in corporations and many high-end units actually have WiFi. Most people that use cameras seriously actually pull out the memory cards to transfer the files, they don't tether the camera. Many cameras have WiFi. The entire standalone camera segment is largely dying to smartphones. External storage: First of all, these are supposed to be cloud-centric devices. The only external storage that's really imaginable is a card reader. Surface has one of these built in, even the RT version. While it's true that only a small number of people will ever use it, it's true that it's useful. Of course, it's not a USB port. Keyboards and mice: "Hey, check out my cool new tablet. I can plug in a keyboard and a mouse!" Yeah, no. I have three computers in my house. All have keyboards and mouse. All are Logitech wireless / Bluetooth. None have tethers. Wacom tablets: On a touch-screen relatively low-end computer? No. MIDI synthesizers: Seems pretty niche-y, but a good idea. Fortunately, MIDI over Bluetooth seems to be on the verge of reality. In the meantime. iPads have become major players in music without this. (See this for MIDI over Bluetooth: Bluetooth MIDI On iOS) Embedded devices: Also seems niche-y, but lightweight, low-end computers are in fact great for working with lab equipment, observational stuff, etc. It speaks volumes that Apple gets away with selling a more expensive dock-connector-to-USB cable and still does well in these markets. Microsoft will benefit by using a traditional cable here. Look, USB is useful. But not especially often for most of us. In my iPad ownership, I have wanted an SD-card reader about twice. I've longed for none of the other devices ever. I can imagine Apple choosing to leave out the SD card reader to make space for something else and theorizing that few people would ever use it and it's something else to break. I really doubt even the Surface Pro is going to see its USB ports used very often by most people. In fact, I suspect that you are looking at ports that will have a connect rate in the high single or low-double digits most of the time. And unlike Apple's dock / Lightning connector, the USB ports on Surface can't double as a very effective charge port because they can't move enough current to be interesting. UPDATE: Having touched and used the Surface, I am more perplexed than ever by Microsoft's port decisions. They offered full-size USB basically because it fits, even though effectively micro USB might have been as useful for what's getting plugged in. And the next-gen Surface won't be thick enough to fit full-size USB unless they fail hardcore at design. They offer a totally obscure HDMI port that requires an adapter. It may as well be proprietary for all its utility. And they offer a microSD card reader, not a full-size SD, which makes it pretty uninteresting for pro-camera users and even olders with amateur cameras that take SD. This was presumably because they spent all the available interior space on other things or because they decided, what, that people would pull memory cards out of phones which could be tethered over WiFi, Bluetooth and USB, but not want to pull them out of cameras? There's just no way this decision was well thought out.