★What purpose does the small cylindrical module near the end of my laptop charger cable serve?
Every device that transports energy or deals in the transfer of energy  gives off and picks up energy from different sources. The energy  generated from the socket that powers your laptop is just enough to  transmit radio waves. Also, the laptop charger that transports all that  energy can also pick up radio waves of that frequency. All of this is  called Electro-Magnetic Interference (EMI). So, of course, to reduce  energy loss and white noise from random radio waves swimming around in  the air, one needs a filter, the little cylinder. It’s called a Ferrite Bead, an EMI filter or a Ferrite Core. It is  specifically built to ward away radio waves and prevent energy loss of  the same type from within the charger. This makes the charger much more  efficient and helps charge your computer more quickly. And you may have noticed that the Ferrite Bead is covered in what seems  to be plastic casing. That’s just to protect it from damage. Of course  there are ways to avoid the need for the Ferrite Bead but since it is  relatively cheap to purchase and increases efficiency, it’s a welcome  fix. Every device that transports energy or deals in the transfer of energy  gives off and picks up energy from different sources. The energy  generated from the socket that powers your laptop is just enough to  transmit radio waves. Also, the laptop charger that transports all that  energy can also pick up radio waves of that frequency. All of this is  called Electro-Magnetic Interference (EMI). So, of course, to reduce  energy loss and white noise from random radio waves swimming around in  the air, one needs a filter, the little cylinder. It’s called a Ferrite Bead, an EMI filter or a Ferrite Core. It is  specifically built to ward away radio waves and prevent energy loss of  the same type from within the charger. This makes the charger much more  efficient and helps charge your computer more quickly. And you may have noticed that the Ferrite Bead is covered in what seems  to be plastic casing. That’s just to protect it from damage. Of course  there are ways to avoid the need for the Ferrite Bead but since it is  relatively cheap to purchase and increases efficiency, it’s a welcome  fix. source:as it is copied from What's Inside? The Great Mystery of the Tiny Cylinder in Laptop Chargers Solved