★What are some unusual features that would be great to add to a new home under construction?
I just finished buildling a spec home where the builder was too flexible really. You have limited time to spec out a home so you need to focus on things which are hard or expensive to change later. Some items that I came up with: - Fresh Air Ventilator. You don't want to be running ducts after the home is finished. Code is lax about air quality. A new home is going to off gas for a long time and it's not particularly good for you or your potential young children. Fry fish tonight? It clears away the smell quickly. Break a CFL? Clean with toxic chemicals? Even the Earth under you off gases. Radon is a problem in buildlings ecause it sinks and never gets a chance to escape and then increases in concentration. It's the second leading cause of lung disease and you may be exposed to more radiation from it than any other source. Cost to solve these problems? About $1250. - 240V outlets. Add a dedicated circuit to your garage for a plug-in hybrid or electrical car. Add one to your kitchen island for instant hot water heater. You shouldn't cook with hot water from a tank and you waste incredible amounts of water waiting for the hot water to appear, not to mention time and annoyance. Do these now cause to add them later you'll have to pay the city to run more power to your house, add new circuit breakers, tear open walls, etc. Cost per outlet: $100 - $250. - Multi-zone HVAC. Temperature is never consistent in buildings. One room is too hot, another is too cold. Put a thermostat in every room and solve the problem. When your house starts leaking air like crazy in 10-20 years, you'll still be comfortable. - Electric heater in the bathroom. These used to be very popular but have fallen out of fashion. Bathrooms are cold - even here in Texas! Warming up the bathroom means you're likely to get out sooner, saving your skin from more time in scalding water and the water and energy itself. - Two data cables to each important room. There's a few reasons for this. The biggest is that construction is unpredictable. One of my sub-contractors stapled through an ethernet cable running to my office and I didn't know if it was going to work until it was done. Very painful to fix that later. While you're at it, prewire for control panels - one upstairs and one down. You might like control4 or something like that later. - TV in master bath. It shouldn't be unusual but few people think of it. Another common one here is exterior lights. - Courtyards, gardens, living walls, rooftop decks, and anything else that brings life into your house. In Latin America it's common to have little gardens scattered throughout the building. It allows for cross ventilation, brings in loads of natural light, and keeps us connected to nature. It also makes the rooms feel larger without actually having to build larger rooms. For bathrooms, build a wall outside for privacy. Those things are huge, really. - In-wall pest control system. We have a wire running in the walls that the pest control company can just inject some stuff into to keep pests away.