★What are some unusual features that would be great to add to a new home under construction?
I did this for my house remodel and spent a lot of time and effort into the planning. Some of my top picks are as follows: 1. I created several 'hidden nooks' to store valuable items and weapons in very specific locations.  For example by my bed I have a nook hidden in a wall to store a handgun and flashlight. In my closet I have another to store our valuables. 2. In the laundry room I created a 'faux' wall with 24" by 12" bays to store things like vaccum cleaner, brooms, mops, cleaning supplies etc. (we also did a laundry chute which we love!) 3. The kitchen backs to the laundry room and shares the faux wall so in the counters you can open the backsplash to pull out the heavy counter appliances (e.g. mixer, toaster...) 4. We created an extra large pantry with plenty of plugs so we can put freezers and small kegerator in there.  The kegerator has a line to the kitchen. 5. The kitchen is completely designed to compartmentalize the different functions (cleaning, cooking, baking, food prep).  All the specific tools of that function are located in that area... for example all the baking trays and mixers are in the baking section, knife drawer is in the food prep area etc.  I got a lot of ideas from pinterest and houzz. 6. My house is prewired with speakers for indoor and out.  7.  Be sure to run a 1" pvc between floors so you can handle future wiring needs.  Adding wires between floors after the fact is a huge pain. 8. Run cat 6e to behind your entertainment center.  Even with wireless expanding you want the highest data rates to your entertainment center as possible. 9. My sons room is downstairs... I created a hatch with a ladder so he can climb upstairs in case of an emergency. 10. Re-enforced closet for a place to 'take cover' in case of an emergency 11. Created a hidden room to store stuff and just because it's awesome to have a secret place... the kids love it. 12. Electrical outlets built into drawers for 'charging stations' 13. Junk drop area... a place where I get home and I can just set my stuff down (bags, keys, phone...).  This is an area that is out of the way and keeps everything nice and organized but is still extremely convenient. 14. Homework area... A place for the kids to do their homework in peace.  This is a quiet distraction free place, but is still public.  This is where computers are allowed.  The idea is the kids can be on the computer but it must be out in public which hopefully mitigates bad behavior.