★Why does Microsoft Surface have USB ports?Does adding a USB port give Surface an edge over the other tablets?
Same reason my Android tablet has USB ports -- it's very useful to be able to attach stuff to your computer, even when that computer is portable. One of the things I use my tablet for is media backup... I put an SD card from a camera or camcorder, copy the contents to a portable hard drive. You don't need a PC for something so simple... but you do need I/O ports. Apple's really the odd one out here -- most other tablets have some kind of port. You may find "real" Type-A USB ports on some tablets... mine needs the keyboard attached to give me that port, but that's no big deal. Others have mini "on-the-go" ports, which can give you the Type-A connector with the appropriate standard USB cable. I think Apple leaves the USB ports off out of philosphical reasons. An Apple-friendly answer is that most people don't need these, they take away power (when active), this is the golden age of wireless, etc. An Apple-not-so-friendly answer is that Apple really, really, really likes to make 30% on anything you put on or in an iOS device. Which, of course, they can't enforce if it's a USB device. So they solved this by charging $40 for the "Camera Connection Kit", which includes both Apple-to-USB and Apple-to-SD dongles. Still doesn't get you SD card files copying to a USB drive... but iOS has other issues in dealing with actual, arbitrary files. Now, I'm not about to suggest that anyone's using the Surface RT for real work. These were targeted to consumers with a massive ad campaign... just recently, Microsoft announced that they sold about 1M Surface RTs and 0.5M Surface Pros, made around $850M on them, spend around $850M on the add campaign for the Surface (both), and took a 900M write-down on the value of their 6M+ remaining unsold Surface RT models. But I actually do use a tablet for real work. Wireless and cloud storage really doesn't replace local storage when you're talking 30MB+ per photo and 12-50GB per hour for video, all of which needs to be backed up in the field, at least for professional work. Even if you get free online storage, you don't get that much though the typical services, like Google Drive, Box, Dropbox, etc. This become the absolutely most expensive kind of storage online, given the slow connection, the cost (in-room Wi-Fi charges at some hotels, limited wireless plans for phones and tablets), given the power needed for the wireless connection, etc. I actually do have one of the latest DSLRs, the Canon 6D, the only pro model from Canon with Wi-Fi. That's good for photo previews, really nice for remote control of the camera, but it's not a substitute for physical storage. Canon's app doesn't even permit full quality transfers of photos, or any video transfer, over Wi-Fi... I suspect it would run down both the camera and the tablet battery in no time flat. So it's a nice idea, but useless at present for photo backup.