★What makes a cinema camera better or more useful than a high quality DSLR?
Setting aside film vs digital and only looking at digital cinema cameras, there are a number of features in cinematic cameras which both add to quality of results and cost of the camera. Sensor size and aspect ratio - larger sensors gather more and better data but are expensive. And the aspect ratio of the sensor is important as well, for instance the ARRI Alexa camera system has a 4:3 sensor necessary for the anamorphic lenses which are prized by many for their signature "cinematic" look. Silenced mirror shutter for optical viewfinder - cinematographers require the capability to look "through the lens" directly, just as photographers demand it with SLR photography. However, SLRs shooting in video mode lock the mirror and video is only taken by viewing a display, not through the lens. This is because the camera would need to rapidly cycle between the shutter and the mirror which is mechanically demanding and noisy. Cinema cameras are exclusive in that they have this capability. The resulting greater exposure latitude, high sensitivity, flexible frame rates and shutter speeds. In addition the internal DSP is highly refined to produce more natural color, skin tones etc with best in class results. Lens and camera mounts which meet industry standards - cinema cams support cinema lenses as noted before, and also have mounting support for the tripods, rails etc used in the industry. Mechanisms for filter placement between lens and sensor, often motorized. Multiple simultaneous outputs including 12 bit - A camera like the ARRI Alexa is able to output two 12 bit channels via a highspeed link, while also outputting to a HD monitor and recording to two SD cards, all at once. A vast array of support for cinema data/cable connections including BNC, BNC sync, FISCHER power and remote start, LEMO accessory data and sync, Ethernet,  5-pin lens data display and control system, 12-pin iris/zoom/focus control etc. This enables thorough integration with cinema industry equipment and preexisting studio systems. A "Game of Thrones" promo being shot with an ARRI Alexa on left and a Canon C300 SLR on right, plus all the additional mounted equipment typical of a high end studio shoot. (Via eoshd) A huge number of professional bells and whistles, allowing for extremely fine control and monitoring of all aspects of the image, camera behavior, and in-camera image processing. Support for high quality 24 bit/48 kHz audio, XLR connectors, and synchronization support for the additional audio recording equipment typically in use on set. Cinema cameras cost well into the 6 figures. But the additional capabilities and performance are justified considering camera costs are still only a small fraction of the money spent on a day of feature film or television production, yet are at the very heart of the activity. A "no compromise" approach to the camera and its accessories makes sense: the final image is everything.