★What are some unusual features that would be great to add to a new home under construction?
Design everything around your wheelchair. You may not be in a wheelchair right now, but if you live long enough that is likely to change. Besides, some of the things that wheelchairs require and pretty awesome even for those of us lucky enough to (still) be walking everywhere. Behold, the bathroom of the house that I bought a few months ago: I was hoping for stereo showerheads. My fiancee was hoping for a walk-in/walk-out shower. We both got what we wanted! No tub to step over, not even a raised edge like most shower stalls. It's also roomy enough that there's no chance of bumping your elbows into the walls while washing your hair. There is no shower curtain - the entire bathroom floor is tiled, with a slight slope toward the drain you see in the picture, so why bother with a curtain? The house was tailored to the wishes of the previous owners, one of whom was in a wheelchair. You can imagine how convenient it was for him to be able to simply roll right into the shower, and have room to maneuver around in there. It's also pretty convenient to just stroll right in, and stretch your arms out if that's what you feel like doing (and who doesn't, in the morning?). The house has a couple other quirks that make perfect sense when you imagine living here in a wheelchair. For example the master bedroom is on the first floor... and the laundry room is just down the hallway. (When we were shopping for our house, I was hoping for an upstairs laundry, but this is better.) And of course there's a wheelchair ramp to the front door, which connects to a path that loops around the house. The kitchen has an island that has a large overhang on one side, so that a person in a wheelchair can roll up and eat comfortably. My grandparents had trouble with stairs as they got older, and eventually used wheelchairs. It seems like such an obvious consideration now. Living here has really made me wonder why all houses aren't designed to grow old in. Also, on a completely unrelated note... put a drain in the floor of the laundry room. This house didn't come with one, but I installed one before moving in. Shortly before I bought this place, some friends of mine had their house flooded by a washing machine whose water-level sensor failed, and I vowed not to let that disaster happen here.