★Mobile Applications: What's the most innovative app?(NB: mostly for Android here)
Clap to Find Android Apps on Google PlayFind your android phone with couple of claps. If it's in other room or in bag,your phone will start ringing as soon as it hears the claps. Phone Schedule Android Apps on Google Play All-in-one scheduler for your phone. Create a task once and it will execute automatically. Configure time and days of week when you want it to repeat. Morning, daytime, night, weekdays, weekends, you name it! Save battery by switching off unused functions when you don't need them. Spy :Android Apps on Google Play Voice recording now made easy. No need to open the voice recorder, just dial star (*) and press call, and the app starts voice recording. That too without any activity on screen, even the person near you won't know your device is recording voice. To stop recording, just dial hash (#) and the recording stops. Also, to hear the recording, just call #007 and the app opens. Air Gesture Control Android Apps on Google Play Control your music player using Air Gesture Control - Place and remove your hand (Hover) to play music Unlock Screen Record Audio Push Ups Flash Light (Torch) WiFiProximity Controls: 1. Hovering - Place your hand over Proximity sensor and remove your hand. 2. Wave Once - Wave within the range of Proximity sensor quickly once 3. Wave Twice - Wave within the range of Proximity sensor quickly one after other, two times Updated 21/1/2015 Finger Gesture Launcher Android Apps on Google Play Finger Gesture Launcher is a very useful app if you usually use several applications at once, such as chatting with someone while surfing the internet or having a conversation on Facebook while writing with someone else on Whatsapp. Finger brings shortcuts that allow jumping from one app to another by simply tracing a gesture with a finger on the screen. Cardiograph Android Apps on Google Play Cardiograph is an application which measures your heart rate. You can save your results for future reference and keep track of multiple people with individual profiles. Cardiograph uses your device's built-in camera or dedicated sensor to calculate your heart's rhythm - the same approach used by professional medical equipment! Start Android Apps on Google Play Start improves the way you use your mobile device. With Start, you get everything you care about the most on your Start screen. No more browsing through screens, menus to navigate or folders to search … everything you want is available for you when you wake up your phone. Start gives you quick access to all your favorite applications. Start keeps you up to date with your social networks, music, news feeds, weather, videos and more. Everything that matters to you is now at your fingertips. If by chance you missed a call or a message, Start notifications ensure these events are kept noticeable for you.Start is not only awesome, it’s also FUN! It comes with live themes with embedded retro Lockgames and decorative stickers , making your start screen AMAZING! updated 24/1/2015... (more)Loading...