★What makes USB 3.0 faster than USB 2.0?
Some added perspective: Most bus and peripheral  standards like USB3 are actually Networking Stacks now more than they are classical data protocols like classic RS232 or HPIB or Parallel Centronics.A Networking stack is a structure that abstracts and encapsulates a hierarchy of data communication functions.  The classic model for this is the OSI model.  TCP/IP is one of the more famous and is the basis of the internet.  By using abstraction, you can substitute different levels in the hierarchy more or less independently.  That's basically what enabled the internet. The familiar version of this substitution of layers is Wireless LAN, Wired LAN, Wired WAN and Wireless WAN which largely different by substituting some of the bottom layers of the OSI model but everything else stays the same.  This is what allows you to use wireless, wired LAN, wireless WAN and wired WAN so seamlessly to create "an internet".   The USB3 stack looks like this (you'll see it follows the OSI with some modifications): The next key differences: Parallel has become Serial because of edge placement and jitter limitations on higher performance.  Serial only requires getting one bit of data correct in transmission at any one time.  This is why PATA disk drives were replaced by SATA.  One step back and two steps forward! Then Serial has become "Laned Serial" where many independent serial channels are stacked together in one cable/bus/connector like using duct tape on a bunch of hoses - with each serial lane being its own "Link-level Networking Stack layer" channel Lanes use serial data in parallel but unlike parallel of yesteryear, the individual parallel channels do not have to be perfectly synchronized (the limitation with pure parallel buses) - the network stack corrects for that, corrects individual lane channel errors and reintegrates the data of all lanes into one or more data streams.  The "Link" of "PCIe Link" refers to it being "OSI stack 'link level'".  If you've recently bought a PC or PCIe card for the PC, you heard about "lanes" as part of the spec - this is what they were talking about.  Obviously more lanes means faster and more data volume. This is what has become common as the lower protocol, link and physical layers of networking stacks. USB 3 is just one type of "network stack protocol".  Also are a who's who of modern data connection standards: Bluetooth PCIexpress HDMI DisplayPort ThunderBolt (which is an amalgam of PCIexpress and DisplayPort) Lightning SATA Ethernet 802.11 Wireless (the "lanes" are separate radio sub-channels) The common features are the above mentioned Stack and Laned Serial features. The power of higher performance generally comes from "turning the crank" on adding more and faster lanes and coordinating the lanes to better separate and re-integrate the separate threads of data transfer from or back to coherent data streams.  These "peripheral connectivity" standards that look like "just cables" or "some kind of wireless" are actually full networks in their own right.  They aren't necessary "gateway-ed" directly from TCP/IP or between other networks of the same type but there are networks because of the performance design and scalability. OK but what about USB2 vs. USB3.   Quite simply USB 2 was not an asynchronous network protocol at the link and physical levels.  At these levels USB2 is more similar to classical RS232 in that it has end-to-end handshakes and polling for data transmission.  This approach basically ran out of gas to improve along these lines and was switched to an asynchronous, laned network stack just like many other generational standards. Of course backwards compatibility requires still supporting this so there's some legacy hardware and firmware present in USB 3 as well. USB 2.0 vs USB 3.0 - Difference and Comparison gives a run down of some of these differences.  The article doesn't talk about lanes and stacks but you can read between the lines of some of that.  The 10x speed increase is an example of how this type of interface can be superior to classical data protocols.