★What determines the speed data transfer in LAN cable?
"LAN" is a very general term that standards for Local Area Network. In and of itself a Local Area Network (LAN) doesn't require a cable and could be Wireless Local Area Network (WLAN). Yet your question is in regards to the speed the over a given LAN cable and there are three major factors the control the speed over any network cable (used in local networks or otherwise). 1. Cable design (what kind of cable is being used) Namely different cables protect singles to varying levels and the more a signal is protected the higher the speed can go. - Some common examples + + Twisted pair cable + + Optical fiber cable + + Coaxial cable 2. What is kind of network card is being used? How good is the transceiver that is applying energy to send a message over the cable? Some high-end networking card cost tens of thousands of dollars (USD) and create the local area networks for internet exchange points. Other cost around 5 dollars (USD) or less and are tailored for personal computers. The common range in speed of today's network cards is around 10 million bits per second (Mbps) to 10 billion bits per second (Gbps). Network PCI card 10/100 Mbps V5022 Quad Channel 10 Gigabit Ethernet FPGA Server Card 3. Distance covered by a LAN cable. No cable is perfect and over distance, the signal degrade and will the messages being sent. The most the messages degrade, the more errors are flagged, the more messages have to be resent and the speed goes down. What does this mean for the real world?  It means there are LAN communication standards that take into account all of these factors and are designed to run at a certain speed. Ethernet is one of the most common LAN technologies that set some standards like 100BASE-TX (Fast Ethernet) and  1000BASE-T (Gigabit Ethernet). Under a given standard the user is told what kind of cable is required, what kind of network card is needed and the maximum allowable distance for a given speed. To find out what standard a network is specifically using requires a computer connected to the LAN of interest. When using windows the task manager is one of the faster ways to location the speed of the LAN connection that has been established. On a mac one can use the network utility program to the same end. ... (more)Loading...