Data Analysis: What is data analysis?
Data analysis is the method or methods that can be used to analyze data and the process of analyzing it. There are many different forms of data, but people usually think of quantitative data first. These are data such as census data or survey data. There is also scientific data, such as data physicists collect about the cosmos. These days, most people are interested in analyzing the vast amounts of data collected through transactions with a variety of companies and/or websites. Often, though, people forget about qualitative data, which is data that has not yet had any form imposed on it by humans. Big Data is a term for data sets so large and/or complex that they are difficult to process using traditional data processing software. Difficulties include analysis, capture, metadata, storage, search, sharing, transfer, visualization, and privacy. Hadoop is an application that helps manage big data. You'll need to develop skills in all aspects of data analysis. Learn how to manage data sets and how to manipulate them. Learn to computing new variables, merge data sets, recode data and so on. Learn about flat file databases and hierarchical databases and relational databases and how to build software or programs that manage them all. Learn Hadoop in order to learn to manage big data. Learn all kinds of statistical techniques such as OLS, HLM, SEM, missing data estimation techniques, Facet analysis, Social Network Analysis, longitudinal analysis techniques and on and on -- as much as you can stomach. Learn to use programs that perform statistical analyses, such as  SPSS, Stata, SAS and R, just so you can use whatever tool  you need when you need it. Learn qualitative data analysis techniques, as well. Learn Atlas.ti or NVivo, and gain some experience with qualitative studies. Maybe do a dissertation on methodological techniques and the relationship between qualitative and quantitative methods. You can learn these skills on your own, reading text books and online classes or tutorials. However, it probably makes more sense to learn in college or graduate school in the statistics or computer science departments.    Embed Quote 