Data Analysis: What is data analysis?
Data analysis is the method or methods that can be used to analyze data and the process of analyzing it. There are many different forms of data, but people usually think of quantitative data first. These are data such as census data or survey data. There is also scientific data, such as data physicists collect about the cosmos. Often, though, people forget about qualitative data, which is data that has not yet had any form imposed on it by humans. All data is qualitative, at first. People look at it, and then they decide to assign attributes to it. So I look at vegetation, and I decide the big ones are trees, and the little ones are bushes and the littlest, skinny ones are grasses. Now I can get quantitative about it. I can count trees, bushes and grasses. Then I can tell you what portion of vegetation is trees, etc. I can also tell you that there are a lot of things that don't seem to fit in these categories, so I must go do some more qualitative work, to develop and define categories so that these other things can be counted. No names of things exist in nature. Humans decide what a category of things should be defined, and then they assign a name. There were no stars until humans came along and gave that name to the bright, twinkly dots they saw in the night sky. Now they have names. Now they are data. They can be counted. Data analysis is the process of categorizing, counting, and understanding the relationship between things. A major tool for data analysis is statistics, since that helps us understand relationships that are fuzzy -- i.e., they happen some of the time, but not all the time. We also use qualitative data analysis tools to help us categorize things. We use geographic software to help understand geographic data. There is network analysis software to understand networks. For every way that we want to understand the data we are interested in, we have separate tools to do that. Data mining, for example, is a way of analyzing vast quantities of data where you have not yet hypothesized any relationships between the variables. Humans are natural data analyzers. It is what helps us be so successful. We are constantly looking to explain the behavior of our environment -- both physical and human. By observing, categorizing, and understanding causal relationships between various things that happen, we can learn to manipulate our environment for our own selfish good. It makes us live longer. The entire universe is data, and humans are data analyzers trying to understand the data so we can enhance our survivability. We are building increasingly sophisticated tools to help us understand these things.    Embed Quote 