Which companies/startups in India are hiring for data science, data analysis or machine learning jobs?
We are glad to see that people are interested in working for such core CS conceptual tech. And we already been mentioned but, I think we should explain more about our requirements. We at InvenZone, are looking for 'Research scientists' in Artificial Intelligence (Data Scientists is itself has been used in wrong sense multiple number of times). We use concepts in ML, Neural Networking, Deep Learning and NLP. To introduce, we are a team of 8 people, 7 being researchers from IIT's, IIITs, IISER etc. Yes, we are a team of researchers building the product (Not service) for researchers. InvenZone is the platform for researchers & Scientist which has been built upon AI. It learns from you and  makes it better to use as per your taste & interest. We are the first startup to use AI differently for a social platform. Our focus is to build the AI that can solve the core issues of a researcher like how they discover, how well they can understand a research paper, how well they can track and how efficiently they can find and communicate with the real researchers. If you fall into these categories or have these skill, we are more than happy to talk more about how we can make a difference. Good at Python Good at Maths Experience in working with large data sets Good at concepts and problem solving. We look for people who are strong at the basics. Because that is what differentiates good coders from coders. And frankly, everyone is a beginner in ML/NLP. We  hope to see you learn and grow. If you are good at Python/Ruby and can solve complex problems with good algos, then you are the perfect for us. We will take care of the rest. Some More Bullet points about IZ We are top 100 Asian Startups - 2014 We have 5th highest db of research papers We have our own social network (Circle) We have our own currency. We have PS4 if that matters. And I'm too good at Battlefield ;) We are funded with names like Ex-yahoo director, Adity Birla Pvt Equity CEO, SVP Loop Mobile, Founders of Nirvana & VN.    Embed Quote 