★What kind of collaboration tools would reduce duplication of R&D effort in data analysis and sharing?
In my 15 years of working with data to solve business problems, I always knew that there was a better way, but continued with a siloed approach- spending time finding relevant data and figuring out what it means, running analysis based on my own domain expertise, and finally making conclusions based on my own interpretations. EMC Greenplum now has a tool called Chorus that removes this siloed process, and replaces it with a collaborative process that centralizes the analytic process so that knowledge can be shared and reused.  For example, a data science team can collaborate around code (SQL queries or analytics functions) in a shared workspace that supports code versioning and commenting. There is a very rich set of metadata that is built up as the Chorus community consumes and collaborates around data sets.  Without needing to depart from their core jobs – data analysis – the Chorus users are able to generate a very rich and informative metadata stream that is extremely valuable to the entire user community.  Here are some of the key features: The ability to collaborate around data sets.  The interactions generated when understanding data sources – what does  a column mean, which values should be filtered, etc – are automatically captured and shared with the data developer community.  This becomes essentially self-documenting (or “crowd-sourced”) metadata Comprehensive search.  Users of Chorus can search for a concept (for example “Churn”) and easily find all objects related to this concept, whether it’s a table containing a churn prediction score, a workspace on churn models, or a data developer with expertise in churn models. The rich set of Chorus APIs and integration points.   Chorus is a platform that supports the data developer ecosystem.  This means that Chorus supports 3rd party analytics functions, external data sets, and API-level integration with other systems (e.g. workflow or task management).    Embed Quote 