What are some good ways to automate data analysis?
Warning: I would, in general, strongly advocate against automation beyond KPIs; that is, metrics clearly understood as limited, and meant to trigger further inquiry. I would also strongly advocate against standard report for distinct products: I have, in more than ten years, never seen a black-box or default tools not miss the biggest problem so far. I’m not talking about underestimating the confidence parameter, or something only sigma-geeks care about; I’m talking spending 100k on a problem that isn’t there. More generally, I say daily: “If you know what you are doing, it’s not science.” That is to say: automate tasks, or procedure, certainly; robo-science, questioning, challenging assumptions: never. Set-up The first needed element to automate things is surprisingly simple, yet considered outside of the data team: establish goals. It is key, and part of what they know how to do better than your managers, so let them help you with that. Goal-fixing is your job, but they should be expressed in a relevant metric, and that’s where data team can help you choose. Rolling More importantly than goals, agree with your managers and the data team of margins beyond which further analysis is triggered. Once metrics are in place, check regularly with every manager if he is aware of those by asking about it casually. If he is not, try to figure out what he pays attention to and make sense why. Challenge metrics. I have yet to find anyone who can find the proper ones on the first, or tenth attempt. You have no idea how fast an organisation sets its mind onto basic metrics, locks it into its processes and how much that shifts their attention, and how much that influence how they see problems. If you think that stats can kill millions, or that, rather than care, an intern somewhere has already left thousands to die by opting for the simplest metric, that went unchallenged since, you are underestimating the problem. The number of metrics will end up being the number of teams in the process, or a multiple of it, and each will have it’s own team associated to it. I’m not sure it’s a good thing. Keep track of whose metric was down, and whose action where considered at fault to be sure metrics fit. Do not publish that data. If those don’t fit, your automation has a problem. Tools SQL, R, Hadoop, Python, Excel, etc.: all have several options to automate data processing. I’ve seen Olap into Excel feeding from an SQL server; a PhP page showing basic stuff from a MySQL query; R sophisticated modeling results shown through a Google Graph API on the intranet; Python package processing JSon data into a custom API, and shown through an iOS app emulator; analysts spending the night copy-pasting to PowerPoint… I cannot count the modifications and hacks. All are good (except the PowerPoint part: nobody needs that for automated reports). If you prefer clean and outsourced, I was this week at a demo by KXEN of their Insight platform: they seem to have a fantastic, well thought, heavy-duty system. It’s not nearly as black-box as the marketing tries to sell it to marketers, so have your data team talk to their analysts to understand the details; the quality of the integration should seal the deal for all parties involved. There must be others; I just don’t know them well enough to recommend. More importantly: ask what your data team is comfortable with, and iterate from there. Most worrying issues I’ve seen from data come from not the customers, but something in the data process that doesn’t work so well. Being familiar will help them own those issues, track them faster and avoid them. Most actual issues do not need a lot of time from your analyst: if your product sucks, testers would have told you about it; A/B testing can be pretty clear, too. What metrics to choose Many metrics count customers, sales, traffic and their evolution: up or down. I would strongly recommend you consider new customers and departures separately. Many problems I’ve seen went unchecked because large departures matched large waves in. A good set of metric can add up (or multiply, etc.) to your revenue, so that you can, if something goes bad, rapidly locate an area for the problem. A better set of metrics can isolate the first sign of discontent (or opportunity) and adresse those, rather than ‘Last month’s final departures that we can’t do anything about’. I would strongly argue against average in most industries, especially ‘average basket’. Those are great to connect a population and revenue—but they miss essential dynamics, like the actual basket size distribution. I prefer distributions, by far: they tell you not how much you make, but how risky is your revenue stream—your CFO should love that less trivial aspect. Make simple buckets if you have to simplify, or Paretto-like metrics (X% of our revenue came from y% of our customers); beware, those can be very changing if they are not properly set. Hope that helps.    Embed Quote Updated 5 Sep, 2012. 2,158 views.