★What does the value of a point on the normal distribution actually represent, if anything?I know that the CDF is just the definite integral of a certain interval of the normal distribution function, but what is the meaning/significance/application, if any, of the actual y-values of the function?
The other answers here are pretty on the mark, although they tend to point out the lack of specificity in the question. I think the question is actually pretty clear: what does it MEAN to be a point further out (I'm assuming on the standard normal, that is, one with zero mean and variance 1). And it's a good question. Normally, one addresses such things by the derivative. This is a good answer when functions are relatively flat, but the normal is a great example of a function that is not only radically non-flat, but gets way less flat the further you go out. For example, take exp(-x), which is very non-flat itself, but its LOG is flat (I mean, has constant slope, not zero slope). If I compare being at, say, 4, to being at 5, we are comparing exp(-4) to exp(-5), and the ration of these is just e. It's the same wherever you go: one unit further means you are 1/e as likely, that is, exp(-1), or around 37% as likely. With the normal, it's much worse, since the density is proportional to exp(-x^2/2), so going one unit further out makes is more and more LESS likely to be there the further you go out. Think about it this way. How likely is it that a guy is 5'9", around the average for American men? Pretty likely? Now, add three inches (about one standard deviation), and you are at 6'0", which is somewhat less likely. Another 3" and you're at 6'3", which is rarer but something you still see all the time. Another 3"? 6'6", which is quite rare, and after that 6'9" and 7', the last of which is far, far less common. Each standard deviation increase involves a lower RATIO than the previous one. And that's the question you have to answer. The values of exp(-x^2/2) for 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, etc., are easy to calculate, but the question you have is about successive ratios, really, and those are:    0 to 1: .606    1 to 2: .223    2 to 3: .082    3 to 4: .030    4 to 5: .011 That is, you're just 1/100th as likely to be five standard deviations out as four, which is already pretty unlikely. We could make this more complicated by asking about the area in the entire tail, but it's easy to use a calculator to compute these same probabilities (e.g., PHI(5)/PHI(4)). The idea is the same, though.    Embed Quote