★How do Gaussian distributions (a.k.a. normal distributions) arise?I'm interested in examples of situations in which Gaussian distributions arise, and I'm interested in understanding how/why they arise. Of course I am aware of the central limit theorem---I am interested in examples where the Gaussian distribution arises that cannot be directly attributed to the central limit theorem. Also see the related question: How do Gamma distributions arise?
The Gaussian distribution naturally arises in relation to the fundamental solution of the Heat equation. Since the heat equation ought to be related to Brownian motion, this is not too surprising conceptually, but it is still not a direct consequence of the central limit theorem. The Gaussian distribution naturally arises in quantum mechanics as the ground state of the Quantum harmonic oscillator. Interestingly, this leads to an elegant proof that the Fourier transform of a Gaussian is another Gaussian, since the Fourier transform of a quantum harmonic oscillator is another quantum harmonic oscillator. The Gaussian distribution is singled out by the Principle of maximum entropy as the unique maximum entropy distribution with a fixed mean and variance. This is responsible for the appearance of the Gaussian distribution in inference problems: for example, if all you know about the error in a signal is its mean and variance, then it is reasonable to assume that the error is Gaussian when making inferences about the signal. In analytic combinatorics, the Gaussian distribution can appear as a limiting distribution of a sequence of combinatorial random variables for reasons related to, but not directly because of, the central limit theorem. For example, the distribution of the number of cycles in a random permutation of elements is asymptotically Gaussian as with mean and variance ; this is an analogue for permutations of the Erdős–Kac theorem, which asserts that the distribution of the number of prime factors of a random positive integer is asymptotically Gaussian as in a suitable sense with mean and variance . More details can be found in Flajolet and Sedgewick's ANALYTIC COMBINATORICS, Chapter IX.5.    Embed Quote