★Why do quantities in nature tend to be normally distributed, such as students' grade, human's height, size of snowflakes and so on. However, we find the returns of assets (like stocks, bonds, options) don't follow normal distribution (fat tail),How to explain it?
Whether the distribution is close to the normal one, as Jens Adler Nielsen points out, depends on several factors. Pro normal distribution: Large number of samples. Each sample is generated by the superposition of a large number of forces of various natures. Samples are generated by the forces that are stateless and don't "interact with each other" in any way. Against normal distribution: Small number of samples. The creation of the example is a process that is dominated by a force of single nature. The force, that affects sample generation, is largely stateful: the process of generating certain sample is largely affected by how were the previous samples generated. The factors above largely resemble the factors that enable the Central limit theorem to be applied; I am, however, extending the implications of this theorem from the samples themselves to the forces that influence their drawing / generation process. The samples "coming out" of the evolutionary process, often follow the normal distribution. Some of them may have the trait of being log-normal (i.e. positive anomalies are not that rare), but nonetheless, if the histogram is flattened, the distribution would often look very similar to the Bell curve. The prices of stock options have been attempted to be explained by the Black–Scholes model. The assumption that stock options prices follow normal (or log-normal) distribution does not handle anomalies well, which resulted in the use of that model being a self-fulfilling prophecy. As the result, excessive use of this formula was largely responsible for the financial crisis of 2007-2008, see The mathematical equation that caused the banks to crash. Similar logic is safe to be applied to stock prices themselves. I would guess that the following has happened. Once we entered the era of electronic and high-frequency trading, the first models have been largely using the proven-to-be-erroneous assumption of the prices being distributed normally or log-normally. The most profitable strategies have, naturally, been the one that exploit this error of others. This created a positive feedback loop of cause - effect - more cause - more effect - even more cause - etc. Unless promptly corrected, this path always results in the chain-reaction-style explosion. I have confirmed this myself in my Master's Thesis work, where a trading strategy has been showing exponentially worse results when applied to historical data for the years between early 2000-s and 2006. Ironically, most distributions in real world have slightly heavier than normal tails. They have the power under the exponent of about 1.8 .. 1.9, as opposed to 2 for the Gaussian. I am speaking about in the Generalized normal distribution here. To the best of my knowledge, this phenomena has not been well explained yet. Although my intuition has no problems accepting this fact given that the nature does not strictly follow all the pro-normal-distribution traits, but rather acts "in the best interest" of evolution, thus "promoting" edge cases slightly more often compared to how pure stateless normally distributed origin would behave. Thanks for the A2A!    Embed Quote