★What are the reasons for the scarcity of jobs in the Electronics and Telecommunication field?I mean back few years there was a trend of joining this field but there are no jobs.
Because the ones who graduated from Electronics & Telecommunications were not interested in it in the first place. India was going through the 'B. Tech boom', what I like to call it. Everyone wanted just a degree and in the end join an IT organization. Graduates rejected their field related job opportunities. Organizations when rejected from campus placements felt humiliated and never returned due to lack of respect and talent. IT industries swarmed campuses conducting mass recruitment in thousands across the nation. All of a sudden anyone and everyone was made to write & test code. The national economy of engineering talent was being monopolized by IT. Other industries were forced to recruit on a small scale and only experienced individuals. Unavailability of fresh talent forced such industries to retain their employees at the same designation as they could not find replacements for them. These employees suffer from professional frustration and threaten to quit, upon which the organization offers some incentives in the form of stock options or higher compensation. Slowly this whole process became a trend. Year after year, batch after batch, college after college; it spread like an epidemic. The IT industry has now saturated to the extent when it is now considering non-engineering students for the same roles. Next arts, literature, science and commerce students will be lured into this. Why? Because India is now the  IT outsourcing hub, and this hub needs cost cutting to maintain profit margin. Engineering graduates demand more salary these days. Non-engineers seem to be happy with the degrading industry standard salary. Engineers will soon be unemployed. (As if there aren't many already.) If you go to the US, Europe, Australia etc countries, there education has value. They do not even consider a student of mechanical engineering for a software developer job. But here in India, your education is just a paper to get you into the interview room. I applaud the youth of the country for being so lost. I applaud the parents of such youths for being so lost.    Embed Quote