★What is spectrum allocation in telecommunication sector?There was a lot buzz regrading the corruption in 2G spectrum allocation. How was it beneficial to the beneficiaries? Suppose if a company wants to enter the telecommunications sector, then how do this spectrum and bandwidth thing concern them?
OK, This should  be a bit lengthy, but i will try to explain in as concise format as possible. Any kind of communication device needs a specific frequency.  Be it Bluetooth, FM radio, radio astronomical usage, mobile phones, etc. Telecom spectrum is a frequency band regulated and allocated by the government of the country. This is applicable to all the nations of the world. This regulation is basically done in order to ensure that no two bands interfere with each other. Similarly to ensure that the available frequency bands are optimally used. Our mobile phone can accept and interpret frequencies in a specific band. Now, the telecom service provider has to have  a frequency bandwidth which would be a subset of the band that can be acceptable to the mobile phone. In India, the 1800 MHz band and 800 MHz band are currently being used for GSM and CDMA services respectively. Each operator in a particular region can buy/lease a spectrum and transmit its services in that range. This frequency wont be interfered with any other operator. but this frequency is not allocated over the complete country. Eg: Since India is a geographically very large country, the frequency reuse can be done as follows: Operator A, B and C uses Band 1, 2 and 3 in Delhi respectively for GSM purpose. But its not mandatory that same bands will be allocated to them in any other state or city. It might be as per their customer base in other city, that the operator might choose to buy a lesser band for cheaper costs. Like, Operator A does not have more subscribers in Mumbai, so they will choose to buy band 4 which has a low bandwidth so as to accommodate less subscribers that Band 1 which has high bandwidth. Many operators also share their purchased bands with other service providers so as to incur additional revenue from the unused sub-bands. Government auctions bands in order to charge for the regulations and management of the said bands and also to install law and order over illegal occupancy and restrict illegal activities. Its illegal to transmit over a band which is not allocated for telecom use. It is also illegal to transmit over a telecom band allocated to other telecom providers. 2G Band: GSM (1800 MHz) and CDMA (800 MHz) bands 3G Band: 850-2100MHz 4G Band: 700-2500MHz (2300MHz in India)--> This means that only mobile phones which has a capability to decode this frequency can avail the facility of 4G. More Information: http://www.wpc.dot.gov.in/Docfil... Information on Bands across the globe: GSM World Coverage Map- GSM Country List by frequency bands    Embed Quote