★What are things that electronics and telecommunication engineers (ECE) know while other engineers don't?
1. Noise pattern in Analog TV sets : This is often referred as static noise and is displayed when no transmission signal is obtained by the reciever antenna of the TV set. Usually due to absence of power, if the transmitting side could not transmit any signal noise is picked up by the reciever antenna. There is a 10-hour video of just this static noise on Youtube, someone weird as me might find this interesting. 2_a. Wagon wheel effect : Did you ever observe a car wheel with spokes rotating at high speeds appear to be moving in reverse direction direction ? Or, sometimes the wheel might appear to be static (at rest). I am sure most of us must have experienced this. Did you wonder why ? For those who hadn't figured it out I am talking about this : This is an interesting effect (sometimes dangerous though !!!) of aliasing. Initially, frame rate > 2*rate of revolution, hence nyquist criteria is met. i.e, frame rate is much higher than the rate of revolution of the wagon wheel. So, the camera exactly describes the situation. But as the wheel starts accelerating there may be a point where frame rate = rate of revolution, at this point the wheel appears stationary. As the wheel goes on accelerating we observe the wheel rotating backwards this confirms the intuition for negative frequencies. For more information : Filter Basics: Anti-Aliasing [Nice explanation in simple terms] Wagon-wheel effect | Wikiwand Wagon-wheel effect [Excellent demonstration] 2_b. Flickering on TV : Ever tried filming a PC moniter or TV screen with a phone or camera ? What happened ? Did you get your shot correctly. This is actually another effect of aliasing caused because of difference in refresh rates. For more information : What is all the flickering when I try to record a television set - HowStuffWorks Photographing Screens [Tips for taking clean photos] Further Reading : Moiré pattern | Wikiwand is another profound effect of aliasing This is a video lecture by DSP pioneer Alan V Oppenheim. The whole video playlist "6.007  Signals and Systems" is a must watch for any DSP enthusiast. P.S : Constructive criticism is always appreciated !!!    Embed Quote