★What is the role of satellites in telecommunication?
Before fibre optics really took over satellites were the primary way of making international phone calls which bridged continents. Relatively having many copper cores under oceans was used but congestion was a problem, with satellites there are fewer pinch points and more flexibility in delivery. Fibre has now bridged large parts of the globe but still there are areas which don't have fibre connectivity and these are addressed with a combination of copper, terrestrial microwave and finally satellite. Many remote islands can't afford to have a fibre laid across the ocean floor and they are too far from another island to have a working microwave link, for them the best way to connect to the rest of the world is to get a satellite link to some major country with better connectivity. Satellites themselves are relatively expensive but depending on how remote your location they are probably the only practical solution for some communities. The main growth area for satellites in telecommunications is mobile telecommunications, not so much about your cellphone but ships and long-haul aircraft. People are so used to their communications luxuries now that there is significant demand for communications while travelling, so some airlines and cruise ships are putting mobile cells in their craft linked to a central hub via satellite. It is more internet than phone that is driving demand but they pretty much use the same infrastructure in this case. In geographically diverse locations there is even a business case for fixed mobile phone base stations in remove towns in places like Africa being connected via satellite, but this isn't too common. Finally there is still a strong presence for private VSAT communications, this is used by businesses with very dispersed and remote offices which need connectivity. Examples are petrol stations, car dealerships, lottery terminals, retail outlets, etc. many of these are found outside of towns and historically getting decent data connectivity has been difficult. With satellite a company can cover a very large region (Europe) with one system and limit the complexity of their implementation plan. It is worth looking at O3b, they are one of the newest players in the satellite space and they are taking a new approach to connectivity, targeting unconnected regions.    Embed Quote