★What is SIP in telecommunications?
SIP (Session Initiation Protocol) is the most common signalling protocol standardized by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) . It was originally designed in 1996 and later expanded, improved and standardized in RFC 3261. Nowadays, SIP is implemented by lots of vendors. Most of the open source VoIP servers also deal with SIP. SIP is basically used for controlling communication sessions and creating, altering and ending the unicast or multicast sessions. However, SIP is just a text based protocol, employing the elements from the Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) and the Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP). There is a continued expansion of the SIP based infrastructures in the network market of VoIP. SIP Servers, SIP Terminal Adapters, SIP Gateways, SIP Trunking services are some SIP devices replacing the ISDN telephone lines. One can buy any SIP phones like Cisco SIP phone, Polycom SIP phone, Asterisk SIP phone etc. In fact, users can buy the VoIP server from one manufacturer and SIP phones from other and use them together.   SIP resides on the top of the TCP/IP which is an internet protocol, defining the rules for the computers in order to precisely communicate over the internet, at the application layer. Some of the providers have got their own proprietary protocol like Avaya. For Skype also, it uses the proprietary protocol. So if anyone uses the Skype, then obviously the Skype services have to be used there. That means if any of the VoIP phones is bought in order to connect to the Skype service then that phone should have the Skype protocol built into it. Therefore, SIP is nice and lots of manufacturers have also built infrastructures and services for SIP.   Nice part of SIP is Cisco which is an open source VoIP server and which follows SIP. Most of the companies want to seem prestigious in front of the clients and they buy Cisco SIP VoIP phone and they have their phone connect back to free open source VoIP server which is around a $400 worth computer.   Because of simplicity, scalability and flexibility, SIP is definitely going to be the future for next generation network.    Embed Quote