★What skills should an electronics and telecommunication engineer learn?
I am actually an electronics and telecommunication graduate. And let me tell you what I have realized from my 4 years of engineering course :P Over the course of 4 years with 8 semeters, with 6 subjects per semester, we learnt a total of 48 subjects. About atleast 40 of them related to ENC. From basic electronics, to VLSI, From Analog signal processing to Network protocols and security, from signals and systems to control and feedback systems and what not. Ultimately I realized although I have passed all these subjects (most above 70 percent), after 4 years my knowledge about them is nothing. What I believe a true ENC engineer must alteast retain is basic core conceptual knowledge of all these subjects. Many are linked together (if you see the link that is) The only way to achieve that is to do projects. Trust me when I say this. If you really want to pursue your career in ENC, then it is not the score that matters, but how many projects you have done. And not doing it just for the heck of filling up your resume. Interviewers will ask you specific things about them which you can only answer provided you have worked hard on it. So you need to build the skills of BUILDING projects. And its not that costly. Most of the stuff like resistors, capacitors, transistors, relays are like super cheap. When it comes to communication it is about understanding the various protocols involved. How signals are modulated and demodulated. How fourier transforms can help you filter unwanted signals. How you can make a signal jammer (we built one.. so I did something atleast :D). All these are so interesting and fun if you think about  it, but you need to build them. Make a team of 3 or 4 (you don't need more) who are really interested. Go to your professor (they love to help out students who want to do projects) and ask for help. You need to be pro active. You need to stand out of other million ENC engineers who are going to graduate out. You need to tell ENC companies why you are one of the best. Let your projects do the talking. As you keep doing this, you may even come up with something new and innovative. You never know. Please do this if you are serious about ENC. Projects projects and more projects. Every project you start and complete. comment here :D.    Embed Quote