★What are the tasks of a telecommunication engineer?
It is actually a pretty diverse profession. You can pursue different paths according to your field of interest. But the basic choices are somewhat like these: So first option is to go into the telecom industry. You can work for companies who provide telecom service to customers, or to other telecom companies (sub-contracting). Also you can work for companies which develop Hardware for telecom industries. In these companies, you can assume roles which is related to planning, implementation, expansion, optimization or maintenance of the actual network. As a telecom engineer, your expertise on different aspects would give you the opportunity to work on different fields. Also, In Hardware development/testing, there are many fields where a telecom engineer can make good use of their expertise. A telecom engineer has to make use of different methods and tools to develop, test, optimize or maintain a part of the network, which may include programming, testing and sound knowledge of telecommunication principals. and any more detail of the work would involve particulars of a particular use case, which is beyond the scope of this discussion. The second option is to go into the network industries, which work with internet or backbone networks which provide infrastructure for communication. A lot of the work involve knowledge of communication protocols and programming. There are as always, options for testing such networks as well. Maybe a better naming of the two types would be Wireless and Wired networks. The networks industries mostly concern themselves with 'Wired' networks. For both of the above fields, there are a huge number of supporting Hardware and software development which is necessary as well, and telecom engineers with sound knowledge are necessary in order to properly develop tools/services for these industries. So, the choice/responsibilities of a telecom engineer is widely variable depending on the field.    Embed Quote