★Which companies are innovating in the field of telecommunication infrastructure?Especially in the field of bandwith. I think this is becoming an important field in 2-3 years, see Canada for example.
I will restrict to wireless: I'm less familiar with wired / optic telecoms. One major strand of development in cellular telecoms is higher data rates: current deployments have headline data rates of a few Mbps, but the newer technologies such as HSPA+21Mbps, WiMAX (40Mbps) and LTE (100Mbps) are being deployed now. All of these have roadmaps and development paths: HSPA to 300+Mbps and WiMAX 2 / LTE-Advanced to 1Gbps. The companies leading this work are those active in 3GPP: Qualcomm, Ericsson, Nokia Siemens, InterDigital, Huawei, ZTE etc Here is a discussion on which companies have essential IPR in the LTE standard: http://www.rethink-wireless.com/... However, there is an another dimension: capacity.  With the growing use of smartphones, dongles and tablets, the amount of data usage is growing astonishingly fast The authoritative statistic for this is CISCO http://www.cisco.com/en/US/solut... The soundbite I found staggering is that last years cellular data was 3X the entire internet in 2000.  I remember 2000 and the internet seemed like it was a big thing... but wireless internet is already  3X bigger than that... astonishing... The amount of traffic of wireless is doubling every year -- that means it is increasing one-thousand fold over ten years. The challenge for the industrty is how do we cope with a one-thousand fold increase in usage? More, smaller, cells has to be a major part of this, along with WiFi offload,  more spectrum and new technology (LTE, LTE-Advanced).   But more, smaller,  cells, dominates. Key companies innovating in this area are Cisco, ALU, Huawei, Qualcomm and Picochip (*) Historically, cellular networks worried about coverage & capacity. In 2G and voice-centric networks the primary focus was coverage.  As data services matter more, capacity is becoming more important.  Data-rate is related (capacity is the integral of data-rate across a cell) but with the effect of distance to cell-edge it is important to address both demands. More broadly, there are interesting activities around  operator-led applications and application stores, mobile payments, mobile video and video optimization, policy and tariffing, operator WiFi services. (*)   Disclosure: I work for Picochip.    Embed Quote