★Telecommunications: What does the arrival of high throughput satellites mean for the future of telecommunications?
HTS  (High Throughput Satellite) are a new generation of satellite that are likely to impact telecoms companies across the globe. There are thousands of satellites in orbit already, but very few HTS, but that is going to change in the coming years. What will they bring? They are data centric, so they are designed to deliver IP data rather than video like many existing satellites.  There this means that they optimized to provide a lot more data, higher speed through techniques such as "Frequency reuse". NSR have some great information on predictions for the amount of capacity increases, but it fair to say its transformational. its 10X more Data. HTS Revenues to Overtake FSS in Battleground Applications satellites have always had some great advantages, they allow for connectivity into hard to reach places, so you see a lot of satellite used at sea, in aircraft, in oil platforms, on trains, but also in remote parts of the globe.  The military are also big users of satellite as they know they can deploy a secure connection to anywhere on the globe with minimal setup time. Deploying satellite is much easier than building fibre. Some HTS satellite to look up, Global Express, Intelsat Epic,  Telenor Thor, Viasat-1, Airbus Athena all doing different things.  GX and Epic are going to offer great services to inflight broadband providers for example. - there is going to be a boom in inflight web access. Cellular backhaul is another great usecase, providing connectivity to cell towers in remote locations around the world. The numbers of handset across the globe is still increasing, and the data from each of these increases all the time. The desire for more and more data in all different locations, and as people move around in planes and trains means that Telco are looking at HTS, and how they can integrate their networks with satellite networks to ensure people truly are connected for business or personal reason where ever they go, and what ever they do. Denis    Embed Quote