★Which is the next major upcoming technology in mobile telecommunication after 4G?
Historically and statistically, there is a major telecom technology upgrade only every ~10 years. Since 4G is just a novice technology (atleast on field), we expect it to completely dominate for next 7-8 years atleast. So, for the commercialization of next gen. technology (in pure terminological sense – 5G), there is quite some time. Currently, it is topic of research and standardization with lot of open questions. So, it would be hard to comment/commit on any technical findings. Nevertheless, there are lot of credible links online which can give you a good overview about what might come. Stating the obvious, the following are dominating the current research:- Higher Throughput, Number of Connected Devices, Lower Cost, Lower Energy Consumption, Near Zero Latency and Higher Reliability. (More?)   Elaborating on the above in no particular order:- The end users (us) get more and more data hungry (Higher Throughput). Some companies/researchers are targeting 1Gbps data throughput for the end user in the initial stages of 5G compared to 300Mbps that current 4G (LTE-A) can support. The actual target could be of the order of 50Gbps or higher. A lot more devices would simultaneously be connected to the network. One such use case which can give you an idea of the number of devices that could be connected is the IoT (Internet of Things). Expecting complete control over the devices at home while away, e.g., refrigerator, security camera’s or anything that you can think of. With more and more devices going online, one of the major things researchers would be striving to achieve would be considerably lower costs and decreased energy consumption. The above should indirectly lead to even more and more users and equipments getting online, thus demanding more and reliable Access. Literally speaking, the communications research is not “communicate” only anymore. The future technologies should ideally support “applications of the future”, e.g., Self Driving Cars, Augmented Reality, Health Care services to just name a few. We should expect to see the future telecom technology innovation driving more towards societal innovations. To give an idea of few technical research topics related to above :- The increased cloud access and connecting your home to the internet with IoT makes “Network/Data Security” one of the most important and core topics for 5G research and standardization. A lot of research has already been done and continues to happen w.r.t. 5G mm-Wave, cm-Wave and related areas (propagation models, coverage distances etc.). Hence, a lot of material is available online. Google for more details. “Small Cell” would dominate the future, i.e., we would see more of indoor and hotspot dominance. This should lead to more advanced research on beam-forming and channel models/measurements/estimates esp. for indoors. Network topology could become more flat. However, I do not have visibility on network topology topics as of now. There should definitely be some advancement in coding and modulation techniques, and interference management/mitigation theories. As we have seen in all the past Technologies, with every generation there has been change in the Spectrum+Bandwidth in use. We see considerable research/papers related to leveraging new spectrum, probably higher than 3GHz (Current ~2.5GHz for 4G). The network architecture would probably also go through considerable changes. It is however not yet clear upto what extent this would happen. Nevertheless, I am expecting some research/standardization on Cloud-RAN and related technologies. Inter cloud communication. Research on new or extension of existing protocols for inter cloud communication should also see some development. Device-to-Device (D2D) communication should probably also be inherently supported by 5G system. So, there should be some core research on related topics as well. Location based technologies and C2C (Car-to-Car) communications have already been looking into D2D communications from 4G perspective for quite some time. These are just a very few of broader research areas. If we break down the broader topics, there are plethora of small and detailed topics that are and would be looked into. However, in my humble opinion the most dominant would be security related topics. Decreased energy consumption and virtual zero latency would also be dominating the discussion but only second to security. P.S. The above is only my understanding and a minuscule part of what is actually going on. It should not be considered complete and definitely not 100% correct. However, it would be a good starting point and should give you a good overview of technical terms to google and dig more information yourself. I hope this helps.    Embed Quote