★Is it true that Tesla's Wardenclyffe Tower and his plans to build such "magnifying transmitter" towers at other places would have peppered the globe with free electricity and wireless communication as early as the 1920s?
These myths drive me crazy. It was basically the same technology as we are seeing today with wireless battery chargers but on a larger scale. It would ionize the atmosphere and send a positive current through that and the other end of the current, the negative pole, would return current through the ground. Effectively you could put a stake into the ground and a coil up high and power would be transmitted. The range was not great and it was hugely inefficient. People think that these towers somehow magically made energy from thin air but it was nothing of the sort. The towers relied on the standard generators powered by gas, coal, oil or diesel  as the source of the energy. Then that energy would be transmitted through the air and soil. If you look at Tesla's actual patent documents you can see the generators in the bottom of the tower. His invention was only for transmission as penned by Tesla himself in his patents. Patent US1119732 - Apparatus for transmitting electrical energy. -and- Original 1914 patent documents Patent US787412 - Art of transmitting electrical energy through the natural mediums. -and- original 1905 patent documents In this second one he specifically describes the functions that were used in the Wardenclyffe Tower and makes it very clear that he is using an "alternating current dynamo" or the then period name for an AC generator to produce the energy of the tower and then transmits this energy over long distances. His famed weapon was similar in design. It was effectively an ultraviolet laser / maser with a particle beam of mercury. He wasn't using a real laser or maser but his vacuum tube would create a high dose of ultraviolet light and microwave energy and a stream of atomized mercury would be injected into the path. The UV and microwave energy would push the mercury into a thin stream and then electricity could be channeled down the path. The UV ionizing it, the mercury providing a conductor and the microwaves exciting the mercury. Combined together it would send a massive charge of energy to the target. It also used up massive amounts of energy. When the weapon was not in use that energy would instead be used to power his energy tower delivery system. Using this weapon would cause widespread mercury poisoning. His reasoning was with such brutal weapons neither bombs, missiles, planes nor boats could effectively attack a country surrounded by these towers. No one would need huge militaries anymore and the huge defense budgets could be funneled into giving away free power when the weapons were not needed. A type of cold war deterrent before the nuclear bomb. In theory it was great. Not an unwise idea but it turned out not to be practical. The other thing Tesla fans annoy me with is numerous groups that run these campaigns for "the government of the United States to release the notes and research they confiscated when he died." They claim that they want to build a museum and donate his work to the world. Fact is, they did that a long time ago and a museum now holds what extant research remains in Belgrade, Serbia. Maybe instead these people should hold fundraiser to restore the aging museum before it falls apart and all of his research is destroyed.    Embed Quote