★Wireless Communication: What is the difference between TDD  and FDD?
TDD - a single frequency channel is assigned to both the  transmitter and the receiver. Both the uplink (UL) and downlink (DL)  traffic use the same frequency f0 but at different times Several inferences can be drawn from this description: Since the TDD scheme can allocate dynamically the amount of time  slots assigned to each direction -- transmit and receive-- an operator  can define the percentage of UL versus DL traffic. This is especially  important for Internet-type traffic (the ratio for UL/DL is no longer  constrained to a fixed 50/50). A guard band is not required to separate the UL and DL  channels, because they both use the same frequency – hence, there is no  loss in spectrum. A guard period, though, is necessary for  synchronization purposes and to accommodate the turnaround time and the  round trip delay whenever switching transmission from DL to UL, and vice  versa. Because the UL/DL allocation is dynamic, there is very little  waste of spectrum for asymmetric operations, i.e., last-mile  applications, where typically the UL traffic is a fraction of the DL  traffic. (Some spectrum is still lost for the guard periods, but this is  negligible compared to the total length of data in a time slot). FDD - a distinct frequency channel is assigned to both the transmitter and the  receiver. At any particular instant in time, uplink (UL) traffic uses a  frequency f0 that is different from the frequency f1 used by the  downlink (DL) traffic Several inferences can be drawn from this description: Due to the symmetric nature of FDD transmission channels, and the  FDD legacy as duplex method of choice for TDM voice applications, FDD  transmission channels are always of equal size (50% for UL and 50% for  DL). In applications such as Internet access, which can be very  asymmetric in nature, a large percentage of the available UL bandwidth  remains unused and is, therefore, wasted. A guard band about two times the size of the UL or DL channel  is required to separate the UL and DL channels.  This amounts to an  additional 50% loss in spectrum. Once the channel bandwidth is granted by the regulator, the  UL/DL allocation cannot be changed. This leads to unused spectrum for  asymmetric operations, i.e., for last-mile applications, where typically  the UL traffic is a fraction of the DL traffic.    Embed Quote