★What are the hot research topics in wireless communications in demand by top R&D companies like Qualcomm?I am planning to go to graduate school for my masters(thesis-based) in wireless communications. I want to work in R&D companies like Qualcomm after my masters. What are the research topics can I concentrate on for my thesis?
Thanks for the A2A. A famous study recently conducted by Cisco predicts that by 2018, the global demand for wireless data would grow anywhere between a factor of 40 to a factor of a hundred. Consequently, one of the active research topics of the day is to increase the capacity of cellular networks by a factor of hundred. This is not a very easy problem... otherwise, the industry would have already done it. A flurry of research is underway in the industry and in academia to solve this problem. While the answer is not clear yet, we do know some of the key enabling technologies that would get us to 100X capacity. Massive MIMO, Multiuser MIMO, cooperative communications, and dense user-deployed small cells are some of the technologies that are popularly being considered to design next-generation wireless networks. In each of these areas, there are many sub-problems that need to be tackled before they can be deployed on a large scale. For example, in Massive MIMO (use of tens or hundreds of antennae in the base station and/or mobile terminal), antenna selection is a popular problem that the industry finds extremely useful. When you have a hundred antennae to transmit, you wouldn't want to use all of them for transmission. At any given time, you might only want to use a subset of those antennae. Which subset to use? The answers are not yet known for all variants of this problem. In the area of user-deployed small cells (also known as Heterogeneous Networks or HetNets), interference management is a key problem. Since HetNets are unplanned, the interference is not deterministic. How do you design algorithms and protocols to manage interference in this case? How do you even model interference in this case? This is one of the hottest research areas today and almost every university has some small group working on these problems. In cooperative communications, coordinated multipoint transmission and reception, Interference Alignment, distributed estimation and detection are some of the trending problems. All of these problems are pieces which when put together would get us to 100X capacity. For future reference, say five/ten years down the line, if you want an idea of the trending research topics of the day, the place to look is Call for Papers (CFP) of top conferences in your field. In communications, GLOBECOM, ICC, WCNC, NCC, SPCOM are some of the good conferences. See what areas they invite papers on and that should give you a rough idea of what problems are hot.    Embed Quote