★Is wireless communication through a biological interface possible?Is it possible to generate varying current inside a fully functional brain to produce EM waves?
Theoretically, I don't see why not. In practical terms it gets more difficult. Beware, this is long. I am puzzling this out as I'm writing it. :) First off, there's the challenge of producing signals that are powerful enough. The human body DOES produce electrical signals that are powerful enough to be picked up by detectors, but they typically have to be in contact or extremely close proximity to the body. And the signals in the brain/nerves are actually quite faint and difficult to detect compared to the signal generated when your heart beats, for example. These signals, however, do not travel down a homogeneous conductor as would be required for an antenna. I'm not aware of any biological structure that acts as one, as this would more or less require some sort of metal. But we'll just assume that such a thing is possible... Given enough evolution it's not too hard to image that a system could generate greatly amplified signals. Electric eels exist (great band name), after all, so that kind of energy put to a more specific purpose could exist. So maybe you can produce powerful enough signals. Perhaps not to communicate from miles away, but in close proximity, sure. Now we get to the nitty-gritty of RF engineering. It gets much more interesting here. We have to consider what *kind* of wireless transmission there is. AM? FM? CDMA? The most primitive form of transmitting information is probably AM - amplitude modulation. You have a "carrier wave" which is just an EM wave of constant frequency, and you vary the intensity of the carrier wave based on the information it is carrying. This is something that a biological system could hypothetically achieve. I have a harder time believing any organism can master frequency modulation, or time-division, or spread-spectrum, etc... So let's go with AM. That's nice and easy. Now we have to consider what kind of information we want to transmit. Live eye-feeds? Audio? Thoughts? Text messages? How much bandwidth do we need? In reality the potential bandwidth of a wireless transmission doesn't really depend on the carrier frequency, so that's not the problem per se. But... Think about antenna design. Longer wavelengths generally require long antennas. Most antennas are various configurations of conductors, with the length of each conductor being some multiple or divisor of the wavelength that it is meant to receive. A simple antenna may need a length that is roughly 1/2 or 1/4 the wavelength of the signal, for instance. So, signals like radio and TV have comparatively long wavelengths and thus require longer antennas. Signals like WiFi or those in a cell network have much higher frequencies and shorter wavelengths. That's why you can fit a pretty good antenna into your tiny phone. Shorter wavelengths mean smaller antennas are required. This probably depends on the particular design of the antenna, I am not an expert, but I think it is generally true. So you're thinking "OK, to fit an antenna in your head, it should be a relatively short wavelength." Hell, even a longer one could fit if it was folded up a whole lot. There's a catch though. Short wavelengths necessarily mean high frequencies. How high? Well in the case of cell phones, roughly 2 Ghz is the norm. For TV/Radio anywhere between several hundred kHz and several hundred MHz. So what's the problem? Well, things take time to happen in your brain. While your brain is still the pinnacle of parallel processing, and can do things that no computers can, it loses out in a big way on raw speed. So, a computer has no problem generating a signal (carrier wave, since we're AM here) with a frequency of 2 GHz. For your brain to do that, there would need to be some biological process (an oscillator) that is capable of switching itself 2 billion times per second. There is nothing that fast in the biological world, that I know of. Even on the low end of radio, 100,000 times per second still seems out of the realm of possibility for a brain. And at 100kHz, the wavelength will be 3 kilometers. So you might need 1.5 kilometers of antenna in your head just to receive the signal well! The slower your brain, the longer the wavelength, the bigger the antenna. When you start pushing it to low frequencies, bandwidth suffers as well. So there's that, but what about getting the signal from one part of your brain to the antenna (brain-tenna)? If the parts that go between there are not perfectly tuned, the signal can be corrupted by reflections, impedance mismatches, and all kinds of nasty things. So far, it's not looking too good... Those are all difficult problems, but they aren't the hardest part. The hardest part is this: how does your brain encode a signal, and how does that compare with how someone else might decode it? Take the WiFi standard, for instance. RF standards take years to develop, because in order to assure that devices work as they should there are an extraordinary number of factors that must be controlled very tightly, in EVERY device. That's what standards are for. The way the signal is generated, the details of what this particular signal even is and what different parts of it mean, the way it's decoded, and so on. If your bluetooth headset interprets or implements these things in a way even slightly out of the standard, then it simply can't communicate with your phone anymore. All of things must go exactly right or your devices just won't work together. Now apply that to your brain. How can you ever assure that kind of stringent cross-compatibility in a biological system? How can a natural process produce something with the kind of repeatable precision needed for wireless communication? Not only within one organism, but ACROSS many. I think it would be impossible. Even if the communication itself works, what about interpretation? You might send to someone an image you had of a cute puppy, and their brain will interpret that as the sensation of a mouth full of dirt. If you think misunderstandings in e-mail are tricky... Further, what even *is* an image, from the physical viewpoint of a brain? Which parts of the brain do what in order to construct an image that you perceive? How do those specific parts correspond to someone else's brain? If they don't, your data will be incoherent. And can you imagine the noise? All the RF energy floating around the universe, nevermind in our modern world. You would go insane. Unless of course you had some sort of handshake protocol that would let you know that this is a transmission you should listen to. Then your brain would ignore everything else. Neat, but it implies much more complexity. Now I was wrong before, the most primitive way of transmitting information via electricity/RF is probably something like morse code. Simple clicks that form a pattern. This is much more feasible, but requires some common agreement (language) about what the patterns mean. On its own it's fairly useless. And where's the fun in that anyway? So I would have to conclude that while perhaps there's no physical law preventing it, I just cannot envision it ever working. Any organism that somehow had such a system as you mean by your question (transmitting thoughts, images, etc...) would be preposterously advanced. I think once we have a more or less comprehensive understanding of the brain at a low level (a long way off, we still don't really know much) it would be faster to simply make implants, tuned to each brain, to accomplish the same. THAT is definitely possible. Evolution, maybe not so much. Sure is fun to think about though!    Embed Quote