★What are the hot research topics in wireless communications in demand by top R&D companies like Qualcomm?I am planning to go to graduate school for my masters(thesis-based) in wireless communications. I want to work in R&D companies like Qualcomm after my masters. What are the research topics can I concentrate on for my thesis?
I - ike Arne Mortenson - also have no formal degrees in wireless, but I worked on a base station project, once.  My impression of MIMO is that it is a very limited field of impact in wireless base stations.  First, at most you can squeeze a 2x2 or 4x4 mimo solution into a tiny smartphone, and the overall capacity improvement to a base station was maybe about 10%, for a very very complex implementation and it mainly helped users just a couple of hundred meters from the base station - and closer. Of course, the bandwidth they saved could be given to users farther away, but still, it's not a holy grail for mobile wireless, although it may be incredibly useful for fixed point-to-point links.  It's important to know the context of the problem you are solving, because it governs the usefulness of the solution to find.  The most important area of wireless today is mobile wireless handset and base station design.  So if you want to have an impact, I wouldn't focus solely on MIMO. Mastery of Coding theory, as evidenced by publications about new types of asymptotically optimal coding algorithms, will virtually guarantee you a job (and a successful future) at Qualcomm. Here's a piece of advice I hope you'll take to heart : Don't listen to Cisco about wireless.  They are highly inexperienced when it comes to wireless.  If you want to work on something important, I suggest you find a way to hook up with Qualcomm or Samsung or Nokia or Ericsson or somebody who is a player.  Cisco is not a player.  Cisco is also the company who told everybody we'd have exhausted all IPv4 addresses by 2006, and everybody would be using IPv6 (?!?!)  What's with that ????    Embed Quote