★How does WiFi work?
From my website, Romy asks. Get weekly updates here. There are lots of ways for energy to move around in our Universe. It can move in packets, like when you throw a baseball. Or it can move in waves, like when you drop a pebble in a pond. In either case, energy is traveling away from where it started. The baseball shatters a window far from the thrower. The ripple makes a lilypad bob up and down far from the pebble. There’s one special way energy moves around that’s super important. Without it, we wouldn’t be here. You don’t think about it much, but you’ve definitely seen it. In fact, it’s all that you’ve ever seen! Radiant energy is the way energy gets from the sun to the Earth. It’s also how we see the world around us. And it’s how WiFi works—and cell phones, and TVs, and radios, microwaves, walkie-talkies, x-rays, and a whole lot more. Radiant energy is a wave, but not the kind that jiggles water around. That kind of wave carries energy by tugging up and down on water. This kind of wave carries energy by tugging up and down on electric things, and by tugging left and right on magnetic things. That’s why we call it an electromagnetic wave. Electromagnetic waves are everywhere. Seriously, everywhere! They’re passing through your body right now. They also come in lots of different flavors. Light is an electromagnetic wave. Radio waves are electromagnetic waves. X-rays are electromagnetic waves. The only thing telling them apart is the wave’s frequency. Frequency is how quickly an up tug becomes a down tug and back again. Basically, it’s how quickly an electric or magnetic thing would jiggle back and forth as the electromagnetic wave passed by. That’s the only difference between red and blue, between blue and x-rays: frequency. These electromagnetic waves come in handy for lots of inventions. They move at the speed of light (remember, light is an electromagnetic wave). They go through things like walls and people. They’re easy to detect—all you need is something with an electric charge. And they’re easy to make, too. Here, you can make one yourself! Tap a key on a 9-volt battery and it’ll make a circuit. Electrons flood from the negative end to the positive end. This creates a little pulse outward from the circuit, and everything that pulse touches will feel a little electromagnetic tug. If you have a light bulb nearby on a loop of wire it’ll light up a tiny bit, even if it’s not connected to a power source! When you take the key off the battery, it makes a second pulse that pulls electrons in the opposite direction. If you keep tapping the key on and off, you’ll make a wave of electric and magnetic tugs. In other words, an electromagnetic wave! Instead of just flicking on and off like that, we can build an electric dimmer switch called an oscillator. This lets us send out an electromagnetic wave with any frequency (jiggling speed) and amplitude (tug strength) we want. To send a message, we change either the frequency or the amplitude in a pattern that spells out the message. These two methods are called Frequency Modulation and Amplitude Modulation. Ever wonder what FM radio and AM radio stood for? We use a specific range of frequencies called radio waves, because they’re not too fast and not too slow. If the frequency is too slow, you can’t communicate information very well. But if the frequency is too high, you’ll jiggle electrons so fast they’ll leave their atoms. If that happens to electrons in your body, you can develop cancer. That’s why the highest frequencies (ultraviolet rays, x-rays, and gamma rays) are dangerous. This also means sunlight is more likely to give you cancer than your cell phone! So how does WiFi work? WiFi works the same way as TVs, cell phones, and radios. An oscillator in your router sends out a message coded in an electromagnetic wave. Your computer or phone has an antenna inside it, which... (more)Loading...