★Is it true that Tesla's Wardenclyffe Tower and his plans to build such "magnifying transmitter" towers at other places would have peppered the globe with free electricity and wireless communication as early as the 1920s?
Free Electricity! Nothing in this world is free. Here is how electricity works. There are fundamentally 3 stages (I have reduced it to 2 for ease of comparison between traditional system and Tesla's tower): Generation: We take oil or coal to generate steam. This steam is converted int mechanical energy which in turn rotates a machine and the mechanical energy is converted to electrical energy. Now there are two costs here. 1. Infrastructure cost: The cost of machines equipment and stuff that make the energy conversion possible. Like turbines and generator. Even if you rely on renewable sources such as hydroelectric, solar photovoltaic or any other form of energy this cost is always present. So someone has to pay it. And if some one is paying this money he would like to recover his investment. Hence he charges some amount of money for the power he is providing. This is what you might know as demand charge of your electric bill. Its the term whose rate written as $/Kwatt. Here you pay a fixed amount for the maximum amount of power you consume. 2. Operational Cost: This cost accounts for the expenditure on Oil and Coal + the cost of maintaining equipment and man power. This is huge amount even in renewable sources of energy there is a tangible impact of operational cost on cost of power generated. This cost is also passed on the consumers. This is broadly the energy charge in your electric bill ($/Kwhr). Transmission and Distribution: (This is the other two stages) Here you have  wires coming from Power plants to the distribution centers. There are many stations and substation within the framework of T&D. The basic task of T&D is to take power from the generator and provide the same to consumers. Here is where your magic tower of electricity comes in. The tower can supplant the existing infrastructure of wires meshes and provide power to your home directly. However it still needs to buy power to provide this power. Hence in turn paying the Infrastructure cost and Operational cost of the generator. So even if the tower itself is built by a great philanthropist he would have to pass on the cost of energy to the consumers. If the tower is built by a regular entrepreneur he would load his cost and profits on the power he buys from the generator and sell it to customers. Why this system never took off?  There is no method of metering usage. Suppose a city says that we have a Tesla coil contraption that would provide power to all within the city radius, say 25 kms. In turn, everyone who lives in city has to share the cost of power uniformly. Hence the guy who own just a light bulb would pay as much as the guy who owns hundreds of electrical equipment. It is unfair and and does not promote judicious use of energy among users. The efficiency of transmission is not high. While standards T&D systems suffer from 33% loss it is much higher in Tesla's method. In essence Wardenclyffe tower is a large radio tower. A radio tower looses virtually all of its energy during transmission. So mathematically suppose a system transmits power at 66% efficiency. Then to provide for a 100 Watt bulb the generator has to generate 151 Watts of power. Just imagine the amount of power needed by Wardenclyffe tower to provide comparable load. This factor alone is the most instrumental in destroying the idea. No one killed the concept it just died by itself. However if there is a break through in the transmitting power uni directionally at high efficiency this can lead to formation of coupling systems that can couple disconnected grid to facilitate better load demand balance systems. This does not seem feasible at the with inductive or capacitive coupling technology. However this makes sense on high voltage level alone not at distribution levels. There are many useful application of inductive charging: 1. Charging of batteries of equipments that are places within a human body. Pace makers etc. 2. Cell phone charging. So that you do not need to worry about the type of charger pin And many more such application. <rant>Not hing in this world is for free. Every one has some interest in providing services to you. Google sells ads . Facebook sell your behavior patterns and information. Amazon sells stuff online. The most disturbing of all is paid articles that are sponsored by corporations to be published in mainstream news   made to look like real news items. Nothing is free. Everyone takes either money or time.</rant> For further reading: Electric power transmission Is there any data on how efficient Tesla wireless power transmission was? Tesla coil Inductive charging Why Not Wardenclyffe Tower? Wardenclyffe Tower Wireless power Crystal radio    Embed Quote