★Is there any form of wireless communication technology that cannot be intercepted or jammed?
Within the espionage world, there is a device called a burst transmitter. This type of device does not maintain an active link, rather it transmits in a rapid burst of time, at an odd hour of day. http://www.cryptomuseum.com/burs... Burst encoders During WWII and during the Cold War, wireless communication over long distances was often done on HF (short wave) using morse code signals. As the enemy was continuously trying to intercept and trace such messages, using direction finding equipment, it was necessary to be 'on the air' as little and as short as possible. After all: the longer a transmitter is on the air, the easier it will be to locate it. Many different methods have been devised to keep the length of a message to a bare minimum. One method that was often used, was to replace long sentences and often-used expressions by single codes. Examples of this are the international Q-codes and the use of dedicated code books, that were even used well before WWII. As the Cold War progressed, the need to send more and longer messages increased drastically and new methods had to be found to avoid detection. Hence the birth of the Burst Encoder, or Burst Transmitter. A Burst Encoder is a device that allows a message to be pre-recorded on a recording medium, and then to be sent over the air at very high speed. Many solutions were developed, using a variety of media, such as paper tape, audio tape, metal tape, mechanical drums and even photographic film. Some ways to hide a burst transmission: Transmit on the same frequency as an AM radio station, but only transmit during the gaps. Keep the message very small, and transmit for no more than 1 second or so Send on multiple frequencies using a spread spectrum protocol. If sending on a repeating basis, do not transmit at the same time of day/week, but randomize it. Encrypt the message of course. Use a one-time-pad for perfect confidentiality.. Of course, a very carefully setup counter-espionage operation could still jam or intercept the transmission, but it would require pre-knowledge of which frequency or set of frequencies, time of day that it is sent, etc. This is akin to searching for a needle in a haystack. A transmission being intercepted does not imply that confidentiality is lost, however, because strong encryption could be used. Additionally, a transmission being intercepted could lead to location of the transmitter via triangulation and eventually discovery of the owner.    Embed Quote