Who are the great philosophers and what are their core theories?
The Philosophy is divided in 3 major areas:- 1.       Epistemology: This is concerned with the knowledge and great philosophers answered various questions about how we acquire knowledge, what is a valid knowledge, etc 2.       Metaphysics: This talks about fundamental nature of our being or in easier terms why we exist, what is the purpose of our existence, etc 3.       Ethics: This is concerned with the behaviour of an individual. What is a right or wrong conduct , etc Western Philosophy ·        Plato: A great Greek philosopher who lived from 427 BC to 347 BC He discussed a very classical question about Universals and Particulars. He distinguished between universals and particulars by the following arguments:- ·        Universals are the essence of existence. E.g. cowness of a cow, manness of a man, tableness of a table. It is the basic necessary condition which defines the above object. They are eternal, perfect, ideal state. ·        Particulars, as according to Plato are copies of universals. So, different person like Robin or Tom are different in the sense that robin maybe having long nose or Tom maybe having one less arm but they are just copies of universal man. Similarly, there maybe different tables like short leg table, round top table but are copies of a perfect tables. These different qualities of particulars are accidental qualities. ·        So 3 questions arise from Universals and particulars- Do these universals and particulars exist  ? If they exist, Where do they exist ? and How do we acquire knowledge of ideas ? ·        Do these universals and particulars exist ? Plato agrees on this and thus he is a dualist because he believes in the existence of these two. ·        Where do they exist ? Plato says that they exist in a transcendent world ·        How do we acquire knowledge about ideas ? Plato agrees that we can acquire knowledge by Reason only and not from senses because he considers that universals are eternal and particulars are temporary. And true knowledge should be eternal. Thus, he is a rationalist Another famous theory of Plato is that of ‘Analogy of Cave’ ·        Aristotle (384-322 BC): He was a student of Plato and Teacher of Alexander the Great He disagreed with various theories of Plato answered the following:- ·        He did not agree with the Universals and said that Universals are a part of particulars only. ·        His famous theory is about actuality and potentiality where he discusses the question of seed and tree or being and becoming. He says that transition from being to becoming travels from potentiality to actuality or in simpler terms seed has a potential to become a tree and tree is the actual state. Tree cannot be said to becoming a seed but it reaches actual stage when it is able to produce a seed. ·        Descartes (1596-1650): A French Mathematician and Philosopher, Rationalist o   Since he was a mathematician, he relied on proving questions of philosophy by mathematical methods: o   Cartesian method: He said that he doubts the existence of everything in this world. Everything is just an illusion, this world is created by a devil. But he concludes that there is only one truth that he exists because he is able to think. He gave his famous saying “cogito ergo sum” which means “I think, therefore I am”. He considers this self evident truth as the starting point of his metaphysics o   He also believed in mind-body dualism. God as the absolute substance and mind-body as relative substance (In philosophy, a substance is something which does not require anything else for its existence. o   He believed in interactionism: he says that mind controls body through pineal gland in brain which he considers as seat of the soul. He says that mind controls body in the same way as a jockey controls a horse. ·        John Locke (1632-1704): British empiricist philosopher o   He has a famous theory of “Tabula Rassa” which means that our mind is a blank slate and it is filled with experiences. There are no innate ideas in our mind which is believed Leibniz. He says that we learn and build our personalities with the experiences that we have in our lives. In term of ideas that is captured our mind he says that our mind is passive in receiving ideas but active in comparing them. With our senses we receive simple ideas like that of color, sound, idea of rest and motion. And by comparing these simple ideas, we make complex ideas of beauty, moral ideas, time, space o   He distinguishes between primary qualities and secondary qualities of an object. Primary qualities are those qualities which are inherent in an object like its texture, space it occupies, etc. Secondary qualities are those which on contact with our senses comes into being like color, sound, etc o   Since he is empiricist he believes valid knowledge to be that which is known by senses ·        George Berkeley (1685-1753): Bishop of Cloyne, Idealist and Empricist o   Since he was a Bishop, he felt that the theories of John Locke may prove about something other than God. Thus, he tried to establish that whatever we see is only in our mind, Abstract ideas. That is why he is said to be an idealist. o   He says that individual objects are nothing but a collection of different qualities and these qualities are ideas only. Take out qualities and nothing will remain of the individual objects o   His famous saying “Esse est percipi” says that “To be is to be (ideas) or to be a perceiver (mind). All that is real is a conscious mind or some perception by such mind ·        David Hume (1711-1776) o   Empiricist Philosopher o   Famous theory about Theory of Causality where he tries to refute the idea that effect is not already present in a cause as established by previous philosophers o   He says that we cannot know the effect from the cause. Human mind has a tendency to generalise the previous results and starts to believe that in future it will happen in the same way. But he establishes that this cannot be true ·        Immanual Kant (1724-1804): Founder of Critical philosophy o   He argued that our experiences are structured by necessary features of our mind. In his view, mind shapes and structures experience so that, on an abstract level, all human experience shares certain essential structural features. o   He also says that concept of space and time are essential for human experience, as our concepts of causes and effect o   He aimed to resolve the dispute between empiricist and rationalist by arguing that experience is purely subjective without first being processed by pure reason. He also said that using reason without applying it to experience only leads to theoretical illusions. ·        Hegel (1770-1831): Founder of “Absolute Idealism” o   He developed absolute idealism. He asserted that in order for the thinking subject (human consciousness) to be able to know its object (the world) at all, there must be in some sense an identity of thought and being. Otherwise, the subject would never have access to the object and we would have no certainty about any of our knowledge of the world. o   This is different from Berkeley’s idealism in the sense that for Berkeley, objective world exists in minds of individual. For Hegel, objective world is an unfolding or expression of infinite thought, and individual mind is the vehicle of infinite thought reflecting on itself. ·        Bertrand Russell (1872-1970): Founder of “Analytic philosophy “ o   Analytic philosophy deals with the emphasis on clarity and argument. This is the fomal logic method that we do with 3 premises and conclusion statements. Indian Philosophy ·        Charvaka Philosophy: Empiricist o   This is the materialist philosophy which believes in no death or rebirth and believes that we should live our lives to enjoy each because this is the only life. Does not accept the validity of Vedas, thus it is nastik school and does not believe in God, thus atheist. Materialist because it considers matter as the only reality and accepts mind and consciousness as byproduct of matter ·        Jainism: Nastik School (because does not accept the authority of Vedas) o   Pluralism: They believe in anekantavada or plurality of reality. They believe that there are innumerable jivas which are all separated and independently real. Every object has innumerable positive and negative characters. An ordinary person cannot know all the qualities of an object. o   Syadvada: Since, ordinary person cannot know all the qualities of an object or cannot have knowledge about something completely; therefore his judgement is also incomplete. Therefore, to every statement they consider applying the term “syat” which means ‘somehow’. Thus, they say that a statement is valid under some circumstances. o   They have distinguished Substance in jiva and ajiva; jiva are further distinguished by mukta and bound. So mukta jiva are liberated jiva who know everything and is an omniscient, who knows everything. Bound jiva are all other living things o   Liberation theory says that knowledge is like sunlight and a person can become omniscient but it obstructed with clouds or bondages of life like anger, greed, pride, dillusion, etc. o   Jaina teachers urge that right faith, right knowledge, and right conduct are the three indispensable paths to self realisation or liberation ·        Buddhism: founded by Gautam Buddha (563-483 BC) o   Talks about impermanence of existence and sufferings associated with it. o   4 Noble Truths:- §  There is suffering in the world §  Every suffering has a cause §  There is cessation of suffering §  There is a path to cessation of suffering o   Pratityasamutpada: Denoted by Wheel of rebirth or samskara chakra. This theory is remembered when Buddhist rotates wheel at their temples. It establishes a connection between sufferings and ignorance by finding causes of each condition. By this, they conclude that all sufferings in the world are because of ignorance and we can be stop all sufferings of the world by gaining knowledge. o   Ksanikavada: Two important propositions of this theory:- §  “Everything is momentary”: According to it everything in this universe is like a continuous stream of a river. And nothing is same in the next moment. We have one thought at one moment and next moment another thought. A stone is of some state at a moment and some other next moment (it undergoes some weathering or some wind or some particle gets settled on it. It also says that soul is an aggregate of five skandhas or momentary atoms. §  “Everything is changing”: logical outcome of first proposition o   It says that there is no soul and it is only combination of five skandhas:- Matter, Feeling, Perceptions, Dispositions, Consciousness. He explains it by the example of chariot and says that if we dismantle a chariot, does the chariot exist ? So our existence is because of these five skandhas or momentary atoms. o   He stayed away from answering philosophical questions like is there rebirth, what is true knowledge, is the world eternal. He says that the urgent requirement is to understand what is suffering and how to avoid it. He explains this by the example that if we are hit by an arrow, we do not search for questions like from which direction it came, who shot the arrow, what is this arrow made of. But we try to remove the arrow, try to lessen the pain caused by an arrow. ·        Yoga Philosophy: Founded by Patanjali, believes in authority of Vedas, thus astika school o   Explains that purusa and prakrti are two substances from which this world works. Purusa is the intelligent consciousness, and prakrti is the matter from which are the things of the world are made up of. Mind, Ego, Intellect, five organs of sense, five organs of action, and other subtle organs are considered to be the evolute of the prakrti. o   Since mind is an evolute of the prakrti, it does not have consciousness of its own but reflects the consciousness of the purusa and is disillusioned that it is conscious. Similarly, Purusa considers itself prakrti and becomes bound by all sufferings of the world. o   Thus, liberation here means through yoga we try to distinguish between purusa and prakrti and thus liberate ourselves from the sufferings of the world. o   Yoga path for liberation: Yama, Niyama, Asana, pranayam, pratyaya, Dharana, Dhyana, Samadhi. It says that we have to train ourselves to restrict our desires, control our mind to meditate. Reach a stage of meditation where we do not require anything to focus on or Samadhi stage where act of meditation and object of meditation becomes one. ·        Vedanta Philosophy : Astika School o   Is based on the Upanishads or last part of the four Vedas. 4 Vedas are divided into 4 parts, first two parts are concerned with actions and are called karma kand and last two parts are concerned with theory or jnana kanda. o   Various philosophers gave different philosophies and constituted different schools like Advaita, Dvaita, Savisesa by Bhedabheda, Nirvisesa by Sankara, and Neo-Vedanta by Vivekananda and Ramakrishna) o   Common features include: §  Actions are subordinate to knowledge or devotion. Actions are useful only for preparing the mind for knowledge or devotion; and once this is achieved, selfish actions and their rewards must be renounced. §  Bndage is subjection to Samskara, the cycle of death and birth §  Liberation is deliverance from this cycle 