Is there any coordinate system defined for the Universe like we have here on Earth?
Yes! This works by first choosing a "pole", which is similar to the "origin" or (0,0) point in the Cartesian coordinate system. You would then choose a plane. Let's say you decide that the plane of the Milky Way (the plane where most of the stars of the Milky Way are found) as your flat x,y-axes: call this the "azimuthal plane". Lastly, you would choose a particular direction along this plane: call this the "azimuth axis". So let's say you chose the center of the Milky Way as your pole, the plane of the Milky Way as your plane, the azimuthal plane, and the line from the pole to the Sun as your direction, the azimuth axis. Now, you can define any point by (1) its distance from the pole: the "radial coordinate", (2) its elevation angle from the azimuthal plane: the "inclination angle", and (3) its angle away from the azimuth axis and on the azimuthal plane: the "angular coordinate". Let's say we're talking about a star that is exactly on the plane of the Milky Way but 30-degrees clockwise from the line between the center of the Milky Way and the Sun. We would say that the star has an angular coordinate of 30, an inclination angle of 0, and a radial coordinate of how ever many parsecs that star is from the center of the Milky Way. Navigation in space is made easier by choosing reference points. Imagine yourself on a boat out on the ocean on a cloudy night when you can still see the lights on the beach but can't see the stars. Or perhaps in the middle of the woods without a compass on a cloudy night. In both situations, while you can certainly know up or down because you can feel gravity, you won't necessarily know North, East, South or West. Still, you should be able to navigate if you have a few reference points. You might know that on the beach is a particular house with red and green lights and the part of the beach you came from is between that house and a lighthouse that has a blinking yellow light. So you'll know to navigate your way back to your section of the beach. Likewise, if you recognize certain landmarks in the woods: a fallen tree, a cave, a particularly large rock, you'll know how to get out of the woods. It would be the same in outer space. This time you would use the stars as your navigational points. And then, maybe you and your space-faring mates or your home-base could agree that say, alpha centauri could be one direction, the Sun could be another, etc. You could choose to triangulate your position with you as the origin -with an everchanging axial points as you move, or, better yet, you could choose to use something familiar (like the Sun) as the pole and use the polar coordinate system we discussed previously. This answer was written by one Roberto Gregorius at the ask-a-scientist forum of the Argonne National Laboratory. Link: Navigation Coordinates in Space 