What does Nietzsche say about free will?
Nietzsche said quite a lot about free will. The leading expert on this topic is Brian Leiter of the School of Law & Department of Philosophy at The University of Texas at Austin. Two years ago, when he was interviewed on Salon.com (Page on salon.com) , he said “There are a number of themes in contemporary empirical psychology that are essentially Nietzschean themes. There is a large literature suggesting that our experience of free will is largely illusory, that we often think we're doing things freely when in fact we're not, that our actions have sources that lie in the pre-conscious and unconscious aspects of ourselves and then we wrongly think we're acting freely. These are themes familiar to anyone who's read Nietzsche and it's striking that recent empirical work is largely coming down on Nietzsche's side on these questions.” Very tantalizing; but Leiter gave much more detail in his 2007 article “Nietzsche's Theory of the Will” (Page on philosophersimprint.org). Omitting almost 9000 of his 11,000 words, here is some excerpted text verbatim (that is, without enclosing quotes): The experience of willing which precedes an action does not track an actual causal relationship: the experience of willing is epiphenomenal. ...What is called "freedom of the will" is essentially the affect of superiority with respect to something that must obey: "I am free, 'it' must obey' — this consciousness lies in every will. ... A person who wills —, commands something inside himself that obeys, or that he believes to obey. ...The bodily feelings and the commandeering thought are still not enough, according to Nietzsche, for the experience of willing. This is perhaps Nietzsche's key claim. For the experience of willing is, according to Nietzsche, essentially the meta-feeling — the "affect" Nietzsche calls it — of commanding. ...     So a person has the experience of willing when he identifies himself with a certain propositional content ...One experiences willing when one feels as if the bodily qualia are obeying the thought, and that the commanding thought is who I am. ...In other words, talk of "I" — as in "I will go downstairs" — obscures an elemental fact: it's my body that is "obeying" my will, so "I" am also one who obeys, as well as one who commands. Of course, we don't experience it, or think of it, that way: we identify the "I" with the feeling of commanding, not the feeling of obeying.     Thus, our experience of the "I", our identification of it with the commandeering thought, itself requires an explanation: why do we not identify ourselves with the commanded feelings and movements? Why do we instead identify ourselves with the superiority of the commandeering thought? ..."Freedom of the will" — that is the word for the multi-faceted state of pleasure of one who commands and, at the same time, identifies himself with the accomplished act of willing. ...The commandeering thought, with which we identify because it gives us a feeling of superiority, is not in fact identical with anything that actually stands in a causal relationship with the resultant action. ...     In debunking the phenomenology as a reliable guide to causation, Nietzsche's target is the commandeering thought, rather than the bodily feelings or the meta-feeling. ...Nietzsche's target in this particular passage is the famous Cartesian doctrine, "I think, therefore I am." But, Nietzsche points out, from the fact that there is thinking, it does not follow that I, i. e., some subject or agent, is doing the thinking, and so it does not follow that I exist. As Nietzsche puts it: ‘It is ... a falsification of the facts to say that the subject "I" is the condition of the predicate "think." It thinks: but to say the "it" is just the famous old "I" — well that is just an assumption or opinion, to put it mildly, and by no means an "immediate certainty."’...     What does it mean to say a thought comes when "it" wants, not when "I" want? Because we are talking about thoughts that "come", I take it Nietzsche must mean thoughts that come to consciousness. And his point is that our "thoughts" appear in consciousness without our having willed them: ...Nietzsche's phenomenological point then comes to this: a "thought" that appears in consciousness is not preceded by the phenomenology of willing that Nietzsche has described, that is, there is no "commandeering thought" preceding the conscious thought to which the meta-feeling (the affect of superiority) attaches. ...     No thought comes when "I will it" because the experience to which the "I will" attaches is absent. ...he criterion of willing that agents themselves treat as reliable guides to a causal relationship — namely, the phenomenology described above — is, in fact, completely absent in the case of thoughts (or, at least, in the case of the thought that starts an inferential chain of thinking which involves the experience of willing). ...But if we do not experience our thoughts as willed, then it follows that the actions that follow upon our experience of willing (which includes those thoughts) are not caused in a way suffcient to underwrite ascriptions of moral responsibility. ...     [O]ur thoughts, values, every ‘yes,’ ‘no,’ ‘if’ and ‘but’ grow from us with the same inevitability as fruits borne on the tree ...The first error, that “of confusing cause and effect”, can be summarized as follows. Given two regularly correlated effects E1 and E2 and their mutual “deep cause”, we confuse cause and effect when we construe E1 as the cause of E2 , missing altogether the existence of the deep cause. ...The first error, that “of confusing cause and effect”, can be summarized as follows. Given two regularly correlated effects E1 and E2 and their mutual “deep cause”, we confuse cause and effect when we construe E1 as the cause of E2 , missing altogether the existence of the deep cause. ...     According to Nietzsche, the basic "formula on which every religion and morality is founded is: 'Do this and that, refrain from that and that — then you will be happy! Otherwise ..." ...he conduct they prescribe and proscribe in order to cause a "happy life" are, in fact, effects of something else, namely the physiological order represented by a particular agent, one who (as Nietzsche says) "must perform certain actions"...     That brings us to the next "error", that of "false causality", the mistake of thinking we know what causation is because of our introspective confidence in what we take to be the causal powers of our own mental life. ... The "inner world" is full of phantoms ... : the will is one of them. The will no longer moves anything, hence does not explain anything either — it merely accompanies events; it can also be absent. The so-called motive: another error. Merely a surface phenomenon of consciousness — something alongside the deed that is more likely to cover up the antecedents of the deeds than to represent them. ...     What follows from this? There are no mental [geistigen] causes at all. ... "[W]e are accustomed to exclude all [the] unconscious [unbewusst] processes from the accounting and to reflect on the preparation for an act only to the extent that it is conscious" ... "[B]y far the greatest part of our spirit's activity", says Nietzsche, "remains unconscious and unfelt" ...     That brings us to the final error about causation, what Nietzsche calls the error of “imaginary causes.” This error occurs when we invent, post hoc, causes to explain certain phenomena in our experience, phenomena that are, in reality, the cause of our invention. Nietzsche...What is significant for Nietzsche is that, as he puts it, “ the whole realm of morality and religion belongs under this concept of imaginary causes.”     Let us take just one of Nietzsche’s examples. Christians, he says, might “explain” “agreeable general feelings” as being produced by “faith, charity, and hope … the Christian virtues.” One feels well, at peace, content, because one practices these Christian virtues — or so the religious explanation goes. But, objects Nietzsche, “[A]ll these supposed explanations are resultant states and, as it were, translations of pleasurable or unpleasurable feelings into a false dialect: one is in a state of hope because the basic physiological feeling is once again strong and rich." …     So the Christian says, “That you have practiced the Christian virtues explains why you feel well and are at peace with yourself.” In fact, says Nietzsche, there is a physiological explanation for why an agent who feels at peace with himself feels that way, and it is also an explanation for why he practices hope, faith, and charity. ...    The error of confusing cause and effect is a general error that aflicts morality because morality is based on a mistaken picture of agency: we think that certain moral prescriptions will bring about certain consequences for those who follow them, yet the ability and disposition to act on the prescriptions, and the enjoyment of the consequences, are possible only for certain types of persons. An exercise of free will plays no role....     We are in error in thinking we know what causation is based on our experience of the will....And the argument says we are in error here because our experience of the will misleads us as to the causal powers of the will: "there are no mental causes at all", ...What, then, really explains our actions? ...It may help to turn to some recent work in empirical psychology, powerfully synthesized by Daniel Wegner in his recent book The Illusion of Conscious Will (Wegner 2002).     Wegner, like Nietzsche, starts from the experience of willing, and, like Nietzsche, wants to undermine our confidence that the experience accurately tracks the causal reality. To do so, Wegner calls our attention to cases where the phenomenology and the causation admittedly come apart. ...The processes of mind that produce the experience of will may be quite distinct from the processes of mind that produce the action itself. ...In the place of the "illusion of free will" as Wegner calls it, he proposes a different model according to which "both conscious willing and action are the effects of a common unconscious cause"...     “[U]nconscious and inscrutable mechanisms create both conscious thought about action and the action, and also produce the sense of will we experience by perceiving the thought as cause of the action. So, while our thoughts may have deep, important, and unconscious causal connections to our actions, the experience of conscious will arises from a process that interprets these connections, not from the connections themselves.” (Wegner) ...Wegner (2002: 54 ) quotes Libet summing up the import of his findings as follows:     “[T]he initiation of the voluntary act appears to be an unconscious cerebral process. Clearly, free will or free choice of whether to act now could not be the initiating agent, contrary to one widely held view. This is of course also contrary to each individual’s own introspective feeling that he/she consciously initiates such voluntary acts” ...     In other words, about a century after Nietzsche, empirical psychologists have adduced evidence supporting his theory that the phenomenology of willing misleads as to the actual causal genesis of action....     Interesting as these observations are, the real significance of this passage for our purposes lies elsewhere. For Nietzsche is also concerned to answer the question as to the "ultimate motive" for "self-mastery". ...Thus, the fact that one masters oneself is not a product of "free will" but rather an effect of the underlying type-facts characteristic of that person: namely, which of his various drives happens to be strongest.     There is, as it were, no "self" in "self-mastery": that is, no conscious "self" who contributes anything to the process. "Self-mastery" is merely an effect of the interplay of certain unconscious drives, drives over which the conscious self exercises no control. A "person" is an arena in which the struggle of drives is played out; how they play out determines what he believes, what he values, what he becomes. But qua conscious self or "agent", the person takes no active part in the process. ...The will, in other words, or the experience of willing (in self-mastery), is itself the product of various unconscious drives or affects.     Which is, in slightly different terms, exactly the theory of the will that some empirical psychologists have arrived at one hundred years after Nietzsche. End of excerpt. What I (agf) would add is that, as I have said here previously, we can still “identify” with a process, and legitimately so, even after we gain a deeper understanding of it. We can still drink “water” without being required to reflect on its molecular formula and how its chemical bonds work. Or, as I recently said in Quora in answering the question “Are we complex response machines with no free will?”,      In my own ruminations I have discovered that while I am continually an automaton, I am not continually the same automaton. Given brain plasticity, determinism has not needed to be denied so that I might “change my mind,” learn, and mature. Quite similarly the Stoic leader Chryssippus taught, ca 250 BCE, "That the person is as he is as a result of Fate is neither here nor there, for it is still he and not external factors alone who is responsible for the behavior." Chryssippus was saying that any obedience of the neural cascade to natural law – fate – is irrelevant, for what counts is the consequent observed behavior of the individual. If it quacks and walks like a duck then it is a duck, if it is so seen by the observer. Philosopher Galen Strawson said as much in Your Move: The Maze of Free Will, in Opinionator, July 22, 2010, NYT:      I can’t do better than the novelist Ian McEwan, who wrote to me: “I see no necessary disjunction between having no free will (those arguments seem watertight) and assuming moral responsibility for myself. The point is ownership. I own my past, my beginnings, my perceptions. And just as I will make myself responsible if my dog or child bites someone, or my car rolls backwards down a hill and causes damage, so I take on full accountability for the little ship of my being, even if I do not have control of its course. It is this sense of being the possessor of a consciousness that makes us feel responsible for it.” The same sense of ownership justifies the Christian’s "commandeering thought" that “That you have practiced the Christian virtues explains why you feel well and are at peace with yourself.”  A "person" continues to be, as Leiter says, “an arena in which the struggle of drives is played out; how they play out determines what he believes, what he values, what he becomes,” and the psychological rewards of being a Christian can continue to be enjoyed. But then, with this deeper explanation of cognition in hand, it may no longer seem necessary, much less tenable, to postulate involvement of the supernatural in the process. 