How does growing up affect the way we think about the world?
Many of the questions I answer require me to define an ambiguous term, in this case: growing up. My original thought was to paint it as the process from adolescence to 'joining the world', but I'd like to leave it as the experience of mental and physical aging, as general as you are comfortable. So at the very basis of the question: How does growing up affect the way we think about the world? We start to. When a child is born, everything is new. Have you ever gone to a new place, somewhere totally foreign to you where you knew no one and were surrounded by stimuli that were completely alien? Being born is like that, but compounded. A newborn child has not only never seen, heard, tasted, smelled or touched anything before (outside of the womb), but the child has no data with which to compare it to. If you see something new you are able to analyze it and compare it to everything similar to it that you have experienced, but a child cannot do that. Thus begins the process of reality assimilation. The child quickly learns that his parents are helping him survive, so on some level he starts to believe that if he is going to continue living, he will need to mimic his parents. They clearly know how the world functions because they've made it this far and dragged me into it, right?? So he pays close, very close attention to what his parents do, and he absorbs it like a sponge. Another interesting bit is that the child, upon entry, has no sense of self as separate from the Universe. A child does not have the concept of 'I', because the child experiences the world directly; it has no standards or criteria for it and minimal filters with which to reduce sensation. The parents then, having the child's best interests in mind, begin to teach their offspring about the world and how it works. This usually pans out to regurgitating what they were once taught and how and what they believe the world works and is. However, our (American at least) culture has some interesting foundations which distinctly and drastically limit our interpretation of reality. The child is given an identity and told that she is separate from the world, and through any manner of speaking, must 'do the best she can' to compete and secure her livelihood, be it study, learn, appease, behave, self-depreciate, and so on. If the parents themselves have negative beliefs about themselves, the child is very likely to take them on as their own. The most significant (per my opinion) part of the reduction of reality that 'growing up' causes over time, is the labeling of it. Consider this example: A young child, uneducated and enraptured on Earth, walks and discovers something monumental. A behemoth structure, towering over her gently. She feels the life within it and wobbles to greet it. "Hello!" she wordlessly beams, perhaps with a cheerful giggle. She feels the joy returned as she uses her hands to connect to it. She rubs to discover a rough texture grating against her skin. She looks closer to see life teeming around it: tiny creatures exploring and building gatherings upon it, small beings who seem to trust this tower's great wisdom and protection. She smells the sweet perfumes the tower exudes. She hears the rustling chatter of its song and sees the beings who live in the sky love and explore it also. How interesting! What a creature this is! She speaks with it for a while and learns of its experiences, and glances up to study its countless arms and hands. And then, through a magical gesture of kindness, the tower disconnects a hand and drifts it gently down toward her. With a surge of joy the child connects with the hand and runs her finger along the bone and palm. She feels its smoothness with amaze and gasps at the intricate vessels running throughout it. She clutches it to her heart and tingles run down her spine. She is in love, continually, for the first time. Here an adult encounters the scene: "Oh, a tree. What's that in her hand... a leaf? Better take that away from her." Probably has germs... And no more thought is attributed to it. In labeling the world, we lose sight of what is, in favor of what we want to see, what we think we see. You lose the magic in the world, because you're no longer seeing it as it is. Are you aware that every tree is a living entity of its own accord, with its own history, its own thoughts, its own actions and awareness and connections to the life around it? Plants are supremely more intelligent than most people are aware of. And yet... they get reduced in passing to a single word: tree, or perhaps an idealogy that this exists as a prop in my world. "Humans are the masters of nature. It is for us to do with as we wish". So we ignore it, deciding it isn't worth our awareness. Or worse yet: cut it down. Strip it of resources. Burn it. And this is just a single example. At some point you'll realize that everything is like this, to some degree or another. Once the magic is gone, the world appears lifeless and dead. Euclidean, Newtonian, Cartesian... numbers, forces and concepts. I don't think its such a marvel that disease and depression still run rampant in this modern world. After all, we've all gone blind, so to speak. An eye for an eye is just the beginning. How does growing up affect the way we see the world? It stops it. 