I feel like my life is going on the wrong way and I don't know what to do. What can I do?
My grandfather beat me. He was 82 years old. He had snowy white hair, wore scientific glasses and spoke in a soft, slow and calculated manner like Rafiki from the Lion King. He had never played pool before. He surveyed the table like a Cartesian graph, plotting the balls like coordinates. He lined up each shot in geometric fashion, wielding the laws of physics in his hands with the divine power of math guiding his stick. My grandfather was a physics professor. He wrote textbooks on the subject. He even drew the illustrations by hand. I could see physics at work in his eyes and in his blood. I couldn't imagine him doing anything else. All knowledge is wonderful. When we are young, the curiosity in us is leads us to explore everything, to want to know everything. However, as we dig deeper, everything becomes more technical. In order to gain additional knowledge we need to spend more and more time picking up details. In economics, there is the law of diminishing returns. It basically states that the benefits you get from something decrease over time compared to the amount of energy you must spend doing it. When you learn a language you learn the most important words like greetings, numbers, colors. Then you need to learn more adjectives and formal and technical words that you will not use as much.  Diminishing returns This is true for school too. When we begin, we learn broad ideas. When we initially learn physics we start with relatively simple concepts like Newtonian laws.  We slowly move into the theory of relativity and more advanced concepts. We discover that the field splits into many branches like a tree, with each branch dividing into a sub-branch. Remember a PhD is just a tiny pinpoint of deep knowledge in a field of study. It's easy to be deceived into thinking we love something and will keep loving it for the rest of our careers. When you love doing something, you enjoy learning everything can about it, not just for work but in your free time. You dream about it. You talk to other people about it. Figure out what you liked as a kid. Think about what you did for hours when you didn't have any responsibilities. See if that translates into a career you might like. Did you spend time putting makeup on dolls, trading baseball cards, drawing? It's okay to take time off. Education is a big investment of time, money and energy. Keep trying different things, until you find the right fit. Do some internships, talk to people and don't be afraid. As my mentor once told me, find where your passion meets your abilities. Let the universe do the rest. Updated 3d ago • View Upvotes • Asked to answer by Narine Kurak