I feel like my life is going on the wrong way and I don't know what to do. What can I do?
Let me tell you something. Look at Quora, for example, there are so many people who are in similar or almost identical situation. Have a few honest conversations with people from your school. You'll see that most of them think the same as you do now. All these people have in common one thing - they are students and they are in their 20s. So what's the deal with that? This is a common thing, especially among those who have been good students their whole lives. It's not that life doesn't make sense, it's not that you are depressed or suddenly became lazy, it's nothing like that. This is a part of a growing up, it's just a developmental stage that most people go through. I found out about this when I talked to a psychologist about the same problem you have now. So, there is no need to worry, this is actually completely normal and it will pass. It usually lasts for a year or two. Like I said, it's almost affecting all of those who were good students their whole lives. Usually around this time one reaches saturation from studying. The part of the brain that is responsible for self discipline is not quite developed until the age of 25, but still, the individual is expected to have the power of will. And college is the first real challenge with possibility to quit. In most cases, it's assumed that one has to finish high school, so there is awareness of other possibilities. In college, however, dropping out is far more accepted, and less judged by the peers. The amount of self discipline required exceeds the one needed to finish high school. And that's why this crisis happens. Person feels lost, unable to finish things because they are interested in everything, in other cases nothing is interesting enough. There is a stress of growing up and facing a real world. It's not just college that one has to deal with, it's also the time when they really start developing emotional intelligence (dealing with others and oneself). So there is no surprise that this happens. Just knowing that I didn't suddenly become lazy or a failure, but that this is a normal thing that is happening to others too helped me a lot. Once the crisis is over you will have become a real adult, you will be more responsible and motivated. But right now, this is something you have to deal with. So how does one deal with this? If you are in a situation that allows you to take a gap year, you should do it. Usually, a gap year is more than enough to deal with this and find oneself, as opposed to keep going to classes and studying. In the latter case, it's a torture and it prolongs the process. The psychologist that I've talked to said that a gap year between high school or during college should be practiced a lot more because of this. He says that the best way to deal with this is to use the time to get some job, and work on oneself. If you can't take a gap year without paying a lot, or similar reasons, then quitting for a year might not be such a bad option. But this won't work if you spend that time doing nothing. You should use it wisely. Use it to travel and volunteer, to learn about various things, to improve your social and emotional intelligence. If you spend the time doing things you won't loose work habit, in fact you will be able to perform better once you go back. I've gone through the same last year, and I kept going to classes and studied and I was burning out every two months. It felt awful. And my productivity dropped. Now, I really believe that taking a break would have been the smarter thing to do. Like going to the gym, you might think you need those 2-3 hours a day, but once you sum things up, it turns out that even though you spent that time in the gym, because you had more energy and concentration you did more that day. I hope this was somewhat helpful. 