When is the current Elliott grand super cycle bear market supposed to be starting?
Elliott Wave analysis owes its popularity to Hamilton Bolton (who was at Bank Credit Analyst, then as now a highly respected economic research bureau), and especially in the modern time to Robert Prechter, who rescued Elliott's work from obscurity (he discovered a manuscript in a public library) and has been a tireless promoter of Elliott's work over many decades. Prechter is a very unusual man in the financial world - an excellent writer, a careful market analyst, and brilliant in his perceptiveness about the influence of what the neuroeconomics work terms affect on mass social behaviour.  You will see reference to his work by Paul Tudor Jones in the withdrawn (but still circulated) documentary from c. 1987 'Traders', and he remains respected by a significant number of serious figures in the investment world today. He had an excellent record in the trading competitions in which he competed, and a pretty good (eerily good in some ways) track record up till about the late 80s or early 90s.  Since then he has been far too bearish for far too much of the time, and you wouldn't have done very well following his investment calls.  I forget how he did at the peak in 2007/08, but probably he got that right, and he did turn neutral at the low in 2009, which was a pretty good call.  I think he's been okay on gold too over that period, although I haven't tracked him closely. Hamilton Bolton wrote in a 1957 letter: " In reading a history of major depressions in the U.S. from 1830 on, I was impressed with the following: (a) All were set off by a deflation of excess credit. This was the one factor in common. (b) Sometimes the excess-of-credit situation seemed to last years before the bubble broke. (c) Some outside event, such as a major failure, brought the thing to a head, but the signs were visible many months, and in some cases years, in advance. (d) None was ever quite like the last, so that the public was always fooled thereby. (e) Some panics occurred under great government surpluses of revenue (1837, for instance) and some under great government deficits. (f) Credit is credit, whether non-self-liquidating or self-liquidating. (g) Deflation of non-self-liquidating credit usually produces the greater slumps. Self-liquidating credit is a loan that is paid back, with interest, in a moderately short time from production. Production facilitated by the loan – for business start-up or expansion, for example – generates the financial return that makes repayment possible. The full transaction adds value to the economy. Non-self-liquidating credit is a loan that is not tied to production and tends to stay in the system. When financial institutions lend for consumer purchases such as cars, boats or homes, or for speculations such as the purchase of stock certificates, no production effort is tied to the loan. Interest payments on such loans stress some other source of income. Contrary to nearly ubiquitous belief, such lending is almost always counter-productive; it addscosts to the economy, not value. If someone needs a cheap car to get to work, then a loan to buy it adds value to the economy; if someone wants a new SUV to consume, then a loan to buy it does not add value to the economy. Advocates claim that such loans "stimulate production," but they ignore the cost of the required debt service, which burdens production. They also ignore the subtle deterioration in the quality of spending choices due to the shift of buying power from people who have demonstrated a superior ability to invest or produce (creditors) to those who have demonstrated primarily a superior ability to consume (debtors). Near the end of a major expansion, few creditors expect default, which is why they lend freely to weak borrowers. Few borrowers expect their fortunes to change, which is why they borrow freely. Deflation involves a substantial amount of involuntary debt liquidation because almost no one expects deflation before it starts. " So the grand super cycle idea is a hybrid combination of Elliott Wave and Austrian economics:  social mood (I prefer to use the neuroscience term of affect as being less misleading) will turn down, and that will lead to the structure of credit imploding, and an economic collapse of magnitude greater than that of the Great Depression.  The idea is that nothing policy makers can do will help, and that there will be other very significant social changes as a result not just of the economic collapse, but also the shift in shared mass affect.  The extent of the bust relates to the magnitude of the credit expansionary period, and this has been unprecedented, and so will the bust. The essential problem with Elliott Wave is that it depends on the human analyst - there are always many different wave counts, and discretion is involved in choosing the one that fits the circumstance.  And perception itself is shaped by emotion, and on the other hand, the neuroscience reminds us that thinking and judgement is impossible without emotion.  But analysts tend to be shaped by their own biases, and can often get stuck in a way of thinking - the wave count changes, and it turns out that wasn't the final top, but it's coming up right now, and just you wait and see - this will be a doozy. A secondary problem is that there is an implicit Cartesian bias to Elliott - something of a notion of billiard ball causality.  In my experience from a couple of decades of following markets, and more than three decades of thinking about the economy, that isn't quite how it works.  It's quite unfashionable to say so, but there is often an entelechy - an implicit telos within the situation, or seeds that wish to realize themselves (a link to the Goethean approach to nature here, too).  An acorn wishes to become an oak tree, and whilst an unfavourable environment may impair its growth or destroy it,  until it has completed that process of unfolding, a wave count of its growth (since possibly waves describe natural patterns of growth and decay) may be of limited usefulness if one fails to consider that an acorn wishes to become an oak. So it is with markets and economies.  Yes, by all previous standards of credit expansion, we long passed the point at which an unravelling and utter devastation must be inevitable.  However those previous periods unfolded under a gold standard, which wasn't what we have today, and so one should be cautious about being overconfident about what must happen based on an Elliott perspective, when one really has very little to go on to have a basis for that view with any certainty. It's understandable that writing in 1957 Hamilton Bolton had little to go on because we hadn't then been off gold very long.  (Bretton Woods retained a residual tie to gold, but much weaker than under the proper gold standard).  However we have a better understanding of things today and more experience, and it's really quite clear that Prechter is wrong on two counts - firstly, central banks can in fact maintain the structure of credit, even if a change in mindset means that is no longer possible to do via entirely private means; and secondly, the indicators of mass psychology that I follow suggest we are very far from being at a Grand Supercycle top, either in the West or elsewhere. It's another topic for another time, but I actually think that in the West we are early in a civilisational bull market: a renewal after the phase of decline that began c. 1870 (as Britain formally recognized it had an Empire by giving the title of Empress to Queen Victoria - these things happen at the top of course).  We have many difficulties ahead, but it is these very difficulties that will be the source of renewal, since character is built by the repeated experience of overcoming adversity. The real financial problems under fiat money may not come from deflation, but rather from the effect of stronger growth and inflation on nominal yields.  Inflation is thought to be good for debtors, but that's only true so long as they can manage to meet the cashflow impact of a higher interest rate (they are repaying debt more quickly in real terms than they planned).  Such an environment may not be devastating for everyone, but it will create future winners and losers different from those that have benefited from the post 1980 period of declining rates.  A real revolution in prestige and power. 