How can l learn exactly how a GPS is made without any prior knowledge?
I'm afraid that I can not clearly make out your question. The theories that allow a functional GPS system to be built are almost straightforward.  A bit of polar cordinates, a dash of extremely precise timing, the speed of light (or at least radio signals) mostly in a vacuum (slightly slower in the atmosphere), and a dash of Einstein's Relativity to account for the speed of the GPS satellites and the different force of gravity they experience compared to people who are on (or close to) the surface of the earth. Mentioning Polar Coordinates is a bit of a red-herring though - what you want are 3-D coordinates, and those can be expressed as Polar Coordinates (radius - or elevation, and two angles - latitude and longitude) from an origin  or as Cartesian coordinates (X,Y,Z - or length, width, height)  - from an origin.  Converting from one to the other is tedious - but computers are really good at tedious things. Extremely precise timing and the speed of light can be combined to give you the distance from each clock in a set of clocks - if you have reason to believe that all the clocks are keeping the same precise time and can tell you the time with using a message that goes at the speed of light  - like a radio signal.  A little bit of math will tell you how precise the time has to be if you're using radio signals to measure distances on the order of 3 to 30 meters or so. Except for the corrections due to relativity, it's pretty much Newtonian physics and analytic geometry - and that should be good enough to get you within a hundred meters or so (I'm guessing.) Getting much closer involves Einstein, but the basic idea remains the same even if the math gets complicated. After that, you need justify the resources to build a system of GPS satellites and equipment to receive and interpret the signals. The practical aspects are an engineering (and financial) exercise - the US put up a GPS system first, then the Russians (although it may have started as a Soviet project), and (I believe) the European Union is in the process of launching yet another GPS network.  No doubt, the Chinese will want one as their space program advances and their military and economic power expands.  This stuff is expensive, hard to keep from becoming a "public good" (and so even the wealthiest capitalists won't be interested in building a commercial GPS system) As for justifying it - well if you fear certain death or something like that, you might be inspired to build something like this if you can claim that it'll help you prevent certain death by certainly dealing death the the death dealers you're fearing - or something like that.    And if the money doesn't exactly come out of your budget and can be spent with some friends, it makes it easier to justify.  Which is how the US Military convinced the US Congress that the first GPS was a good idea. Which worked even better when the individual companies that built GPS units discovered that there were lots more uses for knowing where something or someone was than blowing things up and that other people and companies were delighted to buy devices that would tell them where their truck or ship was, or just for the gee-whiz factor of having a neat new toy that no one else had yet.  (As it happens, this effect was anticipated by the capitalists who put up the first GPS - making it partly a public good helped justify putting up the first system before it had really been demonstrated to be a Really Good Idea yet  - but in order to satisfy both the Public Good part and the Military part, part of the time signal was initially encrypted so that the Public Good part wasn't precise enough to locate  a house - just  a square kilometer or so.  This was in the days of REALLY SLOW COMPUTERS - so encrypting a timestamp was still a reasonable idea.) Once the Public Good part of the GPS system showed *some* popularity, engineers designed better (smaller, cheaper, faster - but using less electrical power) devices in the usual way digital electronics devices went and GPS receivers got very, very inexpensive - at least if all you wanted to report was lattitude, longitude (and maybe elevation.)  Packing a map into those devices took longer - but that was OK because early digital maps were pretty crude too. Mostly. The US went GPS crazy.  And US devices would work all over the world too (even better if there were maps, but you can do a lot with lattitude, longitude, maybe elevation, and the time.  A lot of REALLY USEFUL STUFF.)   Pretty soon, the US realized that having the full (military) accuracy for everyone was a good idea (and maybe the Soviet Union/Russia's plans were pretty well established by then as well - and the US wanted to keep people on the US side with US technology and US manufacturers.)  Still, the US *could* turn off the GPS system at any time.  (This was a safety feature - at least as far as the US Military and US Government thought at the time of the initial design.) Of course, if you weren't a US citizen, you'd be a little less comfortable with some geopolitical snafu sending your shipping business back to the stone age.  And other governments didn't real want this kind of dependency on the diplomatic skills of an aging Hollywood actor (this was before the US had a Shrub for President.)   Of course, if you were the Soviet Union, you might have similar military fears as the US, you had a great space program, great scientists and despite the occasional famine and shaky non-military industrial capacity, it still would seem like a great idea - especially if you wanted to suggest to other countries in the world that you might be more trustworthy than the US.  Other countries in the world were used to playing the US off against the Soviet Union in various different ways and they thought this was a good idea too, especially if the Soviets paid for it. Somehow, the world didn't blow up in a nuclear exchange between the Soviet Union and the US - although it was a close thing.  Mistakes were made - but they were caught in time and the world didn't go all cindery. Eventually, the Soviet Union collapsed and the Russian Federation emerged, etc. etc. etc.  And (as far as I know) the Russians tried pretty hard to keep their system going.  Look it up, I'm not going to do everything for you. Google (or Bing or all those other state sponsored search engines in Russia and China) is at your fingertips if you're reading this like I'm writing this (and if you're reading this on a piece of paper while sitting in a tree, building a GPS is likely to be pretty far away from anything remotely achievable for you.) And so, the European Union was having success with it's space program - not exactly dramatic as the US or Soviet Union (or Russia) program - but they were designing and building satellites (mostly on Russian or US rockets) and were making great progress with their own rocket.  Or at least progress.  And they realized that they were becoming dependent on GPS systems outside of their control - and after experiencing the millenia of war, culminating with the Franco-Prussian War (WW-0), The Great War (WW-1), World War 2 (call it what it is, finally!) and the Cold War (for old times sake), they had enough of war - at least if they didn't start it.  And so building their own GPS seems like a great idea - just in case Russia or the US went crazy and  did something like invade somewhere.  (Ooops - my bad.) So, offhand and WITHOUT CHECKING ANY REFERENCES AT ALL (because at this point you can Google this stuff yourself), I figure there are about one and two-half GPS systems functioning. As for the precise details of how to build a receiver - I dunno.  But I'm sure you can buy chips for them in bulk, get a GPS shield for your Arduino or Raspberry Pi or whatever.   And you'll have a nice little computer that'll give you the Latitude, Longitude (maybe elevation), and the Time (the Raspberry Pi or TI Beagleboard would likely be better for this than the Ardino because you've got all that open source stuff available for Linux and the little Arduino isn't really a good Linux machine - even if it's great for other stuff.) Next up - Maps. You and 1 million of your closest friends can measure the world, digitize that information, and make it available online so people can download those maps to a micro-SD card for the Arduino with the GPS shield. Satellite pictures can help get you started. There's at least one open source mapping project going on... maybe you won't need a million of your closest friends after all. 