How does the ear percieve sound?
Before discussing the biology of the ear and how sound is perceived through it, we must grasp an important concept: what is sound? Sound is not a material concept, rather, it is a perceptual experience which requires the presence of an organism with the appropriate nervous system to detect and analyze it. For example, if a tree fell in the middle of a deserted forest, it wouldn't result in perceivable sound as there is no organism to conceptualize it. Sound travels through disturbances in air pressure, and is made up of waves consisting of different amplitude and frequency. It is important to recognize that sound is not a single entity, rather, it includes a multitude of unique components that together produce a common tone. Another common misconception regarding sound is that air is the only medium that carries and transfers it. There are numerous other ways that sound can be transferred, including wood, steel, and water. Sound also does not travel at a consistent speed - this is determined by the air pressure, humidity, temperature, and various other factors of the surrounding situation. A simplified equation for the velocity of sound is 343 + (0.06 x Tc), with Tc being the temperature in Celsius. Next, let's take a look at sound waves and different terms associated with them. A sound wave is the wave of air pressure that steadily travels away from its source. Such waves can be graphed on a Cartesian coordinate plane, and resemble sine curves. The amplitude of a sound wave is its maximum deviation from the baseline level at the x-axis, and its frequency is the distance between each curve peak (on the y-axis). Now that we understand the components of sound, its basic properties, and how it functions, let's look into how the ear is able to perceive and analyze sound waves. First, sound is collected and localized into the ear. A special outer vestige of the ear, known as the pinna, plays a great role in localizing sound in the ear. The pinna is a external structure that deflects sound waves into the ear, and collects as many waves as possible from the origin. Next, sound is tunneled down the auditory canal. After being composed into the ear by the pinna, sound is then tunneled into the auditory canal, a slightly bent tube that extends from the ear hole to the eardrum. At the far end of the canal is the eardrum, which vibrates to a certain extent after being exposed to the sound waves. It has been estimated that this oval-shaped membrane vibrates 1/100,000,000 of a centimeter (the width of a hydrogen molecule) if exposed to 20 dB of sound. Together, these first two steps make up the outer ear. After hitting the eardrum, the sound waves are transmitted to the middle ear. Sound waves are sent to a small, air-filled chamber known as the middle ear after they make contact with the eardrum. Through a series of ossicles (the three smallest bones in the human body), these waves are pushed into the chamber - where minor checks are performed regarding impedance matching and overload protection. Sound then travels to the inner ear, where it is converted to electrical impulses in order to be sent to the brain. The inner ear is a cavity in the temporal bone of the skull which contains a series of hollow cavities within it (the most important being the cochlea). Sound vibrations are sent into the cochlea after exiting the middle ear, where they produce pressure changes in fluid that is stored within the cavity. Impulses from such activity are then sent to the organ of Corti (situated inside the cochlea), which transforms mechanical activity into neural impulses that are ready to be sent to the brain. Finally, the auditory nerve sends neural messages from the cochlea to the brain. The auditory nerve, made of approximately 30,000 individual axons, carries information that is converted by the cochlea to the brain. The nerve branches into various different fibers, but reconnects at the auditory cortex and sends signals to perceptualize certain kinds of sound. That's the basic process of how humans perceive sound through their ears. Even though the system may seem complex and long, the human body can analyze sound and send signals to the brain in less than one thousandth of a second! Hope this helps! Of course, there are many more nuanced, intricate processes that are involved in the transmission of sound between the ear and the brain - feel free to comment on this answer or PM me if you have any questions or would like further details. 