What is your favorite tree?
The Acacia tree. They've been described as "the most conscious trees" for their fascinating defense mechanism they utilize against giraffes. Essentially, when an acacia tree senses it's under attack by a hungry giraffe, it flushes its system with something that makes its leaves bitter and gives the giraffes bad digestion! It takes some time, however, so the giraffes still are able to get their dinner in if they're quick (everybody's happy)! What's even more amazing is that all the other acacia trees within 50 yards can "sense" that their friend's defense system went off, and so they go on the defense as well! (I wonder if their roots are all interconnected and that's how they are communicating?) Acacias v Giraffes – a uniquely African tussle Something else that's cool: Of all plants, Acacia trees supposedly have the highest content of dimethyltryptamine (DMT). It is typically their bark that is used for DMT extractions or the making of ayahuasca (a traditional psychedelic "soup" that's been being brewed by shamans in a wide variety of cultures for millennia!). DMT is the stuff our brains manufacture and flush through our systems while we sleep that supposedly induces dreams. DMT extracted and smoked or mixed in ayahuasca is the strongest hallucinogen known to man, but its trips only last 5-10 minutes whilst conscious. No wonder dreams can be so trippy, you're literally tripping!  It's been called the "spirit molecule" by Dr. Straussman who led a study on the substance and wrote a book about his experiments. There is now a documentary on it called "DMT: The Spirit Molecule" which includes interviews with a wide variety of intellectuals speculating on the psychological and philosophical implications of this substance's discovery. It's on Netflix if you're ever interested (Netflix link: DMT: The Spirit Molecule) It's fascinating stuff, and interesting that the acacia tree has the highest content of DMT, especially if it really is "the most conscious tree". Acacia is a genus that includes over 400 species. I'm not sure about the specific species of these trees. Apparently the shrubs can be rather "brilliant" as well. In this video a biologist shows how one acacia species has developed a symbiotic relationship with ants which defend them from elephants! Updated 138w ago • View Upvotes