What are the most interesting ideas in Husserl's book "Cartesian Mediations"?
Though their lifetimes were nearly three hundred years apart, Rene  Descartes and Edmund Husserl had many things in common. Both were  trained as mathematicians and only later turned to philosophy; both  brought from mathematics a taste for rigorous analysis and exactitude, a  thirst for certainty, and a hatred of skepticism; both were  dissatisfied with the philosophical climate of their times, a decadent  Scholasticism for Descartes and an exhausted Kantian / post-Kantian  idealism for Husserl; both sought firmly to ground the other more  specialized sciences in a kind of “first philosophy”; and both had an  enormous impact on Western thought. Descartes is in many ways considered  the founder of the whole modern tradition in philosophy, and Husserl is  without a doubt the primary figure in the most influential movement of  twentieth-century continental philosophy, phenomenology. Given their  similar aims, however, it is instructive to contrast their methods.  (Doing so also dispels the myth that philosophy never advances as a  discipline). Husserl admired Descartes and sympathized with his goals—in  fact, he even entitled one of his mature works Cartesian  Meditations—but he was convinced that his predecessor had taken a wrong  turn at the very beginning of his journey. In spite of his plan  to doubt everything, according to Husserl, Descartes had failed to call  into question a fundamental assumption: the representative theory of  perception. The assumption is that the world and the things that make it  up are outside our minds, but what we have access to through our senses  are representations, images, copies of those things inside our minds.  The obvious question that arises is, How do we know that those  representations match the real things? We don’t, and we can’t. This  leads either to some sort of idealism (Berkeley, Kant) or to skepticism.  Descartes is concerned with the latter. He writes, Everything  which I have thus far accepted as entirely true and assured has been  acquired from the senses or by means of the senses. But I have learned  by experience that these senses sometimes mislead me, and it is prudent  never to trust wholly to those things which have once deceived us. Convinced  that sensation/perception is unreliable (as a pre-Kantian, he doesn’t  make the distinction), he decides to doubt all of his perceptual beliefs  and all beliefs that are based on them. He calls the existence of the  entire external world into question, and in search of a better  foundation, retreats inside his own mind. He finds what he is looking  for in the cogito, the intuition of his existence as “a thing which  thinks,” and then immediately in a deductive demonstration of the  existence of a non-deceiving God. This, he believes, is the rock-solid  foundation on which we can build an indestructible edifice of certain  knowledge. Unfortunately, Descartes’ successors quickly point out  how in each of these two steps he smuggles in unwarranted metaphysical  assumptions, and how when he is finished we are still left with an  intractable mind-body problem, among other difficulties. They agree that  Descartes’ problem is unsolved and that a chasm still yawns between  representation and reality, mind and matter, thoughts and things. Here  Husserl makes his first bold move: he argues that everyone’s mistake is  falsely thinking of thinking in spatial metaphors. One consequence of  this is that Husserl flatly denies the representative theory of  perception. When we examine consciousness, he points out, we find that  it is intentional, that is, directed, consciousness-of. It is  irreducibly composed of a subject pole/aspect (the conscious ego and the  act by which it is directed), an object pole (what it is directed  toward), and a meaning pole (what the object is understood as). Now, if  the object were simply an image, it would be entirely contained within  consciousness, part of the act. But reflection shows that objects  actually transcend consciousness. First, if I look at, say, a particular  tree several times on different occasions, or if several different  people look at it at once, it is clearly the same tree we are seeing,  not different ones. Second, when we look at the tree from different  angles or under different conditions, we see different parts of it. It  is never fully present at once, the way an act is. Third, our very  concept of a representation requires acquaintance with  that-which-is-represented. You wouldn’t be able to think of, say, a  painting of a landscape as a representation unless you had some sort of  acquaintance with landscapes. You wouldn’t be able to recognize dreams  or hallucinations for what they are unless you had at some point not  been dreaming or hallucinating. So global skepticism like  Descartes’, the idea that we only have access to representations, is  incoherent. “Since the interpretation of anything as an image  presupposes an object intentionally given to consciousness, we should  plainly have a regressus in infinitum were we again to let this latter  object itself be constituted through an image.” We have direct,  unmediated acquaintance with objects as presentations. “We are always  already in contact with being.” To invert Plato’s parable, philosophers  have thought they were in a cave, specifically a bony one filled with  squishy gray matter. In fact, they have all along been sitting in broad  daylight, and what they thought were shadows on the wall were actually  the real things. Husserl’s second target, the equivalent of Descartes’  evil demon, is psychologism, the doctrine that the laws of logic are  rooted in the nature of the human mind, not in the nature of reality. He  argues that psychologism confuses acts of knowing, which are temporal,  with the objects of knowledge, in this case the eternal, abstract,  ideal, entities and laws of logic. The difference is evident under  phenomenological investigation. With the skeptical problematic  out of the way, the primary task is no longer to construct a deductive  metaphysical system. Without a doubt that objects are given to us, the  fundamental question is how they are given to us. Thus Husserl calls for  a return “to the things themselves.” He considers himself an  epistemological realist, claiming that we know things as they actually  are, but he is neither a metaphysical realist nor a metaphysical  idealist. He believes that consciousness is essentially intended toward  objects, while objects are essentially possibilities for intending  subjects, and therefore it is incoherent to think of one without the  other. The world only appears, and only could appear, in consciousness.  It follows that that the first-person perspective is prior to the  third-person perspective. So the work of phenomenology, as “first  philosophy” and the grounding for all other sciences, is to clarify and  demarcate the “phenomenological realm,” that is, the essential  structures of consciousness. This requires epoche, that is, suspending  or bracketing—not Cartesian doubting, which is incoherent—our  metaphysical assumptions and judgments, including those of existence. In  doing so we pass from the natural attitude to the presuppositionless  phenomenological attitude. The phenomenologist is less of an  architect than a surveyor and cartographer (although, unfortunately,  this too is a spatial metaphor). Before jumping to hasty metaphysical  conclusions, as Descartes does, Husserl wants to linger in the  phenomenological realm until it has been fully explored. Like the  scholastic realists, he discovers that both acts and objects come to us  in distinct, intelligible, essential structures. We can intend the same  object through different kinds of acts, such as seeing, remembering,  imagining, and signifying. Or we can with the same act intend different  kinds of objects, such as physical objects, states of affairs,  propositions, and abstract entities (categorial objects). We can intend  the same object with different meanings, or the different objects with  the same meaning. All of these need to be classified. In practice, our  consciousness consists of multilayered intentions and complex objects,  which needed to be sorted out. There is also the question of what in  experience is constituted by the subject and what is constituted by the  object. Fundamental ontology inquires into the general categories of  being; regional ontology inquires more specifically into certain  portions of the phenomenological realm. As regional ontologies, the  special sciences need to be demarcated and situated within it. We can  perform the eidetic reduction to determine which elements of a thing are  essential and which are accidental. And finally, we can perform the  transcendental reduction, which inquires into the conditions of the  possibility of experience in general. This is an enormous array of  tasks; and unlike Descartes, who sought to complete his project alone in  his “stove” in a matter of days, Husserl emphasizes that phenomenology  is a communal endeavor that takes lifetimes. 