What are some of the more recent groundbreaking ideas in philosophy?
Modern, contemporary, today, recent, philosophical ideas are not better, or at least, do not necessarily resolve much of anything that wasn't asked and answered by dummy philosophers with inferior brains and health thousands of years ago. We just do it with more cool factors, logic puzzles, computers, and funny terms and symbols. Ludwig Wittgenstein, who was too smart to just be a human, summed this up nicely when he stated, "All testing, all confirmation and disconfirmation of a hypothesis takes place already within a system. And this system is not a more or less arbitrary and doubtful point of departure for all our arguments: no, it belongs to the essence of what we call an argument... as the element in which arguments have their life." My dude, my favorite philosopher is Heraclitus.University Here's a scanned Polaroid picture of him taken while he was depressed one night about 2500 years ago. Source: public domain. Heraclitus, like Euripides, and other loons of ancient Greece, tried to explain what the hell we are doing here and what if anything, can we understand about it. He derived from his thoughts about the natural world his theory of Logos, which basically means, as he is often quoted, "no man steps in the same river twice." In other words, we live in a reality of different, ever changing realities that are very hard to explain or understand, and that sucks, because we are surrounded by idiots that don't care to try, or think they have an understanding of the world we somehow just cannot seem to grasp. Heraclitus was a cynical, crazy ass philosopher, but yet, was he? His words seem no less relevant today than Nietzsche's in some respects, except instead of the eternal return, Heraclitus says we should call it, "the way up and the way down," and focus on elements such as fire to explain it, rather than demons and power and morals and shit like Nietzsche does. It's important to understand philosophy is not at all accomplished after thousands of years, simply because we have gotten better at making more of it and describing our bodies and minds. Sidebar: I owe a debt of gratitude to Dr. Jeffery Purinton, for my appreciation of Heraclitus. More info on Dr. Purinton, and what he is working on, may be found here: University of Oklahoma Department of Philosophy Dr. Purinton is a brilliant mind in contemporary interpretations of Ancient Greek philosophy. He helps non-philosophers (mostly undergrads) understand why mostly unknown dead Greek crazies are tremendously important to how we interpret the world as we do, and why. End sidebar. Over some 1600 years ago, St. Augustine wrote, "The City of God," where he took on the question of whether miracles exist, and if so, how/why. Augustine says that they do, because God is real. Later, David Hume's "Of Miracles," about 1400 years after Augustine's work, and carefully examines the evidence for miracles, what constitutes evidence at that, and again, whether or not miracles exist. Eventually Hume concludes they do not exist because they require all religions to be correct, which is a contradictory trap for most religions, and therefore, miracles cannot exist because they fail to make all religions valid. Some might disagree, even dedicating their lives, and ultimately, often, the lives of innocent people, e.g. physical violence to argue the case for a religion's supremacy perpetrated by the lovely, level headed folks of ISIS, or legacy Branch Davidians. Hume does a terrible job here, yet it is one of the most important works of its kind we have. We have not gotten much closer to resolving the question of, what are miracles, and especially then on to resolving, do miracles exist, since Augustine's City of God. Yet, philosophers still hack-away at their keyboards trying to get the grant money necessary to keep their jobs alive, ignoring extremely fundamental problems with ontology and epistemology, relying on unproven building blocks to be at least somewhat valid to make their case moving forward. So, I will provide some nonsense below to hopefully get you to "today," and what's good in philosophy. First, it is hard to overstate how difficult it is to answer your question in simple, short terms, without irresponsibly ignoring the possibility that you asked the question in the hopes that you are simply missing out on some deeper understanding of the world that is currently being churned out by today's academics. Well, in short, you aren't missing a little, you are missing a lot, and it cannot be expressed linearly like a 5th grade history book. The answers to these questions often overlook many great, important ideas in favor of more recent books or papers on old ideas. Cartesian metaphysics as expressed by the cogito, in short, "I think, therefore, I am," is the idea that our existence can be proven simply be rearranging the way we think about the existence of existence. The question, do I exist, becomes, I exist because I can think about my existence, reason about my existence, form conclusions about my existence, etc. Since that time in philosophy, a bunch of crap has unfolded. Most of it is fundamentally a reconstruction of prior ideas, presented by different applications of the scientific method, in other words, calculative, logical, scientific thinking. Such works rely on newer technologies, such as scientific explanations of how the brain and body work that were unknown to philosophers even a hundred years ago. But wait, woah, slow down, what's wrong with using science to explain the physical world, and ultimately, existence? Well, nothing specifically, unless you are a philosopher. Source: Main Branches of Philosophy Notice the "etc.?" This etc. is why I chose this picture to illustrate my points. Today, we, philosophers, people, thinkers, you, me, and other people on Quora, tend to spend a lot of our time trying to categorize things. But, thats dumb and we shouldn't overcomplicate the classification of stuff we don't fully understand. Alas, we have to so that we can separate philosophical inquiry into a Henry Ford-esque assembly line. If each philosopher does his or her part in each individual category, surely we will someday produce a human or set of humans capable of synthesizing them back into one, unified theory, right? The above tree is worthless nonsense if the entire concept of our being is somehow completely wrong. In other words, what if the way we think of existence, is not representative of some alternate version of a real existence, or, if there is simply no real existence at all? This is a deep concept that is intended to mean something beyond what can be expressed in simple thought experiments or text in a Quora post and is not to be universally understood as a static, structured, universal concept, either. That crap I said above that makes no sense? Yeah, that's also nonsense. Philosophers have been rearranging how we express our ideas about that nonsense above by prescribing theories, categories, descriptions, and systems of thinking, for a while now. Some of them even do a good job, some make it interesting by talking about the matrix or whether or not barns in a field are real or manifestations of false consciousness, teleologically reproduced to help us remain sane. In other words, is it not peculiar that most philosophy has a human use, an endpoint or goal, a purpose? A lot of philosophers have tried to explain this problem by trying to explain intrinsic vs. extrinsic consciousness, multiplicitous realities or perspectives and whether we can access them by describing them to each other or if they are only subjectively held by the perpetrator of each reality. I can drone on and on and on about such nonsense for months, and still not really explain anything to you about what is going on in philosophy. Martin Heidegger took this on during his life. This is therefore the answer to your question from me. What the hell happened to us talking about whether we exist or not? Seriously, that was never really resolved, was it? This is called ontology, or metaphysics. Heidegger argues that philosophy needs to take a step back for a moment and think before technology influenced thought systems and human social systems of behavior and influence. So, before Socrates told Plato to tell us all we don't know what justice is, so we should stop trying to move forward with our stupid ideas about ethics and morals before we fix them, what was the sense of self like, how was it different than today, and where did it go? Heidegger says metaphysics, or being, "it" was wiped away and doesn't exist anymore. Technology, such as democracy, blacksmithing, Europe, colonialsm, nuclear weapons, cursive writing, nursing homes, Walmart, you name it, ruined it for the worse. Heidegger is awesome, and is often dismissed because he may have been a nazi party member or whatever. Heidegger was super honest about his work and eventually admitted we are no further along than we ever were in philosophizing about stuff, and it will take God tumbling down to earth to make us understand anything with any degree of certainty, cause of his omnipotence, omnibenevolence, and omniscience, etc. Which, is just the argument for perceptive tautology, in my opinion. Some however call my view, and similarly Heidgger's fatalistic projection for the fate of philosophy, "nihilism," of which I either disagree, or at the least think nihilism is more positive than say, Donald Trump does, which is likely in the same context as nihilism is represented here by Mickey Kaus, as quoted therein: Kaus on Trump: “We Don’t Want Your ... Comprehensive Immigration Reform” - Ricochet I recommend, as I do everyone, you read the entirety of Michel Foucault's  bibliography. When you are finished, you will understand  more than you ever thought possible about the world, and be left simultaneously more confused about it, than before you posted this question. Heidegger, Heraclitus, David Blair, Socrates, and other philosophers are cool with that state of being though, because there does seem to be some wisdom in knowing that we spend our lives not knowing much, especially when we read a lot of different people's interpretations of how we go about not knowing stuff. 