How do you remove the last element of an array in c++?Because arrays have some fixed size, you'll need a way to determine which elements are valid and which are not. You have some options. #1 Only ever keep valid items in your array. This means that if you want to add a new item or remove an item, you'll need to allocate a new array of the correct size and copy over all the items from the old array to the new array. You just don't copy the item to be removed. And for a new item, you make room for it and copy it to the new array along with all the items from the old array. This approach has the downside that you can't allocate an array with extra size and you end up reallocating the array for every additional and removal. #2 Provide some value that means there is no value at some array position. This really only works well with pointers because a nullptr is a good indicator that nothing exists at this location. It can work with ints or other value types but then you lose the ability to store valid items of that value. Maybe you decide to use -1 for an invalid integer. That works until you really do need valid integers with the value -1. #3 Keep track of the last valid item in the array in a separate integer outside of the array. To remove the last element of an array with this approach, you just need to decrement the count of valid items. It's important to note that this approach doesn't actually remove the item, it just marks the spot as no longer being used. This approach requires that all valid elements appear at the beginning of the array. You can't have holes in your array like you can with option #2. I kept the concepts of removing an element from an array separate from the concept of deleting an element once it's been removed. This allows you to remove an element and assuming the element type is a pointer to some dynamically allocated memory, then the object removed is still valid. This may be what you want or it could cause memory leaks if you don't delete the removed elements. 222 Views  View Upvotes  Answer requested by Richard Shatz