How would you explain an "array" to a beginner in programming?I suppose you might be asking for some sort of analogy to use, but I'm going to come at it from a different angle. I tend to favor teaching concepts by introducing a situation where the concept is actually useful.  At the point where I would be trying to explain what an array is, the student should already understand the notion of variables. I tend to teach using graphics, so this is just one possible example, but let's say the student has already made a very small, crappy game where they're controlling the motion of a little plane sprite to dodge asteroids. For the time being, there's only one asteroid on the screen at a time. The logic might just be that they have a few variables such as asteroidX, asteroidY, asteroidXSpeed, and asteroidYSpeed, and every frame they apply asteroidX += asteroidXSpeed * timeSinceLastFrame asteroidY += asteroidYSpeed * timeSinceLastFrame ... some code to control the plane based on its current position and the mouse position ... some code to check for collision between the plane and asteroid ... some code to check if the asteroid has gone off screen, and if so respawn it with random asteroidXSpeed, asteroidYSpeed at the top of the screen  Now I would ask the student to extend it so there can be 10 asteroids at the same time. The student sees that they end up having to duplicate a lot of code and create a lot of variables: asteroid1XSpeed, asteroid2XSpeed, asteroid3XSpeed...then I ask how they would like it if we now changed the logic for how asteroids move. They'd have to copy and paste the change everywhere. Then I'd say, "Well, this situation comes up a lot in programming. Luckily there's a better way to do it! There's a way to say that you want k independent copies of a particular variable that you will then access with the syntax 'collectionName[indexNumber]'"  Now the student immediately sees the use of an array. They can make an array of asteroid data, and then loop over that array every frame to update all the asteroids without duplicate code.  I suppose this is more of an explanation of lists and not necessarily arrays, but to a beginner, the difference between a list and an array is not important. 841 Views  View Upvotes