Can I get some example programs that are done using Array of structures?For storing collections of similar data--such as lists of books, employees, street maps, etc.--there are 4 basic storage options, with arrays being the simplest and the least flexible. For random access, arrays often provide the best performance, but for sequential access, there is no real difference. The main methods include: Arrays -- Large blocks of memory are laid out so that elements are right next to each other in memory. The entire block most be allocated at once. It's a trivial math operation to go to the i-th element. Linked Lists -- Each element points to the next or, in doubly linked lists, the previous element in the list and can be allocated on a per-element basis. The exact location of a given element is impossible to compute unless you know the location of the previous element or, if there is no previous element, where the first element is located. It can not be accessed in random order except to iterate through i-1 elements first. Trees -- They are like linked lists, but each element can point to zero or more child elements. Once you start down a branch, you're not allowed to go backwards or link to another branch. They have the same restrictions as a linked list, but the search time for an element can be reduced to logki logki , where k is the average number of children per element. Graphs -- They are similar to trees, though with the flexibility of backward movement and the ability to link to other branches. The same restrictions apply: The search time links between the elements and is proportionate to the average number of elements and links. Most algorithms that don't require branching assume arrays, and you can convert to linked lists with ease. For the most part, any time you need to store a set of similar data, you use arrays. A real-life example is a spreadsheet, where the data, in and of itself, is stored in a two-dimensional array. Another real-life example is this answer, in which each character is stored in an element in an array of characters known as a string. Thanks for the A2A, Tauhid. 358 Views  View Upvotes  Answer requested by Tauhid Suman