Why is Tom Cook so interested in outer space?
An easy question to answer, since I can trace everything back to this single book, published in 1986: http://www.amazon.com/National-G... My parents bought this book when I was a kid. I probably read it cover to cover a couple dozen times growing up in a time before The Internet and Wikipedia. The book is extremely powerful in the way it tells the story of The Universe and our place in it: The first section covers belief systems of ancient cultures (Norse, Egyptian, Hindu, etc) and charts the process by which each of those cultures developed concrete knowledge of their world, including the movement of Earth, the Sun and the Stars. Later it eases into optical and radio astronomy. The next few sections cover each planet in the The Solar System in detail, as well as the Sun. It's pretty remarkable how much the book covers and the clarity that it describes concepts like the doppler effect, sun spots, composition of gas giants, the formation of planetary rings, and the history of life on Earth. It also examines  a number of nearby moons, including Earth's (and its importance to us), Io, Europa, Phobos, Deimos, Titan, and others. Another section examines the belt of asteroids cutting the Solar System in half, while yet another is devoted to comets, the Oort Cloud, and their occasional effects on Earth (Tunguska, Halley, extinction events). Next it covers deep space, other galaxies, and places the size of our Solar System in relation to other celestial bodies, stars, and the null space between them. Star formation, pulsars, and black holes also have a couple pages each (plus illustrations). This section also covers our attempts to communicate with potential extraterrestrial civilizations through radio telescopes, Voyager 1 & 2, and the promise of the soon-to-launch (at publishing time) Hubble Space Telescope. Finally, the book wraps up with a guess at the future of human space exploration. The International Space Station is alluded to, future iterations of the Space Shuttle are described, and even farther out: moon colonies, asteroid mining, and long-term exploration and colonization of deep space. The final two paragraphs of the book are inspiring: Some scientists think we will never reach the stars; time will forever keep us prisoners of our Solar System. But people once scoffed at the idea of huge machines carrying passengers through the air and of trips to the Moon. Yesterday's science fiction often becomes today's science fact. We have many reasons to venture into space. One is to harness energy. Another is to find out about other planetary systems and stars so we can better understand our own. And finally there is the driving curiosity to know whether we are alone in the vastness of the Universe. Do intelligent beings and advanced civilizations abound out there? Once day, perhaps, we will know. In 277 fully-illustrated pages this book loads an incredible amount of raw knowledge about the extremely large universe beyond Earth. I was fascinated by everything in it, and when I moved out to attend college it was the one book that I brought with me. I still have it here in California. I've never been drawn to religion, but I believe deeply in the beauty of the Universe and the myriad systems that have, over billions and billions of years, evolved to form unique and interdependent components, even in the absence of anything matching our definition of intelligence or planning. We as humans are extremely fortunate to exist at the absolute evolutionary precipice of everything that came before us. Mammals, creatures in Earth's oceans, multicellular organisms, single cell organisms, and space dust floating around in a void of nothingness all predate contemporary life. We are the only creature we know of with the mental capacity to understand its place in the Universe and create tools to shape the world to fit our needs and desires. And yet no matter how fortunate we are for this opportunity, we still live in a dangerous, uncaring, largely random existence. Eventually events will occur to force the complete extinction of all life on Earth, humanity and everything we've accomplished over the past 200,000 years. For example: Within 500,000 years Earth will almost certainly be impacted by an asteroid of >1 kilometer in diameter. This will cause a mass extinction of most life on Earth, and has happened at least 5-12 times before in Earth's relatively short history. Within 100 million years Earth will be impacted by at least one asteroid of the size that killed the Dinosaurs. Within 1 billion years the average temperature on earth will be around 117F due to increases in luminosity of the Sun, causing all water to evaporate and the continuation of life being extremely unlikely. Within 1.6 billion years the temperature rises to the point that Earth is no longer within the "habitable zone" in our Solar System and can no longer sustain life of any kind. In the best scenario we as humans have at least 500,000 years left on Earth and at best 100 million years. Assuming we don't destroy ourselves before those dates hit there's really no reason we can't keep living on and on, but the only way to do it is to move beyond Earth. The struggle of humanity to accomplish the impossible against interests that seek to hold us back will always be fascinating to me. Those that work toward those goals (NASA/ESA/Russian FSA/SpaceX (company)/etc) deserve our attention and support. I hope we can nudge the ball far enough in my lifetime to ensure progress is made in the following hundreds and thousands of years to keep humanity and our legacy in the Universe alive. The second part of your question is why I've worked in the Internet industry (Facebook/Quora) instead of NASA or the wider aerospace industry. I really can't say, other than you do what you do at the time it makes sense. I can't be sure I would have been happier working for Lockheed Martin or Boeing vs Silicon Valley/Internet companies over the last ten years. Either way, life is short and I probably have 50 more years on Earth max. Things could change in the future and I might chart a new course. We'll see. 