What's the technology used behind Google Now? How does it recommend places at the right time?
Google Now is a very sophisticated app that relies on many server side analysis including Big Data Analysis..You'll need to be very firmly acquainted with Computer Science to understand most of it but in a gist, let me just tell you what it does... In a nutshell, Google Now analyses all data that google has gathered about you and uses it to provide more relevant information. Google Now has 2 stages : the  Passive Stage and The Active Stage. The Passive Stage is the main screen that appears when you launch the Google Search App on Android If you are a newbie to Google and haven't used most of Google's features then you'll probably have a card showing the weather and some information cards. How does it know the Weather? Well, if you are using an Android Device, you might have noticed the Google play store app and many other google apps. All these apps are part of Google Mobile Services which is a core module that differentiates Google's Android and stock AOSP (Android Open Source Project Android). Now the GMS has two main modules of it - Google Location Services and Google Play Services Now GLS knows you're location by using complex cellular signal triangulation and sometimes even GPS. So when you activate Google Now, Google Search simply asks GLS about your location and then uses Google's weather data to return weather in either JSON or XML and then parses it..Wonderful, eh? Other Passive Cards work in a similar manner. For example the Interested Stories cards uses your Google Search History to detect which Articles you have read through Google Search and Google News which it then uses to fetch new articles which are similar to ones you have read using Google News. Neat, right? The Active state, which returns answers to you for questions that you ask to it. This state is even cooler as it uses Natural Language Processing to understand the context of your question.After getting the question it then matches the answer in Google Knowledge Graph and then returns it if it is non null. Google Now is much more complicated then that and is a wonderful piece of technology.I hope you understood at least some part of it and how it works.. 