What was your first ever poem?
Attaching the link here. Not as metaphorically resonant or nostalgia-filled as the other answers, but here goes: Empty Arch (A poem about the fictional characters Severus Snape and Lily Evans) I saw you dancing yesterday with her, Shimmering gold braids in her hair You, the biting winter wind- She, the gentle springtime air. Yes, the winter's dying now, Heralding the birth of March- For me it means solitude And waiting by the empty arch. The arch, like me, is waiting too Waiting for the leaves of spring, Waiting for a loveless man- To give him what life can't bring. My boy, when I was as old as you, I didn't bother with a dance, But then a lily cast it's spell- I fell into your mother's trance. Her fiery locks kissed the wind, Her eyes shone sparkling green like jade, And she danced with elan-under the arch Where the crimson  autumn leaves spread. You know why we became friends You know why we tore apart- My burning candle for my love Kept her safe in my heart. And her smiling, radiant gaze- Looks upon me  from my wall, Lily Evans, Defendress of Hogwarts Princess of the Yule Ball. Your girl reminded me of her Striking grace and perfect poise, While your girl chose shocking pink- Your mother was beautiful in turquoise. I admired her from behind the statue Of the One-Eyed witch, stealing a glance Now and then; too shy to walk up To ask her to the Christmas dance. And your father - The chosen one for girls, Was thronged (as usual)by many a friend, Yet he only had eyes for her- A thing we fought for till the end. They danced away then-Lily and James, Everyone's favorites for the night As for me- the dance felt gaudy, The colors too loud, the lights too bright. That night, sleeping on my bed I conjured her face-ethereally sweet, Followed her to the crumbling arch, Where she stood  upon her dancing, slender feet. "Dance with me, will you Sev?"she asked(her voice Could  bewitch the world to bend) I reached  out, but the sun proved faster, And the dream drew towards a dying end. And I saw her in my mind When you danced in the festive hall, You are your father's son, but your eyes Belong to the lady who charmed the Yule ball Now, every few days-i venture into the woods But always end in a futile search- Lily Evans, present in absence The wind howls around an empty arch. You can find it here: Empty Arch, a harry potter fanfic 