What factors affected ad spending levels during the 2008 Presidential campaign in the Madison, Miami, and Richmond media markets?
Using only a rudimentary analysis, it appears on an aggregate level that the only statistically significant predictor was time until the election. The average polling lead of the cadidates (ie the difference in poll results between Obama and McCain) may have had some impact- but its not entirely clear. In the graph below, the x-axis represents the number of week left until the election and the y-axis represents the log of ad spending (to normalize the data). Blue is Obama and Red is McCain. As you can see there is  a clear trend of increased spending as the number of weeks left approaches 0. In the graph below, the y-axis represents Obama's average weekly lead in the polls, leading up to the 2008 election. Here were can see that the relationship is not as clearcut between the lead and money spent. If we regress (table 1)  the number of weeks left and the lead on the log of spending, we see that we can reject the null hypothesis that lead does not affect spending at the 94% confidence level. The following output suggests, that with time held constant, a 1% increase in Obama's lead would result in a .0503 increase in the log of ad spending for either candidate. Put another way, this data suggests that if a campaign spent $400,000 one week on ads, and Obama's lead increased by 1%, then the next week that same campaing (all else held constant) would spend $420,634. However a per candidate breakdown shows that Obama's spending (table 2) had a much weaker relationship to the lead (68% confidence level), than McCain's spending (table 3) which has a much tighter confidence region 88%. Looking at McCain's numbers, one could make almost make case that his ad budget was influenced. But, if we look back at Graph 2, we see that one point seems to throw off the trend. That was in t-minus 15 weeks, when Obama polled 11% higher than McCain. Because it was so far from the elections, neither candidate was spending a lot of money on ads. Which leads to my conclusion, that the lead probably did not actually have a strong effect on spending. What we are seeing is a spurious regression and co-linearity between spending between time and spending. It just happened to be that Obama was pulling away in the polls as the 2008 election was approaching. Without more data or a more sophisticated analysis (for example structural equation modeling), I don't think the lead actually affected the ad spend. 