What are some tips on using Adobe After Effect?
1. Learn the keyboard shortcuts - Like any Adobe program, learning the keyboard shortcuts will save you a lot of wasted time digging through menus and twirling open options (Keyboard shortcuts reference). 2. Learn at least some basic Expressions - If you're going to be using AE professionally, time is almost always in short supply. Anything you can do to both speed up your work and make your life easier is a huge bonus. For people without coding experience Expressions can seem a little daunting but if I can learn it, anyone can learn it. Even something as simple as connecting properties via the pick whip can speed up your workflow and turn a keyframe explosion into a streamlined animation. For Example. I needed a quick intro animation for tutorials for my PIXEL8 wordpress site. I don't know what I was thinking when I chose a pixelated font, but I'm stuck with it for a little while so I decided to drop every individual pixel in the words 'PIXEL Tuts' into the title. Here's the title and what the font looks like. As you can see there are an awful lot of pixels in those two little words. So instead of animating each individual dot with keyframes, all of the individual pixels falling in and falling out are animated with two keyframes in and two keyframes out. Here's a look at some of the AE work. Dropping in the pixels Some of the Expressions on the individual Pixels and the Null (Controller) that controls their speed. The two Nulls in the Main comp that control all of the individual pixels And here's the final animation (it's at the beginning of this C4D tutorial): So with just some basic understanding of Expressions I saved myself an enormous amount of keyframing by relying heavily on 'valueAtTime' and some linking of properties between layers and even comps. When all was said and done all of those individual pixels are controlled with two Nulls and just two keyframes in and two keyframes out. The best part is, if I want to go back and retime the animation I don't have to redo 40 or 50 different layers and their keyframes. Just a change to a slider or moving maybe 4 keyframes total and I can retime the entire thing. I can also change the movement of my Nulls to have the pixels animate on from the left or right instead of up and down. This is just one small example of how much time learning Expressions can save you, but once you dive further into it the possibilities are endless. I suggest learning it as soon as you possibly can. 3. Parent your Camera to a Null - If you've ever wondered how some people get such smooth camera moves in AE, this is how. 4. Manipulate your Keyframes - You have a bunch of options available to manipulate the way your keyframes work. The 3 most important ones are the Keyframe Assistant, Keyframe Interpolation, and the Graph Editor. Keyframe Assistant A simple move with keyframes from point A to point B can be made much more natural by using Easy Ease, Ease In, or Ease Out. There are certainly some instances when a hard linear keyframe move is what you want, but the majority of the time you want to use the Keyframe Assistant to change the way your object moves. Keyframe Interpolation You have 3 options at your disposal for Keyframe Interpolation. Temporal Interpolation affects how a property changes over time (in the Timeline); Spatial Interpolation affects the shape of the path (in the comp or layer panel); and Roving smooths out the speed graph. In other words, if you have say 5 keyframes, it'll move the 2nd, 3rd, and 4th keyframes in the timeline to make a smoother move (the 1st and last don't move). Graph Editor If you want precise control over the way your Keyframes work, this is where you want to head. For the most part you should be fine with the Easy Eases, but there are certainly times when you'll find diving into the Graph Editor invaluable. 5. Organize your project and comps - This is especially important if you're working professionally, but it's equally helpful if you're doing personal projects. You should never find yourself with a comp that has 15 or more layers. Use Pre-Comps to organize your layers and keep comps from becoming overly cluttered (think of them like groups in Photoshop). There are instances when you have no choice but to go with a ton of layers, but your final or Main comp should never be a mess of 15 or more layers. Also name your layers something that will make sense to a complete stranger and keep things color coded. I can't tell you how many projects I've opened only to find a complete explosion of layers, all the same color, none named anything reasonable. When working fast it can seem like a hassle, but you should always assume that someone else will need to use your project. 6. Leave notes in your Expressions - If you are using Expressions, leaving notes is a good habit to get into (unless they're extremely basic). Just a simple // and something explaining the expression will help out whoever touches your project next. 7. Work smart, not hard - Before you start any animation or keyframing, or really before you even dive into assembling comps, you should think your way through the process. You'll save yourself a lot of wasted time if you sit down and preplan your projects or comps. This is especially important when you're working with Expressions, but it is just as important if you're not. I'm sure I could go on for quite a while, but these will do for some quick(ish) tips. First and foremost, enjoy the process. Building a project in AE doesn't have to be a slog. There's no avoiding the tediousness sometimes, but if you love what you do that time will literally fly by. Hope this helps. 