How does Flipkart's interview process compare with that of Amazon's?
I had applied to Flipkart and Amazon,  2 years back. I had 4 years of experience in e-commerce field as consultant for eBay and I had groomed myself in data structures and algorithms by toiling for so many after office hours. So with great confidence, I submitted my resume to both the companies. :) Flipkart: I didn't even get a call. :( I submitted 2-3 times. I was really keen to be part of India's fast growing e-commerce event. Probably I was not selected because I didn't have degree from top-tier college on my resume. What i had heard  2 years back was that founders are IITian and projects are led by mostly IITians and non-IITians are treated as second class citizens. Since then flipkart went to my bucket of 'less keen to join'.(may be, I'm doing  angur khatte hain.. :) ) Amazon: I got a call from amazon. Amazon does not care about college degree as long as you are able to solve challenges they throw at you. First they had scheduled screening rounds  in my city on weekend. I could attend on weekend, so HR arranged telephonic screening for me. I had 2 telephonic rounds. First algorithm round and second design round.They use some screen sharing tools. Interviewer can see as you type the code. I cleared  both rounds. Then they called me for onsite interview. They paid for my to & fro hyderabad flight, stay at lemon-tree hotel and cab for all day commute. Yeah and for in-office and on-flight meals too... :) Coming to onsite interviews: I had 5 onsite interview rounds. All the interviewers were very cordial. Interview panel: 1. First  round with software developer 2. Second  round with Manager from different team (probably bar raiser) 3. Third  round with hiring manager 4. Fourth  round with team lead 5. Fifth  round with senior software engineer I think Amazon makes sure that everybody in team is in agreement about new member that they are hiring for team. One of them was junior to me but still knowledgable and he knew what he was discussing. My hiring manager was having 20+ years of technical experience and his breadth and depth of knowledge was amazing. (On a side note: Diversity Meter: None of the 7 interviewer was female. I wondered why. No female engineers working there? or are they not interested in recruiting activities or they are not given opportunity for this.) Unfortunately I could not make it. I fell just little short of expectations . But nevertheless, it was good experience. Throughout the process, I had built good rapport with HR. He called me again as soon as  after 6 months of blocking period for rejected candidates got over , to know if I would like to apply again. 