What's the average profit margin earned by apparel distributors, brick & mortar retailers, and e-commerce/online retailers?
Great answers so far, especially the one written by Matthew Carroll. I'll just add a few additional points that have not yet been mentioned. There is a sub-set of the full priced retail channel; the off-price channel.   This market focuses on the disposal of slow-moving and excess inventory.  The apparel business is volatile.  Fashion items (i.e. styles that have a limited shelf life) are sometimes designed for a "season."  When the season ends, new designs are brought in to replace older ones, giving consumers something "new" to look forward to.  Imagine if you went into your favorite clothing shop only to find the same old stuff over and over again, year after year.  Both the retail and manufacturer would surely suffocate, as the apparel is much like the movie business; once you've seen it, the appeal drops dramatically the next time. As a result, new styles are constantly being designed, so that when you walk into your favorite store, there is an element of "discovery" and hopefully, appealing choices. The problem is that tastes are not black and white and there is no "formula" for coming up with a good design.  A design of any kind could take off like wildfire or flop miserably.  There is simply no way to know.  So, you throw darts at the dart board hoping that most of them "stick." With all this uncertainty comes the inevitable volatility and predictable nature of apparel.  But, you have to take an educated guess and produce X amount of units to satisfy what you believe will be the expected demand.  Most of the time you will hopefully guess right, but some of the time you will guess wrong.  Styles that you expect will sell will sit there on the shelves with everybody thinking "That's the ugliest thing I've ever seen."  It happens. That's the back-story. The aftermath is slow-moving and excessive inventory.  Of course, everyone knows that the full priced retailer's solution is something called a "sale," or when those efforts have failed, a "clearance sale." But what is a manufacturer to do? They liquidate through one of two sub-sets of the full-priced retail channels.  This market is called the off price market or sometimes, you'll know them as "factory stores." 1.  The Marshalls' and Ross' of the world and pure off-price retailers.  They buy all the "junk" manufacturers are trying to unload.  Items include factory seconds [1]  or first-quality excess, or fashion items that have passed their "season" (as described above).  There is nothing wrong with them per se.  These off-price retailers buy at a price that is somewhere around the manufacturer's and do a normal market.  The manufacturer will make a very modest profit (usually in the single digits), but more importantly, they are just super happy to get the money invested back (rather than to let the inventory just sit there collecting dust).  The retailer is happy because they get to compete in a relatively uncrowded playing field and able to make respectable margins.  You don't usually find a liquidation mechanism at off-price retailers, because the price is already lower than you can find anywhere else, thus, they don't need to. 2.  The second off-price channel is typically found with retail stores that are owned and operated by the manufacturers themselves.  These are names you'll recognize like, Guess, Tommy Hilfiger, Donna Karan, etc.  They'll all collect in geographical areas which do not compete with the full priced stores (for obvious reasons).  Factory Outlet malls are what most people know them as.  It takes quite a bit of capital resources to build and operate a chain of factory stores, which is the reason smaller manufacturers are unable to compete in the off-price retail market.  Internally, when a company is both the wholesaler/manufacturer and off-price retailer, it becomes much more lucrative for the company, as the company now receives the profits on retailing (as opposed to only the modest single-digit profit achieved on liquidating at the manufacturing level).  Call it "double profit" if you will. In closing, I'll just mention the last revenue channel very briefly, as there is not too much magic to it.  When a company established prominent brand name recognition within the marketplace, they are then uniquely positioned to capitalize on that name through licensing activities.  This has got to be, by far, the most lucrative and low risk part of retailing.  At my former company, we had more than 50 companies licensed to use our name.  We easily generated $50 million in revenue, with only $1 million in related operating expenses.  That's a 98% margin.  Some would call if free money.  Most manufacturers and retailers would give their left nut for margins like that.  But only a select few companies can do it.  Nobody in their right mind would give me any money to license "Garrick Saito" brand tennis shoes.  You brand name needs command immediate and wide spread recognition. Licensing involves the payment of royalties, generally in mid to high single digit range.  You license your name for areas that you do not compete with product-wise or geographically.  So if your company was well known for men's and women's tops and bottoms, examples of possible licensing businesses would be related products such as watches, jewelry, belts, shoes, etc.   This has some strategic brand-building advantages, creating a sense of a "lifestyle" brand, with zero capital investment.  No intention of operating in Russia?  Haven't a clue about the culture or what it takes to successfully market your product there?  Fine.  Grant a license to a strategically decided company that does. They sell $100 million?  Great pay me $7 million.  Strict control must be demanded and maintained by licensees, as to not risk or jeopardize tarnishing your valuable intellectual property (i.e. brand name).  It's a fabulous way to create a "global" brand, providing you have a strong one to behind with (domestically). In closing there is no "typical" margin for a retailer.  Each have their own strategy and way of doing business.  The closest I'll say what might be "typical" is that retailer's will generally aim for double plus $2.  It cost you $50, so double + $2 (to cover transportation) = $102.  These rates are rarely achieved, due to liquidation issues.  Additionally, store occupancy costs (rent, depreciation, etc.) are sometimes counted as cost of sales (depending on the company) so that can widely affect margins.  Buying ineptness (the inability to predict sales) can grossly affect margins.  Shrinkage (insufficient security measures) or consumer theft as you might know it, can adversely affect margins.  Every retailer is different.  As a result, every retailer's margin is different, for those reasons. This was supposed to be a short post.  I apologize for the length. [1]  imperfect or non first-quality items.  usually a button or two missing, poor stitching, a little dirty, etc. Updated 89w ago • View Upvotes