Climate Change and Global Warming in 2014-15: What do people think about former NASA climatologist Dr. Roy Spencer's assertion that 95% of global warming climate models are exaggerated?
It is a great case study in how not to do science or public policy. It is a great example of people reading what they want to rather than the data, it is a great example of why peer-reviewed science is important  - and it is a great example of how to lie with statistics and deceive your audience. It certainly doesn't disprove global warming as some people seem to think. At most, if it were correct, it says global warming is slower than predicted but it is still real and it is still happening. By his graph the earth has warmed 0.3C in 15 years. But it is not correct. It seems pretty clear he fiddled the numbers. It is a blog post, not a scientific paper. That in itself is odd: there are lots of meta-analysis of models: why doesn't he write this up as a proper paper? Even if you allege bias in the journals he could submit it o an open access site likeArXiv with all the data, documentation. But he has chose not to do so. Clearly that means it is not peer-reviewed so we have no way of knowing what experts would think. That matters because there are a lot of allegations he tampered with the data. It also means he controls the comments, so all of the criticisms and the analysis of how he cheated the graphs are excluded. But even as non-experts it is not scientific.  If my son submitted this for high-school physics he would get a FAIL 1)  He doesn't give sources or methodology. Which models? Were these cherry-picked or how did he find them? It certainly isn't all the models because some of them show temperatures falling, and he didn't include those. 2) There are some pretty explicit allegations he cheated the data: Specifically: He shifts CMIP up by 0.3C He fiddles with the measured data He cherry picked start dates and averaging periods to get the answers he wanted He doesn't use a  common baseline for model & actual Roy Spencer's latest deceit and deception  << a lot of discussion on how he gamed the statistics. Some in the blog itself, but also read through the comments 3) Why no error bars? How can you say a  measurement is below a model without showing the confidence interval on the model? Including errors, confidence intervals, SD etc is basic science For example, here is one of the models (with 95% error bars, compared to measured data). That is only one model but it hardly supports Dr Spencer's thesis: Cowtan & Way 3) Why no statistics? If you were to do a proper analysis of whether a model was correct you would include error bars and whether or not the discrepancy was significant. Here are a few articles discussing Dr Spencer's other work which does not make me confident in the quality of this one: Roy Spencer's argument depends on the lie Climate misinformer: Roy Spencer < a good overview of his statements and  record of accuracy Roy Spencer's Great Blunder, Part 1 Mathematical analysis of Roy Spencer's climate model “Dr” Roy Spencer is sad and lonely and wrong Roy Spencer Bad Week for Roy "Wrong-Way" Spencer 