What are textbooks to follow for GATE CSE Preparation?
I am Mallesham having 6 years of experience in teaching of GATE CS Classes where I also used to guide the students with special focus to crack the GATE Exam. While preparing for GATE Exam, the biggest challenge you face is finding the correct book for each subject. GATE syllabus for computer science is having hundreds of topics and there are many books which are available for the same subject, so selection of a book is very important role for you. If you are preparing for GATE Exam without guidance, you may not end the GATE preparation in time. So I guide you in the best possible way to prepare GATE exam through selection of right books. Here I am recommending some of the GATE Computer Science preparation books based on following metrics: 1. Adhering to GATE syllabus 2. Offering easy to understand concepts 3. Popularity of the book 4. Toppers recommended books The following books are recommended for preparation of GATE Computer Science and Information Technology. Programming & Data Structure GATE Questions from this subject are easy and sometimes it may waste your time due to recursive functions in programs. For getting good score, you shall focus more on the topics such as pointers, recursion, trees, and stacks. Book Name: The C Programming language, Author’s Name: Brian W. Kernighan , Dennis M. Ritchie, Edition: 2 Book Name: Classic Data Structures, Author’s Name: Debasis Samanta, Edition: 2These two books are comprehensive book for those who study Computer Concepts and C Programming, Computer Programming, Programming Methodology and Data Structures. It has all the content required that helps in making a clear understanding of C Programming concepts. These two book is quintessential for candidates studying C Programming. Algorithms Questions from algorithms require good understanding of design techniques. New problems in algorithms may consume your time in GATE but easy problems can be answered quickly. Many GATE     questions are directly appears from the following book. This book is easy to read but everyone finds that to read each topic it may take more time due to lengthy explanation. Book Name: Introduction to Algorithms, Author’s Name: Thomas H. Cormen, Charles E. Leiserson,  Ronald L. Rivest, and Clifford Stein, Edition: 3All computer algorithms can be understood clearly by perusing the contents of Introduction To Algorithms. Although this covers most of the important aspects of algorithms, the concepts have been detailed in a lucid manner. Computer Networks GATE questions from this subject have two types. First type can be answered quickly and other type of questions may need 3 to 5 minutes to get the answer. First type of questions may include from the topics: IP addressing, Routing concepts and TCP/UDP. Second type of questions from the topics: Ethernet problems, Congestion control, and Sliding Window Protocols. The following book has all concepts required for GATE syllabus. Book Name: Computer Networking: A Top-Down Approach, Author’s Name: James F. Kurose, Keith W. Ross, Edition: 6Computer Networking provides a top-down approach to this study by beginning with applications-level protocols and then working down the protocol stack. An early emphasis is placed on application-layer paradigms and application programming interfaces to allow readers to get their “hands-dirty” with protocols and networking concepts in the context of applications they will use in the industry.This book has become the dominant book for this course because of the authors’ reputations, the precision of explanation and the quality of the art program. Operating Systems This is one subject which may consume your time in GATE exam. Understand the concepts of semaphores and virtual memory to save your time to face those questions. In GATE you will also find very easy questions from the topics: Page replacement algorithms, CPU scheduling, deadlock, and disk scheduling. One book recommended which is best for understanding all OS concepts of GATE syllabus. Book Name: Operating System Concepts, Author’s Name: Silberschatz, Galvin, Gagne, Edition: 8Operating System Concepts helps readers keep abreast of some key areas in the field of operating systems. These include clustered computing, open-source operating systems and virtual machines. In a nutshell, Operating System Concepts is a guide to the fundamental principles of operating systems. The book deals with topics like process, operating systems and their functioning, and design. It also looks at special-purpose systems, storage management, security, distributed systems and memory. Various concepts, practices and trends are presented along with other features of an operating system in the introductory parts. Databases First time Databases readers require sufficient time for preparation and all concepts in databases are easy to understand. Database questions can be answered quickly compared to other subject questions. Preparing this subject can save the time in the exam and also easy to score good marks in an average. Book Name: Database System Concepts, Author’s Name: Silberschatz, Sudarshan, Korth, Edition: 6For more information visit the link: http://gradestack.com/gate-exam/... 