What should I do in the next 6 months to get into a company like Amazon/Google?
While Ramana has posted a well plan one must adopt to do better in these companies, he has missed some points which i would like to cover. The preparation depends on the job role, to some extent, SDE or SDET. SDET  is no different from SDE. Apart from SDE, they look additional testing  skills in SDET.  Do practice on some testing questions as well. How do you test a chat server? A thermometer? A pattern matcher? Like other companies, Amazon/Google mainly focus on problem solving skills. Following points are necessary: How do you analyze a problem? How do you approach the problem? How do you break a problem into sub-problems and analyze them? Clarify the question first When going for a question, clarify the question first. Is data sorted? What is the nature of the data? Can data be accommodated in the memory? Is data in range? Think about different approaches Think about the different approaches that can be used to solve the problem. Amazon is serious about the data structures you use to solve a problem. So, think about different data structures. Can array be used? Yes, if data is sorted, we can do binary search. What about linked list?  But linked list will consume extra space for pointers. Binary search is also not applicable. What about Graph? Heap? Trie? Binary Tree? BST? Stack? Queue?  Trie + Heap? TST? Think about different space and time complexities used in each approach. Code reusability and readability Think  about challenges which can arise in each approach. Whether it can lead  to Integer Overflow? Can all operations be efficient here? What if some  new operations need to be added in future? Try to give meaningful name to the identifiers. Though it is not that much necessary, but writing a readable code is a plus. Don't forget to handle test cases Before writing the program, think about the various test cases. What  if NULL pointer is passed? What if the list is empty? What if the list  contains one node? What if list cannot be accommodated in memory? Now  write the program on piece of paper. Cover each test case. After  writing the program, check your program against each test case. You are done. Now, write the program on compiler to check its validity. Try to generate automated program to check for various test cases. References Ramana has mentioned enough resources. Testing and Designing Testing   and Designing are the two areas where questions are asked  intentionally  vague. They need to be clarified a lot. These questions  are generally  asked to increase communication. Ask questions to make  the things clear. Generally they ask to write test cases for the program you write and then check whether your program handles those test cases. What if the question is too difficult? Think out loud.  Yes, this trick works well in the interviews. Just ensure to convey  your thoughts to the interviewer so that they do not simply assume that  your get stuck. Even if you get stuck, they will give you hints. Some  companies reduce marks for hints. However, getting some hints and coming  to a solution in 10 minutes is better than being stuck for an hour  and doing nothing. Don't be afraid of Brute-force approach? You  know a brute force solution. Congrats! You at least know one way to  solve the problem. But, don't forget to approach/think for the better  solutions in terms of space and time. Time Constraint of 180 days: 180 days is enough for preparation. Practice as much as you can. Revision is the  key. They do not ask very difficult questions. You need to do them in  the best way you can. Additional tips My experience  says, confidence and  practice conquer all. Quality beats quantity.  Don't rush for the solutions. If you know a solution, you can easily  extend it for other  problems. This is what they look for. Your problem solving abilities! Preparation is also company specific. Google asks questions from probability. For Google, you need to have a sound understanding of mathematics. Read here: How much mathematics is helpful in programming perspective? by Aashish Barnwal on Posts Amazon believes in doing right thing at the right time. You need to practice a lot for writing the perfect code in a single attempt. Good luck. Updated 111w ago • View Upvotes