What's the average profit margin earned by apparel distributors, brick & mortar retailers, and e-commerce/online retailers?
The previous answers are a treasure trove of useful details on the subject, but I'm going to take another stab at it since I believe that the question of industry-wide profit margins is still outstanding. I would estimate that Industry-wide Averages for Clothing are:             Gross Margin (weighted average)= 47.02%             Net Margin (average) = Between 5% - 7.6% I have included my research below so  that you can understand how I arrived at those numbers, or use it as the  basis for drawing your own conclusions. Addressing online margins is a bit tricky because, as Suzanne Kapner of the WSJ so aptly wrote in her article How the Web Drags on Some Retailers, "Online margins are largely a mystery, because the vast majority of  retailers don’t disclose much hard data about their Web operations." However even if that data were widely available it would be difficult to form a meaningful average because the results vary so widely.  What I do know is that online retail often has lower profit margins than brick-and-mortar, and many online retailers have yet to turn a profit. In fact, that same WSJ article states that "Kohl's Corp. says its profitability online is less than half what it reaps in its store", and "Target Corp. says its margins will shrink as its online sales grow".  One of the primary reasons for this is the higher rate of returns for online purchases, and this is most evident with clothing purchases (Only 9.96% of all clothing purchased is returned according to NRF's 2014 report Consumer Returns in the Retail Industry, but approximately 40% of clothing purchased online). Gross Margin I determined the Gross Margin by combining the following two data sets to form a weighted average: Net Profit Margin: Source #1 According to a Sageworks article in Forbes, "Business Has Been More Lucrative For U.S. Clothing Stores", the average Net Profit Margin for Clothing Stores (NAICS 4481) in 2013 was: Privately Held:  Nearly 7% in 2013 (roughly double the margin of each of the previous two years) Publicly Traded:Around 5% (has been steady over the last several years)Profitability among public and private companies isn’t perfectly comparable, because the net profit margins for private companies has been adjusted to exclude taxes and include owner compensation in excess of their market-rate salaries (to provide a more accurate picture of the companies’ operational performance).   Clothing stores’ average net profit margin is lower than the all-industry retail average of nearly 8%. Net Profit Margin: Source #2 A 2007 Article in Forbes which outlines Clothing Retailer Performance Metrics http://www.forbes.com/2007/01/09/retailer-financial-metrics-ent_cx_mc_0109fundamentalsmetrics.html Net Profit margins for apparel retailers range from 4% to 13%, according to analysts at the investment firm Imperial Capital, with average net margins at just below 8%. Net Profit Margin: Source #3 NRF, 2015 Top 250 Global Powers of Retailing (for Fiscal Year 2013), which includes the 44 largest Apparel & Accessories Retailers World-Wide. Net Profit Margin: Source #4 Data I compiled by reviewing retailers' public statements (primarily Annual Reports and 10K Filings). Please note that I have excluded companies with substantial wholesale revenues  in order to more accurately address the specific question at hand. Updated 20w ago • View Upvotes