Climate Change and Global Warming in 2014-15: What do people think about former NASA climatologist Dr. Roy Spencer's assertion that 95% of global warming climate models are exaggerated?
The religious fervor exhibited by global warming enthusiasts in defending their position is remarkable. Global warming scientists haven't done themselves any favors by trying to silence their contrarian colleagues. In what other scientific field are dissenting scientists so vilified? And there are scientists that are critical of many of the exaggerated conclusions made by promoters of global warming. Here is a critical analysis of the IPCC conclusions by the following scientists in a reply to their interesting commentary in the WSJ: No Need to Panic About Global Warming by: Claude Allegre, former director of the Institute for the Study of the Earth, University of Paris; J. Scott Armstrong, cofounder of the Journal of Forecasting and the International Journal of Forecasting; Jan Breslow, head of the Laboratory of Biochemical Genetics and Metabolism, Rockefeller University; Roger Cohen, fellow, American Physical Society; Edward David, member, National Academy of Engineering and National Academy of Sciences; William Happer, professor of physics, Princeton; Michael Kelly, professor of technology, University of Cambridge, U.K.; William Kininmonth, former head of climate research at the Australian Bureau of Meteorology; Richard Lindzen, professor of atmospheric sciences, MIT; James McGrath, professor of chemistry, Virginia Technical University; Rodney Nichols, former president and CEO of the New York Academy of Sciences; Burt Rutan, aerospace engineer, designer of Voyager and SpaceShipOne; Harrison H. Schmitt, Apollo 17 astronaut and former U.S. senator; Nir Shaviv, professor of astrophysics, Hebrew University, Jerusalem; Henk Tennekes, former director, Royal Dutch Meteorological Service; Antoninio Zichichi, president of the World Federation of Scientists, Geneva. Here is their graph of the changes in the predictions of the IPCC computer models for the effect of increasing CO2 and temperature. In this respect, an important gauge of scientific expertise is the ability to make successful predictions. When predictions fail, we say the theory is "falsified" and we should look for the reasons for the failure. Shown in the nearby graph is the measured annual temperature of the earth since 1989, just before the first report of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC). Also shown are the projections of the likely increase of temperature, as published in the Summaries of each of the four IPCC reports, the first in the year 1990 and the last in the year 2007. These projections were based on IPCC computer models of how increased atmospheric CO2 should warm the earth. Some of the models predict higher or lower rates of warming, but the projections shown in the graph and their extensions into the distant future are the basis of most studies of environmental effects and mitigation policy options. Year-to-year fluctuations and discrepancies are unimportant; longer-term trends are significant. From the graph it appears that the projections exaggerate, substantially, the response of the earth's temperature to CO2 which increased by about 11% from 1989 through 2011. Furthermore, when one examines the historical temperature record throughout the 20th century and into the 21st, the data strongly suggest a much lower CO2 effect than almost all models calculate. The Trenberth letter tells us that "computer models have recently shown that during periods when there is a smaller increase of surface temperatures, warming is occurring elsewhere in the climate system, typically in the deep ocean." The ARGO system of diving buoys is providing increasingly reliable data on the temperature of the upper layers of the ocean, where much of any heat from global warming must reside. But much like the surface temperature shown in the graph, the heat content of the upper layers of the world's oceans is not increasing nearly as fast as IPCC models predict, perhaps not increasing at all. Why should we now believe exaggerating IPCC models that tell us of "missing heat" hiding in the one place where it cannot yet be reliably measured—the deep ocean? Concerned Scientists Reply on Global Warming These are esteemed scientists who live and breathe the scientific method. Critics say, well they aren't all "climate scientists" and that's true. But they are all highly regarded scientists in their respective and related fields and without a doubt, they have great expertise in the scientific method and how to analyze and interpret data. I'm not a scientist and don't pretend to have a scientific background. But the economic repercussions of blindly accepting regulations to mitigate global warming are staggering. This really is an issue for the comfortably rich (aside from those who are actually getting richer within the movement a la Al Gore, Al Gore Getting Rich Spreading Global Warming Hysteria With Media’s Help). The very fast growing economies, India and China, are opening up new coal fired power plants weekly. That's an economic reality that won't change in the foreseeable future. Coal is dirty, but it's cheap. China building more power plants More than 1,000 new coal plants planned worldwide, figures show So the question for Europe and America is how much economic loss and disruption is tolerable for policy changes that may not have any influence on global temperatures, given what China and India are doing, by trying to reduce man made C02 for a concept that is far from settled? Spain has a much admired robust green economy but remains mired in economic trouble. The unemployment rate is very high for 20-30 year olds at 50%. How many developed countries are willing to tolerate lost generations? For every green job created, two were lost in Spain. Spain youth unemployment reaches record 56.1% Job Losses From Obama Green Stimulus Foreseen in Spanish Study Eurozone economy virtually stagnant with just 0.1% growth Updated 94w ago • View Upvotes