What are some Occult or Magick practices that have a rational explanation for why they may be effective?
Well, "Occult" and "Magick" themselves, as well as their "practices" have very, very broad definitions, and always have through the ages.  Add the subjective term of "rational"(even though meaning "logical", this can often be argued) and well, you've got a conundrum. Studies of the mysteries of life have confounded human beings since the advent of intelligence.  Ancient.  How can we help but ponder?  How could we have coped with the enormity of concepts we conceived without projecting larger forces and systems at work?  I submit that it's human nature.  It does not, and did not, make it real ( de facto), it just seemed like a good idea at the time. We developed ideas about ourselves: how we thought, how we were.  We developed ideas about OTHER: how the world around us worked, and why.  We developed systems and symbols of these ideas to help us better understand these very complex concepts.  Some of these continue to be very thought-provoking and insightful.  And, we're still doing it: making systems of knowledge, communication, understanding. Many spiritual practices, including those of "occult" and "magick" focus very deeply on self-awareness and introspection and personal study.  The idea is that you must look "within", and attempt to understand yourself, before you can possibly begin to understand "without".   This is a "rational" practice of practical awareness, and it is easier said than done. Further, many occult and "magickal" practices are concerned with the concepts of the basic nature of the world. As above, so below.  People have always wondered about the way things work and how to influence them.  Before the advent of modern science being mainstream (fairly recently in human history), the scientific process and the fruits of its knowledge were considered the domain of the occult, since it concerned the mysteries of existence and the secrets of  how to deeply influence or change the patterns of natural happenstance.  Medicine, politics, navigation, metallurgy, all these things and many more were carefully guarded "state" secrets.  Now, they are common knowledge, and common property of the people, for the most part.  The key practices for many "occult" practices have, through time, been a combination of scientific process, as we know it to be now, in order to establish reality from "fancy" and also to establish reliability, and the recording of personal observation under established conditions, empirical evidence.  So, if you were to ask this question under these circumstances in the modern world, which would be "science" and which would be "occult"(or "hidden", synonym)?  That which can be explained versus that which can't, at least yet?  The times and the definitions have changed.  I believe it is a worthwhile endeavor to explore the limits of consciousness and perception, within safe and sane limits.  Obviously it is foolish to put oneself in danger to explore these limits, because you will not reach your goal of awareness or understanding if you put yourself at risk or damage yourself to reach such a goal.  However, many meditation exercises and practices that help one study the complexities of life within and without can be very satisfying and fulfulling, making the world a more interesting place and the experience of life and the world more wonderful.  What, exactly, those practices are must be up to each person - and I would argue, that they aren't exclusive to the terms "occult" or "magick" - they are whatever expands your conscious awareness and ability to affect yourself and the world around you in a positive way.  This, to me, is the only rational explanation, and expression, of Occult (hidden or mysterious) "practice" that is effective. 