★How does a Kalman filter differ from Recursive Least Squares?I know in the RLS update step a Kalman gain matrix and an innovation is present, but it seems this is a special case of a Kalman filter. Can someone expand on the extra step that a Kalman filter does in taking account the system noise and observation noise?
While both RLS and Kalman filters have the same format of: NewEstimation = PreviousEstimation + Gain * Innovation There is a fundamental difference to the gain and its underlying model. RLS is a manipulation of LS (or WLS = Weighted Least Squares). The equations are rearranged in a recursive form. This has several advantages (less memory, inverting a smaller sized matrix in each step and having interim results) but this is still LS. If we assume that the measurements have an additive noise with a known covariance C, then we can choose the weights matrix to be W = C^-1 and give more weight to measurements with low variance. Kalman introduces a new concept of propagation between the steps (usually time steps) that are not precise - each time we propagate the estimation, we add "noise". The kalman filter fuses the new measurement with all the track history that is packed in the previous estimate. The measurement in itself usually would have a larger*** covariance (R matrix) than the covariance of the all the track history (P matrix) but it is newer information. Therefore when we propagate the P matrix using the linear model (or local linearization of it in Extended Kalman Filter), we add the extra covariance of the propagation itself - the process noise (Q matrix). Q adds a fading memory effect that is dependent on the delta time between the steps and the confidence in the propagation model. *** R and P don't usually have the same dimensions, but I mean to say that a filter that already was fed by a series of measurements converged to a covariance that is much smaller than it started with after just one measurement. If the process noise is very high, than this statement is not true and each update is basically the last measurement - a very short term memory filter.    Embed Quote