★Regression (statistics): What is the difference between online least-squares and recursive least-squares?
I assume you can find formal definitions online. So, I'm going to try and break it down in lay man's terms. First off, let's simplify the question. Let's assume you are talking 2D euclidean geometry. Online least squares estimation is the method to find a line that minimizes the sum of L1 or taxicab distances (Taxicab geometry) between data points and itself. Recursive least squares is the method to find a line that minimizes the sum of L2 or regular distances (Euclidean distance). These may be the same for some cases, but not always so. The situations you would use the L1 distance is if L2 distance doesn't make sense in your situation. Eg. consider the problem of travelling from the heart of New York City to Long Island. Say, you are travelling with other people who live in the city but will be taking the shuttle with you. You don't like gawking tourists and you are not new to the city, so you want to make as few stops as possible on your way out. Your fellow travelers don't mind walking a short distance as it's a beautiful autumn's day out and so you try to find the shortest way out. In this case, your friends who live in the city cannot walk through the buildings and instead they have to take the streets and avenues. Hence, it doesn't make sense to calculate the Euclidean distance between their homes and the intersections they get off. Conversely, consider the case where you are in a baseball field. Your best friend is pitching and you are manning the farthest point. You make an excellent catch and you want to hifi your best friend. But you are also the captain and do not want to seem partial and hence you decide to take the shortest route to your friend while allowing your teammates to reach you on your straight path and hifi you. L2 least squares to the rescue! All you have to do is to approximate the positions and plug into the equation and reach the line you found and run along it :)    Embed Quote