★Who are the greatest female programmers?
In the early days of programming, women were commonly the pioneers of coding. The first computer algorithm was written by Ada Lovelace in the 19th Century, for Babbage's never-completed Analytical Engine, a mechanical design that predated electronic computers. There are different projects that compete for the title of the first computer, but one crucial early project was the ENIAC in the 1940s. The men on the ENIAC team were more interested in building the hardware, and delegated the perceived unimportant task of writing the software to a team of six women: Jean Jennings Bartik, Kay McNulty, Marlyn Wescoff, Fran Bilas, Ruth Lichterman, and Adele Goldstine. They were trained in mathematics, and joined the war effort to do things like calculate rocket trajectories when positions on the ENIAC team opened up. This was effectively the first significant computer programming project in history, and it was performed in support of the war. (An oral history including commentary from Bartik.) The same team continued on to work on programming systems for the UNIVAC, an important early commercial system, after the war. Betty Holberton wrote what is commonly considered to be the first programming language, the C-10 assembly language for the BINAC in 1949, which is commonly considered the origin of modern programming languages. Rear Admiral Grace Hopper wrote the first ever compiler in 1952, and went on to design the FLOW-MATIC data processing language which provided a way to program using words rather than purely numbers. FLOW-MATIC served as the basis for the enormously important programming language COBOL. In 1997, it was estimated that 200 billion lines of COBOL had been written, and that 80% of all business code was written in COBOL. Even today, an enormous number of large businesses and organizations have large COBOL codebases still in operation that are far too enormous, complex, and mission critical to replace. Fran Allen's seminal paper, "Program Optimization," formed the theoretical basis for optimizing compilers, and she wrote the first implementation of an optimizing compiler as well. She did considerable further work on data flow analysis, and was the first female winner of the Turing award. Margaret Hamilton did the programming for the onboard computers for the Apollo program. Radia Perlman developed the spanning-tree protocol, crucial for Ethernet bridges to prevent loops in bridged networks.