★Who are the greatest female programmers?
Yes of course there are. Depending on how you count; and who you ask, the first ever programmer of all was a woman; Ada Lovelace wrote the very first computer-program way back in the 1840ies. It was an algorithm to make Babbage's analytical engine compute Bernoulli numbers. Or how about Grace Hopper, a computer scientist (and admiral). One of the first programmers on the Mark I computer (built by Harvard during WW-II), among her accomplishments; she invented the first ever compiler for a programming language; and popularized the idea of a machine-independent language (an idea that then led to COBOL which is STILL being used) Or how about the ENIAC - the Electronic Numerical Integrator And Computer, the first ever general-purpose electronic computer ? Who programmed it ? These people did: What for ? Oh nothing important; they just calculated ballistic trajectories for artillery and other heavy weapons (like bombs) in order to make them impact where intended. Adele Goldstine on the right in this photo also wrote the manual for how to program the ENIAC. I don't think any of these ladies are actually all that famous but they damn well should be. There are; and have always been female programmers. In fact early in the history of computing programming was sometimes seen as a predominantly female thing to do. (perhaps partly because the physical part of the job which at the time consisted of flipping switches and plugging cables had some resemblance to operating a telephone switchboard) It's however true that the large majority of famous programmers are male. And that's a damn shame. I'm firmly convinced that if women had been given more equal opportunities in this field; and if we'd had less sexism and other mechanisms that discourage women from trying; then we'd have had a lot more awesome software than we do. Besides; software increasingly is infrastructure. And the code functions as the laws of cyberspace; a thesis explored at depth by Lawrence Lessig in his essay: [credit: Wikipedia; book-cover for the printed edition] Thus having scant representation of women in writing code is, in my opinion a democratic problem. Quite simply because increasingly what you can do and what you can't do is determined by software; and no, the choices made are NOT necessarily value-neutral.