★How much does it cost to build a data warehouse?
Much like a physical warehouse, it all depends on what you want to put in it, who has access, and how fast you want it to be... The first time I built what would be called a "data warehouse" was in 1986. It was for a classified E-Systems (now part of Raytheon) project that I wasn't given any details for - just these are some of the characteristics of the the data sets, the warehouse needs to hold this much, access will look like thus-and-such. Went off, devised a solution architecture, presented it, did some back-and-forth until finally arriving at a solution that involved a couple of Convex mini-supercomputers and a bunch of D-1 video tape recorder/players with robotic tape libraries run by another bunch of Sun Microsystems servers managing the databases that kept track of what data set was on which tape. The tape allowed I/O at 173 Mbps (times about 90 minutes per tape), and the target was 'at least" a 10 TB store. Not shabby for 1987. In fact, it was obscenely outrageously unheard of... Final price tag: the parts alone were over $38 million (about $80 million in 2014 dollars), no clue how much E-Systems marked up the labor and integration and certification. My fee, while hefty, was ah, "statistically insignificant"... The key factors on this were the vast (for the time) storage volume (remember, at that time 500MB was considered "normal" for shared storage by 20-50 high-end engineers!) and the data rates. Being able to stream inbound without constraint at over 10 megabytes per second was a key - and that was getting close to laws-of-physics levels for the time. The last one was at Enron in 1999, where the terms were different. We needed to manages all the records, electronic and physical, associated with all of the contracts for about 50,000 route miles of fiber optic cable being built in the US and other countries. Plus all the other contracts that were involved in any way, typically sales contracts. And a way to cross-correlate all of the above so if something happened with one, we knew what others would be impinged. That was much less Herculean. Oracle handled the database side, Sun once again handled the hardware, this time with CPU and disk clustering. Total size was again about 10 TB, total costabout $5 million. I just got done with looking over a presentation to a board where I advise the chairman for a new data warehouse architecture for a fiber-based carrier. They're contemplating a very, very similar project but with live instances on three continents, lots of Solid-state drive for speed, full data duplication and synchronization, etc. About 20TB total for this one, hardware and software coming in just under $900k. Gordon Moore, you rock!    Embed Quote