★How does the rising popularity of Hadoop impact legacy data warehouse vendors like Teradata?
I am working for Teradata, so I might be a little bit biased. But I am also working as a Hadoop Consultant and I think I can argue that Hadoop is a great technology, but no silver bullet for everything.   But before talking about Hadoop, let me talk about the technology behind Hadoop. As most people of you know, it is distributed computing. Which means: You scale out, distribute your data to several nodes and process them there. Sound pretty new, you think. Well, actually it is not. There was one big database company that already migrated their technology into a parallel world... and as you can guess, this company is Teradata. The DWH manages up to 50 PB of data.   But then again... What is Hadoop. Hadoop is a distributed system to manage Big Data. And with Big data we talk about really a huge amount of data. We talk about Terabytes. So this processing comes with a price. Talking still about good old map reduce, this means a Map Reduce jobs parallelized reading, but comes also with a overhead. JVMs have to get started, calculation routines have to be distributed to the data nodes, there is shuffling and reducing. Yes, it speeds up the process with 5 TB, but what if I just work with small data. Do we really need MR to calculate it? No, it is an overhead. For small data, we better stick to what we have and get all the other benefits such as ACID, etc.   So, now let me do some advertisement for Teradata. Teradata approaches this situation with its UDA, its unified data architecture. The pattern is not strictly a Teradata only concept, but we were driving it. Simplified it means (using Teradata technologies): Stick to your old DWH for traditional cases and extend your architecture with Hadoop as a data platform and with Teradata Aster (a discovery platform). More information on: UDA Data Sheet: Exploit All Your Data with Teradata Unified Data Architecture   But there is more. Teradata provides Hadoop solutions (Page on teradata.com). We have even our own distribution (To be a little bit more detailed here: We extend the Hortonworks Distribution by adding Teradata technology on top of it). We also have a Partnership with cloudera.   So, if some customer  has a Teradata DWH and wants to use Hadoop. Perfect. Lets see how we can merge these platforms. How is this possible? Well, also here we have a technology: It is called QueryGrid and this is the "glue" between all data stores. (Teradata® QueryGrid™)   As I said, I might be biased as I work for Teradata, but I hope to have shown that Hadoop does not replace DWHs but rather extends it.      Embed Quote