★What is the tipping point from using databases to using a data warehouse for reporting?
I agree with Brian that performance is certainly a tipping point for moving from a transactional database to a data warehouse. I’m going to add a couple of other tipping points.   1.      The need to join disparate data sets across applications. For example, if you wanted to do a life time value metric on a customer and you have multiple transaction systems – Banking is a great example: Deposits, Online Banking, Credit Card, Lock Box, etc – combining that data in a normalized form across multiple systems is either time intensive or tedious without the appropriate ETL/ELT processing.   2.      The need for masking sensitive data. There are numerous stories of inside employees stealing consumer data from companies. By separating the reporting function from the transactional system you can mask the sensitive data and track who is looking at this data much better in a warehouse and locking down the transactional systems. Healthcare, Credit, Retail all have examples of this.   3.      The need for a single version of the truth. Reporting at the lowest grain in a transactional system allows for the manipulation of data through aggregation to look different between different reports. For example, let’s take a POS system and weekly sales metric. John in Finance can define weekly sales as Sunday to Monday, whereas Jane in Marketing defines weekly sales Monday to Sunday. The reports ran on Monday are going to look very different between the two and result in confusion.   4.      The need for data cleanliness. User entered text fields such as addresses, phone numbers, etc are not usually cleaned and standardized in transactional systems. Also, many transactional systems have records in their databases that are junk data – i.e. a user enters data, realizes it is wrong and instead of deleting it, re-adds the correct data in a new record.   Data Warehouses are starting to become cheaper from a technology perspective. Processing power and disk continue to get better and cheaper. Open Source Tools such as Pentaho, and ICE bring the ability to have data warehousing without large overhead for licensing that a Teradata or IBM would bring. What is not changing and is probably the most overlooked part of Data Warehousing that actually makes the TCO quite high is the governance piece of warehousing. Big and small companies struggle with this.   It really comes down to a cost comparison with what and how you want to build your warehouse and the ability to do business with reporting against disparate transactional systems. However, done correctly, a data warehouse pays for itself over and over again.    Embed Quote