★What is the best approach for the successful kick-off and continuous implementation of a data warehouse?
There is too little information to give any definitive answer, so I have to give a generic answer. I am for  an example, not sure if some of the questions relate to your customers or to your staff. Is the DWH for your customers? Are you databases properly designed, indexed and queries properly optimized? 1. If you can, put it on hold and educate some of your staff on DWH. Try to get what you want by tratitional means, in the meantime. Get an expert to put you on a right track in the design, if you can find one. They are rare. 2.I know too little about your situation to give you definitive answer. The first one to ponder is how recent the data has to be, is a month, a week or 24 hours OK or does it have to be almost up to the minute? Is MySQL up to the task? How big is the data? is it Terabytes or Petabytes? If it is less, then the problem lies most probably in the design (it usually is anyways) or lack of expertise. 3. To handle this you probably need some marketing magic to buy you time.  Give at least something new frequently to soothe. You will then probably have to buy a third party solution. I am not that familiar to the current offerings to be able to give you a good advice. 4. The problem is usually not the method but a lack of understanding the concept. The backbone is in the table design. A one database expert that is also an expert in DWH, with the help of your people that really  and truly knows your data, could probably suffice, along with your development team. 5 I know too little about your situation. There are fine tools available but they require expertise to get what you want and not an overload of something else, as they tent to do. Usually you should create the data warehouse data  as early as possible, even when the general data is inserted. Make the transformation as easy as possible. 6 I am not currently enough informed about the current DWH offering to be able to give you a good advice. The are probably all good. So you don't like MS solution, that's ok. Look at Oracle for your databases. I know it is expensive but time is money. The licencing is tricky and expensive (especially for hosting) but it it so damn fast and gives you so many possibilities to handle heavy burden of data mining and take the load of your live databases. At least inform yourself about what Oracle can do and compare it to your current situation. I am not affiliated with Oracle but work with Oracle databases. Carefully consider what is only fitting for MongoDB.    Embed Quote