★How valuable is the CBIP (certified business intelligence professional) certification from The Data Warehouse Institute (TDWI) ?
Full disclosure, I've got them.  How valuable they are totally depends on what you mean by value. I grew up in a single company, learning my practice "on the job" as data management was growing.  In most companies there are few data management professionals, so the connections you make with colleagues at TDWI or DAMA meetings become sources of knowledge.  I used the certification to validate that my understanding of the problem space was correct.  When you work with dozens of application developers who are totally process centric, sometimes you need to make sure that the issues and concerns you raise (from a data life-cycle perspective) aren't off target.  Certification lends credibility, and confidence to practitioners who look at things from a data perspective. Specialty Certifications on individual vendor tools or products are important if you use that tool or product, and they can count toward a CCP, CDMP, or CBIP.   But for vendor neutral, broad based knowledge of all areas of data management practice, a certification like CDMP is valuable.  Matthew Carlson's concern about the pass level is valid, but there are three factors that I want to share: The certifications are not something you can pass after taking a 1 week course (as many vendor certs are) with all the answers freshly learned.  They require years of experience and specific stucy to answer questions correctly. The process of creating questions for these exams is as rigorous as the process for creating SAT, GMAT, or GRE exams...and follows the same methodology.  In other words, 3 out of 5 answer may be right, but only 1 is most right within the context of the question and best practice.  This is not EASY to determine. These require work experience and are certifications that stand the test of time.  For example the CCP has existed since 1962. Here's a link to a presentation I did a few years back... information probably needs to be refreshed:  Certification in Data Management If you have a specific question you can find me on twitter: @silverdata Second fair warning:  I'm one of those "lifelong learner" types, so the recertification requirements weren't a big deal for me.  But to keep these certifications you need to submit ICCP Continuing Education Credits    Embed Quote